@@723628

txt Letters to The Times JAMES H. SCHEUER.GEOFFRY N. LAWFORD.HOWARD L. REITER.RICHARD EDEEMAN.JEANNE D ... Letters to The Times Service in Congress Lifelong Careers of Southerners Cited . as Example for Northerners  - -  -   - -  - To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The point is well taken in your editorial of Dec. 5 that we need " better devices to protect democracy in the House of Representatives . " One way to provide for this would be for Northern Congressmen from so-called " safe " districts to make service in Congress a lifelong career , as is generally done by Representatives from the South . A perusal of the Congressional Directory indicates that many of the balky Southern committee chairmen who use their positions to bottle up progressive legislation were in their late twenties or early thirties when they were first elected to Congress . By the time they are into their forties they have enough seniority to chair important committees , and they stay in these positions for decades . Contrast this with the Northern record . New York City Congressmen are generally well into their forties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and apparently regard their Congressional seats as brief way-stops on the road to the judiciary . In addition to reforming Congressional committee procedures , we must also , to achieve a truly liberal and effective Congress , reform the political system under which , in New York City , a Congressional seat is regarded in the clubhouses as a **28;433;TOOLONG , one rung above the State Legislature and one short and temporary rung below a higher paying judicial appointment . Men who accept Congressional nominations should do so with a real commitment to stay in Congress , and nominations should be given to younger men of promise . Only then can we insure that the powerful Congressional committees will be chaired by men who represent a broad interest in progressive legislation . The best way , in the long run , to break the Southern stranglehold on Congress is to send promising Northerners to Congress who will serve as many years and achieve as much power and influence as the venerable Southerners . JAMES H. SMITS . New York , Dec , 9 , 1963 . Site for Police Headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be unfortunate if current efforts to relocate the proposed Police Headquarters building outside the Civic Center area were to succeed . The building belongs within the area for many reasons : The site provides ideal space and exposures ; it provides an excellent functional relationship to detention quarters , Courthouse and to future expansion of these facilities ; it is easily accessible by public transportation , and by police vehicles ; its relationship to all five boroughs is best served by the Canal Street site rather than the alternate Pearl Street site . This last and critically important relationship was observed in the 1949 Civic Center Report by the Planning Commission under Robert Wagner 's chairmanship , The Pearl Street site is best suited for residential or other urban redevelopment prospects of a type which would suffer by their close proximity to a Police Headquarters building . The underlying idea of any Civic Center is linked with the orderly assembly of civic buildings , as opposed to their random dispersal . The administration should hold fast to the approved Civic Center plan -- it is in danger of being nibbled to death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapter , The American Institute of Architects . New York , Dec. 4 , 1963 . Members of Inquiry Board To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : In his letter published Dec. 8 Prof. George Fischer of the Government Department at Cornell University has expressed not only his dismay at the absence of a Northern Democrat on the President 's commission to study the assassination of President Kennedy but also his belief such a figure should be made " executive secretary " of the commission , Perhaps Professor Fischer 's conception of the commission 's purpose differs from that of President Johnson . The commission is not supposed to be a body representative of all political factions in America ; its purpose is solely to find facts . One must assume that a commission without Northern Democrats will uncover the same facts as one with Constitutional Guarantee Held Bused on Earlier Times To THE EDIToR OF Tilt NEW Yoltk TIMES Franklin L. Orth , executive %ice president of the National Rifle A:4-soeiation , in his letter published Dec. 3 , writes that the N.R.A . " conducts a nationwide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field . Forty-three thousand volunteer instructors participate in Ow hunting safety course certitit ; ilion required by some 34 Sta ICS bf. ' llire issuance of hunting licenf ; es . " It is nice to know that our citizens who are interested in rifIcly can be taught how to handle a girl safely . But as long as we have pie in this country who would tathi shoot at people than at patter Ito - gets or wild animals , all the safe ) v training provided by the N.R.A . to no avail . He was elected in the 1900 ' elect ion with the support of Senator Lehman and has , by a liberal voting record , excellent attendance record end devoted service to his constituency , shown that the faith the late Senator , the voters in his district . and his supporters in the reform movement had in him was not misplaced . Certainly he has been and should continue to be a key leader . in the fight to improve the Democratic nartv in New York . JEANNE DOREM AN , New York , Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume that the seven distinguished gentlemen on the commission will not let partisan or ideological fnetors influence their study . Without a Northern - eulocrat , says Professor Fischer , the commission might not " inspire confidence either at home or abroad . " Let . Its await the findings of this commission before we declare that it Is inadequate . HOWARD L. Mane . Ithaca , N. Y. , Dec. 8 , 1963 ,                     