@@726001

txt The UN now is on the brink of its first try at bringing down a government by compulsory trade boycott . Final compromise on the corm of mandatory sanctions against Rhodesia now is in sight . It is expected to toughen slightly Britain 's carefully limited boycott plan , while falling far short of the showdown with all of white-ruled southern Africa that African delegations had none-too-hopefully proposed . Skepticism heard The rush of behind-scenes corn-promise sessions has done little to dispel the basic African-Western differences of viewpoint about the outcome of the UN 's first mandatory-sanctions move in its 21-year history . The Africans ; their enemy , Rhodesian leader Ian Smith ; and British Tory leaders all assert that the boycott will not work . ( Zambia 's Foreign Minister expressed his exaggerated skepticism by saying : " Sanctions on golf clubs will not topple the Ian Smith regime . " ) London 's Labor government and the American administration appear to be convinced that . they will . Both sides agree that the experiment will not show results quickly . Oil bargaining Of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of paramount importance . One , oil , has been the main focus of attention in final bargain . ing here . The other , copper , is not directly involved . After British Foreign Secretary George Brown made his : opening bid here , leaving the way open to an " acceptable " ban on oil flowing into Rhodesia , the Africans replied with two oil amendments . One would " call upon " all nations to " prevent " any form of supplying oil to Rhodesia from their territories , by their nationals , or through their transport systems . The other would " invite " Britain to " prevent by all means " the transport of oil to the rebellious white-ruled territory . Policing problem British sources say the latter is unacceptable if it means an obligation to chase down single-handedly all would-be offenders . They prefer the wording that would leave each UN member responsible for its own policing . This would mean London would not have to send ships to blockade and search off South African ports . It would also mean that no punishment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boycott , as they say they will . The probability of leakage through South Africa is the main reason many diplomats here are skeptical that the sanctions can succeed . Copper is the commodity lying in the wings during this drama . With the Vietnam War continuing to drain American copper stockpiles at an unforeseen rate , and the British economy heavily dependent on a steady flow of copper from Zambia , Zambia 's Foreign Minister Simon Kapwepwe has tried to use the leverage of angry speeches to push London and Washington into more precipitate action . Pressure studied The White House has talked about a world copper conference to ease the copper drain and rising prices . Washington may have to consider strict stockpile controls next year . But Mr. Kapwepwe also has a handicap in his dealings with London and Washington . This is the fact that landlocked Zambia , hard hit by the Rhodesian crisis , has not turned to Communist capitals for aid but to the Western Big Two . Zambia has also , with regret , substituted South African trade for the commerce it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the point of view of the Africans the tragedy of the Rhodesian crisis has continually been their lack of another direction to turn for aid . The Commonwealth members among them have stirred up some extra action from London by threatening to bring down the Commonwealth . Zambia 's copper output remains an important card . But these factors are measured against Britain 's billion-dollar investment in and fourth-ranking trade with South Africa , kinship ties to Rhodesian whites , plus American trade and investment in the area , and reluctance to see the British economy endangered by a showdown .                     