@@726666

txt Gov . Ronald Reagan , while professing his disinterest , is already moving toward a key role in the first two Republican Presidential primaries of 1968 . Party leaders are becoming increasingly convinced that the California Governor may hold the balance of power between the two major undeclared contenders , Richard M. Nixon and Gov . George Romney , in both the New Hampshire and Wisconsin contests . The general conclusion is that Reagan campaigns in the two states , although officially unauthorized , could severely handicap Mr. Nixon , indirectly assist a comeback by Governor Romney and ultimately produce the major benefit for Mr. Reagan himself . Write-In Drive Possible The California Governor has said that he will ask that his name be withdrawn from the ballot for the popularity contest March 12 in New Hampshire if his supporters should enter it . But this will not prevent the organization of a write-gin campaign for Mr. Reagan , and the 1964 write-in results in that state proved how effective such an effort could be In that year the winner , Henry Cabot Lodge , got 33,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 15,600 write-in votes . The two men with their names on the ballot , Senator Barry Goldwater and Governor Rockefeller of New York , attracted only 20,700 and 19,500 , , respectively , although they both campaigned for two months in the state . A Reagan political ally , Le- , land Kaiser , a manufacturer , from San Francisco , recently visited New Hampshire with an assignment from the Governor to quash any write-in campaign on his behalf . Mr. Kaiser returned saying that " a genuine Reagan groundswell " that might prove uncontrollable existed in the state . Such a development could provide a major assist for Gov- governor Romney of Michigan , who could use one just now . A wellorganized Reagan campaign even minus its candidate , would almost certainly cut into the potential vote being sought by Mr. Nixon since both men currently appeal to the conservative side of the party . On the other hand , if Governor Reagan does entertain serious Presidential ambitions , as more and more politicians are coming to believe , he could strike a possibly fatal blow at Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocking the former Vice President in New Hampshire . Death for Nixon Mr. Nixon has said that he must sweep the first two primaries , demonstrating he is still a potent vote-getter , to remain in contention for the nomination . " It would n't matter if Reagan ran third in New Hampshire , " one Republican leader said this week , " as long as he made sure Nixon ran second . " " Nixon would be dead , but he Reagan would be very much alive , " the Republican added . A similar three-way contest is shaping up for the second Presidential primary in Wisconsin on April 2 , with Governor Reagan threatening to cut into the Nixon vote and thus help Governor Romney . Presumably , the basic cast will be the same in Wisconsin , regardless of the New Hampshire results , because a candidate can not withdraw from the Wisconsin primary after Feb. 29 , which is 13 days before the New Hampshire results will be known . It is this interlocking time table that is hampering the plans of Republicans promoting the candidacy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as a " fallback " candidate , behind whom moderate Republicans might well rally should Governor Romney fail to prove popular enough . But the first test of Governor " Romney 's popularity , in New Hampshire , will not take place until after the time when Senator Percy must decide whether to make himself available for the second round in Wisconsin . Pressed strongly by the Romney bloc , Mr. Percy has thus agreed to take his name off the Wisconsin ballot when the time comes . However , a Percy counterstrategy is now under consideration . Senator Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky has let it be known that he might enter the Wisconsin primary , not as a serious Presidential candidate but to give the voters an opportunity to support a policy of disengagement in Vietnam . A Stand-In Candidate On the face of it , getting Senator Morton onto the Wisconsin ballot in late February would not constitute quite as explicit an act of disloyalty to Governor Romney as a Percy entry into that primary would . The political effect , however , might be close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a strong Percy supporter . His views on the war in Vietnam are close to those of the Illinois Senator , and he could easily assume a " stand-in " role for Mr. Percy in Wisconsin , if and when the New Hampshire results showed Governor Romney in no position to continue carrying the moderate standard . Governor Reagan has come under strong pressure from the Nixon camp to remove his name from the Wisconsin primary . This is one of three in which he has indicated he will compete , without campaigning , because he believes the necessary withdrawal oaths would be inconsistent with his announced " favorite son " candidacy in California . The other two similar primaries are in Nebraska and Oregon , both in May . Nixon leaders have argued that Mr. Reagan would only be a spoiler in Wisconsin , hurting the former Vice President and helping Governor Romney while making an insignificant personal showing . The California Governor said two weeks ago on a Wisconsin visit that his mind was open on the issue , but the best evidence favors his remaining in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of Presidential competition , a good deal of his support among Republicans who are Southern , conservative or both , would almost certainly shift to Governor Reagan , whatever his primary record , making him a major convention cor. tender .                     