@@725747

txt Analysts ascribe this week 's stock market retreat to investor uncertainty about the American economy , as stock prices plunged to their lowest level in two years . The current market break has pulled the Dow-Jones Industrial Average , the most popular index of market levels , below the 800 mark . Not since Feb. 24 , 1964 , has it been that low , and then prices were churning upward . They reached an all-time peak of 995.15 last Feb. 9 . The 20 percent dip from the February highs comes close to matching the precipitous erosion in stock prices that began in late 1961 and ended in mid-1962 . But for today 's market to equal that decline on a percentage basis , the averages would have to fall to about 730 , still some distance from present levels . Feeling of confusion noted Factors cited by analysts as uppermost in causing investors ' concern are tight money , prospects of labor strife in major industries , and unabated inflationary pressures . Record bond yields of over 51/2 percent in high-grade corporate securities and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A growing feeling of confusion over Washington 's economic leadership is causing investor jitters , analysts say . " A clear-cut statement of economic policy from Washington is required to allay investor apprehensions , " according to Robert Johnson , research director of Paine , Webber , Jackson &; Curtis . " But it 's not likely to come until after the election . Meanwhile , investors will have to sweat it out . " Gloom pervades most Wall Street advisory services at present , though a few see rays of light ahead . Few anticipate a rally of major proportions until after the elections . The tightening noose of credit scarcity is one of the most oft-cited culprits behind the cloudy outlook . Postelection tax hike ? " More burdensome money costs often narrow profit margins which in turn weaken investor confidence and result in sagging stock prices , " says Shearson , Hammill &; Co . Worries about a postelection tax hike and its impact on business expansion , which may he tapering off when the tax goes into effect , also ranks high as a market dampener . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . slice of the national income pie is also taking its toll on the market , observers say . Some major union contracts come up for renegotiation in the coming 12 months , and the high levels of . corporate profits augur tougher union bargaining and higher wage costs . This will mean-a squeeze on profits . But . there are some indicators that point to a short-term rally in the near future . The sharp descent of stock prices and the heavier volume in recent sessions bring nearer the possibility of a selling climax . Recent rallies , however , have lost steam as investors obeyed instructions to " sell on the rallies " and get out of a bear market in better shape . " A series of high-volume trading sessions , weeding out some of the most nervous shareholders , could lay the groundwork for a good rebound . The high short interest , which totaled 11.4 million shares last week , is also considered as providing some cushion against a further fan . Advisory services are urging investors not to react emotionally by dumping sound stocks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulletins is flexibility , rather than the tendency to do nothing or hold stocks because they are selling below their original purchase price . A general upgrading of portfolios  --  eliminating the more speculative issues and putting more funds into fixed interest securities ? is encouraged . Getting a fresh vote of confidence because of their sound earnings base are utilities and life and casualty insurance stocks .                     