@@722396

txt The Board of Education is " sitting on a keg of dynamite " if it is considering reprisals against the teachers who struck the public schools last Wednesday , the strike 's leader said yesterday . Charles Cogen , president of the United Federation of Teachers , said he and his negotiating committee were under the impression that there would be no penalties and added that the teachers would not have gone back had they thought otherwise . The federation , which is the collective bargaining agent for all the city 's teachers , called the strike after salary negotiations with the board had failed . The teachers returned to work after the board had obtained a State Supreme Court injunction prohibiting further picketing or strike action . Mr. Cogen 's warning was made at a meeting of the federation 's district and chapter chairmen at the Roosevelt Auditorium , 100 East Seventeenth Street . The 300 teacherk in the audience heard Mr. Cogen describe events leading up to the strike and tell of preparations to resume negotiations with the board this week . When he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps decided upon in the event of reprisals , a group of hecklers called for a strong declaration of intent . Mr. Cogen urged restraint and said , " We do not want to make things more difficult for ourselves when we resume negotiations . " The board members were said to be divided on whether penalties should be invoked , although State Education Commissioner James E. Allen Jr . said last Sunday that " those in a position of authority nave no choice but to enforce the law . " His reference was to the state 's Condon-Wadlin Act , which prohibits strikes by public employes under threat of dismissal : They may be rehired , but can be penalized by being barred from pay increases for three years and tenure for five . The federation has said it does not fear this law , as it believes it to be , unconstitutional . Fear of the Supreme Court injunction penalties was a deciding factor in ending the strike , according to Mr. Cogen . He said the penalties  --  including heavy fines for the organization and individuals and possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He insisted  --  and the audience agreed  --  that the federation had taken the proper steps and was now on " the threshhold of the greatest organizational drive in our history . " Before the meeting ended an organizational and strike committee chairman reported a deficit ' of $100,000 since the Nov. 7 , 1960 , one-day work stoppage , and said that in Wednesday 's strike the federation spent $10,000 more than it received through its strike fund campaign . Mr. Cogen was critical of local labor organizations for not acting ' " in a dramatic manner , " but said there had been " solid support from extremely important elements " of the state and national labor movement . He said Michael J. Quill , international president of the Transport Workers Union , had contributed funds . Other support was reported from Joseph M. Curran , president of the National Maritime Union , sand Louis Hollander , chairman of the executive board of the state American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations . Roger Parente , chairman of the union 's salary committee , said the board 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improving working conditions . To this , he said , would be added $13,000,000 to be available to the city this year , although only part of it will be earmarked for salaries . One of the big problems of the negotiations , according to Mr. Cogen , will be to decide how much of the available money will be sought for salaries and how much for improved working conditions . At the annual conference of the Teachers Union held yesterday at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , Abraham Lederman , president , received cheering approval from 1,200 persons when he asked permission to send a request to all city officials insisting that there be no repri-. sals against the teachers who participated in the strike . Mr. Lederman was critical of Mr. Cogen , whom he accused of giving up , " without any gains , at the very moment when the teaching staff had exhibited a power which stunned the authorities and surprised even well-wishers. "                     