@@725153

txt New York Some of the most glamorous names in passenger shipping fail to meet either United States or international safety standards set up in 1960 . But it does not necessarily follow that these vessels are unsafe . The fact is that time has not stood still for either ships or safety standards . And it is easier to upgrade standards than to upgrade ships . In 1924 , 1948 , and 1960 , international Safety of Life at Sea Conventions ( SOLAS ) were signed . Today the ships of all major maritime nations meet these standards . But , as a Coast Guard spokesman noted here , these conventions apply mainly to ships to be built in the future . Or to ships that undergo extensive rebuilding after the conventions take effect . Combustible materials In August of this year the United States maritime administrator , Nicholas Johnson , handed over to a congressional hearing a list of 34 ships that do not meet the 1960 SOLAS standards . The list contains some of the most illustrious names in luxury shipping : Britain 's Caronia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Niew Amsterdam and Statendam ; Israel 's Jerusalem ; West Germany 's Hanseatic and Bremen . The France . And Sweden 's Gripsholm . It also included some less well-known and far less luxurious vessels . Liberia 's Ariadne and Florida , and Panama 's Bahama Star and Yarmouth ? all of them cited by the United States Coast Guard as having dangerous amounts of wood and other combustible furnishings . And the Yarmouth Castle , which now is famous because it burned and sank at sea a week ago , with a toll of 85 lost . The picture , for a layman , is one of confusion . What are " safe " and what are " unsafe " vessels ? Which international conventions are applicable ? And which countries have what kind of standards ? High cost of learning The United States likes to boast that its standards of safety in ship construction , equipment , and operation are the highest in the world , exceeding even the international standards . They became high at a terrible price  --  the loss of 125 persons when the Morro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Morro Castle tragedy set off a ? congressional investigation that resulted in the // *How ships miss standards // rigid safety code that now governs construction and operation of United States ships . International standards , updated from time to time , are gradually catching up with those of the United States . But these do not apply to existing vessels . That is why some of the world 's most luxurious liners have not yet caught up to the maximum existing standards of safety . Even the 1960 SOLAS convention does not match in every particular the United States criteria . Here are some examples : Fireproofing : The United States insists on fire-resistant bulkheads ( separator walls ) at given distances , plus fire-detecting and fire-fighting equipment . It also has stiff restrictions on combustible furniture and furnishings . Choice provided The 1960 international code , however , offers two less stringent choices : either a wider subdividing with bulkheads , plus an automatic fire-detection and sprinkler system , or an interior partly divided and partly protected by a sprinkler system . Fire hoses : The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydrant head ; international standards call for 45 pounds . In addition , the United States requires that each fire pump maintain such pressure individually ; the international standard permits more than one pump to be tied in to achieve this pressure . Also , the international code allows fire pumps to be used as alternate fuel pumps under certain conditions . The United States forbids this duplicate use . Firefighting techniques : International codes permit steamsmothering techniques . The United States does not , because it says this method is inadequate . These differences between the 1960 international SOLAS code and the United States standards are rather minor , according to a Coast Guard source . Differences listed However , the Coast Guard testified before the congressional hearings that " it can safely be said that there is no vessel which meets the 1960 standards unless it was built after May 26 , 1965 , the effective date of the convention . " Pyrpnlions to that statement are United States-built vessels , thanks to the fact that this country 's standards were stricter than those of either the 1948 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1948 convention and United States standards at that time : Lifeboats : The 1948 convention allowed nested lifeboats . Coast Guard regulations did not . Manila falls : The 1948 convention allowed Manila lifeboat falls in certain cases . Coast Guard rules did not permit . Gravity davits : The 1948 convention required gravity davits for lifeboats of 8,000 pounds and over . Coast Guard regulations required gravity davits for lifeboats of 5,000 pounds and over . Hull subdivision : Coast Guard regulations resulted in considerable more hull subdivision than the 1948 convention . Combustible veneers : The 1948 convention permitted combustible veneers . Coast Guard regulations did not permit . Structural fire protection : Coast Guard regulations for some time have required structural fire protection on oceangoing cargo and tank vessels . The 1948 convention had no such requirements . Most foreign-flag vessels today are geared to the 1948 convention . The best of them , even those built prior to 1948 , have been upgraded to meet that convention 's requirements . But some , such as the Yarmouth Castle and others cited by the Coast Guard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1948 SOLAS code was the requirement for fireproof bulkheads . Ships built before that time were not required to have these . And , while most of the major maritime nations insist on this for all of their passenger ships regardless of age , some of the smaller nations do not . Several minutes of film were taken by an amateur photographer of the burning Yarmouth Castle , and showed nationwide over the Huntley-Brinkley news show . It showed the ship ablaze from stem to stern , a floating oven . It gave viewers the clearest possible picture of what a fire at sea can do to a non-fireproofed vessel .                     