@@722889

txt Britain 's 33-day freeze-up has become a national emergency . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and his Cabinet reviewed the critical position Thursday resulting from power cuts , power voltage reductions , gas shortage , coal shortage , rail and road traffic delays , and the like . Minister of Power Richard Wood has said he will call in the Army if " normal methods " are inadequate to meet the crisis . In South Wales and other industrial parts of the country , factories have had their work interfered with or have been threatened with closure because of the loss of gas supplies . Power cuts or voltage reductions have played havoc with delicate and temperamental instruments such as ' computers , tabulators , and teleprinters . Equipment Inadequate This particular news story from London is being banged out by typewriter on a Western Union form because the office teleprinter is out of action through inadequate power . In the words of cockney colloquialism , the people of Britain are " browned off with it all " and are asking whether all the discomfort and the dislocation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its consequences arc no respecter of persons . Everyone is being hit in one way or another . Buckingham Palace had a power cut this week . Princess Anne was doing her lessons when there was sudden darkness . There was a frantic rush for the emergency candles just as there has been in numerous other British homes . All over the country this week school children have been going back to school  --  many of them to chilly classrooms . Some of the most expensive and exclusive boarding schools have postponed the return of their pupils because the schools are frozen up and have no adequate water supplies . Much of the traveling in Britain these past five weeks has been a nightmare . Snow-hand ling equipment was adequate to deal with most main roads and town and village centers . But many side roads and side streets have remained treacherous or even impassable . Papers Indignant Locomotive drivers and railroad staffs have striven manfully with the exceptional conditions . But British facilities for dealing with Arctic weather conditions have once again proved inadequate . But when the mild winds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the ice be forgotten again ? Many Britons say they should not be . This January has brought too much hardship to be shrugged off with the old , " Britain can take it . "                     