@@728160

txt Mayor Lindsay has one great advantage over his rivals for the mayoralty when the debate turns to fiscal matters . Despite the steadily rising cost of government , he has substantially improved the city 's fiscal position since he took office by balancing the budget without deficit financing  --  an achievement that borders on the miraculous . It required courage , persistence and imagination to accomplish that improvement . The Mayor had to convince a reluctant Legislature of the justice of a tax on those who earn their living here but live outside the five boroughs . He faced down the wrath of the financial community to push through a stock transfer tax . And he took on his own shoulders the political unpopularity of a municipal income tax . All the mayoral contenders in this year 's race start with a foundation of fiscal security that did not exist when John Lindsay came to City Hall . The test for New York is whether that security can be maintained with costs still shooting upward and local tax sources nearing the point of exhaustion . The three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring them closer to the level paid by residents . Such an increase is more than justified by the services commuters receive from the city in police , fire , sanitation and health protection , but it is highly unlikely that the Legislature will risk suburban hostility by raising the present levy . The Mayor and Controller Procaccino also agree on the desirability of legalizing off-track betting . Senator . Marchi opposes this proposal ; he does not believe it would produce enough money to be of significant help . Here again the prospects for legislative approval are remote , in any event . Recognizing how scant are the city 's untapped taxing resources , Mayor Lindsay has made graphic the urgency of greater help from the state and Federal governments to carry on municipal services at their present level . As one means of providing the needed help , he has proposed Urbanaid , a well-conceived plan for sharing part of the state 's revenues with local communities . He has done more than any other big-city mayor to expound the essentiality of much increased Federal aid to state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional help from Albany or Washington . He promises there will be no increase in real estate taxes or the city income tax if he is elected . He hopes to solve the city 's problems by reviewing the status of tax-exempt properties  --  a highly desirable step but one unlikely to yield anything approaching the needed . evenue . He also promises economies in present operations , a favorite ploy of all candidates . Senator Marchi favors a modest approach to Albany and Washington , based on the " competent " handling of municipal funds and the elimination of " maladministration " in welfare . He also wants to explore the taxation of some properties now tax-exempt . He warns against making the 20-cent transit fare a sacred cow by subsidies that would starve other services . On balance , Mayor Lindsay has , demonstrated the most comprehensive grasp of the city 's fiscal problems and the greatest capacity to deal with them . If the city is to move forward , it will need a Mayor able to keep its finances sound and its economy robust .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         