@@724912

txt Bloomington , III. , July 19 - Adlai Stevenson was lowered to his final resting place today in a tree shaded cemetery on the edge of the prairie town where he spent much of his boyhood . The coffin was placed in a grave 12 feet from the majestic monument and grave of the grandfather for whom he was named . State police estimated 54,000 persons lined the streets to view the cortege moving to Evergreen cemetery . Additional thousands lined streets bordering the Unitarian church where the service was conducted . They were able to hear over loudspeakers . Most Distinguished Citizen For the 36,000 inhabitants of this community it was a day of mourning . Stevenson , who died on a London street of a heart attack las week , was its most distinguished citizen . He had been governor of the state , twice a candidate for the Presidency , and was serving as United States ambassador to the United Nations at the time of his death . He was a man whose career carried him so far beyond the horizon of county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's most distinguished political figures came to pay tribute . His Wisdom and Wit ? Inside the chapel with its flat roofs brought into vogue by the prairie . houses of Frank Lloyd Wright , the Stevenson family and invited guests heard Stevenson eulogized by the Rev. president of Unitarian Universalist church . " We salute him , " said Dr. Greeley. " for his modesty and his ambition , for his ability and his affability , for his wisdom and his wit , and for his failures and his successes . " Many were moved to tears as the minister added : " He was a philosopher and a politician . All man counted j with him , but none too much . He was an American , but he died in England . He was a Damocrat. but his family newspaper , of which he was a principal owner , is Republican . He was a Unitarian , but in our capitol his flag-draped casket lay fittingly before an ecumenical Episcopal altar . " Sun Casts Hiles As the clergyman continued to speak there was utter silence among those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tiny chapel . The sun shone thru the long slits of stained glass on the east wall , splashing reds , yellows , greens , and purples on the brick west wall . The body of Stevenson lay under an American flag in a Dr Dana Greeley , coffin supported by the catafalque used for Lincoln 100 years before . The Rev. Robert Reed , conductor of the service , stood to the right of the casket behind a modernistic walnut lectern to read from some of the more famous Stevensonian examples of rhetoric . His Words Bring Tears There were handkerchiefs brought in front of many faces as the Rev. Mr. Reed read a passage from a speech Stevenson delivered from the Bloomington courthouse square in 1948 : " I have Bloomington to thank the most important lesson have learned . . that in quiet places , reason abounds ... that in quiet people , there is vision and purpose . . . that many things are revealed to the humble which are hidden from the great . " There was a hum of recognition as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention in Chicago in 1952 was re-called : " Here on the prairies of Illinois in the middle west , we can see a long way in all directions . We look to east , to west , to north and south . Our commerce , our ideas come and go in all directions . Here there are no barriers , no defenses to ideas and aspirations . We want none : we want no shackles on the mind or the spirit , no rigid patterns of thought , no iron conformity . We want the faith and conviction that triumph in free and fair contests . " Humphrey , Warren Present Among the dignitaries , in addition to President Johnson , his wife and daughter , were Vice President Humphrey , Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justice Arthur Goldberg of the United States Supreme court . Also present were Sen. Paul Douglas , Gov . Otto Kerner , Mayor Richard J. Daley , and many governmental figures who gained their initial start as members of the Stevenson campaign team of 1952 . Among these were his close friends Judge Carl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCormick Blair , ambassador to the Philippines ; Labor Secretary W. Willard Wirtz , and C. Newton Minow , former chairman of the Federal Communications commission , John Steinbeck There John Steinbeck , author , and Mercedes McCambridge , actress , long time Stevenson supporters were present as was Mrs. Marietta Tree , ambassador to the United Nations trusteeship council , who was with Stevenson when he died . Former Gov . Robert Meyner of New Jersey , and Governors Edmund Pat Brown of California and Karl Rolvaag of Minnesota were also there , as was James Roosevelt . There were more than 200 present in the church but only the immediate family , President Johnson and Vice President Humphrey went to the cemetery for the burial . There was no sermon at the graveside . But the words of the closing hymn still rang in the ears of the mourners : Life like an ever rolling stream . Rears all its sons away : They fly forgotten . as a dream Dies at the opening day . Just before the coffin was lowered , the military pallbearers removed the flag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashion and then the lieutenant in charge of the detail solemnly handed the flag to Mrs. Ernest Ives . Stevenson 's sister , who served as his hostess of Illinois during his term as governor . Mrs. Ives began weeping . Then she turned and sat down no a folding chair . President Johnson , seated close by , covered his face with his hands . As the funeral procession left the cemetery , a large group of children waiting at the gate cheered wildly as the Presidential car approached . President Johnson , his face somber , did not acknowledge the greeting .                     