@@725198

txt Tile city was told yesterday that its slums were spreading and that it must take " immediate actions to improve living ; conditions " in its " Hariems and Bedford-Stuyvesants . " The warning , contained in a ! comprehensive renewal policy ldeveloped for the city , urges a shift in emphasis from meeting the housing needs of the middle class to meeting those ** the poor . It adds that , given the proper circumstances , a " new middle class " will grow out of the present slum requested by the Federal Government , which contributed $2.25 million to the study . It notes that 1.25 million persons are now living in slum areas that need immediate attention . And it adds that the slums have grown to " an unprecedented scale . " Map Is Presented A multicolored map accompanying the report indicates areas where " immediate action " is needed . They are sections of Harlem , East Harlem , the Lower East Side , the South Bronx , Morrisania , Park Slope , Bedford-Stuyvesant , Williamsburg , Brownsville , Long Island City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reasons given for the increase are that buildings are getting older ; there are growing concentrations of lowincome minorities ; there are fewer opportunities for lowskilled people to improve themselves , and there is a rapidly aging population living off fixed incomes . In addition the report says that 1.75 million more persons are living in areas throughout the city where government help " is essential to restore a sound environment . " In general , the report draws a depressing picture of the city 's housing situation . For example , it says 450,000 to 550,000 families can not find housing of appropriate size and cost . It adds that 7 out of 10 of those families are Negro or Puerto Rican . Planning and housing officials called the report " the most important document ever produced about renewal in New York City . " The private consultants who prepared it worked with the Department of City Planning and the Mayor 's Housing Executive Committee . Morton L. Isler and Robert B. Mitchell , city planners , directed the research for the report . They and other planners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the report . The report provides the city for the first time with an over-1 all strategy on renewal , It rejects the project - by - project and community-by-community approach the city has followed , in which local and political pressures , instead of needs , often influenced decisions . And it examines every renewal tool available to the city ? demolition , reconstruction , rehabilitation , code enforcement and conservation ? concluding that all must be used to their fullest if the city is to be saved from decay . The report makes no specifics recommendations and attaches no price tags . But it says that ; since money and legislative tools are limited , the main em-1 phasis of renewal must be con-1 centrated where it is needed ' most ? " in the Harlems and Bedford-Stuyvesants of the city . " The report , entitled " New York City 's Renewal Strategy/ 1965 , " will be presented to Mayor Wagner today and forwarded to state and Federal renewal officials . It also will be given to Mayor-elect John V. Lindsay and members of his housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report to guide their decisions on city requests for renewal funds . New York had been one of the few cities in the country involved in urban . renewal without an official strategy , known in the housing field as a Community Renewal Program . The report is expected to influence housing policy in the Lindsay administration , which must look to the state and Federal governments for aid . In addition the report has the unanimous backing of the eight City Planning commissioners , seven of whom can not be replaced by Mr. Lindsay for at least two years . The commissioners must pass on all renewal projects . William F. R. Ballard , chairman of the City Planning Commission , said in a preface to the report that it could serve " as an important springboard " for the ' Lindsay administration . A spokesman for Mr Lindsay said yesterday that the report ! would be " studied carefully " when it is received . He added that it would have " immediate attention because of the pressing housing needs of all New Yorkers , especially those of low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's housing force , said he already had received the report and had found it to be an accurate portrait of the city 's critical housing situation . He said he agreed with the need for a change in emphasis from the needs of middle-income families to low-income families . Mr. Abrams , who is chairman of the city b plannin- department of the Columbia School of Architecture and a consultant to the United Nations on world housing problems , said the city must begin , with Federal aid , a massive rent-subsidy and rehabilitation proiram as a first step . He added that he would make this recommendation to Mr. Lindsay . The city 's major renewal efforts have been concentrated on middle-income areas that have been showing signs of decay or seem ripe for development , such as the West Side , the Lincoln Center area , Morningside Heights , Bellevue South , Kip 's Bay and sections of the Lower , East Side . The efforts in almost all cases have stressed middle-income apartments , with some edging into the luxury range . Housing for low-income families in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the announced policies of Mayor Wagner and Governor Rockefeller of trying to stem the exodus of middle-income families to the suburbs . Mr. Lindsay echoed this theme in his campaign for Mayor . However , the report says a more realistic hope for the city would be to develop a " new middle class " out of the present slum dwellers , which it adds has been the city 's traditional growth . It says there is need for renewal efforts in middle-income areas , and it recommends such programs as rehabilitation and code enforcement . But it adds that the slums " have the highest claim on renewal sources . " Renewal efforts in the city 's slums so far have been limited to crash building inspections , massive low-income projects , a few rehabilitation demonstrations and an occasional middleincome development on the fringes . Nowhere have they I matched the scope of the un , dertakings in middle-income areas .                     