@@726908

txt George C. Wallace 's formal announcement here that he will be a third-party candidate for the presidency appears to meet the first of two conditions required to send the election into the House of Representatives . At the same time , enough other national and international circumstances exist to make it a distinct possibility that 1968 will be a watershed election . The two conditions for putting the election into the House are : 1 ? That the two major candidates will have a close battle that divides the electoral-college vote fairly evenly . Nobody can tell till election night whether this rather unusual condition will exist . 2 ? That there shall be a strong third- or fourth-party candidate to take enough of the By James Johnson Alabama 's George C. Wallace An election-year test begins 538 electoral-college votes so that nobody will get the 270 majority required by the Constitution for election . As the circumstances stand today , energetic , segregationist Mr. Wallace , former Governor of Alabama and husband of the // Further reproduction prohibited without permission . *Democrats losing coalition ? // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the South , probably stronger than did Sen. Strom Thurmond ( R ) of South Carolina in 1948 . Senator Thurmond carried four states , got 39 electoral votes and won 2.4 percent of the popular , vote . An advance Harris Poll , made in January , and heavily discounted here , gave Mr. Wallace 12 percent of the popular vote in a three-way race with President Johnson and New York Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller . Sen. Charles H. Percy ( R ) of Illinois said Mr. Wallace 's strength . " is surprisingly stronger than I thought it was , " and warned of an election thrown into the House . At Los Angeles Sen. Thomas H. Kuchel ( R ) Of California said third-party movements threatened the election with an " impasse . " He said it is " highly possible " that a four-way race would produce a House election . " That could be as bad for our country as a dictatorship , " he said . National and international developments make the unfolding presidential election race unusually interesting . There are a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and entering a new one . Mr. Wallace 's candidacy is only part of this over-all picture , some of the aspects of which are as follows : ? ? Vietnam has deeply stirred Americans with profound but incalculable political results . ? What Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy ( D ) of Minnesota calls the " Negro rebellion " against second-class citizenship may keep the emotional pot boiling this summer . ? Mr. Wallace hopes to create a splinter third party in the normal two-party system , and some feel there will be a " peace " fourth party . Coalitions crumbling ? Under the stress and strain of the foregoing developments , plus other social changes like growth of Republican suburbs , diminution of farm influence , standstill in union growth , changes in immigration , inflation and the like , there is some evidence that old political coalitions are crumbling . Here 's the story of political combinations since 1860 : Historically , one great coalition began with the Civil War , put together by President Lincoln and conservative commercial interests . Elements ? The coalition included former abolitionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff advocates , farmers and workers under the " full dinner pail " slogan . Results  --  From 1860 to 1932 Republicans allowed Democrats to win the White House only under Cleveland ( twice ) and Wilson ( twice ) . In 1932 Franklin D. Roosevelt put together a new coalition as the old GOP group came apart at the seams , due immediately to the great Depression , but more fundamentally because of immigration , ethnic , and urban changes : Elements ? the Roosevelt coalition included new ethnic groups , unionists , Negroes , assorted liberals-intellectuals , and poverty groups . Results ? in 36 years ( 1932-1968 ) the coalition has won seven presidential campaigns and been defeated only by General Eisenhower ( twice ) . Is a new coalition emerging ? The old Roosevelt grouping may be coming apart , though the appearance of Mr. Wallace is only one of the manifestations . The process has been going on for some time . Just a few more Richard M. Nixon came within an eyelash of beating John F. Kennedy , in 1960 . In 1964 many feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more appeal to the independents and uncommitted . In the four-way race in 1948 Mr. Truman got only 49.5 percent of the popular vote , and this was the first time that a splinter party with racist overtones gained some weight . Many observers now are restudying 1948 . The election would have gone into the House in 1948 with the shift of a few votes in the states . Some observers think increased racial tensions make a Wallace-type third party likely for some time to come . Mr. Johnson 's hold on some elements of the old Roosevelt grouping , according to some , is challenged : unionists , intellectuals , youth , Negroes , and others . The situation seems more amorphous than usual with the presence of great emotional issues ( Vietnam , civil rights ) . In the past the gravitational pull of such issues has sometimes launched new political systems .                     