@@723461

txt The Government , apparently convinced that several plots against it are afoot , is arresting civil servants , lawyers and military officers , according to reliable sources . President Ngo Dinh Diem 's policemen are also continuing to arrest student leaders , some of whose names , according to police sources , were found during raids on Buddhist pagodas last month . The raids were part of the often-violent dispute between the Government and the Buddhists that began last May . A Presidential order issued today decreed that the martial law imposed on this country of about 15,000,000 people Aug. 21 would end at noon Monday . There was no indication of the future of the press censorship imposed at the same time . The action on martial law had been expected . The state of emergency proclaimed in 1961 remains in force . Powers to Be Returned The Presidential order said that all administrative powers turned over to the army during martial law would be returned to civilian officials . In a separate order it was announced that elections previously scheduled for Aug. 31 and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 8 that the elections , for the 123-seat National Assembly , might not be held this year because of the Communist guerrilla warfare . The Assembly 's three-year term was extended by decree . In the last two days , the Government has arrested four prominent lawyers , apparently fearing they might be opposition leaders . Three are reported to have been released . Informed sources said that Au Thuong Thanh , one of Vietnam 's foremost economists , who works for the Chamber of Commerce , had been arrested . Some professors are also said to be held . Reports reaching here from Hue say that large numbers of Buddhist laymen and ? students and four senior professors have been picked up in recent days . While the situation was relatively quiet in the schools in Saigon yesterday and today , there were reports of high school protests in Dalat , Bien Hoa and Vinh Long . Saigon students have been demonstrating against the regime and boycotting their classes . Yesterday , for the first time , there was trouble among primary-school students . At one school they refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children began crying . The policemen asked what was wrong and the children said they were unhappy because the Government was arresting all their older brothers and sisters and putting them in detention . The children were eventually persuaded to go to their classes . It was not known who had instigated the demonstration . A number of middle-rank military officers and some younger ones have been picked up by the Government , according to the sources . One Government source said this was an attempt to see if there was liaison between different military units in the city . The Government apparently is suspicious that generals and colonels are using younger officers as go-betweens . It was reliably reported that Brig . Gen. Ton That Dinh , military governor of Saigon and nominally commander of three corps , was in disgrace with the ruling Ngo family . It was he who held several news conferences at which he attacked Buddhists , foreign correspondent ; and " foreign adventurers . " General Ton That Dinh was said to be the victim of his abundant vanity . According to informants , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asked that he be made Minister of Interior . The President and his brother , Ngo Dinh Nhu , his chief political adviser , refused , according to this account . It was reported that Dao Duc Hoanh , a medical professor arrested Wednesday , had been released after a walkout Thursday by more than 50 interns and medical school professors . His wife was also released .                     