@@726497

txt What of a crash legislative program for the cities ? Is the administration putting something together ? The out-in-the-open answer , of course , is " No , " the administration feels there is enough on the books to do the job . But it has been learned that the President now is giving thought to the possibility of some sort of program that would be intended as an immediate social-action effort to dampen down the riots and the threat of riots . The President 's slowness to move in this direction is attributed to his ooncern over the tax increase . He knows this wo n't be at all popular . And  --  added to the tax hike ? he has been wondering how Congress would accept a program that would call for immediately spending a lot more money . A report still to be published by the President 's Crime Commission relates to police conduct and brutality . It is expected to be released this month or next . It could further fuel debate over police actions in the nation 's cities . Dr. Albert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing the report . Observers accompanied police and witnessed police-citizen encounters in three major cities . While they were watching , the observers say , 20 major instances of police brutality were evident . Also expected in the study is new information about unethical conduct by police . Data gathered by the observers and by other means indicate widespread evidence of practices considered to be unethical , plus some cases of outright corruption . Names of cities will not be used when disclosing these shady practices . Trends .. . Senate liberals are beset by new problems from " the new left . " As if conservative reaction to the Newark and Detroit riots did n't sting enough , now the liberals see programs such as the model-cities plan undercut by Negro militants ' criticism . For instance , Dr. Nathan Wright Jr. , chairman of the black-power conference in Newark , testified strongly against the model-cities effort . Dr. Wright told the Senate housing subcommittee that " the good is sometimes the enemy of the best . " Further sniping at the administration housing program is expected to follow this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc , " Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine says , " it 'll be tough . If we ca n't get support from the left to counter the right , where are we ? " How and why ... Republicans have managed to change the name of the President 's anticrime bill . In sending the bill to Congress , the President had dubbed it the " safe streets and crime control act " ? even though very little of the program related to safe streets . He was trying to capitalize on the " safe streets " issue raised in the 1964 presidential campaign by Republican candidate Barry Goldwater . Republicans on the committee were able to change the name of the bill to " law enforcement and criminal justice assistance act of 1967 " as it emerged from the House Judiciary Committee for debate on the floor . This name , they contend , more accurately reflects the purpose of the bill : To give grants to state or local governments to try out new approaches and improvements in law enforcement and criminal justice . ED The battleship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marines in Vietnam . Soon to be refitted , the huge battlewagon is scheduled to arrive off the Vietnamese coast about midyear , 1968 . Its nine 16-inch guns have a 21-mile range . This means the ship will be able to bring under fire targets of all types in or near the eastern third of the demilitarized zone where enemy and marine strength is concentrated . Some potential targets , such as bunkers , have escaped destruction from artillery fire and air attack . The Marine Corps believes that the shells of the New Jersey , which weigh ' about a ton each , will be devastating against bunkers and underground networks . The New Jersey 's guns  --  extremely accurate when firing on targets from the side and less so when attacking from the front  --  will be in ideal firing positions off the Vietnam coast .                     