@@724618

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam , March ** American jet aircraft were used for the first time in South Vietnam last month , their appearance was greeted here and abroad as a further indication of the United States commitment to the war against the Communists . What was largely overlooked was that the decision to use the jets could also be read as a signal of the growing Vietcong determination to win that war . After years of experimenting with primitive weaponry , including adopting of the Vietcong 's bamboo punji sticks to puncture the foot , the Americans turned to a conventional item in their arsenal . In part the decision was forced upon the United States military strategists because the Vietcong had suddenly shown themselves confident enough to consider moving into conventional warfare . In the early days of American involvement in Vietnam , the importance of aircraft had been minimized by military leaders in Saigon . You can not bomb guerrillas efficiently , the argument ran , since they run off into the woods and you have wasted a 500-pound bomb and risked the slaughter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when military leaders , embassy officials and journalists were trying to convey to the American public the frustrations and peculiarities of a guerrilla war . No Superhighway " The Ho Chi Minh Trail is not a superhighway , " they explained wryly when the suggestion was put forward to bomb that Laotian network of jungle passages from North to South Vietnam . Then last November , at about the time the public began to appreciate the nature of the war , it began to show signs of change . At Anlao and Binhgia , the Communists took over areas and tried to hold them . Superior Government forces eventually forced them out , but the losses to the Government were high . At Binhgia one battalion of Vietnamese marines was almost entirely wiped out and casualties among first-rate raufer rerarve battalions ran to 00 per cent . November was significant in another regard , The value of air attacks became apparent as it had not been in the past . In January , 1964 , for example , the number of Viet-. namese killed by Government bombing raids was 276 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The number of dead might be higher ; the ratio of Vietcong troops among the dead might be low . Last October the number of casualties from the month 's raids by propeller - driven , Vietnamese-operated aircraft was still low-212 . Then , as the Communists stood to fight in larger units , the casualties from Government air strikes soared . In November the figure reached 1,329 . The total has been over 1,000 for each of the three months since . Deterrent Effect In the highest military circles in Saigon , the conviction is heard that South Vietnamese and American air power has prevented the Vietcong from moving into the third , conventional , phase of Communist strategy . How much the use of the jets will contribute to overall air power is still being evaluated . The evidence available so far is not conclusive , One positive factor sometimes cited has been the effect of this new sign of American strength on the spirit of the Vietnamese troops . The commander of III Corps has been quoted as saying : " It is a certain sign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given as justification for almost every new action proposed , On the other hand , there are Vietnamese civilians who champion the war against the Vietcong while expressing doubts about the efficiency of bombing , particularly when the raids are not in support of ground operations . Their misgivings deepened last Tuesday when three United States B-57 jets each dropped four 500-pound bombs by mistake on Government troops . The bombs killed four soldiers and wounded 15 others . Official United States military spokesmen tried to point out that similar errors had occurred with the slower propeller-driven aircraft . But their superiors acknowledged in private that the speed of the jets . one of their supposed advantages , had raised concern even before the accidental bombings . That quick reactions are conducive to error was one of the reasons why Gen. William C. Westmoreland has insisted on giving personal approval before a jet mission can he scheduled . As a courtesy , he also informs the new Vietnamese commander in chief , Maj. Gen. Tran Van Minh . The real control of the aft still rests with the propellerdriven craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know the political leanings of the villagers in their territory , are consulted before any strike is authorized . For some time the attitude has been that if . a village supports the Vietcong , its population is culpable . Limited Success " Certainly some civilians get killed . " one American officer said , " Civilians get killed in every war . " Although the French had limited success with their F-8 's and ** and a small number of helicopters , the Americans brought aircraft with them at the time of the United States build-up in 1961 . In mid - November , 1961 , eight T - 28 propeller - driven fighter - bombers am ! four E-26 's arrived in South . Vietnam . Called the " Jungle Jim Detachment. - they flew on their first mission on Jan. 26 , 1962 . Although the pilots were here only as advisers to the Vietnamese Air Force , the record of that first raid explains apologetically that there were no Vietnamese in any of the aircraft . " An oversight , " the report states , Elusive Targets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given by the United States carry only a 500-pound bomb , and the targets were farflung and elusive . Even with these disadvantages , the aircraft caused consternation among the Vietcong . A study undertaken last year by a civilian agency at the behest of the United States Air Force showed that among Vietcong prisoners the airplane was the Government weapon they had feared most . The study also concluded that while the Vietcong had cited the bombing , raids as evidence of the brutality of the Americans and their Vietnamese colleagues , the use of jets would not create new psychological warfare material for the Communists . " The t tidy took The point of view. - said one officer who read the classified document , " that whatever damage the bombings may have done would not be increased by the use of jets . " There was an intermediate step between the outdated T-23 's and the advanced F-100 s , ** and B-5Ts . In May of last year the United States brought the first Skyraiders , built by Douglas , to South Vietnam . As a warplane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it anytime than one of the jets , " said one American pilot who has flown both . " It 's much better equipped against flak . In fact , it 's a flying tank . " The Skyraider comes in two models : the A-11-1 , a singleseat plane , and the two-seater A-1E , used for training . Heavy Load The United States equipped the Vietnamese Air Force with about 100 of the singleseat model and kept about 50 of the others under the command of American advisers . Generally the A-1H is loaded with about 6,500 pounds of bombs , with which it can carry fuel to keep it aloft for three and a half hours . On shorter runs the Skyraider can carry its own weight in bombs , 16,000 pounds , or about as much as the bulky B-17 's of World War II . Although it is sometimes officially denied , the Skyraiders have dropped napalm bombs throughout the South . No napalm has been used in either Laos or North Vietnam so far , however . Restrictions on talk about the use of napalm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the photograph of a villager and his child after a raid . But the firebombs have been too valuable in penetrating caves and trenches to give up . " The public seems to have this aversion to napalm , " a senior American officer said , " because people think its kinder to blast a man 's head off than to fry him to death . " As for the jets , the most commonly given reason for using them has been a variation of " Why not ? ' ' - There has been a feeling building ever the last few months that since we had the jets in the country and since the stepped-up Vietcong activities seemed to be more than the Vietnamese pilots could handle , it wise logical to use the weapon at nut ' disposal , " one United States Air Force official said . Atypical Initiation The first occasion the jets were put into action in the South was not typical . The date was Feb. 19 and there was a coup d'etat in progress in Saigon , a development familiar but not ordinary in South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his air power to put down the rebellion , threatening if necessary to bomb the Saigon Airport , where the rebels had made their headquarteds . While he was otherwise occupied . a report came that there was a large concentration of Vietcong in Phuoctuy Province , 40 miles southeast of Saigon . The American military command had already received permission from Washington to use the jets when circumstances called for them . United States officers say that they have been gratified by the success of the raids at Phuoctuy and subsequent ones in Binhdhili Province , but until definite results have been made public , their satisfaction will not be widely shared .                     