@@722395

txt Washington , April 14 IUPD The United States protested to West Germany today that premature disclosure of a new United States plan for settling the Berlin crisis was endangering tit forthcoming talks with Russia . Foy D. Kohler , assistant secretary of state for European affairs , summoned West German Ambassador Wilhelm Grewe to the state department to discuss the news leaks from Bonn . The news dispatches outlined in some detail a four point Berlin plan which Secretary of State Dean Rusk will present Monday to Russian Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin . Pledge of Nonaggression The proposal would grant increased recognition to the status of communist East Germany and a North Atlantic Treaty organization pledge of nonaggression in return for renewed Russian recognition of the basic rights of the western allies to remain in Berlin and have unhindered access to the city . Altho they could not prove it , American officials assumed that the Bonn leak came from the German foreign office . Officials said the action apparently stemmed from West Germany 's dismay at those features of the plan which appear to give East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kohler was said to have described in extremely strong terms American concern over disclosure of the plan which had been submitted to the West Germans . Grewe did not give Kohler any final West German verdict on the proposals . But he was understood to have expressed his government 's concern over some portions , particularly those concerning the status of East Germany . Hopeful of Settlement Officials said Rusk planned to go dead with the Monday meeting with Dobrynin , despite the fact that his negotiating position has been made public . The United States hopes that another series of RussianAmerican talks will bring the two sides closer together on a Berlin settlement . These are the plan 's four points : 1 . Internationalization of the access routes to Berlin thru communist territory , with East Germany granted some voice in the authority which would administer the air , land , and water routes . 2 . An exchange of nonaggression pledges between NATO and the members of the communist Warsaw pact which would , in effect , recognize the division of East Germany and the validity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russia to prevent I the further spread of nuclear weapons to other countries . 4 . Creation of committees composed of both East and West Germans to handle trade , travel , and cultural exchange matters between the two parts of the divided country . Expresses Deep Regrets B0NN , April 14 ( UP ) The West German government today expressed " deep regrets " at United States irritation over a news leak here on a new I United States Berlin plan . A government spokesman denied that West German government officials were responsible for the leak . West German officials have insisted they have confidence in the United States to protect Bonn 's interests during talks in Washington with Russia next week and the government spokesman went out of his way to emphasize this today .                     