@@723612

txt East Asia Correspondent of The christtan Science Mail Hong Kong Nikita Khrushchev , not Mao Tse-tung , is the real warmonger , Communist China charges in its latest diatribe against Moscow . Answering Soviet arguments that Peking wants to provoke a nuclear war between Moscow and the United States , an 18,000-character editorial published in People 's Daily and Red Flag Tuesday says sharply , " You 'd better cut out your sensation-mongering calumny . " " The United States imperialists have not become beautiful angels in spite of Khrushchev 's Bible reading and Psalm singing , " the editorial says . " However hard Khrushchev tries to serve the United States imperialists they show not the slightest appreciation . . .. They continue to slap Khrushchev in the face and reveal the bankruptcy of his ridiculous theories prettifying imperialism . " Barghoorn Case The editorial also calls Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev " too often a laughing stock . " Earlier , Chinese Communist papers characterized the Soviet release of Prof. Frederick C. Barghoorn as an example of kowtowing to the United States . Such kowtowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking view , because it encourages the " United States imperialists " to bp more " aggressive . " Certain passages in the latest Peking editorial ( fifth in a series rebutting the Soviet open letter of June 14 ) seem designed to appeal directly to Soviet military leaders who might question Mr. Khrushchev 's deemphasizing of conventional Soviet forces . " Khrushchev military ideas based on nuclear fetishism and nuclear blackmail are entirely wrong , " the editorial says . " Khrushchev sees only nuclear weapons . According to him , the present level of military technique being what it is , the Air Force and Navy are being replaced and not reduced . Theories Challenged " Units and men having combat duties on the ground are of course . even less significant and , as for the militia , they are just human flesh . To follow Khrushchev 's wrong theories will necessarily involve disintegrating the Army and disarming oneself morally . " The Peking editorial contends that Mr. Mao , Chinese Communist Party chairman , originated the thesis of the preventability of world war long before Premier Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , by lumping all wars together ? just and unjust , small and large , conventional and nuclear ? and by saying all these wars are dangerous because they could escalate into a world nuclear holocaust . This , Peking says , is " unprincipled . " " The Communist Party of China has always held that socialist countries should actively support people 's revolutionary struggles , including wars of national liberation and revolutionary civil wars . " But " socialist countries must not use nuclear weapons " to aid such struggles and " have no need to do so . " A War Threat Thus Peking argues that in a guerrilla war , such as the one going on in South Vietnam , the Communists must not be the first to use nuclear weapons . The implication is that the " imperialists " would not dare use nuclear weapons because of , the worldwide disapproval they would thereby incur . Thus guerrilla wars would not escalate into a nuclear war as Moscow seems to fear . In the final analysis this may be the most telling of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khrushchev , no less than Peking , supports the Communist guerrillas in South Vietnam and would presumably do so elsewhere . " Well , what are you doing about it ? " the Chinese say .                     