@@723116

txt Letters to The Times Using Children in Alabama Presence in Protests While Court Ruling Is Awaited Condemned The writer of the following is the author of " Christian Ethics and the Sit-In . " He is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Religion at Princeton . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is " outrage in Alabama " and " a national disgrace " that police dogs and fire hose ' are used to subdue school children , and that " teen-agers and many not yet in their teens " are herded into jails and detention homes ( Times editorial May 5 ) . Shock over these events , however , should ? not prevent us from protesting also the outrage of using children as a means of protest in mass demonstrations which , at the moment , are against a court injunction not yet finally tested in the courts . Martin Luther King may know that the injunction against racial demonstrations is not only unjust but " illegal . " But the latter judgment has not yet been determined by any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , of course , a precious feature of the rule of law in this country that anyone can make a test case to find out what is legal or illegal . Perhaps he should even make a dramatic test case , as Dr. King did when he violated the injunction by leading a march toward City Hall , and was arrested . Awaiting Decision Until his case has been decided , however , the situation would seem to be much the same as when a while back Governor Ross Barnett by himself declared what was unconstitutional and illegal in the state of Mississippi . Neither Barnett nor King should act as if what the law is can be settled by them . While reserving a moral right of public protest even against the law , hasty resort to this before exhausting legal remedies and without waiting to find out from the courts above what the power and rights of policemen may be in keeping the peace , ought not to be approved , particularly in a movement whose success depends so much on Federal power to enforce constitutional rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and local laws may , or may not , be " trampling on the Constitution " in Birmingham , Certainly before children are sent forth into the struggle . The Children 's Crusade was , after all , an aggression , however good and holy its goal . If the injunction stands , allowing discretion to the police in controlling demonstrations , the present children 's protest will have been defined as against a law which , the courts would then have judged , is needed still to preserve public peace and order and to reserve decisions about justice and injustice to courts of law and not for settlement in the streets . Power Struggle For it is also evident that the demonstrations in Birmingham are a power struggle , even with nonviolent means , and not only . assemblies to protest or to register and shape public opinion . The bad timing of these particular demonstrations so as to make a martyr of " Bull " Conner and insure him a political future in Alabama may have resulted not only from the urgency of the cause , but also from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Negro community , Granting that justice is often found in the midst of such a struggle against impacted customs and local laws , to make children not yet in their teens actors in it is very questionable procedure indeed . One can say this , while holding no brief for the procedures of the Birmingham police . This form of " spiritual force " is bound to have effect upon the people of Alabama , even against their wills . It also . had effect upon The Times ' editorial writer . This is why it was mounted . The adults in direction of the demonstrations in Birmingham have , therefore , the initial and primary responsibility for their use of the kids . PAUL RAMSEY . Princeton , N. J. , May 6 , 1963 . Insecticide Harmful to Bees To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A story in your May 5 issue on gypsy moth spraying to be done in Sullivan , Orange and Westchester Counties , said the insecticide to be used ; Sevin , " is officially described as harmless to persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting to know by what authority this chemical was so " officially " described . While Sevin is less toxic to birds than DDT , it is moderately toxic to fish and . other aquatic animals .. It is especially lethal to honey bees , agriculture 's most important ? pollinators of apples , clovers and other Crops . C II ARLES H. CALLISON . Assistant to the President , National Audubon Society . , ' New York , May 6 , 1963 .. Communist Gain in Italy Rise in Voting Strength of Party Attributed to Its Flexibility The writer of the following was European editor of The Daily Worker a decade ago . Since then he has left the American COMMUltiSt movement . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your May 1 editorial notes the continued and surprising rise of Communist voting strength in Italy and expresses a certain bewilderment as to why this should be so . One reason surely is that many lower paid workers , agricultural laborers and smallholders do not feel they are getting their fair share in the economic renaissance of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to take part in its fruits and the Communists are , well situated to exploit this desire . But there may be another more profound and perplexing reason for Communist gains  --  namely , the subtlety and flexibility of Italian Communist leadership . As long ago as 1956 Palmiro Togliatti , the Communist chief , was the first to grasp that Communism was becoming " polycentric . " He has been a major exponent of Khrushchev 's line against the Chinese Communists -- in fact spelling out this line much more persuasively than the Russians can and earning very sharp fire from Peking . Independent Policy Togliatti only ' recently disavowed the rigidity of the Russians toward artists and writers , so that Italian Communist policy appears to have a. suppleness and independence of both Moscow and Peking which can only gain them favor within Italy . Important Italian cultural figures , such as the writer Elio Vittorini who left the Communist ranks years ago in a quarrel with Togliatti , were able to win a pledge from the party that if they took part in the elections and won seats in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benches . The readiness of . the Italian Communists to find common ground with people who had left them a decade ago is quite ' inconceivable elsewhere . Finally , the positive attitude of Togliatti toward recent Vatican policy changes must have helped the Cornmunists as much as the Christian Democrats . What we are faced with in Italy is a deeply rooted Communist tradition which has largely avoided the . dogmatism and shortsighted sectarianism so fatal to other Communist movements in the West . May this ? not account for the party 's at- ' tractiveness to new voters ? The question for the West goes still deeper . The New York Times . has often argued editorially that the . increasing disunity and diversity within the Communist camp is a reflection of profound tendencies with which the West must reckon . imaginatively . Long View In some countries , Communism may not be defeated militarily or isolated politically , but it may be undergoing inner changes that will in time alter its characteristics . If Italy is such a country , then we I can not fall back on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We can only take the long view , and plan to live with peoples where Communism is strong , while doing 1 those things which will assist its inner transformation . JOSEPH R. STAROBIN . New York , May 2 , 1963 . Jersey 's Law on Contraceptives To THE EDITOROF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The ban on dispensing contraceptives in any manner other than through physicians and pharmacists has been upheld in New Jersey . Is it not strange that the United States is willing to offer advice to other ( " underdeveloped " ) nations concerning birth control procedures , and is simultaneously unable to cope with problems which stem ( perhaps ) from similar roots within its own bourne ? New Jersey 's legislation would lead one to suspect that it wishes to accept the responsibility for the morality of the individual . The distinction between church and state waxes tnm . KENNETH BRECHER . Cambridge , Mass. , May 7 , 1963.                     