@@722580

txt ? Britain and the six members of the Common Market agreed today to offer associate membership in the market to independent African and Caribbean countries in the British Commonwealth and to prac-i tically all British colonies . Associate status would give , these far-flung territories the I right of tariff-free access to the market if Britain joins it . Tonight , Britain submitted amendments to the Common Market proposal for dealing ' with the key question of imports of food from Canada , Australia and New Zealand . The negotiations for British entry into the ! market can succeed or deadlock 1 on this issue during the next two days . Accord on Hong Kong The agreement on associate status for some members of the . Commonwealth left unsettled , the questions of Hong Kong and the Federation of Rhodesia and ' ' Nyasaland . It was agreed that " appropriate measures in the field of trade " would be worked out for Hong Kong ? before British entry into the European Economic Community , or Common Market . Britain will make proposals 1 " in due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also left open . There is a possibility that Cyprus will be per ; mitted , like Greece , to seek ' associate membership as a Euro , pean country. - ; Jamaica , Trinidad and Uganda , all scheduled to become independent by the end of October , received the same consider , ation as Ghana and Nigeria . That is , they have the opportunity to apply for associate status . Only the problem of the // wording of the " offer " or " invitation " to the independent countries remains . The net result of today 's work was that the question of associate status for many countries was virtually settled . Britain received the same privileges as the present Common Market members  --  association for her colonies and for her former colonies in Africa and the Caribbean . The six members of the market are France , Italy , West Germany , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . Associate membership has long been ruled out for the major members of the Commonwealth  --  Canada , Australia , New Zealand and India . The list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status is amazingly long . It includes thirty-four territories , ranging from populous and economically important Kenya to the uninhabited British Antarctic territory . The great bulk of the list is made up of islands in all the world 's oceans , most of them small . Aside from Kenya , such relatively populous places as British Honduras , Bermuda , Barbados and Zanzibar are on the list . Another important step forward in the negotiations was made today when the Common Market countries agreed to accept a long-standing British request fora zero tariff on tea in an enlarged Common Market . This helps the British housewife and solves the problem of Ceylon 's and India 's exports of tea . Britain accepted today the Common Market formula for the financing regulations of the first three years of the new common agricultural policy . This is a complex question and potentially hundreds of millions of dollars are involved . There remains to be tackled tomorrow the British proposals concerning the fundamental issue of imports of food from Canada , Australia and New Zealand . This is the issue that has stirred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market offer , whichpledges that a " reasonable " price policy will be pursued . Canada , Australia and New Zealand fear that they will suffer economic hardship through loss of the tariff preferences their exports now enjoy on the British market . British Proposals Outlined BRUSSELS , Aug. 2 ( Reuters ) ? Britain proposed tonight that Commonwealth farm products enjoy full Common Market preferences until Jan. 1 , 1967 . Sources said the chief British negotiator , Edward Heath , suggested the preference limit date when he presented a list of amendments to earlier joint proposals on the treatment of food imports from Canada , Australia and New Zealand . If world commodity agree ' ments are reached by 1967 , the British would be prepared to accept a gradual reduction of preferences up to 1970 , the sources said . The spokesman said that in the German view the best thing would be for Israel to settle ' her trade problems in separate agreements with the six members of the Common Market . This , he said , was expressed in the German note to Jordan after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel was reported to be seeking an arrangement with the Common Market that would protect her exports from being endangered by the market 's custom policy . Israel stressqd that she was not seeking to join the market .                     