@@723924

txt WASHINGTON , April 22 ? Everybody is worrying this spring about the country 's morality , which is probably just as bad as it used to be before it became fashionable to worry about it . A few months ago , the big thing to worry about was poverty . Before that it was Cuba and before that , Berlin ' . These worry fads come on with such intensity that nobody can think about them very clearly because of all the loud worrying that goes on . The sure sign that something is in for a really big worrying comes when questions are asked about it ' at the President 's news conference . The first question about American morality was put to President Johnsonthree weeks ago . The second was popped Tuesday . The first time , Mr. The Johnson said he was n't Immorality worried.Tuesday , howDilemma ever , he opened the gates . Immorality , he said , was " very much like poverty ? we must try to drive it from the American scene . " It is easy to foresee the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you propose this Government take to drive immorality from the American scene ? " Since it is practically impossible to roll back sin with a Congressional appropriation , the sensible answer would be , " None . " May the President be so courageous . This is the kind of thing that makes life impossible for a President . If he declines to send a special sin message to Congress proposing dynamic programs for cleaner living , the Republicans will attack him as vice 's handmaiden . If he calls for a crash program of uplift , he is certain to be attacked on the ground that low living is a traditional part of the American process which has helped make the country great . The pitfall for a Horseback President urged to do Lecher something about iroApplauded morality is the lack of agreement about what immorality is . The present uproar seems to grow out of magazine and book polemics purporting to show that young people are more self-indulgent in lechery than young people used to be . This is comforting to the old people , who compose the polemics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time . The rub is that it is a dubious proposition . The movies have been doing good work recently on immorality , and two recent pictures are instructive . They are " Tom Jones " and " Hud . " " Torn Jones " gives us an eighteenthcentury youth who is a delight . He gets drunk , brawls and indulges his lecheries without restraint . Tom and his ladies carry on the way the immorality worriers conceive young people carry on today . If he were played in a leather jacket and on a motorcycle , instead of in wig and on horseback , the picture would probably be hailed as a disturbing documentary on the parlous morality of youth . Instead , the public greets Toni it as a charming cameo of and old English life and perInd mits it the final accolade of movie orthodoxy , the Academy award for " Best Picture of the Year . " " Hud , " the superior film in many ways , raises more delicate questions . Hud is one of those irresistibly beguiling louts whose debonair dedication to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern swashbucklers , devastating to the ladies and poisonous to everyone his life touches . In the film , Mid happens to be a rancher , but he is also clearly recognizable as the business man with his private loophole , the Senator doing a lucrative business from his office , the repairman gouging the sucker for a shoddy piece of work . Immoral ? He lives within the law , and in this society , he shouts , people who live by principle die broke . The Toms learn morality from the Hods . If today 's youth is on the wrong path , the people everybody ought to be worrying about are the old people who are worrying about the youth . RUSSELL BAKER .                     