@@727885

txt 33y STJEVV.A.R-1. r oar.1 There is a deepening awareness that today 's domestic turbulence is in reality a fundamental questioning of the value system of American society . The protest of the blacks against the personal affronts and indignities of daily life is also a more general protest against the false and frequently inhuman values of our total social system . The widespread student antagonism toward the standards of " the establishment " represents an even broader disagreement with conventional values . Social Renewal I believe this pervasive and pointed questioning of values may bring about a shift in those ideas and attitudes that ultimately shape the nation . In fact , we may already be engaged in the most vital sorting out of values since 1776 . Even our search for the roots of failure at the time of the Depression was more a questioning of the workability of the economic system than a radical search for the , elements of thorough-going social renewal . Our contemporary turmoil concerns human relationships : between the privileged and the Impoverished , between black and white , between parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , that the present young generation is not only the best educated , but also the most aware ' and idealistic in our history , we must be responsive to its causes and complaints . The anger of the young blacks against the built-in inequalities and hypocrisies of " the system " legitimately challenges the moral basis of the old order . If a large proportion of the superior university graduates turn their backs on corporate careerism , if many of our most creative minds are turned off by conventional opportunities , we should question the incentives and concepts that make the system go . For there is no doubt that the desire to be merely affluent is yielding to the impulse to live in an environment that is life-giving and creative . If most of our cities and countrysides are increasingly unclean and ugly we should begin to reconsider the policies that have made them a disordered mess . If technology is to continue its thrust , then it must be influenced by social considerations and aspirations  --  in short , technology must be civilized . The thing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the waste endemic in American life : the waste of young talent ; the waste of the contributions the unmelted minorities.could make if we gave them a chance ; the waste of the beauty and bounty of a magnificent continent . The student protest against the Vietnam policy was and is a moralistic protest against waste . Excesses of War With the benefit of hindsight we now realize it is a judgment wiser than Washington 's  --  a judgment that the lives and wealth expended were excessive and misdirected , and thus demeaned us before mankind . We will always need in this country all the idealism we can get , particularly from our youth , for the idealist is more sensitive to crucial moral issues , more attuned to the nonmaterialistic opportunities . Who indeed will pierce our old frauds and follies unless fresh minds question the habits and attitudes of the past ? The value revolution is upon us . It may transform our lives . Those preoccupied with the selfish scramble for easy wealth , unmerited advantage and personal ease should become accustomed to the wellaimed arrows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . The value doubters will continue to scorn our efforts to define the national well-being solely by Gross National Prod- ? uct , freight-car loadings , auto production , or the sufficiency that product is , what the freight cars contain , what the relevance of individual wheels is to our mass transportation needs , ' how humanism fits into what can never again be a simple logistical measure of preparedness . The time has come to recognize the worth of the value rev. ? olution and to encourage it to , ward constructive channels . It ? can have a profound and beneficial influence on our future if it causes us to renew our lives , revise our institutions , and re , . assess our directions and ' purposes . ? Stewart L. Udall served as Secretary of the Interior in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations .                     