@@721142

txt HAVANA , Cuba , March 24 ( .4 ) )  - -  -  The Cuban government moved Thursday toward a new clash with the United States by indicating it will apply the revolutionary labor law to Cubans employed by the United States naval base at Guantanamo bay . Augusto Martinez Sanchez , left wing labor minister in 1Prime Minister Fidel Castro 's cabinet , told a television audience that- the American base in eastern Cuba is " a foreign business on Cuban soil . " " Must Conform " He said Guantanamo 's 3,000 Cuban employes would have to be listed in next month 's labor census because it is a foreign business and " must conform to legislation . " The cabinet ordered the census in a decree last week . Another labor law that could be applied is one barring the dismissal of any Cuban employe , but Martinez Sanchez did not mention it specifically . Granted in 1934 Cuban and American workers on the base are covered now by American civil service labor regulations . The United States government does not recognize Cu- , ban jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the United States by a 1934 treaty for a payment of $2,000 a year in gold . The base has enough facilities to handle the entire Atlantic fleet if necessary . The 1934 treaty provides that United States control shall end only by voluntary abandonment or mutual agreement between the two countries . The Castro government has been showing signs of nibbling at the 45 square mile enclave for months . Discord between base dficials and the Cuban government arose last week when the machinist who heads the Cuban workers union there was fired . Federico Figueras Larrazabal was accused of making false and inflammatory statements about working conditions ? at the base and of having a poor personal work record . He charged that the base discriminated against Cubans in wages and working conditions . Turned Away by Embassy Officials of the Cuban Confederation of Labor , which inI eludes the Guantanamo base union , attempted to talk with United States embassy officials about Figueras ' dismissal , but they were referred to the Cuban hiring authorities in Guantanamo City , near the base . Naval authorities at Guantanamo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the base or allow Cuban officials to operate there unless Washington approves . Base officials said they doubt the dispute could be expanded into the threat of an effective strike . If matters reach that stage , the navy said it is prepared to operate without Cuban help .                     