@@726436

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , July 10 Monday - United States marines battled North Vietnamese forces along the demilitarized zone yesterday . The leathernecks found 50 more North Vietnamese bodies near the embattled border of Con Thien , boosting to almost 1,000 the number of North Vietnamese the marines claimed to have killed in the last eight days of heavy fighting . Marine Losses Given Marine losses were put at 143 dead and 718 wounded during the same period . Meanwhile , Defense Secretary Robert S. visited an American special forces camp at My An in the Mekong delta and was told by the Green Beret troops that communist guerillas attack their camp from havens in Cambodia just over the border . In other action , two more American planes were lost over North Viet Nam as jets bombed is major North Vietnamese oil dump near Haiphong . A terror squad attacked the biggest United States military barracks in Saigon . The loss of two A-4 Skyhawks to ground fire raised United States air losses over North Viet Nam to 602 planes . Both . pilots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today blasted the marine air field at Dong Ha , forward command post for the 3d marine division , south of the zone . The shelling forced the field to close operations for several hours . The Saigon terror attack was the boldest in the South Viet , namese capital in months . A Viet Cong terror squad exploded a deadly homemade pellet-spraying mine outside the American military barracks last night , killing four Vietnamese civilans and wounding 33 other persons , including 14 GIs . The wounded included six women and six children . The blast ripped across a crowded street in Saigon 's Chinatown district at 7 p. m . United States military police raked the top of buildings across the street from the barracks with small arms fire after receiving sniper fire . Vietnamese police seized several suspects after the blast which also shattered the front of two small Vietnamese restaurants . The barracks is the former Capitol hotel , converted to house about 400 American soldiers . Visits Green Berets Wearing tropical khakis and hunting boots , flew by helicopter to the special forces camp at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been attacked four times in the last three months . was interested in infiltration from Cambodia and the intelligence that the Green Beret troops and their Vietnamese civilian irregular forces gathered from the countryside which is a Viet Cong stronghold . The special forces commanders told there appeared to be little infiltration , but that the Viet Cong companies operating in the area freely used Cambodia as a sanctuary . The guerrillas make raids from across the border and then dart back if they are pressed by allied troops . Tours Unique Camp Following briefings from the Green Berets , went on a tour of the camp which is constructed to rise and fall with the delta waters . The buildings are attached to empty oil drums so they will rise when the rainy season floods the delta , a process that is now beginning . The defense secretary visited the camp on the second day of field trips during his ninth journey to Viet Nam  --  a visit that probably will determine if ham C. Westmoreland , the American commander , gets the additional troops he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The general was called back to the United States on emergency leave to attend the funeral of his mother who died yesterday in Columbia , S. C. Tours Battle Zone was accompanied by Gen. Creighton Abrams Jr. , Westmoreland 's four-star deputy and the man generally believed to be in line to succeed Westmoreland who has already been in Viet Nam , three years . toured the battle zone south of the demilitarized zone yesterday and was told that North Viet Nam has unleashed its biggest and potentially most dangerous known offensive weapon against United States marines . It is a Soviet 152 mm. self-propelled gun capable of hurling a 108 pound shell 17 miles . The defense chief told a Da Nang press conference after his tour of the battle zone yesterday that altho communist forces had inflicted heavy casualties on some American units in South Viet Nam 's northern provinces , the North Vietnamese had suffered " very heavy losses " themselves . said he believed that heavy United States pressure had forced the Communists to switch their main drive from the central highlands and populated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone where their lines of supplies are shorter . " Obviously , the North Vietnamese are paying a price for that movement because they can not put as much pressure on the government of Viet Nam in that God-forsaken area near the DMZ as they could in the central highlands or in the III corps area around Saigon where the population is located , " said . In the air war , United States navy pilots knifing deep into North Viet Nam yesterday reported heavy damage in a raid on the Loi Dong petroleum storage area 4 miles from the center of Haiphong . The air strikes against the Haiphong area fuel dump followed 97 missions Saturday in which American pilots blasted the Ban Yen Nhan army barracks and missile support base 14 miles southeast of Hanoi for the first time in the war .                     