@@727789

txt In a day of tense confusion at Columbia University , the Students for a Democratic Society was split yesterday when 32 members occupied a campus building for six hours over the objections of the radical group 's leaders . Almost simultaneously it became known that 800 professors had signed a statement deploring campus violence and urging the school " to defend itself " against disruption . The statement was first issued by a group of 100 senior professors last month . Other Demonstrations Disturbances at other colleges and universities included the following : cCity College , Brooklyn College , Queens College and Queensborough Community College . At the two colleges in Queens the dismissal of faculty members was at issue . At Brooklyn , the administration was denounced , and at City College , students rallied in support of a proposed boycott of classes . ( Princeton , where members of the Students for a Democratic Society* delivered verbal attacks on the administration while the university 's trustees met . The breakaway group at Columbia , which calls itself the S.D.S. Expansion Committee , marched quietly into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few hundred feet from two other rallies , one being conducted by the regular S.D.S. and one by the moderate Students for a Reconstructured University . At 6:45 P.M. , after six hours in the lobby of Hamilton Hall , the 32 members of the S.D.S. Expansion Committee left the baiNding , saying that they felt they lacked community and campus support . The decision to leave the building was made after an overwhelming vote to vacate . It was understood that the group had sought unsuccessfully to marshal support in the Morningside Heights Community . The confusion on the campus was underscored by the uneasy factionalism that divided one set of radicals from another set of radicals , white radicals from black radicals , liberal teachers from radical students , and a sizable number of faculty members who oppose disruption from a smaller group close to the radical students . One of the largest faculty blocs  --  including many prominent figures on campus  --  said in the statement that now has 800 signatures : " Current attempts to disrupt or prevent the holding of classes are a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inimical to university life . No genuine education can take place if teachers and students are cast in an adversary role . " Disruptions deny students their right to an education and scholars their right to be heard . " List Due Monday The faculty statement will appear in the student newspaper , The Columbia Daily Spectator , on Monday , the same day that hundreds , possibly thousands , of high school students are expected to march on campus . The high school students and college radicals are demanding a separate admissions board for black students as well as an open admission policy at Columbia for four high schools : Brandeis , George Washington , Haaren and Benjamin Franklin . In the statement the 800 faculty members condemned " those who would subordinate intellectual freedom to political ends , or who violate the norms of conduct established to protect that freedom . " Against such offenders the university has the right , and indeed the obligation , to defend itself . " Nor does the sanctuary of the university protect acts violating civil or criminal law , which are illegal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim is false that only by disruptive tactics can criticism be made effective and university policies changed , " the statement went on . " In the past , important policy and curriculum changes have been made through faculty and student action , in which rational discussion has been used to find constructive solutions to our problems . " We recognize the need for further reforms . ... but we can not accept force as a substitute for reasoned argument in deciding matters affecting the curriculum , instruction and administration of the university . " The statement was first is'sued March 10 by 100 senior faculty members . In the last few weeks , hundreds of other Columbia faculty members have signed the document , entitled , " The University as a Sanctuary of Academic Freedom . " Early signers included Lionel Trilling , the author and literary critic ; Richard M. Hofstadter , DeWitt Clinton Professor of American History ; Ivan I. Morris , Professor of Chinese and Japanese ; Wallace S. Sayre , Eaton Professor of Public Administration , and lack Beeson , Professor of Music . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Fred W. Friendly , Edward R. Murrow Professor of Journalism ; Daniel Bell , the sociologist , and Ernest Nagel , philosophy professor . The document was distributed among the faculty informally by about two dozen professors . The Columbia University faculty totals more than 5,000 , including researchers , assistants , lecturers and professors , but many of these were not reached . " We do n't know who was approached , " said one of the original sponsors , Theodore de Bary , who is the Horace Walpole Carpcntier Professor of Oriental Studies . " People circulated this in their own way ? personal buttonholding , local mail , circulating it like a petition . The statement declares : " In September of 1968 , the faculty of this university adopted interim rules in order to insure the right to demonstrate peaceably and at the same time guarantee that the normal functioning of the university would not be impeded . " It is desirable that university discipline be administered through bodies representative of the academic community , but this can be effective only if their members accept their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will to act . Yesterday 's scene on the gray , chilly campus was a cacaphony of blaring bullhorns , shouting , confusion and tension . University officials emphasized through the day that no immediate action was planned against the group sitting in at Hamilton Hall because it was not obstructing access to the building or interfering with normal academic activity . " We 'll just let them sit there for a while , " a university official said , several hours before the group left quietly . It was understood that the university was hoping to avoid any action that might reunite the two S.D.S. factions . Tactical Mistake Shortly before 7 P.M. , as a soft drizzle fell , the 32 demonstrators left Hamilton Hall . " Tactically , we made a mistake , " one of them said . " We decided that we must seek support in S.D.S. and also from nonmembers of S.D.S. on the campus who agree with our philosophy . " Had the students remained in the building during the night , university action would probably have taken the form of renewed use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On Thursday night , the university obtained a restraining order that bars obstructive or disruptive demonstrations anywhere on the campus by anyone who has knowledge of the order . The university earlier obtained such an order after 16 black students occupied the Columbia College admissions office on Monday morning.I However , the students left the office Wednesday morning be-I fore the order was served . Since then , black students have not participated in campus demonstrations . Columbia obtained the sec- ' and restraining order Thursday night after about 300 white S.D.S. supporters occupied Phi- ! losophy Hall . That order was served by university officials , touching off a violent clash be-I tween campus security guards and the student protestors . The Philosophy Hall demonstrators left the building voluntarily about an hour after the order was served . As the S.D.S. factions were disputing each other , the Students for a Restructured University intensified efforts to mobilize liberal support on the campus . " We think , " said Neal Hurwitz , a leader of the moderate group , " that we represent the majority of the students on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and our opposition to violence on this campus . " Mr. Hurwitz said that at a meeting Thursday night members of his organization and Dr. Andrew W. Cordier , the acting president of Columbia , the moderate students were told that Dr. Cordier would maintain regular liaison with them and would keep them informed of developments on the campus . Last night , Mike Golash , a graduate engineering student and head of the Expansion Committee , said his group planned no further action over the weekend . As for demands by black students at Columbia University , they said they were giving Dr. Cordier a deadline of Wednesday noon to accept or reject the Students Afro-American Society 's proposal for a black education program . A spokesman said the society planned a " mass evacuation of the campus from Tuesday morning until Wednesday noon so that Cordier can think about our proposal without any campus pressure  --  we 've heard he ca n't think under pressure . " The spokesman said the " evacuation " would follow a day of teach-ins on Monday and a black student and Harlem Community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to say what action the black student organization would . Meanwhile the faculties of the schools of International Affairs and Political Science met in separate session yesterday and adopted resolutions that , in essence , commended the staff , students and administration for efforts made to restructure the university and to advance AfroAmerican studies . The resolutions , however , condemned the disruption of classes and interference with faculty and student activities , " such as occurred on April 17 , with the seizure of Philosophy Hall . " Both faculties expressed confidence that effective disciplinary action would be taken against those responsible for such disruptions .                     