@@724290

txt A United States network 's handling of the spectacular opening telecast of the Olympic Games has created ill feeling in Japan . The broadcast , relayed live from Tokyo by the satellite Syncorn III , was delayed for three ' hours by the National Broadcasting Company before it was shown on the West Coast of the United States . As a result , the ceremony was seen on tape at 1 A.M. yester-1 day , Pacific time  --  outside prime viewing hours  --  rather than at 10 P.M. Friday , while it was happening . Qualified sources said the State Department was deeply concerned by the West Coast delay because live television coverage of the Olympics is a matter of national pride to the Japanese Government . Japan was reliably reported to have voiced surprise and disappointment to Washington officials . The State Department had taken the initiative in encouragaing the live telecast to illustrate scientific collaboration between the countries and to improve Far Eastern rela-tion &; N. B. C. , acknowledging that the historical telecast had been delayed , said the aim had been to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show with Johnny Carson . Moreover the network , which has bought exclusive American television rights to the Olympics , confirmed that there would be no furtherdive telecasts from Tokyo . Future reports of the games will be taped or filmed and transported by jet airplane . The live pictures were received in New York yesterday between 1 and 3 A.M. Besides being noteworthy for ? their manner of transmission , the pictures had extraordinary quality . They were so rich in detail that they often seemed superior to pickups made under ideal lighting conditions in studios . Washington officials remarked pointedly that both President Johnson and Secretary of State Dean Rusk had hailed the plan for live Olympic telecasts as a stimulus to friendship between peoples . Negotiations Cited William R. , the network 's vice president in charge of news , conceded that an N.B.C . publicity release issued in July had promised coast-to-coast live coverage of the Olympic opening . But he added that in subsequent negotiations the network had made it clear that there would be no departure from normal policy . Official Washington was wary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts between N.B.C . and American television sponsors on one hand and between N.B.C . and the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation on the other . But there was no hiding the disappointment that the first live telecast was to be the last , and that it had been seen at an hour when the television audience is normally minimal . The Communications Satellite Corporation , the United States Navy , the State Department and Japanese electronic engineers had raced the clock to be able to take advantage of the orbit- , ing Syncom III . Perhaps more than any other single telecast , the Olympic program demonstrated the ability of live television to minimize differences in time . As the procession of the world 's athletes into the stadium unfolded , thousands of miles away , the viewer in the United States felt involved in the proceedings . Yesterday private engineers and Washington diplomats were enthusiastic over the accomplishment . They said the telecast demonstrated beyond doubt how electronics could bring the world closer together . Especially vivid was the different dress of the athletes , particularly from the new nations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which Erhperor Hirohito was seated . The viewer was also impressed by close-ups of many faces from many parts Of the world and by the camera 's ability to focus even on individual birds when the pigeons were released over the stadium . The Syncom III pictures were clearly superior to those previously relayed over the Atlantic Ocean by the Telestar and Relay satellites . The images were stable throughout the two hours . The duration of the program was an advantage of the design of Syncom III , which hovers in a fixed position 22,300 miles above the Pacific Ocean and is synchronized with the earth 's movement . The other satellites , in much lower orbits , pass Out of useful range after 20 to 50 minutes . Craft 's Designers Upset Syncom III was designed by the Hughes Aircraft Company of California ; the blackout of live coverage in that area is reported to have angered officials of that company in particular . The Teistar satellites were developed by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Relay satellites by the Radio Corporation of America , parent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no plans for live telecasts between Asia and the United States . But the Japanese Foreign Ministry , seeking an opportunity to demonstrate the country 's skill in electronics , pressed the State Department to intervene . Mr. , explaining N.B.C . ' s position , said that long before anyone could be sure that Syncom III would be aloft and working , it had been necessary for N.B.C . to arrange .6. , schedule of Olympic telecasts , N.B.C . paid $I million to ' the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation for the American rights , Mr. said , and it was understood that this outlay would be paid back through sponsorship . Four sponsors were found , he said , and part of the arrangement with them was for exclusive coverage . Another problem , Mr. said , was the 13-hour time difference between Tokyo and the East Coast of the United States . The finals of many of the most interesting events will come in the middle of the night . Starting today , N.B.C . will screen daily Olympic programs , ranging from 15 minutes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington there was disagreement over the seriousness of the time problem . Some Government officials said there was a number of events that could coincide with morning television hours in the United States and others that could fall in prime evening time . Within the State Department there wp .. s concern over the possibility that Europe and ? , the Soviet Union might televise Olympic pictures before the United States did , because of , time differences . This is viewed as a matter of United States prestige . To cope with time differences within the United States , West Coast stations generally tape a show as ft comes off the net-1 work cable , and then hold it for later showing . This system enables a program such as " Tonight " to be seen at 11:30 P. M. in the Eastern zone and then , three hours later , at 11:30 in the Pacific zone . Signals from all types of satellites are too weak to be picked up directly by a home television set . Thus international programs must be fed through the video networks of countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercontinental transmission there is intense rivalry among the Hughes concern , A.T . &T.; and R.C.A. to have their satellite systems chosen by the Communications Satellite Corporation for eventual commercial We . As an additional contribution to the Olympic telecast , R.C.A. donated $200,000 to help convert the Navy tracking station at Point Mugu . Calif. , to receive the , signals from Syncom.                     