@@726693

txt The Shah of Iran crowned himself and his young Empress today in a blaze of pomp and splendor . Under the arabesque arches of the Golestan Palace , the 48-yearold Shah pledged his life " to bring the Iranian nation up to the level of the most progressive and prosperous societies of the world . " " Javid Shah ! " ? Long Live the Shah  --  the audience in the palace shouted after the monarch put on the plumed and diamond-studded crown that symbolizes the 2,500-year-old Persian monarchy . Then the Shah , whose title is King of Kings , set a lacy diadem of gems and platinum on Empress Farah 's head , making her , at 29 , his country 's first crowned queen . The 50-minute ceremony took place at midday in the palace 's Coronation Hall , which is dominated by the Shah 's bejeweled Peacock Throne . The Shah , in a four-minute address , said to the audience of diplomats and officials , according to the official translation : " At this moment that I wear the crown of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first time in the history of Iran , has been crowned , I feel closer than ever before to my noble and patriotic people . " Voicing concern about the continuation of his line , he said : " I beseech Almighty God to grant us success so that we . . . will be able to pass on to our successors a country with yet greater cause for pride , a nation enjoying an even higher level of progress . " He also said he would " withhold nothing , not even my life , " in efforts " to bring the Iranian nation up to the level of the most progressive and prosperous societies of the world and to renew the ancient grandeur of this historical land . " The Shah , Mohammed Riza Pahlevi , ascended the throne 26 years ago , but he put off being crowned until he had consolidated his control over Iran and had brought to the country a measure of economic and social progress . He also waited until his son and heir , Crown Prince Riza was 6 years old . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years old himself , the Shah was at the coronation of his father , Riza Shah the Great , a selfmade general who took over power from the decadent Qajar dynasty and changed the country 's name to Iran from Persia . Prince Sits in Gold Chair Today the Crown Prince sat in a gold chair to the left of the seven-foot throne , glittering with 26,733 jewels . To the right , in a white silk gown , sat the Empress , who knelt before the Shah to be crowned . The Shah , after his address , formally introduced the Crown Prince and asked God 's aid to help the Prince " in executing the great duty required from him . " The Shah was 48 years old today . He rules firmly through the support of the army and the Government , whose Premier he appoints . But his courtiers fear instability if he should die or be killed . He has already survived two assassination attempts . In the event the Shah should die before the Crown Prince comes of age , Empress Farah would serve as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the monarchy , Iranian officials hope that it will help to assure its future by enhancing the prestige of the Empress . Onlookers Wave Flags From the Marble Palace , ' where the day 's pageantry began , the imperial couple rode to the coronation in a guilded carriage built for the occasion in Vienna at a cost of $78,000 . The slim , brunette Empress appeared a trifle nervous , but her husband waved and fluttered his fingers at the crowd through the thick glass windows of the coach . Onlookers ? they appeared to number in the tens of thousands  --  waved Iranian flags and some women set up the shrill cry that Middle Eastern peasant women use at moments of great joy . The Crown Prince , following in a separate carriage , appeared solemn in his cadet 's uniform with large gold epaulets . Drummers beat a solemn onetwo beat , and the crowd chanted " Javid Shah ! " as the imperial carriage was drawn by its eight horses through streets festooned with flags , lights and portraits of the royal family . Seven thousand soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Golestan Palace , a rambling two-story 19th-century building adorned with bright Persian tiles , and passed through a hall lined with mirrors into the coronation chamber . There , after a blessing by Teheran 's ranking Islamic dignitary , the Imam Juma , the Shah put his lips to a copy of the Koran . He buckled on the royal girdle , a band of gold with an emerald for a buckle , and he put on , a bejeweled sword and his father 's coronation cape . Then , after crowning himself , he took up the diamond encrusted royal scepter , heavy with lions carved in gold . As the 550 dignitaries in the hall broke out in cheers , drums rolled outside the palace and the trumpets blared again . Premier Amir Abras Hoveida made a brief congratulatory speech and Prof. Lotfali Suratgar , a poet , read the coronation ode . The last lines went : " May the crown of the Shahanshah King of Kings and the Queen glow over the world as long as the sun and the moon shine in the firmament . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ceremony , but the Crown Prince fidgeted in his chair during his father 's brief address . The Empress 's eyes surveyed the audience of dignitaries , who were in full evening dress and long gowns , though the temperature was in the seventies . Two hidden fans cooled the Shah and Empress during the ceremony , but the Shah perspired slightly under the hot lights of the cameramen . Princess Shahnaz , the Shah 's 27-year-old daughter by the first of his three marriages , wept copiously during the corornation . The Shah divorced his first two wives after they failed to bear him a male heir . When the royal family emerged from the palace , walking upon a broad red carpet , a choir sang a coronation hymn that went : " The King of Kings is wearing the crown . May you reign forever in the kingdom of our hearts . The imperial couple and the Crown Prince re-entered their carriages to finish their 10-mile coronation itinerary through Teheran 's avenues . The Shah and the Empress appeared comfortable wearing their crowns , but the Empress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the pressure of three and a half pounds of platinum and gems . The Shah 's crown was made for his father 's coronation . It is a casque of red velvet encrusted with 3,380 diamonds , five emeralds , two sapphires and 368 pearls . The diamonds form a sunburst pattern against an angular tracery of pearls surmounted by a large emerald . The Empress 's crown was designed and made for the coronation by the Paris concern Van Cleef and Arpels , using 1,646 diamonds , 105 pearls and 72 other stones . Court officials say that both crowns are " beyond price . " The gown the Empress wore had a six-and-a-half-yard train . Together with her green velvet cloak , it was designed by the House of Dior to her specifications and made in Teheran . The Shah wore his full-dress uniform as commander in chief of Iran 's armed forces . No official delegations from foreign countries were invited to the ceremony , which was considered " a family affair " by the court . President Johnson sent two coronation presents ? a silver bowl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ceremony , the imperial couple returned to the Marble Palace , built by the Shah 's father , while planes dropped sprays of flowers and prayers were called out from the city 's minarets . Then they were driven by limousine back to the modern Niavaran Palace , the Shah 's usual residence , in a suburb of Teheran . They were to attend a round of coronation banquets and concert hall performances in the coming week , while the people of Iran celebrate with free minstrel shows and plays .                     