@@722134

txt Prime Minister Macmillan said today that he was " very hopeful " that the Western powers would soon agree on a joint position over Berlin and begin negotiations with the Soviet Union . Pressed by Hugh Gaitskell , leader of the Labor party , Mr. Macmillan said recent discussions in Moscow between Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko and Western ambassadors had been " helpful . " " I think progress has been made in recent weeks , " the Prime Minister told the Houses of Commons , " and I am very hopeful we shall get an agreed Western position . At that point , negotiations in one form or another , at one level or another , can begin . " Shift in 2 Respects Seen Mr. Macmillan 's cautious optimism " about a certain easing of the position " reflects the conviction in authoritative diplomatic circles that in two key respects Soviet policy on Berlin has been changed . Great emphasis is placed upon one disclosure that arose out of Mr. Gromyko 's talks with the ambassadors and that apparently was discussed by Premier Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is what is known in the Foreign Office as " Point Two . " It concerns the conclusion of an agreement between the Soviet Union and East Germany under which the latter would under- , take to respect a new statute ' for West Berlin and accept guarantees agreed between the Soviet Union and the Western powers on rights of access . Diplomats now say that this point has been reported from Moscow by Sir Frank Roberts , the British Ambassador , as a probable development in the evolving Soviet position . If the Russians are in earnest about this , a source said , it would relieve the Allies of the necessity of reaching an agreement with the " loathsome " East German regime on access . This , it was said , would be an advance for the West in negotiating any . Berlin settlement . The Russians , it was pointed out , may have ' had such an agreement in mind as a fall-back position from the very outset of the crisis over Berlin . For the Soviet Union 's aidememoire of last June 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an " appropriate agreement " with the German Democratic Republic. , The Russians did not then specify the other party or parties to such an agreement , although it was interpreted in the West as meaning the United States , Britain and France . There is a strong tendency here to believe that the Russians are now using this rather vague wording to create an opening that may hasten negotiations . The second reason for believing that diplomatic events are moving toward negotiations is what is described as the " more reasonable " Soviet attitude toward*the entire question . Before the recent congress of . the Soviet Communist party in Moscow the Western powers had decided that their best tactics were to probe the Russian diplomatic position in an attempt to see whether there were any grounds for fruitful negotiation on Berlin . Since the congress , Sir Flank has reported , the situation has improved . The Soviet Government , although it still attaches I great importance to the Berlin situation , no longer presses it upon Western diplomats as a matter of the highest urgency . Consequently the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western policy on the basis of recent diplomatic disclosures and that the next contacts between the Soviet Union and the West could become negotiations perhaps at first on the ambassadorial level .                     