@@722872

txt Fourteen . Southern Republicans took their seats in. the 88th Congress now convened in Washington  --  five more than in the 87th . Arkansas , Alabama , Georgia , South Carolina , Mississippi , and Louisiana returned all-Democratic slates to Congress as usual though Republicans ran . fairly well in one district in Georgia and one in South Carolina . Reports from correspondents of The Christian Science Monitor in states where Republicans won House contests indicate the GOP will have opportunities for a few further gains in the next election , but they will have to work hard for them . Florida : 2 Republicans to 10 Democrats Both Republicans are expected to be stronger than ever at the next congressional election . There is a possibility the Republicans may pick up two or more seats in 1964 if they nominate strong candidates . Texas : 2 to 21 Republicans picked up an additional seat because of the Billie Sol Estes case , but no other districts appear inclined to go Republican next election time . Kentucky : 2 to 5 This state now has 100 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of their two House seats if President Kennedy runs strong in 1964 . Virginia : 2 to 8 The two Republicans reelected increased their victory margins and two other Republicans almost made the grade . It is anticipated that Virginia will have more Republican representation in the House before too long . ! Oklahoma : 1 to 5 Oklahoma 's lone Republican House member is thoroughly entrenched in a district which the Democrats gerrymandered into a Republican stronghold in order to reduce the number of Republican voters in other districts . There is notauch chance of any change in the lineup in the near future . Tennessee : 3 to 6 The three Republican House victories came in eastern Tennessee . Republicans are expected ' to hold onto at least two of these seats . There is an opportunity to pick up a fourth seat in Memphis and Shelby County where the GOP has an effective organization . North Carolina : 2 to 9 Democrats thought they had redistricted sufficiently to their advantage to take over the existing GOP seat . But they were mistaken and also lost a neighboring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stigma in being a- Republican here . Detailed reports : Page 6                     