@@724807

txt The recalcitrance of the junta in the Dominican Republic was reported today to have become the central obstacle to formation of a provisional government there . Administration officials said the ambitions and defiance of the civilian-military junta led by Brig . Gen. Antonio Imbert Barreras , which the United States helped to create , were the main reason for the failure of mediation efforts by President Johnson 's special envoy , Bundy . The conditions posed by the junta 's opponents were described as less serious problems , while those posed by the United States were said to be relatively insignificant . In the Dominican Republic , the first important contingent of United States troops left Santo Domingo ? I 600 marines who were ferried by helicopter to the aircraft carrier Boxer . Page 15.1 Bundy Back In Capital Mr. Bundy , the President 's special adviser for national security affairs , returned this afternoon after 10 days of negotiations in Santo Domingo aimed at creating a broadly based coalition regime . He reported briefly to Mr. Johnson , joked with newsmen at the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts , though not successful , were said to have encouraged the Administration to believe that further violence could be averted and that major Dominican factions would eventually reach agreement through compromise . Officials denied reports from Santo Domingo that important groups in the Administration had tried to sabotage Mr. Bundy 's plan to form a government around Antonio Guzman , a wealthy planter . Secretary of State Dean Rusk spoke well of Mr , Guzman at a news con ference . It was also denied that agreement on a Guzman-led regime was near . The rebels loyal to Col. Francisco Caamafio Dead and to former President Juan Bosch were said to have felt close to agreement  --  and to s substantial political victory ? but General Imbert apparently never went beyond acceptance of. , j1 coalition " in principle . " the Imbert junta is not milte a " Frankenstein " Creation ofr:the United States that threatens to grow out of control , officials said , because the Administration ' Will use force , if nee essary , to keep it from attacking the rebels . But there was growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the junta 's vigorous maneuvering and lobbying , in Santo Domingo as well as in Washington . Secretary Rusk conceded that the Administration encouraged creation , of the junta in the first week of May and had allowed it to assume governmental control throughout the Dominican Republic except in the disputed sections of downtown Santo Domingo , the capital . He said it was necessary foe the three million Dominicans in the countryside to have " the essential elements of civic order and elide life . " Other officials have said that a more important reason for backing General Imbert , who helped to overthow President Bosch in September , 1963 , was the desire here to create a counterforce to- the rebels and to the Communists who were suspected to be among them . Red Threat ' Reduced ' Mr , Rusk also said that the threat of a Communist takeover had been " very substantially reduced although not completely eliminated . " Some of the , extremists " have , shall we say , returned under ground , " he said , More important , he suggested , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made it clear that no group could triumph by violent means . In an apparent reference to the Bundy mission , Mr. Rusk said the Administration was now encouraged to believe that " Mese ' factions in the Dominican republic had agreed to proceed by peaceful discussion and constitutional means . Mr. Bundy is believed to have obtained agreement from both the junta and rebel forces that not alfef their present leaders could serve in a coalition and that ail.Would have to be firmly antiCommunists . Secretary Rusk began his account of Dominican developments by reciting a list of I ' lilted States achievements -- a list that has also been given out V other Cabinet members in private briefings . This ' apparently coordinated " stocktaking " cites the successful protection of lives during the crisis , the rt.e  --  tion of an international safety zone in Santo Domingo , the , provision of food and medicines , the averting of a Communist seizure and the formation of an inter-American military force . : Dominicans Differences The difficult matter now , he said , is the creation of a government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials to some of the proposed candidates for a coalition had contributed to the deadlock in negotiations , Mr Rusk replied : " I can assure you that differences which we might have had with one or another person pale to insignificance compared to the differences among the Dominicans themselves . " General Imbert and his supporters are said to be conducting themselves as the rightful heirs to . power and the only group worthy of Washington 's confidence , Although reconciled to a coalition , they apparently refused to yield to a provisional government heavily weighted with men acceptable to the followers of former President Bosch , The Imbert forces were said to be using their control of sortie communications facilities and other governmental institutions to promote their purposes . Representatives and lobbyiSts for General Imbert , Mr. Bosch and the most recently overthrown junta leader , Donald Reid Cabral , are said by officials to be energetically spreading charges of political and financial irresponsibility against their opponents . Reports Laid to Reid Group Administration sources say they are now quite certain that supporters of Mr. Reid , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Dominican Agriculture Bank , of which he was a director . The charges of irregularities in the bank 's accounts have been denied by several responsible officials in Santo Domingo , and Mr. Guzman has denied any involvement in wrongdoing . Mr. Rusk gave a lengthy defense of United States intervention in the Dominican crisis , saying that it should be assumed , " whether you agree with us or not , " that " we were acting on the basis of solid information " about the danger that the Conimunists might seize control of the rebellion . He did not go so far as President Johnson did on May 2 when he asserted that Communists ? had taken over . Mr. Bundy 's return leaves Deputy Defense Secretary Cyrus R. Nance as the senior United States official in Santo Do-min go . Because of his absence front the capital , officials said , Defense Secretary Robert S. had decided to carted a trip to Bonn Friday .                     