@@722590

txt West Branch , Ia. , Aug. 9-Former President Herbert Hoover will celebrate his 88th birthday here tomorrow at the dedication of the Herbert Hoover Presidential library in a 28 acre park near the two room cottage where he was born . It will be Hoover 's first return here since his 80th birthday celebration in 1954 . This afternoon , when he arrived at Cedar Rapids in a chartered plane from New York , his square , apple-red face glowed with the same robust health and there was the same merry twinkle in his misty blue eyes as when he came here eight years ago . Lines by Dryden He may not return again until he is brought back to be buried , either in the park near the birthplace cottage and library or in the small hillside cemetery half a mile away where his parents and grandparents are buried . On that melancholy occasion these lines by John Dryden will be peculiarly appropriate : " Fate seemed to wind him up for four-score years , " Yet freshly ran he on ten or twenty ? winters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eating time , " The wheels of weary life at last stood still . " Two chartered planes brought the former President ; his sons , Herbert Jr . and Allan , and members of their families , and officers and directors of the Herbert Hoover Birthplace Foundation , Inc. , of which Adm . Lewis L. Strauss is chairman , from New York to Cedar Rapids . Truman to Take Part Two hours later an air force plane arrived with former President Truman , who will take part in the dedication ceremonies just as Hoover participated when the Harry S. Truman library at Independence , Mo. , was dedicated in 1957 . Dwight Eisenhower , the only other member of the exclusive ex-Presidents club , was invited but his present European trip already had been scheduled . President Kennedy also was invited and said he would like to come but felt that a visit by a President currently in office would detract too much from the attention due to the object of the day 's festivities . Hoover , the Republican , and Truman , the Democrat , are both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other . Hoover is staying at the home of Howard Hall . a Cedar Rapids industrialist , but tom or ro w morning he will call for Truman at the Roosevelt hotel in Cedar Rapids and the two will come here in an automobile , accompanied on the 40 mile trio only by a chauffeur . Will Make Speech Hoover will deliver a major address on national and world affairs at the dedication ceremony . His annual birthday pronouncements on the problems of our times , on which he speaks with wisdom enriched by unparalleled experience and profound study , have become traditional . He has made four moving " farewell " addresses to Republican national conventions and some think he may make as many more . He works 10 hours a day , writing books or speeches , in his apartment in New York 's Waldorf-Astoria Towers and even takes paper and pencils along on his annual summer trips to the Bohemian Grove resort in the California redwoods or goes bone fishing in a rented houseboat off the Florida keys . Author of Books He has written a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ordeal of Woodrow Wilson . " and a four volume work on American relief enterprises , " An American Epic , " and is working on several others . Whatever time he can spare from his writing is devoted to fund raising for educational and charitable institutions . He is honorary chairman of a three year campaign by Stanford university . his alma mater , to raise 100 million dollars . The Hoover archives and personal collections of papers and memorabilia have been brought here from the Hoover Institution on War , Revolution , and Peace . a library and research center at Stanford with hundreds of special collections and millions of items on the major upheavals of the 20th century . particularly the rise of totalitarianism . The " war and peace " collections will remain at Stanford . Most Honored American The library here , a one-story Iowa limestone structure of traditional design , has 6.000 square feet of floor space and this will be more than doubled by a proposed addition to accommodate facilities for research scholars and other material remaining in Hoover 's personal possession . Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left the White House in the great depression , is the most honored American of alltime . Most of the great universities of the world have bestowed honorary degrees upon him and the total will he increased to 88 on his 88th birthday by awards from the University of Missouri and Washington tomorrow . There are more than 100 medals from foreign governments and societies in the library here . Hoover once wrote that " no greater honor can come to an American than to have a school named after him , " and there is a map of the United States in the library with 45 flags marking Hoover schools . Scroll from Russia A prize exhibit in the library is an ornate vellum scroll , printed in Russian , dated July 10 , 1923 , signed by Kamenev and other officers of the council of people 's commissars , and expressing thanks " in the name of the millions of people who have been saved " by Hoover 's relief mission in Russia . Another rare item is a handsome , vellum-bound guar to volume of a translation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medieval Latin , by Hoover and his wife , a former schoolteacher , who died in 1944 . It is the world 's oldest treatise on mining , published in 1556 . Other items in the library tell the story of Hoover 's remarkable career as a mining engineer , secretary of commerce , relief administrator in two World wars , secretary of commerce . President of the United States , and chairman of two commissions which carried out monumental studies on the organization of the government under Presidents Truman and Eisenhower .                     