@@727795

txt Sheets of water sloshed over the deck . The boat lurched and rocked , in a sickening motion . Two men struggled with hoses and plastic bottles , trying to take a water sample from surly Lake Michigan . For six hours yesterday , engineers from the city 's water purification division took samples , frying to learn why Chicago 's water bas been tasting foul , and in some parts of the city , smelling like a pig pen . A Taro= reporter accompanied the engineers . Find Polluted Pool Despite uneAqinisge felt by most of the crew , engineers were able to learn that a pool of badly polluted water exists off the shores of Chicago and the northern suburbs . Erwin Ernest , engineer . In charge of the pollution-detection project , said strong northeasterly winds have funneled industrial pollution in water off North Chicago and Waukegan directly into Chicago . The water around intake valves at the filtration plant off Grand avenue is poor in quAtity , Ernest said . A dozen water samples were taken during the cruise from Chicago to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around North Chicago was the most contaminated  --  a muddy yellow compared with the green lake observed five miles from shore . 10 Stacks Spew Smoke Ten smoke stacks in the northern Lake county region spewed smoke that drifted over the lake . " Tons of dirt drop into the lake from those stacks every year , " said Ernest . " The water close to the shores even has a vicious-odor . " Altho Ernest said be could not prove any relationship , the foul water odor Chicagoans have been conplaining about is the same as an odor surrounding a North Chicago industry . The trip back to Chicago was mild . The waves subsided and the winds were less fierce . Ernest said if such weather continues and the lake flattens out , polluted water from the Waukegan area will not be driven into Chicago . Ernest said polluted water often is easy to treat but be fears some complex waste may be flowing from an industrial plant into the lake . Two Take Samples Two water pollution investigators , Timothy Gibbons and Edward Mllrsevich , took the water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lake was dirty looking compared with its clean appearance only three miles from land . Rufus Scarborough , an engineer with the purification division , said water is being treated with carbon and chlorine before it leaves the ffitration plant , but said after it leaves the plant , a pig pen odor and a foul taste develops . The problem bar been present only on the Mel side .                     