@@726839

txt SOME MOTTO ! : ' Excelsior , ' the motto on the New York State seal , is Latin for higher , ' and that was the message Gov . Nelson Rockefeller had for the 1968 Legislature last week  --  higher taxes , about $500-million worth . ALBANY  --  There is probably no ritual dance more elaborate , nor more predictable , than the one politicians do to ward off the evil taint of taxes  --  especially when they know they have to approve the taxes and run for re-election in the same year . The dance has already begun here , only a few days after the state Legislature opened its 191st session last week . The contortions , though old , are exotic . Governor Rockefeller , Republican : " I 'm simply going to be a reconciler . I 'm going to come up with a plan and they can either take it or modify it . It is n't something I 'm generating , it 's something the people are demanding . The Legislature will have to work it out . " Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " If he the Governor thinks a $500-million tax increase is necessary this year , he is going to have to prove it in a way his State of the State Message does n't even begin to approach . " Senate Majority Leader Earl W. Brydges and Assembly Minority Leader Perry B. Duryea Jr. , top Republicans in the Legislature : " His Message highlights the absolute necessity of the Legislature to exercise extreme caution in approving programs and appropriations . " Melancholy Note The Governor , in his 10th annual Message to the Legislature on Wednesday , struck a melancholy note about government not being able to give people all the things they want . He indicated that a $500-million tax increase would be necessary for increased aid to localities for such things as schools and welfare costs , " We must exercise a determination , " he told the legislators , " to strike the balance between what is do-able and what is desirable . " The political fencing is certain to get less diplomatic as the weeks pass . For the third straight year , the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats , the Assembly . And while most of the partisan fighting will be over taxes , with each party trying to put the blame on the other , there are more than enough other knotty issues  --  proposed Medicaid cutbacks , compulsory health insurance , gun control legislation , abortion-law reform , aid to parochial schools  --  to convince every legislator that this is going to be a long and arduous session . A Bitter Travia Mr. Travia , a Brooklyn Democrat , is in a bitter mood , according to Assembly informants . He was badly stung when the proposed State Constitution , drafted at a convention over which he presided , was defeated by the voters last November . He is bitter about Mr. Brydges , who led the campaign against the charter . The Speaker is bitter about not being able to accept a Federal judgeship late last year . Senator Robert F. Kennedy , the key to the judgeship appointment , told Mr. Travia he had to wait because his departure at that time would have touched off a nasty intraparty struggle for his leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his remarks the other day about the Governor 's " lack of programing " and " back-door financing " being the cause of the state 's fiscal problems now . Of course , the Democratic leader has sounded off at the Republican Governor before and it has never kept them from getting together on fiscal and other issues . thing complicates Mr. Travia 's pa , lisan anti-tax battle stance : the , Pgiiesi ' - acted Democrat in s 114 - . Controller Arthur Li ? lv iggested a tax pl ? 4 lemocra tic " plan delighted Governor Rockefeller , who , up to that point , had thought he and his party would have to accept the full political responsibility for reaching into the electorate 's pocketbook again . Some legislators think Mr. Travia is merely posturing , that he will eventually do the Governor 's bidding on taxes as return payment for the Governor 's endorsement last year of Mr. Travia 's ill-starred constitution . But the Speaker gives no sign of caving in now . As for the Governor , his new theme on fiscal affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for holding the line on government spending , and the other for liberals that stresses the need to continue supporting social services . Some politicians think the Governor 's suddenly acquired fiscal conservatism has something to do with his national image and his feeling , perhaps , that the general mood of the American people is somewhat to the right of his previous more liberal philosophy . But Mr. Rockefeller still says he 's not a Presidential candidate . A Ritual Dance in Albany By SYDNEY H. SCHANBERG                     