@@727531

txt One of the world 's fastest passenger trains may be zipping thru the Illinois countryside within the next two months , THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . Officials from the Illinois Central railroad said they are negotiating with the department of transportation to lease one of the super trains which would be used on experimental runs between Chicago and Carbondale , a distance of 307 miles by rail . Paul H. Reistrup , vice president of passenger service for the I. C. , said the railroad has been involved in discussions with the department of transportation for five weeks and has been negotiating for the last two weeks . Early Establishment Seen Reistrup said officials from the department of transportation have indicated strongly that the train will be in Chicago after the first of the year . " We are looking forward to this opportunity very much , " said William B. Johnson , I. C. president . He said negotiations would continue and that he is optimistic they will be completed soon . Three of the trains , which are powered by gas turbine engines , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Haven railroad between New York and Boston . However , money and legal problems have blocked the start of the operation and officials have expressed dissatisfaction that the trains are idle . Speeds of 170 m. p. h . The trains , which resemble a jet aircraft without wings , were built by United Aircraft corporation and have hit speeds of 170 miles an hour during test runs . A spokesman for the I. C. said the railroad was planning to put the turbo-train into regularly scheduled service on the railroad 's " mini-corridor " between Chicago and Carbondale , but that it would not be tested for top speeds with full passenger loads . Clifford G. Massoth , public relations officer for the I. C. , said the train would make the Carbondale run in less than the five hours now scheduled and that passengers would enjoy an atmosphere similar to the inside of a jet liner . It is capable of making the run under high-speed conditions in less than three hours . 144 Passenger Capacity The ' turbo-train consists of two power units facing in opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The two power units are separated by a third passenger unit and when combined could carry 144 passengers . Reistrup said that fare from Chicago to Carbondale on the high-speed train would be the same as on conventional trains , $10.71 . However , seats would be sold by reservation .                     