@@725233

txt It is possible now to trace at least some of the most persuasive elements in the President 's decision to bring about the bombing pause in North Vietnam  --  and his new decision lengthening the pause . Upon returning from Vietnam last month , Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota joined Sen. Frank Church of Idaho in a recommendation that the United States initiate a pause in the conflict . This recommendation was first recorded in a joint McGovern-Church interview in The Christian Science Monitor . Shortly after this disclosure Senator McGovern phoned President Johnson , urging him to accept a 12-hour Christmas peace truce . He 's listening The President is said to have given the call a thoughtful hearing . But at the moment he was reluctant to move ahead with the idea . Mounting pressures , from United Nations and other diplomatic sources , brought him to accept the Viet Cong offer of a 12-hour truce and extend it to the 30-hour cease-fire just before Christmas . Now Senator McGovern has called the President again , urging a continuation of the pause . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does n't have much faith that Hanoi is willing to move to the peace table . But the point is  --  the President is listening to those who are stressing negotiation . It is said that this advice is running counter to that which the President is getting from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and some of the members of his staff . But he is listening . And the pause is being extended . Rift discounted One informed source expressed it this way : " The President is listening to Mansfield and to Fulbright , too . He is under great pressure from those who think a pause is senseless . But , at least up to now , he is not giving in to those pressures . " Consultations with Sen. Mike Mansfield ( D ) of Montana are to be expected , but the inclusion of Sen. J. W. Fulbright among those who would be talking to the President may come as a surprise to some , There has been much talk of late of a rift between the President and the chairman of the Senate Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its role in the Dominican Republic . This , together with the omission of the Arkansas Democrat from a recent presidential social gathering , has given rise to the talk of a rift . Of this possible personal difference , this same source said : " I have reason to know that this has been greatly exaggerated . You can be certain that the President still is talking to Senator Fulbright . Further , I know the Senator well enough to know that he was delighted not to be invited to the party . He does n't like these parties anyway . " In any event the so-called " dissenters " in Congress  --  those who , for a number of months now , have advocated the stressing of negotiations  --  are still playing an important role in shaping United States policy in Vietnam .                     