@@722482

txt MADRID , June 9 - Three prominent members of the political opposition to the Franco regime were arrested today on their arrival at Barajas airport , Madrid . They were returning from a meeting in Munich , Germany , attended by 100 leaders of the opposition inside and outside Spain . Reports were circulating tonight of wide-spread arrests of suspected opposition elements in Madrid and other cities . Rightist Is Arrested Jose Maria Gil Robles , head of the clandestine right-wing Demo-Christian movement was arrested and offered the choice of forced residence or exile abroad . Early today the Spanish government assumed powers to assign residence in any part of the country to anyone suspected of hostile activities . Robles was understood to have Chosen to abandon his home and thriving law practice to go into exile . Police officials apparently allowed him to go to his home on the understanding that he would leave Spain tomorrow . Liberal Arrested , Too Also arrested was Joaquin Satrustegui , socially prominent leader of Union Espanola , the liberal monarchist movement , which favors a restored monarchy under Don @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the throne . The third man arrested was Dr. Jesus Prados Arrarte , economist and head of the economic study section of the powerful Banco Central . Prados 's annual reviews of the Spanish economy have often been reprinted in American newspapers and financial periodicals . He Chooses Exile Prados was reported late tonight to have chosen exile and to have departed by plane to Amsterdam . Spanish authorities refused to discuss the arrests , but they were believed to be part of new campaign by Generalissimo Francisco Franco to highlight the " subversive " nature of all opposition to his regime and to seek to rally public backing by arousing memories . of civil war violence . News of the Munich meeting , together with the names of many who attended , was published in all newspapers today and was broadcast over the radio .                     