@@721396

txt The eighty-two-nation Disarmament Commission voted unanimously today to have the General Assembly call for " the earliest possible continuation " of great-power negotiations like those that broke down at Geneva in June . The commission , which has the same membership as the General Assembly , adopted , without a show of hands , a draft resolution introduced by Ecuador , India , Mexico , Sweden , the United Arab Republic and Yugoslavia and later strengthened as a result of amendments by Canada . The original version sought " continued efforts " toward complete disarmament but did not call for immediate negotiations similar to the ten-nation East-West talks in Geneva . No Objections . Heard The revised resolution was considered adopted after the commission 's chairman , Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico , announced that he had heard no objections . Henry Cabot Lodge of the United States thanked the members who had come together for three days of meetings at the United States ' request .. He said the session had accomplished all that could have been desired . Immediately , Vasily V. Kuznetsov , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution lacked only one thing . It made no mention , he noted , of the presence of the heads of government or heads of state at the General Assembly , opening its fifteenth annual session here Sept. 20 . The attendance of these leaders , he said , would create " the most favorable conditions " for the discussion of disarmament that the resolution asked the Assembly to hold . He said he hoped all members of the commission would try to have the heads of their governments come to New York for the Assembly 's disarmament debate . Premier Khrushchev has // Mr. Green noted that the Assembly might not reach a conclusion on disarmament until late October and that the resumption of talks then might wait six months or even more , while the arms race continued . Canadian Still Objects The amendments were not pressed after the revised text of the six-power resolution had been presented , but Mr. Green still objected to the numbering of paragraphs . To give the greatest possible emphasis to the necessity for new negotiations , he said , the clause so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly to " give its " earnest consideration to the question of disarmament . " This objection was overcome by removing all numbers from the paragraphs . Meanwhile , opinion seemed to be growing among commission members that one way to increase the effectiveness of future international negotiations would he to associate the United Nations more directly with whatever committee should take up the big-power talks again . The ten-nation committee that met at Geneva included only countries from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Soviet bloc . The Western countries represented at Geneva werethe United States , Britain , France , Canada and Italy . The Communist countries were the Soviet Union , Rumania , Poland , Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria . Said Hassan of Pakistan suggested that a committee might " benefit from havign a neutral chairman who could regularize the order of business . " He nominated Dr. Padilla Nervo as " an Dbvious choice . " Neutral Study Suggested ? Another " suggestion came roirt Sir Claude Corea of " L'eylon . It might prove useful , le said , to have a commission ) f @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , explore the areas of agreement akeady . reached by : he great powers . He said such 1 . group could report back either : o a negotiating committee or , o the commission , or both , explosions in the Sahara would advance the cause of disarmament , he suggested . Diplomatic sources here said that the adoption of the resolution by the commission ended , for the moment , formal United Nations consideration of disarmament  --  though discussions undoubtedly would continue among ' delegates in the corridors . The next " step will be full consideration of the situation by the General Assembly . TEXT OF RESOLUTION Following is the text of the resolution approved by the United Nations Disarmament Commission : The Disarmament Commission Recalling its resolution of 10 September 1959 , welcoming the rsumption of disarmament negotiations and expressing the hope that such negotiations would provide a useful basis for the consideration of disarmament in the United Nations , Noting with regret that these negotiations have not yielded the expected positive results , Reaffirming the continuing and ultimate responsibility of the United Nations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XIV ) adopted unanimously by the General Assembly on 20 November 1959 , Recommends to the fifteenth session ' of the General Assembly to give earnest consideration to the question of disarmament ; Considers it necessary and recommends that in view of the urgency of the problem continued efforts be made for the earliest possible continuation of international negotiations to achieve a constructive solution of the question of general and complete disarmament under effective international control ; Recommends to the General Assembly that the Disarmament Commission as setup in General Assembly Resolution No. 1252 ( XIII ) should continue in being and be convened whenever deemed necessary .                     