@@722173

txt Cape Canaveral , Fla. , Dec. 4 VD  --  Troubles in the space capsule scheduled to house America 's first orbiting astronaut today cut away another slice of the nation 's razor thin hope of Sending a man around the earth before the end of the year . A source close to the 400 million dollar Mercury man into space program said the technical problem was discovered in a scrutiny of Mercury capsule No. 13 . No. 13 is the bell shaped spacecraft that scientists are readying for an attempt to send Astronaut John H. Glenn Jr . three times around the earth . Nature Not Disclosed The nature of the difficulty was not disclosed . But it dealt another blow to America 's 1961 manned orbit hopes . Glenn , oldest of the seven Mercur y astronauts at 40 , moved into a special astronaut living area in a hangar on the cape last Friday . On Saturday the converted Atlas war rocket destined to lift the redhaired spaceman on his voyage was erected on a launching pad . The tight schedule called for having the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this week . Alter that , if everything moved perfectly , it would take at least 11 days to make a final examination of the combination . January Best Bet The National Aeronautics and Space administration has reserved Dec. 20-29 on the Atlantic missile range for manned orbital flight this year . But space agency officials in Washington today said the flight probably would come " sometime after Christmas . " Most experts close to the program predicted that sometime in January was a much better bet . " This idea of a flight around Christmastime is a possibility but hardly a probability , " said one . Mercury scientists still are waiting for the ' flight report from the twol orbit trip of space chimpanzee tnos last week . 10 Days Needed Officials said 10 days would be required for a preliminary report . Plans for a manned orbital flight depend especially on what is learned about malfunctioning of the capsule 's attitude position in relation to line of flight control system , which forced scientists to bring Enos down early . Glenn in the meantime ' will live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his home during his three trips around the earth . He also will follow closely the final check of the big Atlas booster which will fling him into orbit . Officials in the program denied television interview hints that NASA would try to put Glenn in orbit on Dec. 20.                     