@@724113

txt A new statewide organization called today for peaceful acceptance of the beginning of public school desegregation in Mississippi . The group , Mississippians for Public Education , also spoke out against the tuition grant program enacted by the Legislature this week as an escape hatch for whites opposed to the step . The organization represents the first public attempt by whites in cities across the state to deal with the problems posed by the scheduled desegregation of classes here and in Biloxi , Clarksdale and rural Leake County under Federal Court orders . With the exception of Clarksdale , all of the systems have presented plans providing for grade-a-year desegregation starting this September at the first-grade level . The goals and position of the new group were set out in a statement announcing Its formation and in a full-gage advertisement in the combined Sunday edition of The ClarionLedger and The Jackson Daily News . The group is headed by Mrs. Gordon G. Henderson of Jackson , wife of a political scientist at Millsaps College . Among its other officers is Mrs. Jack Reed of Tupelo , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Mississippi- Economic Council . The latter organization has , most of the state 's leading industrial and business executives among its members . The first vice president of the group is Mrs. Marge Curet of Biloxi , a Democratic party leader on the Gulf Coast . The Secretary is Mrs. Kenneth Haxton Jr . of Greenville , who is better known as Ellen Douglas , the author . Mrs. Thomas R. Ward , wife of a prominent Meridian lawyer , is the treasin-en Mrs. Paul S. Derian , wife of a Jackson physician and spokesman for the group , said that While the officers are women , the membership included a number of men . In the statement , Mrs. Henderson said : " Our purpose is to insure that the public schools of Our communities and the state are not penalized or disrupted in any way . We urge parents and all citizens to support the school board in carrying out the plans pursuant to court orders , without any interruption in the public education of our children . " We feel the time is now past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Members in Many Cities The statement described the group as a nonprofit organization , with no affiliation to any other . It has members in Tupelo , Greenville , Meridian , Pelaliatchie , Vicksburg , Biloxi , Oxford , Clarksdale and Jackson . In the advertisement , the group asserted that the $185-ayear grants to children who choose to attend private , nonsectarian segregated schools Would cost the state more than $50 million if only half those eligible received them . It termed this a " crushing financial burden " on state and local budgets . The group noted that financial support for public schools was based on average daily attendance . It said if attendance dropped substantially during the coming year , appropriations for the following year would force a sharp reduction in teaching staffs . " This means that if the private school tuition grant system does not work , many children returning to public schools might not have teachers , " it said . " The long-range result might be the loss of qualified teachers and failure to attract new ones . " The advertisement contended that similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked by poor equipment , inexperienced teachers , inadequate sanitary facilities , abandonment of intramural athletics and poor discipline . : Just as dangerous as the financial threat to the schools , said the statement , " is the possibility of violence on school campuses when the first Negro children enter . " It continued : " The tragic examples of Little Rock and New Orleans demonstrate that violence leaves a permanent scar which stunts community growth , damages business , and can create a home-grown depression . Recovery is often slow and never complete . We ca n't afford to take these risks in Mississippi . " The organization said its goal was to give Mississippians the facts about their schools in the knowledge that good sense would lead them to protect and preserve public education . " As parents , taxpayers and citizens , we wish to create the kind of community climate in which public education can flourish and grow in an atmosphere of good will within the framework of the law , " the advertisement said . " In September your child will attend a public school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urge that you leave the business of desegregation in the hands of the proper authorities  --  your local school board and city and county law enforcement officers . "                     