@@728258

txt The worst of the Vietnam Crisis at home and in Asia now could be past . In a mood that is firm , confident , and quietly optimistic , now that he has broad national support for his conditional withdrawal from Vietnam , President Nixon finds that his " plan " is moving ahead " on schedule . " This is the way he sees the situation now , recognizing that the enemy could provide an upset : The war itself is still cooling . The infiltration rate from North Vietnam , which Washington watches like a dove these days instead of like a hawk in the Johnson days , is not alarming . Reports of an increase two weeks ago appear to have been " inflated . " The rate is " higher than it was a few months ago . " But compared with last year , both as to infiltration and casualties , " there is a great difference " on the favorable side . Withdrawal will . continue ' Including also the training of South Vietnamese troops , these factors " indicate more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started our troop scheduled wipdrawal Under these circumstances , the withdrawal will continue . " We do not consider the infiltration significant enough to change our troop-withdrawal plans , " the President told his Dec. 8 press conference , granting that " something may occur in the next two or three weeks that may give me a different view . " Indeed : " The present prognosis , that I think I can make is this : " . .. Any action the enemy takes , either against us or the South Vietnamese , can be contained within that program of continued troop withdrawals . " Hence the expected announcement " within two or three weeks " , of something up to 40,000 more troops to be brought home . Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird is reliably reported to have already moved some 9,000 withdrawals beyond the announced troop level of 284,000 , with the President 's permission . Second in importance : This situation could well put increased pressure on Hanoi to negotiate " I do not anticipate any progress on the negotiating front at this time , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition : As our pi:6gram for Vietnamization continues to work and as it becomes apparent ? as I believe it increasingly-will that it will succeed , I think the pressures for the enemy then to negotiate a- settlement will greatly increase . " The President then ? made ? a able statement which he had mitted himself before : / " Because once we are out , and the South Vietnamese are there , they Hanoi will have a much harder indi- vidual to negotiate with than they had when we were there . " Another element of pressure on Hanoi comes from the third major aspect of the President 's analysis : Mr. Nixon now clearly feels able to take a bold and strong position on the final phase of the American withdrawal . Compromise barred He would withdraw " all combat troops " according to his plan . But this wording , obviously opens the way to leaving some noncombat troops to support the South Vietnam operations , if necessary . Conceivably it also opens the way to leaving troops capable of combat in a major emergency , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Korea at the present time . The purpose : " A president has to do what he considers to be right , right for the people , right , for example , in pursuing a just peace and not just peace for our time , for a little time . . ' . . - " I believe that sometimes it is necessary to draw the ' line clearly . . to make it clear that there can be no compromise-where such great issues as self-determination and freedom for South Vietnam and a just . peace - ? are volved . " He made this statement , the President said , because of the obligation of leadership " to take a position . " It was as clear an indigation.as the President has given -- though he also used forceful language in his May 14 and Nov. 3 speeches -- that when he passes the point in withdrawal when more than half the American forces are out , he will again turn back to safeguarding the war aims of the United States in Vietnam . He does not intend to complete the withdrawal faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend themselves . Conspicuously Mr. Nixon made no reference to the narrow political base of the South Vietnamese Government , which he has sought vainly , behind the scenes , to broaden . This could be because he was not asked . Reporters have little opportunity either for follow-up questions or for systematic questioning in the rapid , random procedure of a full-dress press conference on television where the President properly tries to call on as many reporters as possible . But ? the gnawing doubts among the President 's chastened and quieted op. position ? from ' the politica-aft , to whether the South V4tnamese armies can be readied in a reasonable amount of time to defend the country , considering the political turmoil and the unpopularity of the regime they are now defending , have been left unanswered .                     