@@725344

txt Robert Moses yesterday denounced Mayor Lindsay 's plan for supervising the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority and the Transit Authority as unconstitutional , unfair to bondholders and a blow at the independence of the authorities . He asserted that the Mayor 's plan to put both agencies under a single chairman would not solve any transportation financial problems or lead to progress in the transportation field . Mr. Lindsay wants the Mayor to have veto power over the authorities ' policies and the right to remove their members without cause , the 77-year-old chairman of the Triborough Authority said . If any other Mayor had sought such power , he added , " the screams of reformers would have been heard from the Palisades to Niagara Gorge . " Mr. Moses , who would lose his job under the Mayor 's plan , called aspects of the proposal " destructive , " " fantastic " and designed to place independent authorities under political control . New Office Planned His strongly worded statement was made in response to the disclosure by Mr. Lindsay on Saturday of the contents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative approval in Albany . Mr. Lindsay 's plan calls for establishing an office of City Transportation Administrator . The administrator would be'come chairman of both authorities and head of a new agency that would coordinate the five city departments that deal with transportation . In addition , the new administrator would become Coordinator of Arterial Highways , a position now held by Mr. Moses . Arthur E. Palmer Jr. , the investment banker who now heads the Mayor 's Transportaton Council , is expected to be the administrator . In Albany yesterday , it was reported that the Mayor 's bill was to be introduced later this week . No date has been set for hearings . City Hall declined comment last night on Mr. Moses ' charges . Mr. Moses ' statement follows : " On Saturday , Mr. Palmer gave me copies of the transportation merger bills which had not previously been made available to us . " The Triborough amendments are in our opinion highly prejudicial to the rights of the bondholders , unconstitutional and wholly impractical . They will not , with the corresponding Transit Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promote progress in the transportation field . " These amendments are destructive of the independence of the authority . They strike at the heart of the whole authority principle in successful operation throughout the country and serve notice to Triborough bondholders that their investments are hereafter to be subject to the control of the incumbent of City Hall . " They contain such fantastic provisions as that every action shall be subject to the approval or veto of the Mayor and that members may be removed by the Mayor without cause . If a previous administration had advocated such measures the screams of reformers would have been heard from the Palisades to the Niagara Gorge . " This is the opinion of my follow members Norman K Winston and William J. Tracy , our counsel and staff , which will be more fully expressed at the forthcoming public hearing in Albany . " Mr. Moses ' term as chairman of the Triborough Authority does not expire until 1970 . However , if the Mayor 's plan is adopted , he would be ousted by action of the Legislature . No legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coordinator of Arterial Highways . Mr. Lindsay will not find it necessary to replace the chairman of the Transit Authority . Joseph E. O'Grady , the present chairman , is on terminal leave and is scheduled to retire March 31 . The Triborough Authority is a profitable operation ; the Transit Authority is operating at a yearly deficit of more than $50-million . This has led to fear by Triborough bondholders that their interests would be affected if its funds were used to help the ailing Transit Authority , and they have threatened to sue if this happens . In announcing his plan last Saturday , Mr. Lindsay said that he would not propose anything that would lead to litigation and " hold up all constructive action . " The five city agencies that would be under the supervision of the new Transportation Administrator are the Departments of Traffic , Highways , Marine and Aviation , Parks and Public Works . Between them they are responsible for highway , parkway , bridge and ferry operations . Under the Mayor 's plan , the two authorities would continue to have two members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature to give him power to review and vetc actions taken by both authorities as well as the right to appoint and remove their chairmen .                     