@@723697

txt PANAMA CITY , Jan. 10 Friday UPD ? Panamanian rioters massed on the border of the America n-controlled Canal Zone early today after a night of destruction , fire and death caused by a dispute over the flags of the two nations . At least six were reported killed and 91 wounded . The Panamanian government recalled its ambassador to Washington and charged that American Canal Zone police had shot down unarmed Panamanian students . President Roberto Chiari said in a radio broadcast the recall constituted a " suspension of relations " and charged American officials with " aggression against the Panamanian people . " Not a Formal Break Chiari 's action did not constitute a formal break in diplomatic relations , however . Mobs set fire to the United States information service office , the Good Year retread plant , the Braniff airways offlees and the six-story Pan American World airways building , of which at least four floors appeared burned out . All of the buildings were in Panama City , where the rioters were little restrained by the under-maimed Panamanian national guard . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their flag up on an American high school in the Canal Zone . American students ripped it down . While rioters continued to mass on the border today , about 2,000 others marched on national guard headquarters to demand that Panamanian troops support them . Martial law was declared in the Canal Zone after repeated attempts by rioters to enter Balboa , the principal United States Canal Zone city , which adjoins Panama City . General Takes Over U. Gen. Andrew O'Meara , United States army commander in the Canal Zone , ordered tanks and armored cars to positions on the Thatcher-Ferry bridge and along the border between . Panama City and the Canal Zone . In Cristobal , a canal zone city 50 miles from here , the American consul was reported routed from his home in his underwear by a mob . He was rescued by national guardsmen . President Chian said on Panamanian radio that he had called upon United States military authorities in the canal zone to stop " unnecessary and stupid action " in the alleged shootings of-Students . He was reported to have summoned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation . Chiari also disclosed that he bad requested the Panama delegate to the United Nations to bring the rioting before the U. N. security council . Chiari earlier had charged that American canal zone police had opened fire on the students . There was no evidence that American troops had been involved in any shootings . In Washington , the defense department said Canal Zone police fired " in self-protection " on " disorderly mobs " who had invaded the Canal Zone and attacked them . Gen. O'Meara also issued a statement in which he said all the casualties occurred before American troops took control . He said he had ordered all persons not living in the Canal Zone to leave-immediately and had told residents to go home and stay there . Radio Spreads Rioting Authorities said the demonstration spread from the flag incident here to other points along the waterway after radio reports of the Panama City rioting . There was no evidence of a planned outbreak along Map locates scene of rioting in Canal Zone ( broken lines ) . the waterways and authorities here discounted any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some witnesses reported civilians in Panama City had fired into the Canal Zone . The Panamanian national guard took up guard duty at the American embassy and . other American-owned establishments in Panama City . The rioting also spread to Colon , 50 miles away on the Atlantic end of the canal . Demonstrators in Cristobal were reported burning cars . Windows at the United States information service office in the city of David , were reported smashed . Burn Americans ' Cars No Americans were reported to have been killed or injured in the fighting , altho seven or eight American - owned cars were set afire by the mob . The Santo Tomas hospital dispensary in Panama City put out an urgent call for blood donors . The dead and injured were taken to the hospital . The United States controls the Canal Zone under a treaty with Panama . There have been similar riots in the past in Panama over the United States presence in the Central American nation . The latest trouble started with a decision to remove the flagpole from the American high school in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over flying the American and Panamanian flags . So Robert J. Fleming Jr. , governor of the Canal Zone , ordered the flagpole removedStudents Stand Vigil American students protested the measure and , stood an allnight vigil to prevent its removal . When Panamanian students went to the high school and ran the Panamanian flag up the flagpole today , the trouble began . The flag issue goes back many years . Tho the United States controls the zone , Panama claims a " residual sovereignty " and has demanded some recognition of this since 1904 . In 1959 Panamanians rioted for the right to have their flags fly beside United States flags in the zone . In 1960 President Eisenhower agreed to have the two fly side by side at one location . Panama later demanded more flags , and the late President John F. Kennedy agreed to let Panama 's flag fly wherever the United States flag did .                     