@@725711

txt The statement on " black power " written by members of The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee from which The Times printed sizable excerpts last Friday is at once a poignant and mischievous document . It provides an intellectual context for the inflammatory statements made in recent days by Stokely Carmichael , the national chairman of SNCC . He has urged Negro youths not to fight in Vietnam , called upon Negroes to stop begging and start taking what belongs to them and declared : " We have got to bring the whites to their knees . " Regardless of other interpretations that could reasonably be offered of the term " black power , " Mr. Carmichael and his SNCC associates clearly intended to mean Negro nationalism and separatism along racial lines  --  a hopeless , futile , destructive course expressive merely of a sense of black impotence . As a practical program , it has nothing more to recommend it than the wretched violence that some Chicago whites have been using in recent days against the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King and his Negro followers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement . The authors express a yearning for identity and status that seems as much personal as racial . There is almost no recognition of the ambiguities and indefiniteness of real life . It cries out that " whites should no longer designate roles that black people play but rather black people define white people 's roles . " What individuals of every race eventually discover is that one 's role in life is established by a complex interplay between one 's own desires and objective circumstances . The SNCC paper and Mr. Carmichael 's public statements amply demonstrate the growing desperation and disorganization of the radical wing of the civil rights movement . The SNCC leaders , like their counterparts in the Congress of Racial Equality and other smaller , less-well-known organizations , are essentially barricade types . They are romantics and would-be revolutionaries for whom the greatest triumph is lying down in the street in protest or getting arrested by a Southern sheriff . In past years the civil rights movement could make good use of their gallantry and reckless daring . But the tactics of direct protest have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in small Southern towns are desegregated , the willingness to risk physical injury in a lunch counter sit-in  --  valuable as that once was  --  is no longer of much importance . The civil rights movement in recent years has gradually been moving , in the words of Bayard Austin , from " protest to politics . " Effective politics for Negroes , as for any other group , means bringing pressure to bear at the right times and places and taking part in shifting alliances with other groups . A statement by a national committee of Negro churchmen printed in The Times a week ago put the matter well : " Power today is essentially organizational power . It is not a thing lying about in the streets to be fought over . It is a thing which , in some measure , already belongs to Negroes and which must be developed by Negroes in relationship with the great resources of this nation . " But most of the militants who make up SNCC and CORE have no taste or talent for the arduous practice of sophisticated politics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwindling effectiveness of direct action by escaping into black nationalism . This political escapism is as sure to fail as Marcus Garvey 's comparable " back to Africa " movement in the 1920 's . There is widespread injustice and misery in the Negro ghettos of the North and therefore high potential for disorder . But Stokely Carmichael has to be seen in perspective as a product of that Injustice and not as a leader who can help his fellow Negroes work their way out of it . Only Negro leaders and organizations that understand what politics and power really are can do that .                     