@@727090

txt " If the enemy Is provided specific information about units , locations , casualties and material losses , it could aid him in his efforts in this operation , " said General Cush , man . ' ' The location of this operation and the desire for maximum success is the real reason General Westmoreland I has embargoed the operation . " I General Cushman reported that allied forces had uncovered large amounts of North Vietnamese arms and lammounition. including several 37-mm. antiaircraft guns that ' are mounted on four-wheeled ' carriers and hand-operated by : two-man crews . It was the first time that such weapons had been captured in South Viet- , Tank is Captured ! The allied troops , including a South Vietnamese airborne ; task force , also captured more ' ' than half a dozen trucks , a ' Soviet-made tank , thousands of artillery rounds , Soviet-made I flamethrowers , communications ' equipment , mine detectors and rockets  --  as well as stacks of ammunition and demolition materiel . General Cushman said that most of the North Vietnamese in the valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crews . Military sources estimate that 5,000 to 6,000 enemy troops are in the valley , and that 15,000 to 20,000 North Vietnamese are within striking distance of the Ashau Valley . At the start of the operation , units of the First Cavalry Division Airmobile swooped into the valley from the northwest , opening up a series of critical landing zones before assaulting the valley floor last week at the old , bomb-cratered French-built airstrip at Aloui . The helicopter units . except for antiaircraft fire , had only sporadic ground contact . From the northeast , however , units of the 101st Airborne Division began trudging into the valley and came into sharper contact with the enemy . " It would take too many troops to hold this logistics area permanently , so it 's best that we move around trying to find the enemy , " General Cush'man went on . In the last four days the two northernmost provinces have been the scene of the most heated and sustained fighting since the Lunar New Year offensive . The North Vietnamese suffered their gravest losses in three days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were killed and 95 taken , prisoner . Meanwhile , the allies ' lost eight killed , 37 wounded . A briefing officer reported that 302 Americans died on the battlefield in the week that ended last Saturday . In the preceding week the total was 287.                     