@@726694

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to theor of The Times Edit Aftermath of Defeat of ' Blaine ' To the Editor : The price already paid for the " Blaine amendment " fiasco is demonstrably high . A muchneeded new Constitution has met defeat , and even the concept of constitutionalism appears to have lost a measure of public confidence . Religious antagonism has been aroused , augmenting other pernicious forces at large in our communities . Moreover , on a very serious issue  --  namely , the extension Of tax-based education to all children of school age , the public has been confused rather than enlightened . Yet the experience is by no means a total loss . Notwithstanding distortions , the campaign in support of and opposition to the " Blaine amendment " served to dramatize a genuine issue of the greatest importance for all children regardless of religion , color or family income . Church-state relationship is not merely an academic matter , nor is the public provision of education simply a question of civil liberties . Constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while controversy strangled rationality in the past few months , it opened a long delayed dialogue between the public and nonpublic sectors of education . This is no mean accomplishment . Education Inquiry Now that the shouting is over , it is up to the Governor to act without delay on- the matter of tax-based education for all children in this state . The logical course for him to pursue is to proceed with the appointment of a commission to look into all the dimensions of this matter . A full and thorough inquiry Is clearly indicated , not just confined to the church - state questions , but extending to such pertinent subjects as the costs to state and local education authorities , sources of revenue and methods of revenue-raising , powers of local boards of education and the State Department of Education , conditions and standards of services and facilities of public , parochial and private schools , orientation and purpose of school systems , and methods for supporting one or more systems , as well as the problems of transition where changes in the present structures are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations should be forthcoming , including one on the future of the " Blaine amendment . " One model for such a commission is the New York State Mental Health Planning Committee , which completed its assigninents successfully two years ago . The committee performed its functions through a statewide committee , regional committees , state and regional task forces , and staff . If this arrangement seemed unduly - cumbersome at times , it did achieve statewide , support for its recommendations . An alternative is the commission often employed in this type of situation in Great Britain . It Is a body of experts ' of distinction , representing scholarship and practical experience . With rare exceptions it is nonpartisan , and its recommendations command serious respect from the government and all interested parties . JULIAN R. FFUEDMAN Associate Professor of Political Science , Syracuse University Syracuse , Nov. 8 , 1967 ? To Set Standards for Redistricting To the Editor : ' I commend The Times for keeping before the public the complicated question of Congressional redistricting . Public education includes indicating clearly where the problems lie . Ott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident from your news columns that the principles of equitable districting were maimed , but not by the House . In regard to permanent standards to take effect after the 1970 census , the House conferees did accept the Senate provisions , including the Kennedy amendment emphasizing compactness . The eventual rejection of this can not fairly be laid at the door of the House Judiciary Committee , since its chairman and members have fought for such standards for many years and were simply outvoted in a difficult conference . In regard to interim standards , the House worked from the obvious fact that one-man , one-vote , in practice , depends on up-to-date statistics . The 1960 census figures are seriously obsolete . To . require widespread redistricting . on this basis could subvert the principles of fair representation rather than advance them . Rapidly growing areas , in particular , would be denied adequate voice , especially in states which have already redistricted since 1960 . Confusing for Voters We must consider also the stability of political processes . Continual redistricting is extremely disruptive , as it confuses voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is the key to real representation , At-large elections in populous states can undermine the principles of sound government even more . My own experience as a conferee convinced me that House rejection of the second conference* report would be like mailing a directive to a dead-letter office , since the conference committee would probably never meet again . House adoption of the report had more positive results . The report was forwarded to the other body , where it appeared that continued debate could produce new instructions for the Senate conferees . At least it might prevent disruptive atlarge elections in 1968 and 1970 , and avoid the new inequities resulting from applying panaceas in the absence of reliable statistics and any Congressional mandate at all . . The recent House debate did have the depressing atmosphere of a funeral , but the House conferees attended this funeral not as murderers but as mourners . Understanding and empathy are in order . We should . not bet. : moan the unfortunate past , but : rather continue to advance the ' principles of equitable , orderly ' redistricting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill ( H.R. ' 13691 ) incorporating the Sen. , ate-passed permanent . stand ards previously accepted by the House conferees . Z hope that , you will join me in ' encouraki ing passage of such a measure . Editorial , Nov. 8 . CHARLES . MCC : MATHIAS Jr ; Member . of Congress ; ' Sixth . District , Maryland ' Washington , Nov. 2 , 1967 , ? Mrs. Kennedy 's Trip To the Editor : Mrs. ? Jacqueline Kennedy 's trip to Cambodia is an insult to , the American people . Accompanied as always bY : Secret Service men paid by ' American taxpayers , she flies half-way round the world to within a few miles of Vietnam , where American boys are fighti ing and dying . But she does n't , make this journey to bring . them a word of comfort . or cheer . Instead , , she takes her maid , 1 her man ? new Italian out . ' fits and her friends to a couirl try which has broken off diplomatic relations with the United. / States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes shot down while pursul ) ing North Vietnamese attack , . ers who find a privileged sanc. ' tuary in Cambodia . She is a. guest of Prince Sihanouk , who goes out of his way to express ! his support for the Vietcong and North Vietnam . Meanwhile , in Washington , Congress has appropriated more funds for continued Secret Service protection for Mrs. Kennedy . This is an extravagant , even shOcIdng , waste of. : the taxpayers ' money . F. L. BRODIE New Brunswick , N. J. Nov. 7 , 1967                     