@@724664

txt A man on the moon now appears to be high on the list of Soviet space goals . Lt. Col. , Alexei Leonov 's successful swim through space is a prelude ' to the type of missions that lead to a lunar flight . It shadows the docking of two spaceships in orbit . It points to the . assembly in space of more complex units that would be involved in a lunar mission . Commenting on this latest space achievement at a Moscow press conference , Vasily Seleznev , a Soviet doctor of technology , was quoted by Reuters as saying : " The target before us now is the moon , and we hope to reach it in the not too distant future . " He noted that " in the future , cosmonauts will take part in assembling spaceships . There may also arise the need for repairing the craft and , what is most important , there is the prospect of travel to other planets . "  - -  Orbit changed Significantly , the Voskhod 2 was reported to have maneuvered to change its orbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the kind of maneuvering that will be needed to bring two ships together in space . Western experts have long believed the Soviets have the capability for doing this . They wonder why a docking operation has not been tried before'now . The Soviets themselves are emphasizing the suit Colonel Leonov wore for his swim through space . This certainly is a major new tool in enabling men to work in the space environment . Air conditioning Here is the description of that suit written by Soviet medical expert Vladimir Krichagin in a Tass commentary ' forwarded by the Associated Press : " It consists of a metal helmet , with a transparent visor , a multilayer hermetic suit , gloves , and specially designed footwea ? , " Mr. Krichagin said . The space suit is covered by a " mighty thermal insulation layer " to protect the cosmonaut from the cold . It is coated with a light colOr that deflects heat rays . Temperature varies from 68 to 77 ? F. " The air for ventilation and oxygen for respiration can be taken from the space capsule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for short periods of time , " Mr. Krichagin said . Used air is ejected into space . " The space suit has a special air-conditioning system through which room-temperature air is pumped into the space suit , " he added . " This air carries away excess heat of the body and skin-exuded moisture . " , Mr. Krichagin said it was impossible " tocreate atmosperic pressure within the suit " because it would then inflate as a football . " The cosmonaut would be unable to bend his legs and arms . " Research showed that the air pressure inside the space suit should be at least 0.4 of // *Soviet space target : moon // an atmosphere , " he added . " Even in this case , the space suit inflates considerably and it is tiresome to work inside without special devices . " To help the cosmonaut overcome the effects of lack of pressure . Soviet physiologists decided to eliminate nitrogen from the cosmonaut 's body . Snil em  --  hatiized " It was established that prolonged over one hour respiration of pure oxygen literally washes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressure can be safely reduced , " Mr. Krichagin wrote . The Soviets seem to place so much importance on this new suit that testing it appears to have been the main purpose of the flight . According to Reuters , the as yet unidentified " chief designer " has said that the crew of Voskhod 2 were not required to set any records , merely " take a reasonable risk and achieve the necessary results . " He said that " the cosmonaut stepping out into space is not afraid of any complications . He is protected against external influence and against the cosmic vacuum . As he emerges he is held fast by a strong cable that would support any weight , " the designer said . He added that the flight has opened up new possibilities for relieving crews of orbital stations , replacing equipment , and maintaining food supplies .                     