@@726345

txt The cost of the Vietnam war will escalate but not explode in the immediate future . President Johnson has not let go the purse strings yet . His administration is quietly letting it be known that contingency planning for more money is in order . Until now the official line has been that January budget levels would not be greatly enlarged . Looking further ahead , those in close touch with the military situation think the slow climb is likely to turn into a steep one by fall . The problem is less what is needed in Vietnam , which is a lot , than what the President feels able to demand openly in a period when the economy is queazy and has to be kept in balance . It also is a matter of what the President feels is politically necessary . The transition from a semipeace basis at home to a semiwar basis is being conducted , in Johnson style , slowly rather than in haste . It is presumed that he thinks the country will be better able to bear it in small takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will define more clearly the relationship of Republicans to President Johnson 's Great Society . The GOP proposes to increase the power of the states in many federal programs ? in housing , education , in sharing federal revenue , in the Dirksen amendment to undercut one-man , one-vote reapportionment . GOP House leaders insist they are rejecting the old alliance with Dixiecrats . But their alternatives on these critical issues hold strong appeal for conservative Southern Democrats . In practice the coalition continues to function . This week 69 Democrats joined 163 Republicans to halt the rent-subsidy plan . Of these Democrats , 63 were Southerners . Twenty-five GOP governors want the party to broaden its base among city people . Yet some of the Republican legislative opposition appears directed against those who dwell in urban areas . The party seems divided . Hence the present struggle . It could write the platform on which Republicans will run next year . For the first time since 1957 the Supreme Court of the United States faces a possible need to extend its present sitting  --  or hold a special summer session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action of Congress in excluding him from his seat in the House . And there is a possibility that railroad unions will request the Court to counter the no-strike extensions asked by the President and voted by Congress . The Court now is scheduled to wind up its work in mid-June . Most of the members have firm plans for the summer . But if the Court decides to hear either or both of these urgent disputes , the members will have to keep those black robes on long enough to consider them . Washington is about to be flooded with water experts-3,500 of them from 90 countries . On May 23 they begin a nine-day " Water for Peace " conference in response to a call by President Johnson . They will discuss methods of ensuring fresh-water supplies , including desalinization . No global shortage of water exists , officials say . Man uses little of the 80 billion acre-feet of rain and snow that fall on land every year . But large areas of the earth suffer from shortages . One footnote : The Russians are n't coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are showing disapproval of the American role in Vietnam . Trends ? ? ? The war in Vietnam is fast proving the superiority of nuclear-powered warships . The carrier Enterprise , frigate Bainbridge , and cruiser Long Beach have awed Pentagon officials and congressmen with their capacity for sustained action . As a result , Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara is running into stiffer opposition in Congress . He has been trying to save money by building conventionally powered naval escort ships . But he is slowly losing on the nuclear scoreboard . The carrier John F. Kennedy , soon to join the fleet , is due to be the last conventionally powered carrier . In answer to McNamara arguments that nuclear craft cost about two-thirds again as much , Navy opponents point out that the additional cost includes fuel for about 10 years . Performance of nuclear ships off Vietnam , plus arguments on costs and operational advantages , are expected to have their effect . Result : A nuclear United States Navy much sooner than anticipated . reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               