@@724217

txt Seattle , Sept. 9 ? Sen. Barry Col.-Rater warned the American people today to expect President Johnson to precipitate another foreign . policy crisis just before the Nov. 3 election . A wildly cheering audience . which overflowed the 15,000 capacity of the fairgrounds coliseum here and left 3,000 waiting outside , heard the Republican Presidential candidate accuse the President of considering political gain only in his conduct of foreign affairs . Enthusiasm Surprises Barry At the end of his second day of campaigning , Goldwater confessed himself " pleased . surprised , and greatly eneouraged " by the size and the enthusiasm of the crowds which greeted him in territory where registered Democrats hold big majorities . The result of the Johnson administration 's calamitous forxign policy , Goldwater declared , has been a record of " disaster , failure , retreat , and confusion around the world . " Nixon Gets Key Role To fortify his own thinking on foreign policy , Goldwater annoonced the appointment of a " task force on peace and freedom " as consultants and advisers . He picked former Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that Nixon would be secretary of state in a Goldwater administration . Thrilled by the shouted acclaim of more than 53,000 supporters in a massive rally last night in the Los Angeles Dodgers ' baseball stadium , Goldwater flew to Sacramento , Cal. , this morning , then pointed his jet plane northward . Airport crowd s , averaging about 2,000 persons , greeted him at So:rarnento , Klamath Falls and Eugene , Ore. , before he came to Seattle for a major address at night . In a softly worded reply to Sen. J. W. Fulbright D. , Ark chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee , who compared " Goldwater Republicanism " to " Russian Stalinization " in a Senate speech yesterday , Goldwater said : " Sen. Fulbright is a man highly concerned about what be calls McCarthyism and guilt by association but here he practices both . It is a shame that a national campaign has to be run with a Democrat calling a Republican a Communist . " His Foreign Policy Goldwater said his view of a proper foreign policy would be called " simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short and to the point : If an element of foreign policy helped the cause of freedom , act on it . If it hurt the cause of freedom , reject it . " But what does this administration say ? " he asked . " If an element of foreign policy hurts Lyndon Johnson 's election chances , forget it . If it helps his election chances , assign 10 press agents to it . " " We do n't believe our allies should be kicked around to make Lyndon Johnson look good or , worse , just to make Nildta Khrushchev smile , " he said . " We do not intend to rubber stamp four years of mistake , retreat and weakness in world affairs . . . a record of disaster unmatched by any Republican administration in hisstory . " Dies as Russia " Mellows " The Bay of Pigs disaster was " a shock and a shame , " Goldwater said , but the shame was increased when " this administration went hat in hand to the bearded tyrant in Havana  --  and the hat was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile crisis in Cuba , he added , " an administration totally political in its goals and instincts " waited until the last perilous moment to take action at a time of " maximum political impact . " He warned of a repetition of this technique in 1964 , perhaps in connection with the war in Viet Nam . The administration speaks of a " mellowing " Russia , Goldwater noted , while men and boys die trying to cross the Berlin wall . " When , 0 when , will such an administration as this fully support its friends and not deal away their freedoms and their futures ? " he cried . . . " The answer is as cynical as the deals themselves : Only when there are domestic votes to be gained . Wo n't Admit Viet War The administration wo n't admit it has a war on its hands in Viet Nam , he remarked . " Its leader wo n't admit that communism is the cause of that war ? and the cause of every other major threat to peace around the world . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own political ambitions that he did not bother even to mention communism in his acceptance speech . " Americans die in Viet Nam while some politicians hope that their death is so distant , in places so strange , that you will not bother to think of them when you vote this year . " Goldwater called his appointment of a foreign policy advisory group " a serious and historically significant attempt to regroup freedom 's badly scattered forces while there is still time . " In addition to Nixon as chairman , he named Herbert Hoover Jr. , former undersecretary of state ; Sen. Bourke Hickenlooper R. , Ia. , ranking minority member of the Senate foreign relations committee ; Rep. Melvin R. Laird R. , Wis. , chairman of the G.O.P. platform committee ; Adolph W. Schmidt , financial and foundation executive of Pittsburgh ; Gerhardt Niemeyer , professor of political science , Notre Dame university ; and Gen. Lucius D. Clay , former commander in chief of United States forces in Europe . The appointment of Clay aroused interest . Many observers had not regarded him as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had indorsed the Goldwater nomination before the San Francisco convention in July . The group , Goldwater said , would cover all major foreign policy issues with particular attention to " the key question of how to keep the peace thruout the world . " It would concentrate , he said , on measures to halt the spread of communism and eventually roll back its offensive or force a change in its intentions . At Klamath Falls , Goldwater noted that the administration " which has wept so many crocodile tears over the United Nations " has let the U. N. drift into a new crisis . " The Soviet Union has announced it has no intention of paying its share of peacekeeping costs and unless we stop pressing demands that they do pay , the soviet threatens to wreck the whole organization , " he said .                     