@@727144

txt The government is moving with more flexibility on two distinct fronts to wind up the French crisis . The fronts are economic and political . The government is promising strikers that if they restart production now they will lose none of the advantages they gained at the height of the crisis . It is also reassuring non-Gaullist moderates that political cooperation with the Gaullists is possible short of being absorbed by Gaullism . The government 's moves are being made , so far as the public can see , by Premier Georges Pompidou rather than by President de Gaulle . Poinnidou spoke for de Gaulle Mr. Pompidou went on television here on the night of June 3 . This was the night that President de Gaulle had earlier scheduled for his own broadcast to launch the now sidetracked referendum he had announced May 24 . The presence of Mr. Pompidou on the screen instead of his chief underscored reports that have been current here . These have said that General de Gaulle will resign the presidency right away if the elections go against the Gaullists at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case he will probably retire in about a year . In addition to his television appearance , Mr. Pompidou gave a press conference at his official residence , the Hotel Matignon . He stressed the same points on both occasions . Some were foreseen . For example : He said it was a " national duty " to go back to work . Student grievances recognized He said the students who started the crisis with their demonstrations for university reform would not be ignored by the government . He promised that they will have negotiations . He said public order will be maintained and attributed dangers to it to " individuals . " Also expectable was his charge that the Communists had endangered the Republic but had been repulsed . All these points seemed to be blunted somewhat by the traditional skepticism of French people . Some French observers said Mr. Pompidou seemed to think he was talking as the representative of all the people he was addressing . They added that for many of these he still appeared as an opponent . They also said that although he promised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the government was under extreme pressure , the workers themselves had never accepted these gains as sufficient . Polarization reversible ? Meanwhile , however , talks to end the strikes were proceeding . A return to normal soon was forecast for banks , big department stores , coal mines , electricity and gas services , textiles , and the bus and subway services of the Paris region . For railroads , the mails , university teachers , automobile plants , and the tobacco industry , the most that could be said June 4 was that " negotiations are continuing . " Mr. Pompidou 's statements about the coming elections could be more important for the long-term future of France . They aimed at an immediate result in trying to win support for the Gaullist party among non-Gaullist middle road parties . If these aims succeeded , the dangerous " polarization " of French politics  --  that is , its division into two big , irreconcilable blocs  --  might be arrested . This division has been growing ever since Gaullists began attacking the parliamentary system in the days of the Fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communists in votes in the National Assembly which added to the chaos of that Republic . Political demand evolves This trend has gone on under the Fifth Republic . The middle parties have been weakened while the Gaullists and the Communist Party remain the big vote-getters . The likelihood of the trend 's becoming even more pronounced was seen when President de Gaulle regained control of affairs here May 31 . He accused communism of fomenting France 's troubles . Later government statements on elections asked for a massive " homogeneous " majority in the National Assembly . This was understood to mean an overwhelming Gaullist majority , which could be won only at the expense of the center parties . But now Mr. Pompidou is asking for a " broadly based " majority . This means it should include the center parties . It means that Gaullists may even cooperate in elections to help centrists and vice versa , as the Federation of the Left and the Communist Party plan to help each other . But it means above all that the freezing of French political affairs into two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     