@@727119

txt The West German Chancellor , Kurt Georg Kiesinger , is convinced that the allied position in Europe will be greatly enhanced if the United States is able to arrange a " tenable peace " in Vietnam as a result of the Paris talks because this will improve the " internal health " of the United States and also enable America to " devote more attention to European affairs . " The Chancellor , who made these observations during the course of a two-hour conversation in his sun-filled office overlooking the Rhine , also took heart from assurances he said he had received from President de Gaulle that France would not denounce the North Atlantic Treaty when this becomes legally feasible next year . In 1966 the general withdrew from NATO 's integrated military organization but not from some other alliance obligations . Mr. Kiesingcr 's statements nn both these points were re assuring , from an American point of view , when the ultimate implications of the Paris negotiations can not be read and when the alliance 's future seems especially cloudy . The Chancellor spoke with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that some Europeans thought that peace in Vietnam would reduce United States preoccupation with Asia and therefore revive United States interest in this continent ; but that others feared that Vietnam peace without victory might demonstrate the weakness of American security guarantees and thus undermine NATO . What did he think ? Mr. Kiesinger said : " One should not make such abrupt distinctions . I believe that when the United States is able to arrange a tenable peace , it will be able thereafter to devote more attention to European affairs  --  and to its own internal situation . I would like to stress that the greater the internal health of the United States , the better it is for all of us in Europe . " Of course , the solution of the Vietnam problem must not appear as a mere surrender by the United States . This is most important . But obviously peace in Asia will be followed by a'better situation in Europe . American interests in Europe , after all , are identical with ours  --  with the interests of all West European countries . Threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hegemony , that would be dangerous , and direct Soviet control would be ' even worse . Either would constitute a plain threat to the United States , whose interest must oppose al/ forms of control by Moscow over Western Europe . " I do n't think a settlement in Vietnam would mean that the United States does not stand by Its commitments . Over the years we have all come to know and to understand the realities of this Vietnam war , and we are aware of the difficulties and problems involved . " I hope that once peace comes to Vietnam this will help reinforce the will to collective defense in the North Atlantic Alliance and I hope that if America is able to shed its great problem , the situation will change ' favorably . It is natural under present circumstances that many Americans should look mainly at Vietnam , and enormous energies are absorbed there . Because of this situation ; United States interests in Europe perhaps ? receive less priority . " But here I - want to clarify my view . I.-am the last man to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tensions in Europe , but soberminded people must realize that a strong military power continues in the East . Personally , I hope this can eventually be reduced by gradual disarming on both sides . " Mr. Kiesinger thought the start of talks in Paris on Vietnam might lead to improved French-American relations because " one of the main arguments has been on Vietnam . " He added : " I told de Gaulle that we refused to play any schoolmaster 's role in lecturing the United States about Vietnam . Nevertheless , the General returned frequently to that subject in our talks . Now I think things may well get better . " Assurance Is Reported At this point the Chancellor said that during his last conversation with General de Gaulle , last February , " the General told me quite plainly that unless something unforeseen happens , France will not denounce the NATO treaty . " He added : " He said this quite explicitly and decisively and he repeated that he did n't expect any such unforeseen developments . Therefore ; as regards France , I trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is in line with the statements de Gaulle has made to me on other earlier occasions . " The Chancellor discounted rumors that Moscow may be planning a new Berlin crisis , rumors that stemmed from recent difficulties over access routes . He observed wryly : " Of course the people in Pankow East Germany 's official capital are trying to push Russia to this course , but I do n't have any serious indications that the Russians intend to provoke trouble . " He was , however , insistent that the West must preserve " adequate defense arrangements " as long as " an enormous concentration of military power " remained in the East . He said his Government supported any measures to keep defense arrangements " adequate although there could always be debate on that word 's meaning . " This was for the assessment of military experts , he said . " Sometimes , " he continued , " people argue that they do n't see the need for this . Certainly I do n't accuse the present Soviet leaders of having any aggressive intentions ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Therefore we must preserve some kind of protection so long as a strong eastern military power continues to exist in Europe . " A . propos of this , Mr. Kiesinger commented cautiously on the present Czechoslovak crisis , limiting his remarks for the record to the desire to prevent any statements by Bonn from complicating the situation there . The Chancellor acknowledged that while the Federal Republic had been able to achieve economic health it had not yet succeeded in two of its major goals , German reunification and European unity , " which obviously ; takes more time than has so far elapsed . " 2 " After the last : war ; " he continued , " many ' Germans tried to escape history and flee into a new utopia , but today we see matters more realistically . " The Chancellor continued : " Eventual unity ' is a necessity and , in spite of all difficulties , I trust in the rationality of Europeans . They see that if the present state of disunity continues there can only be a choice between Soviet hegemony or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either case we I would remain in a state of ' dependence . Europe can only have a real voice in history if it unites its strength . " At present there is a conflict between two contradictory concepts  --  that of France and that of the others  --  and these are especially reflected in the argument about Britain 's candidacy for the Common Market . I would like to point out that the French concept is not only that of General de Gaulle but is shared widely in France and is held by many of de Gaulle 's opponents . " And the split is not so simple as only an argument on the British question . The other , five members of the Common Market want to continue their old course towards integration and the early creation of supranational institutions . But this idea in the past has been rejected by both France and Britain . " It is a paradox that France , which opposes a supranational solution , vetoes British admission to the Common Market  --  because Britain has never come out for a supranational solution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept a genuine supranational solution . The British have n't yet said anything against it or for it ? there has n't been any need for them to do so . " But since it is clear that France rejects supranational institutions at present , efforts must be made to continue advances within the existing Common Market and here the nonFrench members unite in their desire for an early British participation . But I should like to stress that the desire to work for political cooperation is strongest in France and Germany . " Mr. Klesinger said that all Western Europe owed the last 23 years of peace to the protection offered by the United States and NATO , and that even neutral countries like Sweden and Switzerland were indebted to this umbrella . When asked whether he thought American policy was changing , he replied somewhat wearily : " No policy is ever stable . Certain shifts have occurred , although they are difficult to define in a few words . Certainly the relationships between the United States and the Soviet Union have undergone some changes . It is wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam conflict is a strong argument against such a statement . " Nevertheless , I have said repeatedly that the two big powers are now more aware of the necessity for crisis management . This has produced more Soviet-American contacts and some cooperation which could create certajn difficulties for the allies of the United States  --  for example , the nuclear nonproliferatican treaty . " But do n't misunderstand me . I am convinced of the paar ...... sity for more crisis management . I am also just as convinced of the need to consult the allies very , very carefully . I do n't complain . Since my first talk with President Johnson our relation has been good . "                     