@@728222

txt WASHINGTON ? A couple of quotations : " Now . Now listen to this . Here 's what I thought I 'd do . I thought I 'd go to Walter Scott , the N.B.C . board chairman  --  this would be in private of course , just the two of us in his office ? and say , ' Here are the instances . Here are the instances where we feel you 've been guilty of bias in your coverage of Nixon . We are going to monitor ' every . minute of your broadcast news , and if this kind of bias continues , and if we are elected , then you just might find yourself in Washington next year answering a few questions . And you just might find yourself having a little trouble getting some of your licenses renewed . " Shakespeare paused and smiled . " I 'm not going to do it because I 'm afraid of the reaction . The press would band together and clobber us . But goddammit , I 'd love it . " ? Comment attributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's campaign staff , and now director of the United States Information Agency , by . Joe in " The Selling of the President 1968 . " " Anyhow , there are more of us than there are of them . And we are going to show them in November that the average American is sick and tired of all these over-educated , ivory-tower folks with pointed heads looking down their noses at us , and the left-wing liberal press writing editorials and guidelines . So we are going to shake them up good in November . " ? George C. Wallace , In One of the most crowd-pleasing passages of his standard campaign speech last year . ? Buried somewhere beneath those two comments lies the genesis of Vice President Spiro T. Agnew 's current crusade against the " monopolistic " and " Eastern " custodians of major newspapers and the television networks . Mr. Agnew insists that he is not really invoking the threat of Government control or censorship , but it is clear that he would love to bring some of the commentators , editors and analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have been deliberately unfair to Mr. Nixon and himself . And , as Mr. Agnew and other Administration officials have demonstrated in word and deed , they would certainly like to persuade Mr. Wallace 's cheering fans that their deepest resentments are shared by the new Republican Government in Washington and that there is no need any longer to waste their votes on a third party . Those are the politics of the Vice President 's assertions and the men around him and around the President do not deny the political purpose of their counterattack on liberal critics . They insist also that Mr. Agnew is nonetheless raising some worthwhile issues for public debate , and their victims among the networks and newspapers do not deny that . The Vice President began his current campaign in Des Moines 10 days ago with a broadside attack on television news . He portrayed the networks as a virtual conspiracy , centered in New York and Washington , to monopolize the airwaves for anti-Nixon views . He accused them of catering and thus contributing to dissidence and violence . He condemned the analyses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech on Vietnam policy  --  though these have since been deemed fair comment by the Federal Communications Commission . The response included a howl of protest from the networks , including grave warnings of Government censorship , a flood of mail and telephone calls to the networks , most pro-Agnew , but many against , and a wave of new interest in the Vice President . Though perhaps discomfited by the tone and style of some of Mr. Agnew 's remarks , the Administration generally seemed pleased . Plucked from obscurity last year by Mr. Nixon , kidded and scorned in the campaign even by some of Mr. Nixon 's aides and no better utilized in office than most Vice Presidents , Mr. Agnew had suddenly managed with just a few sharply worded speeches to make himself a household word and potentially a formidable asset , in many parts of the land , in future political campaigns . So last week , the Vice President set forth again , to Wallace country in Montgomery , Ala. , to declaim against the alleged monopolism and biased news judgment of The Washington Post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an all-news radio station in the capital ) and The New York Times . He berated the ' critics of the first speech for distorting his intentions . He vigorously denounced all forms of censorship . And he said his only purpose ? was to encourage the presentation of a broader range of views , a clearer separation between news and commentary and a wider discussion of the danger of concentration in the information business . In these objectives , Mr. Agnew has many allies , in and out of the news business , and some of them declared themselves in the continuing debate . But the Vice President was challenged on some of his facts by , the publishers of the two newspapers that he cited , and many other respondents , including network executives , felt that he was mixing public policy issues with partisan complaint . Mr. Agnew did not cite any " monopolistic " tendencies in the news enterprises of the South or West or by conservative publishers ( Montgomery 's two newspapers are under a single management ) . He did not cite the grievances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discriminated against in American life than a sitting Administration . His basic complaint was that Mr. Nixon and his policies had been treated unfairly and his basic purpose was to turn the complaint into a political asset . On that level , the Vice President 's tangle with the press took a familiar shape . Nothing , in fact , has been more common or predictable in Washington than Government complaint about its coverage by the press , and press complaint about the misuse and denial of information by the Government . The Government 's principal weapon in this inherent conflict of interest has been not censorship , direct or indirect , but the stage-managing of events and control of information at the source . The principal weapon of the press and television has been not a conscious bias or distortion of the news but a zealous pursuit of data that is not always properly balanced or checked . Although obviously in need of constant watching and reform , the two institutions are destined to use each other and to abuse each other . Mr. Agnew has once again shown how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much the reform of the media as the votes of the resentful . ? MAX FRANKEL . The New York Times ( by George Tames/ With his recent speeches Spiro Agnew " has managed to make himself . . potentially a formidable asset to the Administration in many parts of the land . "                     