@@723034

txt Under strong pressure from the United States , South Korea 's military regime was forced today to offer civilian politicians a private compromise in place of its plan to impose four more years of military rule . The junta leaders are now asking politicians to agree to a civilian-military coalition government to rule for a maximum of two years , after which national elections would be held . So far politicians have not accepted the compromise offer and are publicly insisting that the junta members return to their original promise to give up power and hold elections this spring . The United States , which has been trying to prevent a decision by rifles or street demonstrations has been concentrating pressure largely on the military . Yesterday 's State Department declaration , that continued military rule was not good for the country , buoyed the politicians and worried Or angered the military men . But the goal of the United States now is to persuade both sides that although they may not like each other they can not , for the time being , rule without each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political chess game goes on , the United States will be trying to persuade , the politicians not to push the regime into a dangerous corner from which it can escape only by force . The pressure will now be on the civilians to accept some form of compromise . After almost two weeks of tension and crisis , this is the political picture in South Ko-rea : Many of the top men in the Government have virtually abandoned hope of pushing through four more years of military rule . Politicians and journalists are openly defying the junta 's ban on political ? activity 0 and editorials , and the only way the junta can impose its will is by force . But junta leaders fear that the , use of force would mean the withdrawal of United States economic support of the shaky Government and would bring about its collapse and national chaos . These leaders include Gen. Chung Hee Park , chief of the military government . But General Park and his close associates are no longer in complete control of the Government or of the political thinking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several groups of angry young officers who are insisting on continued military rule . These officers are bitter about United States " interference " and say they are in a mood to go it alone . Always present is the possibility that these officers may try to oust General Park himself and seize power by turning Korean nationalism into antiAmericanism . Already whispers are being spread that politicians and some military men are American toadies and that a country that suffered under Japanese colonialism is now being dominated by another foreign nation . For the United States , with more than 50,000 soldiers facing Communist North Korea and dependent for their security on the Korean army 's stability , the situation is , one of hour to hour anxiety . It is complicated ? enormously by factors that lie outside the sphere of a diplomat 's powers of prediction , but affect the taut picture ? the volatile Korean personality , clan feuds and fears of reprisal that eat at men who once used a fist or a gun on their opponents . The United States can be sure of only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be happy with what it does . Civilians and the military will both accuse Washington of letting them down and forcing them to compromise . United States diplomats have made the decision that at the moment poimlarity is less important than preventing civil war . Faced with the reality that it can not govern peacefully by itself , the Korean junta sent emissaries around the city today to offer the compromise to the civilians . A fully informed member of the Government 's inner circle gave these details of the plan : The Supreme Council of 21 members that now makes laws and carries them out administratively would be limited to legislative functions . It would include 75 civilians and .25 officers , all approved by General Park after consultations . A cabinet under General Park that would include civilian politicians would administer laws as the executive branch . The whole plan would be submitted to a national referendum ' and , if approved , the coalition would rule for two years . This period is obviously open for bargaining . The junta realizes that since it reneged once on promises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population as far as its pledges are concerned . To ease civilian fears of the armed forces " tigers would be removed from the streets . " This is the Korean way of saying that some of the armed guards would be removed from Seoul and many officers now in the Government would be sent back to the front . A Government source said that because of the " ill-timed " United States statement of criticism , ' civilian politicians had hardened their bargaining position , and negotiations were now " extremely difficult . "                     