@@722116

txt Carmine G. De Sapio , former leader of Tammany Hall , announced yesterday that he would not vote for Mayor Wagner next Tuesday , but would vote for other Democratic candidates . He was opposed in his stand by Representative Charles A. Buckley , Democratic leader of the Bronx , and State Controller Arthur Levitt , the organization candidate whom Mayor Wagner defeated in the Democratic primary in September . Both Mr. Buckley and Mr. Levitt said they would vote for the Mayor . Mr. Levitt thus reversed a position he had taken in the primary campaign when he said he would not support the Mayor if the latter won the nomination . Mr. De Sapio , who lost control of the New York County Democratic organization in the primary , did not say which candidate for Mayor he would vote for , if any . Charges ' Desertion ' He charged Mayor Wagner , among other things , with " deserting " the Democratic party and recommending Liberal party candidates against Democrats . Mr. Wagner has the Liberal party as well as the Democratic party nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emilio Nunez and Gustave G. Rosenberg , both Democrats who were refused the Democratic party nominations and then were nominated by the Liberal party as candidates for Supreme Court Justice in Manhattan and the Bronx . Michael H. Prendergast , the Democratic state chairman , issued a statement Wednesday urging the election of City Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa as Mayor . Mr. Gerosa , a Democrat , is running as an independent candidate on the Citizens patty ticket . Mr. Wagner predicted that Mr. Prendergast 's support of Mr. Gerosa would have " nog effect at all " on the election . Regarding Mr. De Sapio 's statement , the Mayor said : " That 's the best news I 've had // today . That makes it complete . I beat them before and I 'm go ing to beat them again , once and for all . " Mr. Wagner said that by ' " them " he meant the Democratic party " bosses . " He said the Prendergast statement made it clear " the bosses " were trying hard to defeat him . Mr. De Sapie and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on " bossism . " John T. Harrington , Democratic reform candidate for county leader , said last night that Mr. De Sapio and Mr. Prendergast were " political soreheads . " In a statement Mr. Herring ton said that if Mr. Prendergast and Mr. De Sapio had their way , " they would reduce the Democratic party to a junior partner of the Birch Society in order to save their political necks . " Star- Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , the Republican candidate for Mayor , said Mr. Wagner had contended recently that both Mr. De Sapio and Mr. Prendergast were supporting him for re-election . " Now % Prendergast is for Gerosa and now Wagner says a vote for Gerosa is a vote for me , " Mr. Lefkowitz commented . Mr. De Sapio in his statement said : " I am a Democrat . I ? have always advocated that the members of the Democratic party abide by and support the candidates selected by the people at primaries and conventions . " Unfortunately , Mr. Wagner violates that principle . He has deserted the Democratic party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic party . " I renew my position to support candidates of the Democratic party . However , by virtue of Mr. Wagner 's unwarranted , indecent and untruthful vilification of me and my ' family and his public statements that he does not want my support , in good . conscience I am left vAth no alternative but to state that I can not and will not vote for hint " In contrast to that view , Representative Buckley said : " I am going to vote . for Mr : Wagner and all the other candidates on the Democratic party line . I 've been a Democrat all my life and do n't intend to switch my vote . " Mr. Buckley said he was afraid that if voters cast their ballots on the Republican line for Mr. Lefkowitz or on the Citizens party line for Mr. Gerosa , they might not move to the Democratic line to vote for Democratic candidates for other offices . The Bronx leader criticized Mr. Wagner for failing to support the candidacy of John J. Sullivan , Democrat , for Borough President of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote for two judges on the Liberal party ticket , but has never asked them to vote for Mr. Sullivan , " Mr. Buckley declared . Mr. Levitt 's statement was issued by an assistant , who said the Controller was out of the State , but had authorized this statement : " Mr. Levitt is a Democrat and will vote for Mayor Wagner and the other Democratic candidates . " Mr. Wagner , In his ccmment , said , " I hope all Democrats as well as all independents and Republicans will vote for me . " He said the " rank and file " of the Democratic party , as opposed to the party " bosses , " were for the kind of democracy he stood for and were supporting him . Fire Commissioner Edward F. Cavanagh Jr. , on leave of absence as the Mayor 's campaign manager , predicted Mr. Prendergast would get a " juicy " state job from Governor Rockefeller for his endorsement of Mr. Gerosa . He charged there had been a " cynical deal . " " Boss Prendergast has sold out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows that support for Gerosa will help Lefkowitz . " After the primary Mr. Cavanagh succeeded Mr. De Sapio as chairman of the New York County Democratic committee . Mr. De Sapio was defeated for re-election as district leader and as a member of the county committee in the primary . The election of his successor as Tammany leader has been deferred until after the election . He has announced he will not be a candidate to succeed himself . Irving M. Engel , chairman of the New York Committee for Democratic Voters , also charged that Mr. Prendergast was trying to help elect a Republican Mayor . The committee consists of reform Democrats supporting Mr. Wagner . Mr. Engel said Mr. Prendergast and his allies were following a " rule or ruin " policy and would prefer Republican victories to loss of control over the Democratic party . Replying to Mr. Prendergast 's criticism of the voters committee , Mr. Engel said its leaders , including former Senator Herbert H. Lehman and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , were more representative of the Democratic party than Mr. De Sapio and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratis party or drive anybody out of it . " Our quarrel Is with the small minority who for the last ten years have used control of the party in this state for their own selfish interests , " he asserted . Mr. Engel also defended Representative William Fitts Ryan , State Senator Manfred Ohrenstein and Assemblyman Mark Lane , reform Democrats , against attacks by Mr. Prendergast . Those three legislators , pres. : ent at a press conference held by Mr. Engel , agreed with Mr. Engel 's views . All four expressed the opinion that the De Sapio-Prendergast state-'I ments would clinch the re-elec- I tion for Mayor Wagner because , they dramatized- his fight against the " bosses " and their fight against him .                     