@@725190

txt Japanese and Korean trade experts plan to sit down in Seoul this weekend to talk urgently of cuttlefish , rice , and seaweed . The Koreans view these discussions as the first test of how sincere the Japanese intend to be about seeking normal relations . Close on the heels of the cuttlefish , rice , and seaweed trade talk , the two governments will exchange treaty ratification instruments . Cuttlefish , rice , and laver ( a sort of edible seaweed ) are all wrapped up in a trade imbalance that nags Koreans . Over the past decade , Japan has nourished a lopsided trade advantage in its favor . In the first half of this year it exported 889 million in goods , but only imported $21 million . This irks Koreans . They want the Japanese to buy more of their primary products , especially cuttlefish , rice and laver . But those are principal Japanese products , too . So the Japanese have slapped high custom duties and import quotas on all three . This makes Koreans wonder if profit-seeking Japanese will always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They advance to the mid-December talks with their guard up . Trends ? . ? Japan 's Afro-Asian policy plank is creaking slightly . In Africa , Japan 's troubles are rooted in trade . The same gaping Japanese trade imbalance that irks Korea miffs Kenya , Tanzania , Uganda , and Nigeria , too . Last year , Japan sold those four nations $54 million in goods and bought only $17 million . Japanese traders contend African nations do n't have enough products Japan needs . Nevertheless , the four African nations now have clamped severe restrictions on Japanese imparts . Besides , Japan 's booming trade with South Africa has roused black African ire . Many Asian nations are disgruntled with Japanese foreign policy . They are wary of excessive Japanese influence in the region . And they note that its economic aid to the rest of Asia so far has been mostly commercially motivated . So Japanese opinion leaders now are saying Japan must work harder to knit itself more snugly with Asia if it hopes to quiet the creaky plank . Viet Cong leaders are stepping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the National Liberation Front , is gearing to open new diplomatic missions in a number of foreign countries . It now keeps eight permanent missions abroad , spread about among Asia , Africa , Latin America , and Communist nations . Recently the front has been anxious to step out on the international conference circuit . Most have been conferences with a blatant Communist slant . Even so , participation helps consolidate the Liberation Front 's claim to international acceptance . Five years ago , the front sent only one delegation abroad and that went to East Europe . This year it says it sent out 27-5 to Eastern Europe , 7 to Asia , 5 to Africa , 3 to Latin America , 2 to Arab lands , and 5 to Western Europe . How and why ? ? ? Despite some setbacks , Communist China still is swinging away on the African propaganda circuit . And it is doing much of it with movies . Peking now is dubbing its Chinese language films into Swahili , the lingua franca of much of East Africa . The first such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Tanzania . It was a big color documentary of Tanzanian President Nyerere 's state visit to Communist China earlier this year . Along with it Peking sent a " feature " film called " Youth in the Flames of War . " None of this is likely to win an Academy Award . But it helps keep Peking irons warm in Africa . While keeping things hot on the international scene , Peking still has a job making ends meet at home . Now the Communist regime has embarked on a campaign to retrieve useful materials from industrial wastes , gas , slags , and sewage . It says its city of Shanghai has recovered about 200 kinds of useful metals and other materials from effluent wastes , gas , and slags . Elsewhere , factories have been built to turn slags and cinders into building materials . And in Liaoning Province , 20 canals have been dug around its cities to channel treated sewage off onto neighboring farmlands.                     