@@725171

txt Washington , Dec. 4 - An error in judgment by Canadian power system engineers in adjusting automatic switching equipment , rather than failure of the equipment , set the stage for the huge Nov. 9 blackout in the northeastern United States . By the time the power failure had backed into New York City 12 minutes later , it was compounded by a malfunctioning meter and the fact that operating personnel of the Consolidated Edison company lacked authority to cut the metropolis ; from the collapsing system . Report Is 60 Pages This . sources told THE TRIBUNE , is the conclusion reached in a 60-page Federal Power commission report which will be delivered to President Johnson tomorrow . Joseph C. Swidler Jr. , commission chairman , will arrive at the LBJ ranch in Johnson City , Tex. , on Moilday to discuss the report with the President . It will be made public , according to the Associated Press . Swidler said earlier that the cause of the failure was a broken relay in the Beck power plant at Queenston , Ont. , on the Niagara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power system is governmentowned . In the White House report , however . Swidler said that the relay had been set at too close a margin so that it would be triggered by the slightest overload . Canadian engineers who made the adjustment neglected to inform operating personnel that they were working with such a narrow margin of safety , the report said . Boston Gets Warning The line was knocked out by a minor power surge and its load was thrown on four other lines , also equipped with relays which had been set at the narrow margin . They cut out immediately , dumping a tremendous volume of electricity into the United States and knocking out 23 lines feeding into New York state within five seconds . Boston , with a six-minute warning , tried to hold on in the face on the onrushing power , then blacked out . The city got its system back in order quickly , using a remote generating station . New Jersey power companies saved themselves from collapse by disconnecting them1 selves from the network before they were hit by the electrical " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But in New York City , Con-1 solidated Edison 's chief load dispatcher did not have authority to disconnect from the main ' system and had been misled by a frequency meter which was not functioning properly . The meter , just before the city went black , read slightly more than 58 cycles , when actually the system 's frequency was nearing 57 cycles , the low point at which failure occurs , the report said . The dispatcher was not aware that the system was so near the collapse level . Ca n't Get Started Once an electrical generating system loses its power , it also loses its ability to get started again , it was explained . Each generating station requires about 10 per cent of its own electrical output to operate fans , water pumps , coal conveyors , and other equipment . If the New York system had been cut from the collapsing network , it could have been producing electricity with its own generators a short time later , according to the explanation . The power failure , the , largest in history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hit New York , Massachusetts , Connecticut , Pennsylvania , Vermont , New Jersey , and Rhode Island . In some cases it took all night to restore service .                     