@@727695

txt Republican legislative leaders began working today to soften the new revisions in the Taylor Law even as Governor Rockefeller signed those revisions into law . They were pushed through the Legislature last Friday . On the legislators ' first working day after passing the bill ? which provides stiffer penalties against striking public employes and their unions ? an amendment was being prepared to allow more leniency for individual strikers where it can be shown there was " extreme provocation " for their action . As the revision  --  along with two others that were developed as the bill was being passed ? was being prepared , the Governor 's office announced that Mr. Rockefeller had signed the bill . Opponents of the bill , who forced Republican leaders into a six-hour legislative battle to gain passage , had accused the leadership of " ungodly haste . " They complained of flaws in the bill at the time . Unlike other bills passed this session , the one on the Taylor Law bypassed the normal committee system and moved from the talking stage to legislative action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This required an , unusual Friday session and ' pressure from the leaders that one Republican member described as " a real battering . " The revised Taylor Law , as signed by the Governor , provides for financial penalties against individual strikers and unlimited fines against their unions . The original Taylor Law , making it illegal for public employes to strike , penalized only the unions and their leaders and limited the penalties . ' Holdouts ' Press Revisions It was understood today that ' ; a revision of the section penalizing individual strikes was prepared by several Republican members , including two Assemblymen , John T. Gallagher of Queens and Lucio F. Russo of Staten Island . Both Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Russo were described as " holdouts " during Friday 's hectic session and at first would not go along with their Republican leaders on the bill . After several hours of pressure , the two Assemblymen voted with the majority to pass , the bill . One of the major criticisms against the bill signed yesterday was the section that allowed fines and probationary penalties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty could be removed if the strikers can show " extreme provocation committed by the appropriate public employer or its representatives . " Two other revisions are being considered . One would insure equal treatment of public employes who are placed on probation because they went on strike . Teachers had complained that the present Ianguage of the bill might deny ! I them the right to a hearing if their contract were not renewed during the probationary period . Another change would clarify the status of New York City 's Office of Collective Bargaining , which assists in negotiations between the city and its employes . As written , the new law would alter the city office 's powers over the bill 's code of unfair labor practices beginning Sept. 1 . An amendment , which seems to have dwindling supp. -t , has been considered to postpone the effective date of that section until Jan. 31 . As the changes in last week 's revision of the law were being discussed , reform of another state law moved a step closer to a legislative vote . The joint Legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ( Senator Norman F. Lent , the committee chairman , gave " a ' 50.50 chance " of passage this session . The revisions , endorsed by the bipartisan committee , would Icompletely revamp the state 's abortion law , which now perpits abortions only when necessary to save tl , . e mother 's life . Review Is Crchred The new prnposals embodied in bills pending in both the Assembly and the Senate . would permit abortions ' n the following eases : cWhen there is risk the pregnancy would gravely impair the physical or mental health of the mother . ( 1When the pregnancy results from incest or rape . ( 1When the pregnancy occurs while the mother is unmarried and 15 years old or younger . lWhen there is substantial ; risk that the baby will be born ! ; physically or mentally defec- i 1 Itive . CIWhen the pregnancy occurs while the woman is certi'disabled by the state as mentally ' ' disabled or incompetent . The present law , basically unchanged for 86 years , has been under heavy attack for the last few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure have been the state 's Roman Catholic bishops . The bill also has been opposed by some legislators and various groups who are seeking repeal of all abortion statutes , making the matter a personal decision between the mother and her physician . Meanwhile , the state 's relationship with organized public employes continued to occupy the Governor 's office . The Governor announced today he would negotiate separately with two unions on wage and benefits for state workers . The two unions are the Civil Service Employes Association and Council 50 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes . Discussions may also be held with nine smaller unions that claim representation of state employes . A ruling last year by the Public Employes Relations Board had held up contract negotiations and led to a strike threat by the Civil Service Employes Association last month . Promises of renewed negotiations dissolved that threat and the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the Public Employment Relations Board had acted beyond its powers in halting the negotiations in the first ; place . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's decision that state workers should be divided among five units for bargaining purposes . In preparation for the negotiations , the Governor announced the appointment of Harold Israelson of New York City as a consultant to the Executive Chamber Office of Employe Relations . Mr. Israelson was a mediator in the 1967-68 strike by city teachers , and he helped implement the agreement that ended a series of teachers ' strikes last fall . In other legislative work yesterday , the following actions were taken : CFinal legislative approval was given to a bill to make possession of a stolen or forged credit card a felony punishable by up to four years in jail . ( lThe Senate passed a bill under which a general hospital could lose its certificate for refusing to provide emergency care for " an unidentified person brought to it in an unconscious , seriously ill or wounded condition . " filThe Senate passed a bill opening to members of the Legislature all books , records , bills , accounts , and contracts filed with the Public Service Commission .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     