@@725379

txt A blizzard raging thru its second day yesterday isolated scores of towns , marooned passenger trains and thousands of motorists . Winds up to 98 miles an hour whipped knee-to-hip-deep snows into tremendous drifts ? up to 30 feet in some areas ? and transformed the flatlands from Montana to the Great Lakes , into a virtually impassable , undulating sea , of , white , Gov . Nils Boe of South Dakota said he would call-out the national guard for rescue and highway clearing work when the blizzard abated . North Dakota officials planned emergency action . A Minnesota highway department official reported : " We ca n't even see to get a plow on the highways . " Lt. Govr , Charles Tighe of North Dakota ordered state snowplows to dig out key state officials and escort them to the capitol at Bismarck for an emergency blizzard meeting . The weather bureau said the blizzard , building up in intensity as it crossed ' the Dakotas and Minnesota , was " the worst March storm in many years . " Some old-timers on the snowbogged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen . 8 Inches More Expected Blizzard warnings remained up in most of North . Dakota , South Dakota , and west and north Minnesota . Up to 8 inches Of additional snow was expected in those sections . The storm was spreading slowly eastward over the northern Great Lakes , whipping heavy snows across northern Wisconsin and upper Michigan . At least four Northern Pacific railroad passenger trains were stalled by mammoth drifts in North Dakota and Montana , but the more than 500 passengers aboard were reported to have food and heat . The Northern Pacific 's westbound Mainstreeter passenger train , with 135 persons , was stuck at the depot in New Salem , N. D. The eastbound North Coast Limited , due in Chicago yesterday , was holed up , with 190 persons aboard , at Glen Ullin , N. D. The westbound North Coast Limited which had left Chicago Thursday , was halted at Cleveland , N. D. , with 169 aboard , and then moved back to Jamestown , N. D. The eastbound Mainstreeter was held in Glendive , Mont . Snowmobiles Are Useless At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dakotas . One 121-car Milwaukee Road freight was being buried by snow near , S. D. A dozen persons were missing in North Dakota and authorities said even snowmobiles could not set out in search for them . Hundreds of persons were stranded in truck stops , motels and farm and ranch homes . Stranded 18 Hours Thirty miles north of Watertown , S. D. , ' 109 persons were stranded in a tiny ' store and gag station in a blizzard so severe they could pot even see the gasoline pumps in front of the station . Youngsters , including members of a high school basketball team , ? took turns sleeping in a booth . A stalled bread truck driver provided bread and rolls . At tiny Sterling Corner , N. D. , 123 persons were marooned . They spent Thursday night in a motel and in the hamlet 's only three homes . A Pierre , S. D. , couple waited 18 hours in a car half buried by snow before rescuers reached them . They burned newspapers , upholstery , and part of a car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black Hills were immobilized by drifts 20 to 25 feet high . Telephone service was out in most of western South Dakota . Most city buses and cabs halted in Duluth , Minn . More than 100 cars were stalled in one part of Polk county , Minn . Ham Radio Only Link For the second day , an amateur radio operator was the only link between Harrison , Neb. population 448 , and the rest of the state . Ilobridge , S. D. , was threatened with a water shortage when a power line to the water plant snapped . A woman air line employe floundered thru drifts for a quarter of a mile to carry a bucket of food to two weather men stranded since Wednesday in the Rapid City , S. D. , weather bureau . In the wake of the storm , the mercury tumbled to 31 below zero in West Yellowstone , Mont. , and 23 below in Butte , Mont .                     