@@726898

txt Enemy battalions weathered repeated attacks by Marine tanks and South Vietnamese aircraft today to ' maintain a tight grip on the ancient city of Hue . At nightfall , the Marines held only two square blocks of the smoking city . And seven South Vietnamese Army battalions struggled unsuccessfully to push North Vietnamese and Vietcong ) troops from the Citadel  --  a 19thcentury fortress built to shield the nation 's historic imperial palace . The strength of the enemy resistance caught the South Vietnamese by surprise . As late as yesterday , Vietnamese commanders in the area were saying that the enemy troops in Hue were weak and ill supplied and would fall with the first major allied push . But today the assessment has changed . " Enemy forces in the ancient Citadel are believed to number five battalions , " the regional Vietnamese command said in a late - communique that gave the Hue battle more attention than any other engagement under way in the country . The battle is significant for both the allies and the enemy because of the city 's unique position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a center of strength for the anti-Government sect of Buddhism . Recognizing the psychological importance of the enemy 's gains in Hue , marines and South Vietnamese alike make it clear , in background statements to newsmen , that they will step up their efforts to secure the city . 3d Day of Fighting But troops in Hue said the going would be tough . " I was in Conthien last fall and that was rough , but ? this is even rougher , " said a marine , one lof 700 sent here since WednesIday afternoon to reinforce an embattled compound of 200 American military advisers . Meanwhile , as the fighting continued for the third day , the city was in chaos . The chief of Thuathien Province , of which Hue is the capitol , was wounded and is receiving medical treatment at an undisclosed place . His house is in ruins . The province headquarters Is in the hands of soldiers , who are using it as a sniper post , and the flag of the National Liberation Front , the Vietcong 's political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this normally bustling city are deserted except for the fighting forces and the wreckage . Parents hold their children tightly by the hand , and move sideways with their . backs pressed against buildings . When they reach an open space  --  an intersection or a gap ? between house ? they run quickly and flatten themselves against the first wall they reach . Scores of them have reached Hue University and the American advisory compound next to it in search of food and shelter . American advisers are trying to assist them from offices that only four days ago were abuzz with the bookkeeping chores of the Government 's pacification program . The . pasification project is a shambles . " Until the enemy moved into the . city we were doing great ? making real progress , " said Lieut . Col. Howard L. Moon , the senior American adviser to the province chief . " Now we 'll have to start all over again . " While Colonel Moon talked , smoke was billowing from buildings along the city 's riverfront and rockets from South Vietnamese installations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a bespectacled Army specialist from Los Angeles , waited until the roar of a tank-mounted cannon had subsided and then spoke above the clatter of a machine gun . " I 'll tell you the truth , " he said . " I was never so happy to see a marine in my life , ' A few steps away an Army captain , Herbert Wilfring of the Bronx , repeated the view , " The greatest news we had was that the Marines were coming with four tanks , " he said . " It made you feel somebody was thinking about you . " Until a special unit of 500 marines broke through 48 hours ' go , the 200 United States advisers , most of them with the Army , and more than 50 American civilians were cut off from the rest of Hue for 12 hours . Enemy forces battered them with rocket and mortar fire . The marines fought their way from Phubai airfield through more than six miles of Vietcong-controlled roads to reach the embattled advisers . Then they fought house to house over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marines joined them yesterday by helicopter  --  the only means of supply and reinforcement now available . In breaking through to Hue , the marines suffered 10 dead and 20 to 30 wounded . They reported that they had , killed 50 Vietcong and wounded many others . The South Vietnamese Army estimated that it , had killed 200 enemy soldiers and described its own losses as light . The two allied forces are working separately rather than as a coordinated unit . Hue is South Vietnam 's leading cultural , educational and religious center , " said one high Marine officer . " We want the South Vietnamese themselves to liberate it  --  not the Americans . " But another Marine officer said the American command was reluctant to send marines into the area because of the city 's many historic buildings . " If buildings have to be destroyed to get the enemy out of here , we . want the South Vietnamese to be the ones to do it  --  not us , " he said . With the enemy in strong positions , the marines and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In several parts of Hue , the line between the allies and the enemy is a narrow one  --  a situation that could make virtually all of the fighting bitter . The situation was dramatized yesterday when a lean Marine sergeant stood by a brick column near an intersection , waving his arms like a traffic officer and ordering his men to move behind a low concrete wall . " Friendlies on the left , " he told each passing marine . " Enemies on the right . "                     