@@725795

txt President Ferdinand E. Marcos of the Philippines began a two-week state visit ' here today by praising President Johnson for accepting " loneliness " and rejecting the counsel of friends in order to stand firm in Asia . President Marcos broke the formality of his reception in the East Room of the White House by departing from the text of his brief prepared remarks . He told President Johnson , who was standing beside him : " We have watched the leadership of President Johnson , and we can only sa ' , as the Orientals say : ' Leadership is the other side of the coin of loneliness , and he who is a leader must always act alone , And acting alone , accept everything alone . ' " He continued : " We have seen you accept everything . The compulsion of the timorous you have discarded ; the importunings of friends you have rejected . But staying close to the image that you knew of America and your vision of what is America , you have insured the security of my part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterness over lack of support for the Vietnam effort in many parts of the liberal community , listened intently and with a serious expression . The audience crowded into the East Room consisted of White House and other Government staff members . They applauded President Marcos with more fervor than is usual on such occasions . The two Presidents have something of a link in the political scars each has received from the Vietnam issue . President Marcos had to fight a stiff battle with his Congress to get authorization to send troops to Vietnam , and observers say that he has spent valuable political capital in the effort . President Marcos 's visit is being treated with ceremony . The Philippine leader has a heavy schedule that will include intensive consultations with President Johnson , the signing of an agreement long desired by the Philippines shortening United States occupancy of bases there to 25 years , and an address to both Houses of Congress . To President Johnson , criticized in much of Asia and Europe for his policy in Vietnam , President Marcos 's support is of great importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program of devolopment and reform for his country 's stagnant ' economy , needs considerable economic assistance . Both themes were evident in today 's exchange of remarks . President Johnson noted the dispatch to Vietnam of 2,000 Philippine troops ? mostly engineers who will have construction and security assignments ? and said : " We know that what your nation has , it has earned . What you yearn for , you work for . And what you work for , you are ready to defend . " As commanders in chief , you and I know that it is never easy to commit men to battle . But we know that if a leader is to pass along to the next generation the treasure of liberty , he must do what must be done . " Suggests Philippine Link Mr. Marcos , offering his country as a link between the United States and Asia , told Mr. Johnson : " You are perplexed by many problems that come from Asia and Africa . We come to offer you ' the intimate knowledge that we have acquired of Asia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " America , under your leadership , Mr. President , can claim a major share of this pioneering work in implementing this radical principle that the rich nations must ' help the poor nations , not only because they are interdependent in an irreversibly one world , but because it is right . " Today 's ceremonies were driven indoors by the heavy rain that had drenched Washington since last night . To show special attention to Mr. Marcos , the White House had invited 2,300 guests , including relatively junior State Department officers and their wives , and Congressional secretaries . Many of the guests , unable to squeeze inside had to stand in the rain to watch President Marcos arrive . President Marcos was greeted on the White House steps by President and Mrs. Johnson , accompanied by Secretary of State Dean Rusk , who was confined last week with grippe and looked as though he had not completely shaken it off . Mrs. Marcos , a tall woman with upswept black hair , wore a lime-yellow " terno , " a long ' Philippine dress with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , before a formal White House dinner for the visitor tonight , for the first of two sessions of talks . Tomorrow , President Marcos will talk with a number of high United States officials , including Vice President Humphrey , Secretary of Defense Robert S. and William S. Gaud , Administrator of the Agency for International De velopment . He will speak to Congress at noon and meet again with President Johnson in the afternoon . . The question of assistance for major Philippine programs is expected to be a principal . topic . Officials here have said , that the United States is interested in suppOrting a rural development program to be carried out by Philippine Army engineers . Funds for irrigation - and . rice growing programs , may also be considered .                     