@@725436

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Safe Separation to Avoid Midair Collisions To the Editor : On April 18 the Federal Aviation Agency will begin holding a public hearing in Washington on a matter which has recently captured the attention of Congress and the airtraveling public . It is a hearing which will attempt to anticipate and avoid midair collision by determining whether it was consistent with safety for the F.A.A. to reduce , by 25 per cent , the lateral space between commercial aircraft crossing the Atlantic . If safety were the only consideration involved , there is little doubt that this reduced lateral spacing would not have been placed into effect until it was absolutely certain that it was completely safe . However , economic considerations , too , are involved . The distance separating trans-Atlantic airplanes directly affects the number of aircraft which can simultaneously occupy the limited transAtlantic airspace , the mileage to destination , the chance of obtaining a clearance to the optimum cruising altitude , and thus the amount of costly jet fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 . Risks Increased Pilots agree that navigating aids now available do n't provide the precise track-keeping ability necessary for safe operation with the reduced separation which the F.A.A. and the airlines endorse . Reduced separation , coupled with the steady increase in trans-Atlantic traffic , rapidly increases midair collision risks . The pilots ' own survey of several hundred trans-Atlantic flights strongly supports this conclusion . The reduced lateral separation over the North Atlantic originated in a United States proposal to the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , which member nations were urged to and did adopt . On Feb. 7 the nations most directly concerned in controlling North ! tlantic air traffic  --  the United States , Canada , the United Kingdom , Ireland and , Portugal ? simultaneously placed the reduced separation standard in effect . Now , barely two months later , there is no agreement , much less unanimity , among these nations on trans-Atlantic lateral separation . Portugal , apparently experiencing a lack of confidence in the reduced separation , has returned to the former standard . The remaining nations responsible for transAtlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . Any semblance of uniform lateral separation rules has disappeared . From 1935 to 1966 I served an airline pilot , logging over 5,000 flight hours in heavy aircraft from the China Clipper to the most modern jets . As a consequence of 31 years of piloting experience across six continents and five of the seven seas , my obligation to the public and to my conscience requires that I declare , as forcefully as I can , the conviction that unless we quickly eliminate this serious hazard by restoring safe separation , tragedy may be inevitable . ( Capt . ) WILLIAM MASLAND Manhasset , L. I. , April 8 , 1966 ? City 's Historic Sites To the Editor : The April 4 news account of the brochure which Robert Moses has written to support his claim to being an esthete in the field of public works is notable for at least one omission : it is his apparent silence as to his stubborn fight to destroy Castle Clinton ( better known to many as Castle Garden ) in developing the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel project . That unsuccessful attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only was Castle Clinton rescued from the wreckers and preserved for posterity as a national monument , but those of us in the American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society who spearheaded the saving of this historic fort were stimulated to conceive and organize the project to ' establish around the base of the Statue of Liberty an American Museum of Immigration . Now nearing completion , it will document and dramatize for all time the courage and thecontributions of our forefathers in building the America which is our common heritage . W. H. BALDWIN New Canaan , Conn . April 4 , 1966 . ? German View on Oder-Neisse To the Editor : Stefan Korbonski in his letter published April 7 proposes that the Federal Republic of Germany recognize the OderNeissa line prior to reunification of the two parts of Germany , He forgets two points : first , that Germany , according to the Potsdam Agreement , can not do this since that agreement stipulates that the final delimitation of its eastern borders falls within the competence of an all-German government , that is , the government of a reunited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove all incentive for the Poles to manifest . an interest in German reunification . If Poland knows , however , that she can get an internationally recognized western border only from a reunified Germany , she will perhaps show some interest in being helpful toward bringing about this reunification . Polish Conditions Germany is not interested in a dialogue of the kind recently outlined by the Warsaw daily Zycie Warszawy , which enumerated " three Polish conditions for a Polish-German dialogue . " The first " absolutely unalterable condition " is recognition of the Oder-Neisse line . The second is recognition of the " German Democratic Republic " because " we Poles are not interested in giving Germany the chance to organize itself into a ' united power . " The " third condition " is an alteration in the policies of the Federal Republic in the sense that it must " understand as facts " its own " concrete frontiers . " The Polish paper added : " One might ask what the Poles would be willing to do by way of compensation for the fulfillment of these demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this attitude changes Germany has no reason to recognize anything . And the Poles , who have always entertained a vivid feeling for nationhood , will understand in , their heart that we can not act otherwise . H. E. JAHN New York , April 7 , 1966 The writer is a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the German Bundestag , ? Congenital Addiction To the Editor : Your March 30 editorial " Shocking Statistic " is entirely correct , and its shock will heighten with age . The rate of 15 to 20 per cent annual increase in congenital narcotic addicts can be considerably contained if the New York State Legislature would pass Assembly Introductory No. 314 ( Print 3217 ) . This bill , which I have ? introduced in the Assembly , re- ' quires applicants for a marriage license to state whether they have used any narcotic drugs within two years prior to such application . If drugs have been used the , issuance of a marriage license is prohibited unless the applicant can produce a duly qualified physician 's certificate stating that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drugs . " MARTIN GINSBERG New York State Assembly Ninth District , Nassau County - Albany , March 31 , 1966 '                     