@@726389

txt A new alliance of Southeast Asian states now is a definite prospect . Indonesia has been talking about it with the Philippines , Malaysia , and Thailand . A foreign-ministers conference to hammer out the shape of the new alliance is likely in the next month or two . The meeting place probably will be - Bangkok but could be Kuala Lumpur , the Malaysian capital . Already in existence is the Association of Southeast Asia ( Thailand , Malaysia , and the Philippines ) . There is also the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , but this includes white Western nations . The new alliance would be limited to Asian nations and go far beyond the Association of Southeast Asia . One of the main functions the Indonesians see behind the new grouping would be to fend off Chinese Communist expansionism . et American correspondents , barred till now from flights over North Vietnam , may soon get the green light to accompany strike missions . United States authorities apparently are considering the idea favorably on grounds that eyewitness reports by American newsmen would confirm that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentionally  --  civilian targets in North Vietnam . American reporters are currently permitted to fly strike missions over South Vietnam but not over the north . If the plan is finally approved , those correspondents selected will take short , high-altitude flight tests and jungle-survival courses before making the trip . et Just as soon as the troops can be spared , the United States Army can be expected to pour thousands of additional foot soldiers into the Mekong Delta . The war for Vietnam 's rich rice bowl has not been going well enough , some officials say . They call it a stalemate . The first American combat troops in the delta , a brigade from the Ninth Division , got off to a slow and troubled start . But now they are chalking up a good record . Their commendable showing has countered the doubts of some critics who had resisted the initial commitment of Americans to the area . When more troops are sent in , there 'll be plenty for them to do . They will likely be used to tackle some of the delta 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are An Xuyen Province , which is almost totally Communist controlled . And important Kien Hoa Province , which is only 40 miles from Saigon . Communists control nearly half the population there . Trends ? ? ? Despite persistent reports Of his suicide , the former chief of Communist China 's general staff is apparently alive and being subjected to public humiliation by Red Guards . Gen. Lo Jui-ching has been seen as recently as June 3 in Peking , according to reports filtering out of China . However , he is being harassed by Red Guard rallies . By presenting him in public , the Maoists may be using his personal welfare as a factor to bargain with dissident Army elements . General Lo was fired in the early stages of the cultural revolution , apparently for his resistance to the Maoist line . Okinawa continues to simmer quietly as the most sensitive issue of the moment in Japanese-American relations . Airing of the problem in the Diet and in the press continues . Foreign Minister Takeo Miki is due to visit Okinawa in August . And Premier Eisaku @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington in the fall . One proposal gaining currency here is for the complete return to Japan of administrative rights over Okinawa and the simultaneous conclusion of a treaty which would guarantee the United States free use of its military bases . The ticklish problem is over nuclear weapons . Even if the United States is permitted to maintain its bases , the stationing of nuclear deterrents would conflict with Japan 's national policy of prohibiting such weapons on Japanese soil . A question now being asked is whether there is any need for nuclear weapons on Okinawa . Some Japanese military analysts contend there is not . And this view is echoed privately by American officials . They argue that , given the overwhelming military strength of the United States and its long-range nuclear missiles , the Okinawa base is becoming old fashioned .                     