@@726224

txt New Yorkers and visitors celebrated Easter yesterday with a Fifth Avenue parade notable for its lack of frilly bonnets and at joyous church services that combined the traditional and the offbeat . Sharply contrasting spring and winter clothes of reds and blues and yellows clashed in the brilliant sunshine , and the ways of marking the day here also differed sharply . While hundreds of thousands crowded beach amusement and boardwalk areas , others in smaller numbers placed flowers on graves ; while an older generation strolled through the streets in their newest clothes , a younger generation went in its oldest clothes to a muddy Central Park " Be-In . " While traditional religious services observing the Resurrection of Jesus Christ were being held ? in the Vatican Pope Paul counseled hope before hundreds of thousands of pilgrims ? there was a dance down the aisles of a Greenwich Village church . The clear skies and temperatures in the fifties that favored New Yorkers were the rule through most of the nation , including Thurmont , Md. , where President and Mrs. Johnson , who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The lack of Easter bats on Fifth Avenue did not extend to all parts of the city . In Harlem , the Grand Concourse in the Bronx , and in parts of Brooklyn and Queens , hats flourished . But on " The Avenue , " attention turned as often to female knees  --  pudgy knees , bony Imes and pleasing knees  --  that were a shade below , an inch below , from here to there below hemlines . " What 's happened ? " asked Mrs. Marge Buller of East Meadow , L. I. , who was wearing a large self-made straw hat with a parrot perched on top . " Did they forget to put them on ? " " No , " said Suzanne Peloquin , who joined the car-free crowds on Fifth between 46th and 57th Streets during her lunch hour while working at Trans World Airlines . " I 'm going to wear my hat later . " There were bonnets with flowers and birds and even eggshells , many in zany displays , but they were in the clear minority in this most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not buy hats this year to save money , others chose to wear winter hats and some said simply they did not like hats . A sizable portion of the more than 200,000 persons the police estimated took part in the parade attended services at St. Patrick 's Cathedral , which was ringed by policemen with bull horns and walkie-talkies . They tried to keep the crowds moving , but people would stop to gaze at hats worn by Janice Epstein , 15 years old , and Elizabeth Jaffe , 14 , of Forest Hills , Queens . The hats were made of poster board , were three feet in diameter and were covered with crepe-paper flowers and cloth daisies . John Ranakos of Astoria , Queens , who was wearing a leather jacket and motorcycle helmet , had a puppy in his arms also fitted with a leather jacket and white helmet ; and there was a large bulldog with a set of holsters and guns draped around him . There were young men in military uniforms escorting women and at their elbows were others , opposed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the inscription " Peace in Vietnam . " The hats were distributed by an organization called the Workshop in Nonviolence . Irving Haimes , who was wearing a coolie hat , said : " Things have changed . People do n't make nasty comments anymore about opposition to the war . They 're beginning to understand . " At the Calvary Cemetery on Queens Boulevard and 54th Street , a woman in black had a different view : " I do n't think people think about Vietnam or their dead or anything .. Just about themselves . " She pointed to the gravestones , massed tightly together , with a daffodil on one grave , some red carnations on another . The attendance at beach boardwalks . and amusement areas was reported heavy . There were 300,000 at Coney Island , 250,000 at Atlantic City and 325,000 at Asbury Park . At the Washington Square Methodist Church the Rev. A. Finley ? Schaef , ? dressed in a green sport coat , delivered a sermon in which he read extensively from Dylan Thomas and Bob Dylan and took note of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended with a dance by David Schiller , Donna Hepler and Dawn Kramer . The three clasped hands and did a skipping step up the aisle to the front of the church , where they jumped . about . The congregation sang : " Give me your hand , give me your hand , All I want is to love our God , oh . " During the service , as the organ softly played " The Battle Hymn of the Republic , " the congregation filed up to the front and pinned small squares of felt they had been given onto a large yellow banner that was hanging opposite the pulpit . The felt pieces were in the form of crosses , flowers , fish and hearts . " We 're creating  --  weaving in a sense  --  our own Easter banner , " Mr. Schaef said . " We have created our own lilies andl our own light . "                     