@@727023

txt Senator J. Fulbright reopened Senate criticism of United States policy . in Vietnam today by complaining that President Johnson had taken : only a limited and misleading step in curtailing the bombing of the north . In the face of a Fulbright assertion that the curtailment would not lead to peace talks , the Senate majority leader , Mike Mansfield , Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , and senior Democrats on the Senate Armed Services Committee came to the defense of the Administration . They contended , in an outburst of spontaneous debate on the Senate floor , that the Administration was following a prudent military course in continuing to bomb North Vietnamese supply lines . Mood Abruptly Changes Despite such public defense , however , it was apparent from private comments that the mood of the Senate had abruptly changed from initial enthusiasm over the President 's announcement to confusion , skepticism and misgivings as a result of the disclosure that the bombing halt did not preclude strikes at targets far north of the demilitarized zone . Standing as a lonely critic on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee chairman , gave voice to these misgivings . Initially , the Arkansas Democrat sought only clarification of what the Administration meant by the cessation , announced , Contlnued on Page 14 , Column 4 FULBRIGHT CALLS MOVE MISLEADING // Sunday by President Johnson . But by the end of the hours and a half debate , his questioning had turned to attack as he charged that the curtailment was " of no consequence and certainly not an inducement for North Vietnam to come to the conference table . " The Fulbright speech reflected the distress bordering on disillusion , of Senate critics of the Administration 's policy that has arisen because of the manner in which the Administration is carrying out the bombing curtailment . Only yesterday , praise for the President drowned out the debate . The burden of Senator Fulbright 's complaint , shared by many of the important Senate critics of Administration policy , was that President Johnson , in his announcement Sunday , gave the impression that American bombing of North Vietnam would be confined to the immediate area of the demilitarized zone . After the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north of the DMZ , including a radar site at Thanhhoa , 81 miles south of Hanoi . Throughout the morning , Senator Fulbright , whose mood had changed ' from one of optimistic affability yesterday to one of pessimistic criticism today , sought through State Department intermediaries to clarify the terms of the bombing cessation . Finally in midafternoon he expressed his misgivings on the Senate floor , setting off a oneand-a-half hour debate among senior members of the Senate . Sorrow Voice With a note of sorrow in his voice , he said he had been so impressed with the President 's announcement that he had called Mr. Johnson Sunday to congratulate him on the speech . In addition , the Senator offered to use his good offices with such diplomats as the Soviet Ambassador , Anatoly F. Dobrynin , in an attempt to convince them of the sincerity of the President 's offer . " I was mistaken and I confess it , " Mr. Fulbright said . " I thought he would in a significant way stop the bombing in an effort to stop the war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pause the Senator said that he , along with many others , had gained the impression that the speech represented a major change in the Administration 's policy on Vietnam . His reaction , he said , was that the Administration had ordered a cessation of all bombing except in an area very near the demilitarized zone in the hope that such a step would bring a response from North Vietnam toward negotiations . Alluding to his diplomatic contacts , Senator Fulbright said he was very sure there would have been a significant response from the Communist side if the - bombing had been restricted to the area of the demilitarized zone . But now , he said , it is becoming apparent that the Administration took " a very limited step " and one " not calculated to bring a response from North Vietnam . " As Senator Fulbright talked from his front-row desk , Senator Mansfield , on his nearby desk , measured off distances on a map of North Vietnam . Mr. Mansfield , who privately shared many of his colleague 's misgivings , finally rose to defend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cessation extended further . He also acknowledged that the President 's language could have been clearer . But still , he contended , the Administration has ordered " a substantial cessation . " He Acknowledges Surprise The Administration , the Montana Democrat said , has suspended bombing of 90 per cent of North Vietnam in terms of population and of 78 per cent in terms of territory , In bombing north of the demilitarized zone , . he said , the Administra- , don is only trying to block trails that are carrying men and supplies into South Vietnam ? although he acknowledged some surprise that such trails extend 250 miles to the north . " The President did not lle , " Senator Mansfield declared with , a rising voice . " Technically he is correct . " Furthermore , he said , " the more we question the President 's veracity , the more we weaken his hand and our position in trying to reach a settlement to this barbarous war . " Senator Fulbright replied that he was not questioning the President 's veracity but only seeking clarification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , did he think the President had any intention of misleading . But , he said , " I was ' misled . " In defense of the President , Senator Mansfield recounted , that at a White House confer-1 ence last Wednesday he was shown a draft of the President 's speech that specifically stated that the bombing would be halted north of the 20th parallel , which bisects North Vietnam . The President , he said , was persuaded by a " diplomatic associate " to take out reference to the 20th parallel on the ground this would give a clear signal of a sanctuary to North Vietnam . In this contention Senator Mansfield was supported by the two senior members of the Armed Services Committee ? Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia , the chairman , and Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi . In their consultations with the White House , they said , the Administration had made it clear that the bombing would be stopped only north of the 20th Parallel . But this clarification only served to confirm Senator Fulbright 's conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Administration policy . On the basis of the clarification , he said , it has become evident that the Administration 's purpose in ordering the cessation was not ' to seek a conference with North Vietnam . If the step was only a limited one , he said , it is a great tragedy , for " if this opportunity is missed , there is no alternative but to go down the road to all-out nuclear war . " He also predicted that such a limited step would lead to disillusion around the world and an unwillingness on the part of the Communist side to negotiate with the Johnson Administration . Seeking to inject a note of moderation into the debate , Senator Cooper pleaded with the Senate not to prejudge the President 's action . The President , he said seemed to he moving toward a political settlement of the war , and " to attempt to characterize his action today would end those chances which he has in his great mumen of decision to move forward . " Senator Cooper expressed hope that in the clarification of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bombing of North Vietnam to see if such a step would lead to negotiations . The generally restrained dor bate closed on a harsh , per sonal note as Senator Frank.J. , , Lausche , Democrat of Ohio , ac- , cused Mr. Fulbright of coming to the Senate floor " at a galloping speed to attack our Government before the enemy can answer . " " How can Ho Chi Minh give any affirmative action when the Senator from Arkansas and others attack the Government before Ho can respond ? " he , asked . " How can the enemy , take our word when our friends can't. "                     