@@726097

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 43 Letters to the Editor of The Times State Constitution To the Editor : The " all new " state Constitution limited to fundamental principles and stripped of cumbersome detail , proposed by Frank Adams in his column on your editorial page of Feb. 13 , would be an ideal reform . But is it possible ? The provisions constitutionally safeguarding important but not necessarily basic rights of civil service , labor , schools , conservationists , property owners and other identifiable groups would have to be omitted if brevity and simplicity were the sole objectives . Theoretically desirable as this may be , the hard fact is that the aggregate opposition of such groups to the omissions would almost certainly insure popular rejection of a " short and simple " Constitution . There are two remaining alternatives . One is a piecemeal amendment of the present 45,000-word Constitution which has required annual amendment by popular vote in which a small minority of voters actually participates . Dual Concept The other is a dual document , the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the electorate , while the supplemental provisions would require the approval of threefifths of the elected members of the Assembly and Senate at each of two sessions , separated by a general election , and the Governor 's approval after the second passage . The approval of the electorate would not be required . This affords interested groups protection equivalent to what they now have and would reduce burdensome demands on the voters to possibly one amendment in five to ten years . The ninety-three amendments on which they have been asked to act since 1938 have seldom affected basic constitutional provisions . The obvious fallacy in the argument that the special-interest group would not accept willingly " a position on the second , less prestigious level " is that the " short and simple " version provides no level at all for their protection except general statutes amendable at any session by majority vote . Voter Responsibility I like the concept of brevity and simplicity , but not as an end in itself . The sound objective is to have a Constitution consistent with our theory of government , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative and judicial detail be dealt with by representatives of the people , subject to strict safeguard against opportunism and expediency , while fundamental law must always be the direct concern of the people . The weakness of our present Constitution is that the amendatory process gives no ultimate responsibility to the representatives and , except for a small minority , the voters refrain from exercising their ultimate responsibility . The present situation is neither representative nor democratic . The dual concept would appear to be a practicable remedy . HAROLD RIEGHLM AN New York , Feb. 13 , 1967 The writer was a delegate to the 1938 Constitutional Convention , chairman of its Committee on Affairs of Cities and member of its Rules Committee . Price of Clean Air To the Editor : In your news article entitled " Con Ed Estimates Clean Air Costs " ( Feb , 8 ) , you indicated that use of fuel oils containing 1 per cent sulphur content " may add 14 cents a month to the small - homeowner 's electricity bill . " Every time I read an article regarding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be measured in " cents , " yet we socalled affluents have taken too long to " sense " that we are half living in this unnecessary filth we have allowed to surround our lives . We have become so obsessed with the profit motive today that we seem to be oblivious to all else . We can not afford not to afford clean air . When did the preservation of human life become such an overlooked investment at a relatively bargain price ? A. DAVID MARSHALL New York , Feb. 8 , 1967 ? Bellevue Defended To the Editor : I find it impossible to continue a position of resigned silence usually prescribed for the medical profession in matters pertaining to nonprofessional investigations of health care ? hospital problems . The Feb. 3 news article in The New York Times by Martin Tolchin on the New York State investigation of the city hospital system is the final straw . Bellevue Hospital , known throughout the Western world for its service to mankind , has naturally been the focal point of recent criticism of the municipal hospital system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pigs , of collecting huge amounts of money from research-grant overheads for our personal use , of inhuman attitudes toward our patients . Our administrative and paramedical nursing and other coworkers have been similarly attacked . Now , finally , we read that we are a defeated , discouraged , moribund institution . Devotion to Sick It is time to rise in anger and defend one of the world 's great hospitals and the people who devote their lives to the care of the sick . In my 25 years of professional life spent in a number of the great institutions of the United States , I have seen newer buildings , fatter budgets , more luxurious patient accommodations  --  all most desirable and all much needed here at Bellevue . But never have I experienced a more devoted , cooperative and responsive medical community than exists in the medical complex stretching from 23d to 34th Street along First Avenue . Nurses , medical students , interns and residents , technicians , supportive personnel and attending physicians form a very viable , enthusiastic team . Dead we are not , defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that small people cease this destructive criticism ? we are bored , irritated and now furious with the multiple attacks on this medical giant . Let the next ' inquisitor face us openly and see how moribund he thinks we are . JOSEPH HA N ! OFF , M.D. New York , Feb. 3 , 1967 The writer , Director of Neurosurgical Service at Bellevue , is Professor and Chairman , Department of Neurosurgery , N.Y.U. School of Medicine , ? For Partitioned Cabs To the Editor : Assemblyman John M. Burns 's letter in your Feb. 3 issue does not solve the main problem of the taxi drivers : the fact that every taxi driver is a " sitting duck " for holdup men , particularly at night . The suggestion that hundreds of taxis be operated by off-duty police officers at night has some merit , but a better solution would be to install a barrier between the driver and his passengers , as recommended in the report of the Mayor 's taxi study panel . Mayor Lindsay himself has said he favors a partition , flashing signal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the personal danger to moonlighting policemen ? If the protective partition will prevent a stickup , is n't that better than having the policemandriver shoot it out with the holdup man ? P. M. DAAB Nutley , N. J. , Feb. 8 , 1967 ? Lack of Pastoral Protests Against War To the Editor : On Sunday , Feb. 12 , in the Catholic churches of New York  --  and presumably throughout the nation as well  --  a pastoral letter regarding abortion was read from the pulpit . Since I am also opposed to the current proposals for legalized abortion , I welcome this effort on the part of the bishops to remind their flocks that this social issue must be judged in terms of its moral implications . Public Denunciations At the same time , however , I could not help but wonder when a similarly strong position will be taken with respect to the program of " post-natal abortion " ( and " post-pubertal infanticide " as well ) now being conducted by our Government in Vietnam . There is an important parallel worth noting here . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor for his courageous public denunciation of Hitler 's euthanasia program . Nevertheless , as we look back upon the complete record of those times , we find ourselves questioning whether this was the issue most deserving of such condemnation ; whether it might not have been more appropriate for him and his fellow bishops to take a public stand against the unjust wars being waged by this regime and its all-out attempt to exterminate the Jews of Europe . If we have a right to raise this question  --  and I , for one , am convinced we do ? we must recognize that the generations to come will have a similar right to question why those who are today so emphatic in their opposition to Government-subsidized birth control and legalized abortion are making no comparable protest against the slaughter of the innocent already born in a stupid and inhuman war . GORDON C. ZAHN New York , Feb. 12 , 1967 The writer , Professor of Sociology at Loyola University , Chicago , is the author of " German Catholics and Hitler 's War . " ? Rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotes excerpts from a speech by Soviet Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin in London in the course of which he states : " There can be no toleration of claims of any state to a special position in the world , to its right to decide the fate of other peoples , to institute a quarantine for entire areas against social and political progress . " We ask the Soviet leader why does not the Soviet Union live up to these principles with respect to the people of Estonia , as well as the other Baltic states , which the Soviet Union occupied under the orders of Stalin in 1940 in violation of the Treaty of Peace of Feb. 2 , 1920 , the Pact of Nonaggression and Peaceful Settlement of Conflicts of May 4 , 1932 , the Convention of Conciliation of June 16 , 1932 , and the Convention for Definition of Aggression of July 3 , 1933 , between Estonia and the U.S.S.R. ? Feb. 24 marks the Day of Independence of Estonia , but the Soviet Union does not permit this day to be observed by the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and human rights . Here is a typical example of Soviet declarations about " deciding the fate of other peoples " or a " quarantine for entire areas , " and Soviet deeds as the record shows in Estonia . ERNST JAAKSON Acting Consul General of Estonia in Charge of Legation New York , Feb. 9 , 1967 ? Jobseekers in Storm To the Editor : It is unfortunate that employers were not present at the various New York State Employment Service offices during the snowstorm on Feb. 7 . If ever there was an object lesson in why the older and/or handicapped worker should be given more job consideration , it was to be learned that day . At least half of the applicants reporting to these offices were either over sixty or handicapped , even to the extent of having to use crutches to get around . But come in they did . As a staff member who too often has to convince an employer that the phrase " too old " frequently defeats that employer 's own purposes , it was most gratifying to see who the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1967 ?                     