@@728304

txt Israeli jets today made a second major raid against Egyptian military targets along the Suez Canal . The foray lasted three and a half hours , less than half the duration of yesterday 's record assault . An army spokesman said that the major targets today were artillery and antiaircraft batteries in the southern sector of the canal , especially around Port Suez . The Israelis said that all the planes had returned safely . The Egyptians reported that they had shot down one aircraft and repulsed a second wave . The Israeli jets , operating from airfields in the occupied Sinai Desert , were said to have attacked in wave after wave as they maintained the almost daily assault against the Egyptians . An Israeli commando force supported by aircraft struck an Egyptian Army post on the Gulf of Suez during the night and returned with four captive Egyptian soldiers , the Israeli military command said Saturday , The Associated Press reported from Tel Aviv . Missile Sites Attacked Yesterday 's eight-and-a-halfhour raid , the longest sustained air attack in the Arab-Israeli conflict , was directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal targets yesterday were said to have been ground-to-air missile sites being replaced by Egyptian technicians after earlier bombing raids by the Israelis had destroyed the last of these sites a few months ago . Israeli jets were also active against the Jordanians today , bombing and strafing moving targets south of the Sea of Galilee , reportedly in response to a heavy artillery exchange last night . The Israelis did not announce the attack against Jordan , although the planes were in plain sight of the dozen Israeli settlements in that area . Most of the Israeli assault missions these days would appear to be carried out by American-made Skyhawks . Faster French-built Mirages are utilized in patrol and aerial-combat activities . The Israelis appear to be seeking tactical as well as strategic gains in the raids , although the emphasis is somewhat different in each sector under attack . The aim along the canal , where almost daily raids began nearly four months ago and have increased in intensity since then , would appear to be both strategic and tactical . Israeli defense chiefs have sought to discourage President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of offensive that would be costly for both sides in terms of casualties . Their aim has been to emphasize the point that crossing the canal would he suicidal because the Israelis control the skies . There is some speculation that the Israelis are seeking to neutralize Egyptian artillery capability along the western side of the canal to a depth of at least 10 miles in an effort to cut down on the casualties still being inflicted on Israeli forces on the eastern side . There was additional speculation here in the last few days that two recent Israeli commando forays across the canal and against an Egyptian coastal position on the Gulf of Suez were intended to undermine Mr. Nasser 's position , to emphasize the setback he had suffered at the Arab conference in Rabat . On the Jordanian front , the aim appears almost entirely tactical . The Israelis use their jets in some cases in the closest ground-support roles . A favorite tactic is for an Israeli patrol to pin down an Arab unit in a wheat field or an abandoned hut and then call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hut . The jets have largely failed , however , to eliminate the almost daily attacks on patrols or the rocket and artillery attacks against settlements across the Jordan River cease-fire line . Defense Minister Moshe Dayan in a radio address Wednesday declared that he expected the most significant military changes in the near future to occur along the Lebanese border . He said that Arab guerrillas were establishing themselves in southern Lebanon . Israeli leaders are concerned over the withdrawal of Lebanese Army forces from camps in the area , directly facing border settlements on the Israeli side in northern Galilee.                     