@@724701

txt CARACAS SEIZES 3 AS PLOT COURIERS Aliens Accused of Carrying in $330,000 From Italy to Finance Red Terrorism Specie ! to The New York Times CARACAS , Venezuela , April 10 ? Interior Minister Gonzalo Barrios announced today the arrest of three foreigners accused of having carried $330 , - 000 from Italy to finance Communist terrorism in Venezuela . He termed the international Communist movement the " chief benefactor " and " ally " of a Venezuelan conspiracy that resulted in 25 arrests yesterday . Dr. Barrios said at a news conference that the money had been confiscated and that it would be turned over to a special commission for distribution to the families of policemen , farmers and others killed inl fighting the Communist terrorists and guerrillas . ' Allied ' With Communists The Interior Minister charged that the 25 Venezuelans who were arrested yesterday had . worked in " alliance " with the ' Communists to overthrow the Government of President Raul Leon ' . He said part of the plot had included a " possible attempt " on the President 's life . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian Communist party . Two of them were seized at the airport . They were identified as Mrs. Clara Ana Baretic de Padilla , a 32-year-old Argentine of Yugoslav origin whose passport described her as a lawyer , and Alejandro Beltranmini , 54 , an // Italian Communist , surgeon and former councilman in Milan . The third foreigner , Mrs. Josefa Ventosa Jimenez , 22 , a : Spanish woman who was said to have spent considerable time in East Germany and Czechoslovakia , was arrested in Caracas . All three were seized within two weeks . Dr. Barrios said the two women were wearing specially made girdles with several horizontal rows of oblong pockets that accommodated packs of hundreddollar bills . The man carried money in a specially made vest , the Interior Minister added . He said a recent meeting of European Communist parties in the Soviet union had delegated to the Italian party the task of serving as a contact with all of Latin America . The two women and the man , he went on , had been in touch with the Italian party and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Barrios said the police investigation had shown that the funds had been sent in response to a request by the Venezuelan Communist party to play a more decisive role in a possible overturn of the Government . The money presumably came originally from the Soviet Union , he added . The Interior Minister said that Dr. Beltramini would be tried and that all three money carriers might be expelled . The 25 Venezuelans arrested included Miguel Angel Capriles , the publisher , and two of his newspaper editors  --  Victor Simone de Lima of Ultimas Noticias and Nelson Luis Marinez of La Esfera . His general manager , Carlos Capriles , also was seized . Dr. Barrios accused the Capriles publications of serving as spokesmen for all who wanted to overthrow the Government . He charged that they were " preparing the atmosphere " by publishing lies and attempting to incite the army . Those arrested also included : several Communists and former army officers . According to high Government sources , a gen- I eral who was chief of staff a few years ago has also come ! , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capriles executives constituted a move against persons and not against the newspapers themselves . The Capriles publications , he noted , have not been closed . The Capriles papers denied his accusations today and continued their attacks on the Leoni regime . The Venezuelans were seized under a clause of the Constitution that permits President , Leoni to order 90-day arrests of persons if " there is fear that : there will be an alteration of the public order . " The action must be ratified by Congress , but approval is expected since Government parties control both houses . President Leoni said in a statement today that the measures that had been taken had prevented a coup . He declared that " Venezuelans can sleep in peace " and that the armed forces " are totally behind the Government . " Further arrests were expected . But all business activity was normal , and there appeared to be no crisis atmosphere in the streets                     