@@722438

txt GENEVA , May 14 ? The United States urged the seventeen-nation disarmament conference today to setk quick action to keep - space from becoming " another focus for the arms race . " Imaginative thinking and a spirit of cooperation could make space " an impetus . to man 's peaceful progress and not a battleground of the future , " Charles C. Stelle of the United States said . Mr. Stelle , acting leader of the United States delegation , was expanding on parts of the United States disarmament plan that would forbid the orbiting of weapons of . mass destruction . Negotiations . on measures to demilitarize space could proceed , Mr. Stelle said , along with the proposed disarmament . treaty and with the related proposals to reduce international tensions . In Washington , Secretary of State Dean Rusty said ? that President Kennedy 's principal concern was peace and that the Administration hoped to make some progress in limiting the arms race . The conference 's committee of the whole is . dealing with the proposals on improving the chances ; for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Canadian suggestion for a pledge to use space for peaceful purposes only . The United States plan provides for international inspection of all space vehicles and missiles prior to launching . A network of ground-based and possibly spaceborne instruments to detect any unreported launchings is also called for in the plan . This network , Mr. // Stelle said , might check on othr er disarmament measures as well . The possibility that weapons might be placed in orbit or stationed in space is " neither so immediate a problem as ? to be viewed with alarmist urgency nor so remote a problem that it does not warrant serious and timely preventive measures , " Mr. Stelle said . Swedish Questions Answered Valerian A. Zorin , the Soviet delegate , did not reply to this proposal . Instead , he read the conference a statement saying the Soviet Union was ready for a deeper cut in its armed forces and conventional weapons in the first stage of disarmament if the United States agreed to match it . Mr. Zorin , a Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister , was replying to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week about the United States and Soviet disarmament plans in an effort to narrow the differences . The Soviet Union is calling for the complete elimination of ' rockets and other vehicles for delivering nuclear bombs as well as of all foreign militry bases , in the first stage . The United States , however , is asking for a first-stage cutback of 30 per cent in nuclear delivery vehicles and would begin dismantling bases in the second stage , without drawing any distinction between those at home and abroad . The West , Mr. Zorin said , argues that the cutbacks demanded by Moscow in the first stage would . upset the present military balance because of the Soviet Union 's superiority . in manpower and conventional armaments . This fear , he said , should have been dissipated by the Soviet plan 's provision for a cutback in the first stage to 1 , - 700,000 soldiers each for the Soviet Union and ' the United States and for the destruction of the conventional arms of the demobilized units . Under the Soviet plan , Mr. Zorin said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tanks , necessary to equip their armed forces at the new level . " However , " he said , " the Soviet Union is ready to undertake a more drastic reduction in the armed forces and conventional armaments should that be the wish of the United States . " Mr. Stelle said the United States would reply at later sessions to the Swedish delegate 's " thought-provoking questions . " Space Seminars Held Special to The New York Times . BRIGHTON , England , May 14 ? Numerous proposals to prevent the militarization of space was debated in seminars held here today by the American Assembly of Columbia University in New York and the British Institute of Strategic Studies . Among the seventy participants , who spoke mainly off the record , were distinguished scientists , legislators , economists , lawyers , military strategists and representatives of agencies such as the European Space Research Organization and the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration . The point that got the most attention was whether the present balance of threats could be lessened without any side 's having to . admit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States military leader here appeared to have any confidence in the possibil. ity of using the moon or artificial satellites as bases for weapons , in the foreseeable future . Costly projects to land on the moor are primarily for prestige , in the view of several participants . Such projects were criticized by-one participant as a " cosmic-scale boondoggle . " Asked whether reconnaisance satellites would help end international ' arguments on disarmament , another participant said the locations of carriers and nuclear submarines would always remain secret . The hope for a less hazardous future , as it was frequently expressed here , was for the major powers ' . gradually to nurture cnmainn objectives such as technological and scientific gains from space exploration : At a news conference tonight , Sir Bernard Lovell , director of the Jodrell Bank radio research station , ' vigorously criticized " the military and Chauvinistic activities " of those who , he said , are contaminating space . " Activities in space research used ? in other than the purely scientific field can bring about the destruction of things we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The key question , " he said , " is whether America or Russia will hit Venus this summer . If they do I think it will be a scientific and moral disaster . " He said the rocket container would probably burst on impact and contaminate the surface of Venus .                     