@@721999

txt Springfield , I11. , legislature will be reconvened in special session Oct. 9 with congressional redistricting and a constitutional amendment on taxes as the chief issues , Gov . Kerner announced today . He gave six weeks advance notice to legislators who were deadlocked on both subjects at the end of the six month regular session , July 1 . The official call is expected to open ' several other topics to legislative action . The governor delayed issuance of the call and refused at a press conference to discuss other legislative topics . Special session bills are limited to the subject matter in the governor 's call , Powell Urges Restudy Speaker Paul Powell ID. , Vienn al has recommended that the Democratic administration toss back to the legislature issues that died in the Republican Senate , including an increase in the corporation franchise tax , a pupil transportation subsidy for the Chicago transit authority , and a uniform 3 ? 2 per cent rate for the sales tax broadening program . The Senate fixed 3 cents for the new service occupation tax . Party Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance to sell Kerner on a new phase of his highway safety program . It would require physicians to report to the state the names and case histories of patients with physical or mental defects that should disqualify them for drivers ' licenses . In spending nearly t w o months on the signing and vetoing of regular special session bills , Kerner has given little time to speaking for his No. 1 pet project , a revenue amendment . Democratic policy has wavered as to whether such an amendment should permit an income , tax specifically or by indirection . All special session resolutions and bills must get a two-thirds majority , and Republican leaders have been adamant . against income tax loopholes , Prospects have brightened ' that Republicans will get their way on congressional reapportionment by forcing the retire . ment of one Democratic con. gressman in Chicago and another in southern Illinois , where the 1960 census Showed papule ? Lion declines . At the regular session , redis. hiding failed when followers of Mayor Daley insisted that Chicago should keep 10 Democratic congressmen . Kerner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a delegation of 24 . Illinois is losing one congressman . The alternative to redistricting is state-wide election of congressmen . Kerner approved as excellent A bill by Sen. Hubert Humphrey ID. , Minn. ) , that would have the Mints bureau redisfilet states Where legislatures fail to do it , " If the state does n't , someone shbuid , " Kerner said , The governor signed bills to study the advisability of establishing a Cook county depart , ment of corrections and to finance research into metropoli , tan area water supplies .                     