@@721218

txt Mr. K. Thunders on the Left Premier Khrushchev waited four days to tell the world that Russian gunners had shot down an American plane with what Foreign Minister Gromyko subsequently defined as a " remarkable rocket . " Mr. Khrushchev did not in the interim publicly address questions to any American air base in Turkey or elsewhere or to Washington . He did not say what had happened to the pilot a the lost plane . He did not explain why it was necessary to shoot down a plane when it could easily have been forced down if it were over Russian territory . Mr. Khrushchev saved this disclosure for a speech he was making before the Supreme Soviet , which is Russia 's make-believe parliament . He milked the episode of all its possible propaganda value for Russia , for the satellite states , for neutral nations and for our smaller and relatively weak allies . He conveyed the impression that an accidental violation of Russian air rights by an unarmed plane , piloted by a civilian , was one of a series of " aggressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To say that he misrepresented the facts , as far as we know them , is a mild form of statement . He said that the plane had no identification signs , although the only plane missing last Sunday was plainly marked with the insignia of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . He hinted ? surely not for consumption among people who can and do read the world 's newspapers ? " that the American militarists decided to act independently , as did the Spanish military junta which rose up against the legal Spanish Government . " The spectacle of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration marching on the White House or the Capitol is indeed an appalling one . If the widely traveled Mr. Khrushchev were to fall into this error the spectacle would be baffling and ominous . Of course Mr. Khrushchev is not falling into any error , except as he overestimates the credulousness of the Western populations or underestimates their firmness in a time of stress . Mr. Khrushchev is talking for effect . Since Mr. Khrushchev is not too restrained to suggest that President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Paris conference , we need not be too restrained to suggest that sometimes Mr. Khrushchev tells a fib . The truth , as even Mr. Khrushchev would not deny , is that as long as we have a cold war and frontiers which conceal highly prized secrets there will he occasional trouble in the air . Boundary lines can easily be overshot when one is ten miles up . The cure for the situation that has cost this country ten or more planes during the last four years is relaxation of international tensions and an agreement to exchange pertinent information as a prelude to disarmament . Mr. Khrushchev 's remarks on Thursday , and the sneering warning with which Foreign Minister Gromyko followed them up yesterday , will not relax international tensions and will not contribute to the success of the coming summit conference .                     