@@727030

txt Hormones , the potent chemicals that control many key , body functions , are a subject of medical controversy again . This time the dispute focuses on their use to take off weight  --  or put it on . An overweight lady who used one preparation is said to have shed 42 pounds in three months . A shot-putter who used another drug to build muscle added more than 10 feet to his distance with the iron ball . Once again , as in the case of the birth control drugs , there is concern about manipulating body processes with powerful hormonal substances whose full effects may not be known . It is , say critics , a case of some physicians moving too rapidly into new methods of therapy . The new treatments stem from research indicating that the body employs certain hormones to convert fat into fatty acids that can be consumed as nutrition and thus cause a person to lose weight . The studies suggest that other hormones stimulate formation of new tissue , as in the case of a growing child . Sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gonadotropin ( HCG ) , a hormone produced by the placenta during pregnancy , used for many years to treat young boys with undescended testicles . In the 1950s , Dr. A. T. W. Simeons , a British physician , began to think of HCG as a possible anti-obesity drug . He had been using it to treat youths afflicted with Froelich 's disease , an illness characterized by sexual underdevelopment and extreme obesity . Not only did the hormone correct the sexual deficiency , he Auld , but it also dissolved accumulations of fat and produced a drastic reduction in size of the patients ' hips and waists . When his young patients ate normally , they lost no weight ; it was simply redistributed . But Dr. Simeons speculated that a reduced food intake coupled with continued HCG injections might trim excess pounds without giving rise to the problems that often accompany dieting . He put some HCG patients on a rigid diet of 500 calories a day  --  and they lost nearly a pound a day without experiencing hunger pangs or without growing weak . His conclusion : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fatty acids that can be metabolized ; the fatty acids being burned as fuel apparently satisfy the body : Dr. Simeons now operates a clinic at Rome 's Salvador Mundi International Hospital devoted solely to HCG anti-obesity therapy . He treats more than 1,000 patients a year . Expanding Use in U. S. It 's difficult to estimate how many American doctors are using HCG for weight reduction , but one physician says the number may be as high as 400 . In the Los Angeles area alone , a physician there says , the number has risen to about 35 from half a dozen a year ago . Predictably , there is dissension within the medical profession . Two published studies support Dr. Simeons ' conclusions that HCG plus a rigid diet is effective , but half a dozen other reports in medical journals conclude that the hormone has no significant effect on body weight . Dr. William , writing in the Journal of the American Medical Association , warns that a 500-calorie-a-day diet is " potentially more hazardous to the patient 's health than continued obesity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AMA says it knows of no instance in which the hormone has caused harmful side effects . HCG 's champions insist their patients lose more weight faster with the hormone than they would on the diet alone . Dr. Ruth Ray of Oakland , Calif. , who at first was skeptical about HCG but now is a " confirmed believer , " says that one of her patients reduced to 216 pounds from 258 pounds in three months . Cosmetic or Therapeutic ? Many physicians who shy away from HCG therapy tend to consider weight reduction a cosmetic problem rather than a medical one . They also say past specialists in obesity have included practitioners of dubious reputation . The HCG doctors hasten to disassociate themselves from the obesity specialists who prescribe quantities of amphetamines and other " rainbow pills " for crash diets . Several other hormones are being considered as reducing agents . At the hormone research laboratory of the University of California medical school , San Francisco , Dr. C. H. Li has pinpointed three hormones that convert fat into fatty acids , which , in turn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally . The most promising , he suggests , is a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland , Human Growth Hormone ( HGH ) . It has been used in the past to promote growth in children suffering from dwarfism . Such children are generally chubby . Researchers found that HGH cut their weight . Experimentation at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland suggested that secretion of HGH increases during exercise or when food intake is curtailed . Researchers there concluded tentatively that HGH promotes burning of fat during such times of stress . Currently there is n't enough HGH available from pituitary glands willed to medicine to treat the more than 7,000 American children with dwarfism , much less the obese . And scientists fear that continued doses of the hormone might enlarge parts of the body while disposing of fat . " We 're truly on the frontier with UGH , " says one biochemist . The National Institutes of Health estimates that 300 scientists are doing experimental work with HGH Dr. Li and his associates have found too that ACTH , a pituitary hormone used to treat arthritis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And lipotropin , a hormone Dr Li isolated from the pituitary glands of sheep , has the same effect . Neither has proved successful in human beings , however . Researchers believe an enzyme , as yet unidentified , inhibits the fat-destroying process in humans . If the fat-burning hormones are controversial , there is equal disputation about the use of hormonal drugs by athletes to build tissue . Called " androgenic-anabolic steroids , " these preparations are synthetic versions of testosterone , the male sex hormone . They help the body to retain nitrogen , which helps in the synthesis of protein and the creation of new tissue . Established Uses These tissue-building agents have - solid , established medical uses . Given to post-surgical patients they help shorten convalescence , stave off infection and speed healing of bone fractures and surgical wounds . In selected cases , they are given to elderly patients suffering from chronic debilitation . Victims of burns also benefit from their use . And they have been successful in treating cases of aplastic anemia , a childhood disease that is almost invariably fatal . But these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the male hormone , they tend to masculinize patients , deepening the voice , coarsening the skin and increasing body hair . Their use in women is recommended only in extreme cases . In some instances , they have reportedly caused liver damage and increased fluid retention . And some physicians believe they can cause a latent cancer to become an active malignancy . Despite these hazards , the steroids have been marketed in Asia and Latin America to counter malnutrition . A spokesman for Syntex Laboratories Inc. , Palo Alto , Calif. , a major steroid maker , says : " The whole concept of anabolic ( tissue-building ) therapy has n't been fully accepted in the U.S. You have to weigh the potential benefit against the dangers . In this country , most of us are pretty well-fed . Elsewhere , doctors consider the risks of steroids worth taking . " But now a new group in the U. S. has taken to the anabolic steroids with gusto  --  the athletes who depend on muscle strength and size . None of the pharmaceutical companies recommend the drugs for healthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyway . went on a regimen of steroids and weight lifting for two months . He then tossed the iron ball 67 feet , 10 inches , moving from relative obscurity to a position as the world 's No. 2 shot-putter . Body builders also have taken to the steroids . John Grimek , editor of Muscular Development magazine , says , " Nearly every wellknown body builder who 's made any kind of outstanding increase in weight or size in the past yeacr has probably been on steroids . " Mr. Grimek 's publication condemns the practice , " but they take them anyway , " he says glumly . At a large Los Angeles gymnasium , one physique man among six questioned concedes that he uses the steroids . " I took the pills for three months , and they built my arms up from 17 inches to 19 inches , " says this behemoth as he lies on his back pressing a 300-pound barbell , " but if you print my name I 'll break you in half . " The AMA 's committee on the medical aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steroids " has been creeping unnoticed into the athletic setting . " The memo declared : " These drugs are categorically condemned for the athlete ; their hazards  --  although more subtle than those associated with pep pills  --  are as serious . " The committee warned that use of the steroids speeds bone aging , diminishes libido , decreases the size of the testicles and causes changes in liver function . " There is no excuse for giving these drugs to healthy athletes of any age , " the committee concluded . The track coach at one West Coast university estimates that " at least three-fourths of U.S. college weight men ( shot-putters and discus throwers ) are on steroids . "                     