@@722179

txt Wet , slippery snow came to Chicago yesterday , with an accumulation of one inch by late afternoon , but later in the evening the snowfall changed to a light drizzle . The weather bureau , which had forecast an accumulation of up to six inches earlier in the day , changed its forecast , to predict cloudy weather and occasional drizzles , with no further accumulations . Here 's Explanation Failure of an anticipated low pressure area to develop in the southwest saved the city from heavier snowfall , it was explained . Drizzle or light rain expected this morning and afternoon may change to snow in the late afternoon , but the fall probably will be light , the weather bureau said , with a high in the middle 30 's . Colder weather accompanied by snow flurries is predicted for tomorrow . Chicago area police and authorities in nearby cities reported sharp increases in minor traffic accidents , as automobiles and trucks slid , weaved , and careened on the streets ' thin ice coatings . ' Pedestrians had slippery going . The Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swing for the first time this season , warned of widespread street and highway danger . Salting and Sanding By early yesterday , when the first snow began to stick on local streets , the Chicago Transit authority had every one of its 65 snow-fighting trucks on full-time emergency duty . City street crews began salting and sanding streets early In the day . Extra men were called to work on 85 trucks put into snow removal and salting duty . The police department issued a warning to automobile owners that it ? is illegal to leave autos parked on bus routes after an inch or more of snow has fallen . Downstate , early snow was more dense than in Chicago , with more than four inches reported in many areas . Illinois route 3 near Chester and Illinois route 144 west of Murphysboro were closed for a time . Traffic on expressways leading into Chicago was slowed to snail 's pace . Careful Speeds Urged Police and highway authorities implored motorists to ignore 60 to 65 m. p. h. speed limits and hold speeds to 35 m. p. h. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's eastern half . Accumulation of up to 9 inches of snow had struck Kansas by midday yesterday , ? and 7 inches of snow had spread across portions of Iowa and Missouri . Washington , D. C. , was smitten by light snow . Florida and California reported fine , clear weather . Forty inches of snow fell in portions of New Mexico . In Denver ; Colo. , the temperature dropped to 10 above zero .                     