@@723467

txt A mob of more than 10,000 Indonesians sacked and burned the British Embassy , and other British property here yesterday in protest against Britain 's support of the newly , formed nation of Malaysia . By midnight , Indonesian troops appeared to have restored order . Martial law was imposed in Jakarta , United Press International said . In Malaysia , the Government acted to call up military reserves . The Indonesian Embassy residence in Kuala Lumpur , the capital , was occupied briefly by rioters , who left at the request of Prime Minister Abdul Rahman . Troops of the Jakarta garrison took up positions throughout the capital in apparent response to a demand by the British Government that Indonesia protect British lives and property or risk a break in diplomatic relations . Embassy Is a Shell The rioters left the threestory embassy building a burnedout shell , its lawn littered with the ashes of burned papers and furnishings . A truckload of armed guards and an armored car were stationed at the nearby Indonesia Hotel . British Embassy personnel and their families were taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Club , in a residential section of the capital , and the Shell Oil Company residential compound in the suburb of Kebajoran also were set afire . At least 19 Britishowned automobiles were burned , nine in and around the embassy compound . The rioters carried out the violence to cries of " Crush Malaysia ! " and " Crush the Brit-ish ! " Malaysia , made up of Malaya , Singapore , Sarawak and Sabah ( formerly North Borneo ) , was proclaimed Monday . Jakarta has assailed the creation of Malaysia as a plot to preserve British colonialism in Southeast Asia . Malaysia broke relations with both Indonesia and the Philippines Tuesday , after Indonesia had refused to accept the formation of the ' federation and the Philippine Embassy in Kuala Lumpur was reduced to the status of a consulate . The Jakarta Government broke relations with Kuala Lumpur over the weekend . The Jakarta garrison broadcast an appeal at 11 o'clock last night for a halt to " illegal action , disorder , seizure of property , molesting of people , strikes , disturbing trb , nsportation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The leftist-tinged National Youth Front made a similar appeal and denounced the violence as " counterrevolutionary . " Guard posts were set up at various points in Jakarta for the first time since the outbreak of disorder , which began with the stoning of the British and Malaysian Embassies here Monday . At the height of the rioting yesterday fire trucks sought to reach the embassy but were halted by the rioters . Police Hold Back The Indonesian police made no move to prevent the destruction of property , but they transported the embassy employes to safety at police headquarters in jeeps . Witnesses said a group of 23 employes , including women , was threatened at one point by rioters who brandished broken bottles . Three men and a woman were reported cut and bruised . The British Ambassador , Andrew Graham Gilchrist , escaped harm . His family found shelter at the nearby home of the United States Ambassador , Howard P. Jones . A group of 500 , transported by trucks , launched the attack on the embassy . The mob quickly grew to more than 10,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balcony window . It spread within a half hour across the top floor . Even as it burned , squads of rioters worked over the lower floors . They dumped out diplomatic papers and furniture and burned them on the lawn . The British flag was ripped down , torn and burned and the British coat of arms was pried from the building . A fire-truck ladder was used to tie an Indonesian flag to the top of the embassy 's main flagpole . Homes of embassy staff members were raided and in some cases the household goods were cragged to the sidewalks and burned . A British information officer said that , as far as he knew , the houses themselves had not been set afire . A United States Embassy spokesman said there had been no threats against the American diplomatic establishment . Mr. Gilchrist was quoted by witnesses at police headquarters as having said : " It will be some time before the British build another embassy here . " The Indonesian police were reported to have arrested some of the leaders of the rioters.    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        