@@724471

txt Comprehensive prepaid health care for the aged , privately financed but supplemented with public funds to aid the needy , was proposed by the American Medical association yesterday as an alternative to the Johnson administration 's medicare program . Based on a patient 's ability to pay his own health protection , the A. M. A. plan calls for amendment of the federal Kerrming law to handle the program thru private insurance companies , with-policy holders paying all , part , or none of the cost depending on income . Kerr-Mills Conference Dr. Donovan F. Ward , of Dubuque , Ia. , A. M. A. President , revealed the proposal at a National Conference on Kerrmills in the Sheraton-Chicago hotel . The conference , sponsored by A. M. A. , was attended by about 200 representatives of state and territorial medical societies affiliated with the association . Under the plan , private health insurance for needy persons would be wholly or partly financed with matching federal and state funds , while those persons who are able to finance their own insurance would bear full cost of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all persons 65 years of age and over regardless of health or medical history , would pay all the costs of sickness , including medical , surgical , and drug costs , as well as hospital and nursing home charges . Seeks Administration Change Processing of applications for aid from elderly persons would be administered by state health departments , rather than state welfare departments , agencies designated under the current law . The processing would be streamlined , with qualification to be determined " on the basis of , the applicant 's simple in , come statement . . before illness strikes , " Dr. Ward said . Present federal law , he noted , permits the , states to determine eligibilty for aid thru welfare department appraisal of the income , assets , and other resources of the applicant , with whom rests the burden of proof . The law now provides for medical aid to persons who are already ill . Dr. Ward said the A. M. A. proposal , which will be presented by the association at hearings on the medicare program , would provide " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will accomplish far more than would be possible under the so-called ' medicare ' tax program , with none of the attendant evils of unpredictable expense , invasion of medical practice by the federal burocracy , or disruption of the private health insurance industry by the government . " Raps Medicare Plan Medicare , part of President Johnson 's " war on poverty " to build " the Great Society " would finance hospital and nursing home care for persons 65 and over thru the social security system . Dr. Ward said medicare would provide for " only a fraction of the cost of sickness , " while the A. M. A. proposal " would provide far more to our elderly citizens . " The A. M. A. proposal , Dr. Ward said , would maintain the association 's " basic positions " that health care should be provided for the elderly , that authority should be delegated to states rather than the federal government , and that voluntary health insurance and prepayment principles should be utilized whenever possible . The proposal , initiated at a meeting of representatives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated by a task force of various A. M. A. leaders . They conferred Dec. 29 in Chicago with representatives of the American Hospital association , the Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans , the Health Insurance Association of America , and the American Dental association .                     