@@726864

txt A series of earthquakes ripped thru the hilly snowbound countryside of western Sicily early today . Police said as many as 20 persons may have been killed and 300 injured . In Glasgow , Scotland , score , of casualties , including at leasl one death , were reported today as winds of up to hurricane force brought buildings crash . ing down . Three shocks struck in Sicily and crumbled stone walls and cinder-block buildings in dozens of small farming towns southwest of Palermo . Quakes Follow Yesterday 's Three lesser tremors hit the same area yesterday afternoon , driving hundreds of rural residents into vineyards and fields covered with 4 inches of snow , the mark of Sicily 's %vo ? st winter in years . Police at Trapani , a provincial seat on the western coast , said at least 11 persons were reported killed in Gibellina , a town of 6,000 30 miles southwest of Palermo . No injuries or damage were reported in Palermo or Trapani , but residents in both cities were in panic . Report Heavy Damage The quakes yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salaparuta , and Poggioreale and injured at least three persons . A police spokesman in Glasgow said it was difficult to give precise details . Storms had cut power supplies , blacking out the whole city and an area as fai as 30 miles to the east : Hospitals in Scotland 's larg est city were working on omen gency power and said casual . ties were beginning to come it by the dozens . Cranes Are Damaged Buildings were reported to have collapsed in many parts of the city , and the freak winds caused severe damage to cranes and other shipyard installations along the Clyde river . Fire brigades were mobilized to free persons trapped after the winds ripped away house tops . In Dumbartonshire , north of Glasgow , a man and a woman were killed when their car crashed into a tree blown down by the winds . Storms In Syria Sea storms , floods , and blizzards swept ships aground am. blocked road and rail traffic in Syria yesterday . Damage was estimated at millions of dollars in the Syrian port of Latakia after 45-foot waves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in to help police paragraph missing aground after being cut adrift by the storm . They were reported in no immediate danger . Thousands of American and other tourists were trapped by threatening avalanches in Swiss Alpine resorts . Flood waters from melting snow swirled across British roads . Farms and towns were snowbound in Italy 's normally sunny south .                     