@@723148

txt Snecial to The New York Times WASHINGTON , May 11 United Arab Republic troops have been moved into as well as out of Yemen in the last two weeks despite Cairo 's promise to reduce its involvement in Yemen 's civil war . Reports from the Middle East indicate that there has been a recent rotation of about 2,000 Egyptian soldiers in Yemen . Hardly any reduction of the total United Arab Republic force of 28,000 men has been effected . The Egyptians have been the main prop of the antimonarchist regime of President Abdullah al-Salal , who is under attack from royalist tribesmen . Administration officials had no comment on the reports , although there were indications that they had similar information . They intend to continue to press President Gamal Abdel Nasser for compliance with the agreement worked out by the United States and turned over to the United Nations , but say that they have little power to alter the Yemen situation . The disengagement accord was represented as a compromise to pr3vent a war over Yemen between the United Arab Republic and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the agreement was merely a // diplomatic ratification of a Saudi defeat in the dispute . The agreement was worked out by Ellsworth Bunker , a retired United States diplomat , after six months of fighting in Yemen threatened to spread beyond the frontiers of the primitive nation on the Red Sea . Under the terms of the agreement , United Nations observers would be stationed along the , border between Yemen and Saudi Arabia to prevent Saudi assistance to the more than 20,000 royalist tribesmen . In return , President Nasser pledged to begin a phased withdrawal of his forces in the next six months , but there was no time limit for the evacuation of all Egyptian troops . The agreement also sanctioned an Egyptian military " training mission " in Yemen , without defining its size . The United States recognized the Yemeni regime of President al-Salal soon after it deposed the Imam , Prince Mohamad Saif al-Islam al-Badr , last September . It is generally acknowledged , however , that President al-Salal could not control the country without the assistance of about one-third of Preident Nasser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro-Nasser Yemeni regime last fall and its sponsorship of the disengagement accord have been elements of the debate here about the Administration 's general policy in the Middle East . The United States has made plain its support of the integrity of Israel and its desire to halt the arms race between the United Arab Republic and Israel . A dozen liberal Senators , including some without sizable Jewish constituencies , called on the Administration two weeks ago to reduce economic aid to Cairo . Some officials in the executive branch also have advocated a tougher stance toward President Nasser , warning that acquiescence in his recent policies would only encourage assault upon the remaining monarchies in the Middle East . The Administration , on the other hand , has contended that its diplomatic and economic ties to Cairo must be maintained if it is to exert any moderating influence .                     