@@725098

txt The Republicans recaptured the State Senate yesterday from the Democrats , but control of the Assembly was still in doubt early this morning . *Incomplete returns for the 65 Senate contests indicated that the Republicans had won a bare majority of 33 seats and were leading in three other races , for a possible total of 36 . The Democrats elected 25 Senators and were leading in three additional districts , with one race still uncertain . The fight for the 165-member Assembly was still undecided . Incomplete returns showed the Republicans had elected 56 Assemblymen and were leading in 10 other races , for a total of 66 . The Democrats had elected 45 Assemblymen and were leading in 22 other races , for a total of 67 , with 32 contests still in doubt . If the Democrats hold their majority in the Assembly and the Republican predictions of victory materialize in the Senate , it would be the first Legislature with divided control since 1938 . At that time , the Democrats controlled the Senate and the Republicans had a majority in the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help of President Johnson 's landslide in the state , the Democrats won control of both houses for the first time in 30 years . Their margin in the- Senate was 33 to 24 , with one seat vacant . In the Assembly , there were 88 Democrats and 62 Republicans . The Republicans contended they had won the Senate seats in New York City 's suburban counties . According ; to the Republican tally , two freshman Democratic Senators in Westchester County , Max Berking of Rye and Royden A. Letsen of Yonkers , were defeated . The Republicans said Assemblyman Anthony B. Gioffre , of Port Chester , had defeated Mr. Berking and former Assemblyman Christian H. Armbruster of Yonkers , had unseated Mr. Letsen . Another freshman Democratic Senator , Earl E. Boyle of Syracuse was defeated by Tarky Lombardi Jr. , his Republican challenger . In New York City Senate contests , Whitney North Sey // mour Jr. , Republican , held a lead over the incumbent Democrat , Frederic S. Berman , in the 28th Senatorial District on Manhattan 's East Side . The district is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. Lindsay . Republican-Liberal who was elected Mayor . In one of the city:s new Senatorial Districts ? the 15th , which includes part of Queens and Brooklyn ? Martin J. Knorr , Republican-Conservative , led his Democratic opponent , Eugene F. Mastropieri . In the new 38th Senatorial Districts in the Bronx , which was redrawn to favor the Republicans , John D. Calandra , the Republican candidate , was locked in a close battle with James J. Farrell , Democrat . In the Assembly contests , Lawrence A. Cabot of Ardsley , an incumbent Democrat , was defeated by Alvin M. Suchin , Republican of Dobbs Ferry . In Nassau County , another incumbent Democrat , Herbert Sachs of North Bellmore , was defeated by Milton Jonas , Republican , of North Merrick . Districts to Be Redrawn Control of the new Legislature . that will convene in January is coveted by leaders of both parties , since it will have the task of redrawing all the legislative districts again for next year 's election . The Legislature is under a State Supreme Court order to come up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prospect of having the court draw up a plan of its own . Because of prolonged litigation over reapportionment , the 65 Senators and 165 Assemblymen elected yesterday will serve only one-year terms , instead of the usual two . The new Legislature was elected under a reapportionment formula , known as Plan A , which was devised by the previous Republican - controlled Legislature at a special session last December before the Democratic majority took office . To comply with the United States Supreme Court mandate that all legislative districts be substantially equal in population , the plan gave more representation to the fast-growing suburbs , somewhat more to the cities , and considerably less representation to the more sparsely populated rural areas , where the Republicans traditionally have been strong . Republican Hopes The Republicans were hopeful of recapturing at least one house of the Legislature from the Democrats , not only for the power involved , but also to lay the foundation for a statewide campaign next year . Governor Rockefeller has announced that he will be a candidate for re-election again in November . In an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominated former United States Senator Kenneth B. Keating for the Court of Appeals  --  the only statewide election ? to run against Supreme Court Justice Owen D. , a New York City Democrat . In general , there were two major issues in the legislative campaigns . One was the 2 per cent state sales tax proposed by Mr. Rockefeller and adopted with Democratic and Republican votes in the Legislature . The other was the record of the 1965 Democratic-controlled Legislature , whose session was paralyzed for five weeks by a leadership fight .                     