@@725627

txt The creation of a powerful single agency to merge , overhaul and direct all of the city 's efforts to aid the poor has been recommended in a report by Mitchell Sviridoff , who was appointed by Mayor Lindsay to ' reorganize the city 's antipoverty program . The new agency  --  to be called the Human Resources Administration  --  would not only take over programs now operating independently , but would also develop new programs to achieve a more unified and systematic attack on poverty . Mr. Sviridoff , the director of the nationally known New Haven antipoverty program , was named head of the Mayor 's Human Resources Study Group last January . His program , released yesterday , puts its major emphasis on providing jobs , which it calls " the key to opportunity . " Praised by Lindsay . Mayor Lindsay said yesterday that the reorganization would " make this probably the model community of the country , whereas in the past , we have not been . " The proposal would place two large city agencies  --  the Department of Welfare and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which would also encompass the following : CA completely revamped antipoverty program that would become the Department of Community Development . Policy for the department would be set by a smaller reconstituted version of the present Council Against Poverty , which the study considers unwieldy . Two existing over-all agencies  --  the Econcmic Opportunity Committee , which supervises the programs , and the Antipoverty Operations Board , which provides city money for projects  --  would he abolished . qDecentralized community corporations , operating under the new Department of Cornmunity Development , which would be formed from the community committees that exist in some areas and from such agencies as Haryou-Act and Bedford-Stuyvesant Youth in Action . The corporations would replace the city 's varied and sometimes conflicting efforts to develop community action agencies and would be responsible for all programs in their area . gA . new Department of Manpower and Career Development that would coordinate the city 's employment and training programs . The department would not only provide training for both youths and adults , but would aslo attempt to place them in jobs in private industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated by the community corporations to carry out the employment programs of the new Department of Manpower and Career Development . These would provide " one-stop " service to replace the scattered programs now in existence . q An Office of Education Liaison to coordinate the city schools ' efforts to help the poor ? such as prekindergarten training and enriched classes ? and to develop experimental programs in slum neighborhoods . Foundation Urged The report also calls for the establishment of a private , nonprofit Foundation for Progress . This foundation would use both public and private funds to support small neighborhood projects that are experimental or that " may be controversial and which official institutions would tend to shun as public relations risks . " A major element in the proposal is the introduction of a program planning budget system , similar to the Defense Department 's program of costeffectiveness accounting . Such a system , according to the report , would compel policymakers to set priorities and to decide on the most efficient use of antipoverty funds . The new program . according to the report , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and allaround by an administrative order from Mayor Lindsay . The program would take six months to a year to begin , the reports says , noting that it is " not a panacea " and that it " would be mistaken and dangerous if these proposals gave rise to exaggerated hopes and expectations . " Mr. Sviridoff has declined to estimate how much the proposed program would cost , but throughout the report stresses that the available funds fall far short of New York 's needs . " It is as though we had solemnly declared that we want to move mountains , prepared superb plans for the project and then supplied one bulldozer to do the job , " the report says . The city 's Federal antipoverty funds for the coming year have been allocated for specific projects , so much of the cost of putting the recommendations into effect would have to be borne by the city 's already strained financial resources . Other funds , however , might become available from foundation grants , the state , programs run by the Federal Departments of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Demonstration Cities Program now before Congress . Members of the Sviridoff study group point out that New Haven received about six times its original antipoverty allocation from Washington , while New York 's inability to organize programs and efficiently use its money kept it from getting more . Report in Volumes The study by Mr. Sviridoff 's group was supported by a 150 , - 000 grant from the Ford Foundation , which was channeled through the Institute of Public Administration , a private nonprofit group . During the five months of the study , the 27-member staff held hundreds of meetings with local antipoverty groups , business and labor officials and representatives of voluntary agencies . The two-volume report was delivered to Mayor Lindsay over the weekend . Woody Klein , the Mayor 's press secretary said that Mr. Lindsay " has been looking- forward to the report , and would read each recommendation very carefully before making any changes . " " The Mayor is definitely thinking in terms of reorganization , " Mr. Klein added . Mayor Lindsay , speaking on the WABC-TV program " Page One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommends a whole reorganization of the New York City governmental approach towards the poverty program in order to get the maximum mileage out of the dollars , . .. will make this probably the model community of the country , whereas in the past , we have not been . " Frank C. Arricale , director of the Youth Board said he was " very excited " about the proposal . " It will put more tools in the hands of our workers , " he said . It will enable us to get a youngster serviced in a more efficient way , and the close connection with the manpower program will help us get the kids on a vocational stepladder . " Welfare Commissioner Mitchell I. Ginsberg said last night that he had just received the report and would have no comment until he had studied it . Lloyd K. Garrison , president of the Board of Education , could not be reached for comment . Speculation on who would head the proposed Human Resources Administration has centered on Mr. Sviridoff . Mr.Sviridoff has refused to say whether he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor in his decision would be how strongly and completely the Mayor supports his recommendations . They concede the sweeping nature of the proposals may stir opposition from existing agencies . Another factor , Mr. Sviridoff 's aides say , will be whether the program can attract the highcaliber administrators necessary to run it . The report said that " in the short run employment and manpower training , provide the greatest opportunities to escape from poverty . In the long run , programs of education and child development offer maximum assurance against recurrence of the cycle . " There is no mention in the report of social action programs , such as organizing rent strikes or demonstrations , but a spokesman for the study group said that the proposed community corporations could carry out any program that was approved by the Council Against Poverty . The report found " a vast array of programs operating in the city  --  with little or rio coordination , sometimes working at cross-purposes , and often puzzling and frustrating the people whom they are designed to serve . " Many of the existine nroFollowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made public yesterday by Mitchell Sviridoff , which calls for a major reorganization of the city 's efforts to help the poor : GOALS Our analysis of New York City 's needs led to the definition of four major goals : 1 . Useful and dignified employment for all citizens . This includes training programs , and career development leading to good jobs with adequate pay . 2 . Education geared to the needs of the future , including a sound child development program . 3 . Increased participation of residents in poor communities in the development and operation of programs for their betterment . 4 . A system of social services and public assistance that ties in with these other programs and thus increases their chances of success . RECOMMENDATIONS The heart of our recommendations is the establishment of a Human Resources Administration ( H.R.A. ) for New York City . The machinery we are proposing is designed to strike the right balance between involvement of residents through decentralization and effective working relationships with the city government . It seeks to substitute clarity for confusion , meshing for duplication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest reflects four major functional areas : community development ; manpower and career development ; social services and public assistance , and education . In the field of community development , we propose establishment of Community Corporations with maximum involvement of the residents of poverty areas ; a reconstituted Council Against Poverty , which would represent the total community but have special roots among the poor and which would function as the top policy-making body for community action in the city ; and a Department of Community Development in the proposed H.R.A. , which would carry out the city administration 's community development responsibilities and be of maximum service to both the corporations and the council . In the manpower and employment field , we recommend establishment within the H.R.A. of a Department of Manpower and Career Development as the focus of all activities in the recruitment , training and placement of people , wth special emphasis on the needs of low-income communities . Since the city is the largest single employer in the metropolitan area , spec al programs should be launched to develop the municipal government 's potential as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunities . The Welfare Department and the Youth Board would be placed as presently constituted into the H.R.A. The search for solutions to specific problems in this field will be favored by the comprehensive approaches made possible in the broad context of a human resources framework . The dispersion of social services in the city presents such complex problems that , to find the answers , much more time is needed ' than was available for the study . Each of the three ? departments ? community development , manpower and career development , and welfare ? would be headed by a commissioner responsible to the Human Resources Administrator . The youth board would continue to be under an executive director . An Office of Education Liaison would be established to develop a closer working relationship between the city administration and the Boards of Education and Higher Education . This office would be the Mayor 's chief link to the two boards and would seek to relate educational programs to over-all human resources objectives . The director of this office would be responsible to the Human Resources Administrator . The essence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By pulling together the many threads that now run separately , it will also be more feasible to relate human resources programs to those of other city departments , agencies and administrations . For instance , the housing and physical renewal authorities should be able to look to one place in the city administration that can speak for what is going on and planned in the human resources field . This - becomes increasingly important as other city departments and agencies are also being consolidated . Finally , we propose the introduction of a modern program - planning - budget system for the H.R.A. and all its major elements , in order to relate budgeting to program goals , allocate resources accordingly , and enable both the H.R.A. and the public to measure progress in terms of people and services . The kind of organization we propose can not do its job unless it cooperates closely with the many existing private groups and institutions , and above all the voluntary agencies , in the city whose long experience will be an indispensable source of assistance and advice . The H.R.A. 's effectiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with business and labor . The emphasis we place on manpower and career development as a key to oppo ? - tunity makes it self-evident that here is a field in which open-minded , imaginative and productive cooperation between the city government , private industry and labor is mandatory . grams  --  such as the eight local offices run by Job Opportunities in Neighborhoods ( JOIN ) , which would become the nucleus of the neighborhood employment centers  --  would be integrated into the new structure . The Council Against Poverty , now the city 's antipoverty policy and planning body , would be reduced from its authorized size of 100 members ? actually it now has go , of whom 17 are representatives of the poor ? Ito 24 members . Areas which have currently active poverty programs art listed with an asterisk r ) . I. Upper West Side 2 . Mid West Side 3 . Lower West Side* 4 . Lower East Side ' 5. - Central Harlem* O. East Harkme. 7 . South Ikons* S. Hunts **25;818;TOOLONG 9 . Morrisanias. 10 . Baychester 11 . Wigiamsburg ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 . Bedford-Stuyvesant ? I S. Brownsville ' and East New York ' 16 . Sunset Park 17 . Pori Slope II . Crown Heights 19. iirshwick 20 . Coney Island 21 . South Jamaica* 22 . Long stand City ' 23 . Coreim-East Hmhurst 24 . Rockaway QUEENS NEW JERSEY The New York Times June 27 , 1966 POVERTY POCKETS : The poorest neighborhoods in New York ( shaded areas ) and neighborhoods with a high rate of poverty ( diagonal lines ) as identified in a study by the Office of the City Administrator . The study was made public yesterday .                     