@@727236

txt President Johnson indicated today that he might ask Congress to resume its deliberations after the national political conventions to complete action on unfinished legislation . The President 's move took some Congressional leaders by surprise . One important Democrat said privately , " I dread the idea of a wasted session . " The President met at an 8:304A.M . White House breakfast with the Democratic leaders of both houses of Congress . One man who was present said Mr. Johnson had not raised the question of any plans for a post-convention session , even though the members themselves discussed the subject . But , at about noon today , Mr. Johnson issued a written statement in which he hailed the action of the Senate Appropriations Committee in approving a $3.1-billion appropriations bill for housing , calling it a " message of hope to the American city . " House Vote Is 295 to 114 Later , the House passed , 295 to 114 , the Administration 's farreaching $5.3-billion bill to provide six million new housing units for poor and moderateincome families . Page 20 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs " vitally needed by our people " and said : " I urge the Congress to act as promptly as possible on this legislation . " " Even though the session may have to be resumed after interruptions for political conventions , " his statement added , " it is critical that this legislation be enacted and that the Congress return to complete the unfinished agenda for all the people before this session is ended . " Later in the afternoon in response to questions , the White House press secretary , George Christian , said " the intent " of the statement could best be expressed by inserting the words " if necessary " so as to make the last clause of the President 's sentence read : " It is critical that this legislation be enacted and that the Congress return if necessary to complete the unfinished agenda . . . . " Mr. Johnson 's statement said that higher education , poverty appropriations and gun control bills were among the programs " vitally needed . " He also listed his housing program , " major conservation bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consumer measures such ias pipeline safety , the Wholesome Poultry Act and the Hazardous Radiation Act . " The language of the President 's statement seemed to indicate that he had in mind a recess of Congress just before the Republican National Convention begins Aug. 5 and a resumption of the recessed session sometime after the Democratic convention , which begins Aug. 26 . Congressional leaders of both parties have been aiming for a final adjournment of this ses7 sion of Congress Aug. 3 . That Mr. Johnson 's statement took the Congressional leaders ? by surprise was indicated when Senator ' Mike . Mansfield , the Senate majority leader , said this morning that there was a " 50-50 chance " that the Aug. 3 adjournment - date would be met . Informed sources said that at the leadership breakfast conference , Senate Democrats suggested that , if absolutely necessary , Congress should come back in August between the conventions to work on unfin ished business . House Democratic leaders objected strongly and said they would prefer to come back in the fall after. , the Democratic convention . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiasm for ' tin extended session and thattlone ? man remarked that such special sessions had usually " accomplished nothing . ' If the President chooses , he can overcome any Congressional resistance by calling a special session of Congress , authorized by the Constitution on " extraordinary occasions . " As a practical matter , he can almost surely persuade the leadership merely to recess the session and reconvene in September . " But these post-convention sessions have the Presidential campaign hanging over them and do n't accomplish much , " one member of Congress said today . He recalled that in 1960 Mr. Johnson , as Senate majority leader , arranged for Congress to resume its session after the conventions . Vice President Richard M. Nixon , the Republican Presidential nominee that year , was presiding , and Senator John F. Kennedy and Mr. Johnson , the Democratic nominees , were on the floor during a brief but highly partisan session that ended in legislative frustration for Mr. Kennedy . Mr. Kennedy persuaded Mr. Johnson to cut the session short and announced he was taking the unresolved legislative question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed the fear today that if Congress was asked to resume its work in September it might again find its deliberations warped by partisan considerations and become a sort of campaign platform for the candidates and their supporters .                     