@@724421

txt Khios ? Tribune Press Servicel New York , Dec. 14-Adlai Stevenson , chief United States delegate to the United Nations , warned fiery African leaders today that if they continued on the course of black racism the future of their continent would be " bloody and shameful . " Speaking at another urgent session of the U. N. security council , the former Illinois governor countered violent charges by Afro-Asian-communist speakers that the recent rescue of hostages in the tortured Congo constituted " military aggression . " Stevenson noted that military aid was poured into the procommunist rebels in the former Belgian Congo by the Soviet Union , Red China , United Arab Republic Egypt , Ghana , Algeria , Burundi , and the Congo Republic formerly French Congo . " All Have Dissidents " " If the outsiders , not the insiders , decide when intervention is right , the fragile fabric of nationhood will come apart at the seams in a score of new African nations , " 1u warned . " Every nation has its dissidents , its internal struggle for power , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country should be run . " But if every internal rivalry is to become a Spanish Civil war , with each faction drawing in other Africans and great powers from other continents , the history of independent Africa in this century will be bloody and shameful , and the aspirations of Africa 's wonderful peoples will be cruelly postpetted . " Accused of Aggression That was why , Stevenson told his colleagues , the United States had supported an international peacekeeping force in the Congo for nearly four years . He deplored the withdrawal of the U. N. mission because the Russians and their communist satellites refused to pay their assessments toward it . The American representative recalled that in the last few days of debate his country had been accused ? of " wanton aggression , " of " premeditated aggression , " of plotting a humanitarian mission as a " pretext " for military intervention , of a " nefarious action " designed " to exterminate the black inhabitants , " and numerous other inflammatory charges . " And that 's not all , " said Stevenson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or implying that the United States government was an accomplice to the death of Dag Hammarskjold late U. N. secretary general and even the assassination of President Kennedy ! " Spectre of Conflict " " Never have I heard such irrational , irresponsible , insulting , and repugnant language in these chambers ; and used to contemptuously impugn and slander a gallant and successful effort to save human lives of many nationalities and colors . " But even such a torrent of abuse of my country is of no consequence compared to the spectre of racial antagonism and conflict , r aised in , this chamber . At a time ; when all responsible men and governments are trying to erase every vestige of racial antagonism , when racism has become an ugly word in all nations , we hear its ominous undertones in the U. N. " The antidote for white , racism is not black racism . " Wants Force Retained Earlier the council heard Mohamed Awad El-Kony , representing the United Arab Republic , charge that the rescue mission was " interference in the internal affairs of Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of foreign mercenaries in the forces of the Congolese premier , Moise Tshombe . The council adjourned until tomorrow . In another development , U. N. Secretary General U Thant recommended to the council that the 7,279-man peacekeeping force on Cyprus be extended for another three months . Authority for the force expires Dec. 26 . Thant reported " significant progress " in ironing out the differences between the feuding Greek and Turkish communities . Estimate of Cost The secretary-general estimated that the Cyprus force cost $15,700,000 for nine months . He said 31 governments had voluntarily contributed $15,800 , - 000 . Of this amount , the United States provided $6,000,000 . Spokesmen for the 115 U. N. member countries continued policy statements in the general assembly , now in its 19th annual session . Polish Foreign Minister Adam Rapacki today proposed " a conference of all European states , with the participation , of course , of both the Soviet Union and United States , " to examine the problem of European security in its entirety . Explains His Views " If it is deemed useful , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared initially by representatives appointed by the Warsaw treaty and North Atlantic Treaty organizations , and possibly , if so desired , by representatives sent on behalf of European states not belonging to the two groupings . " India 's foreign minister , Sardar Swaran Singh , urged an assembly resolution widening the present nuclear test ban treaty to take in underground tests . He said the nuclear device recently exploded by Red China was " fraught with dangerous consequences " that " may well start a fresh . nuclear race among countries which admittedly possess nuclear capability at the present time . "                     