@@725437

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 40 Letters to the Editor of The Times Sanctions Against Rhodesia To the Editor : In backing Great Britain 's request to the United Nations for enforcing oil sanctions against Rhodesia by military force , the United States has taken another step in the pursuit of a policy which appears increasingly bankrupt . On the record the policy of sanctions has failed to undermine the de facto government of Rhodesia headed by Ian Smith ; and it is simply a perversion of truth to argue that Rhodesia 's declaration of independence from Britain is a " threat to the peace , " as British and American representatives in the U.N . are now proclaiming . Rhodesia has , after all , made no move against American life or property . As compared to other African states to the north it has an enviable record of political stability . Its offense , if offense it be , is that its political franchise , while nonracial - In character , is determined by standards which today put effective power in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open for change in the future . This is indeed a grave offense in the view of many modern liberals . But the situation will scarcely be rectified by Intensification of the present economic war against Rhodesia  --  a war which many African states in the U.N . wish to broaden until it includes all of southern Africa . In so far as there is a " threat to the peace , " it is these reckless demands , incidentally backed by Russia , which constitute that threat . In view of the circumstances , it is time that the United States reappraised its coarse : This may well mean recognizing that the Smith Government in Rhodesia is the most stable regime that can be formed . It surely means calling a halt to an ideological crusade against Rhodesia and neighboring territories which is neither in the interest of African progress nor in the interest of the American people . JOHN DAVENPORT New York , April 11 , 1966 are ; only 29 per cent " correctly guessed " them to be " South Vietnamese Communists . " Having followed some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not surprised at these figures . If Professor Finer will concede that the 71 per cent in their confusion encompass as wide a spectrum of opinions on the subject as found in the writings of experienced correspondents to the New Statesman , Le Monde , La Stampa , etc. , it should not be difficult to concede to him that the 29 per cent " correct guessers " reflect merely a parochial point of view . GIORGIO GALANSINO , M. D. Assistant Prof. of Physiology Chicago Medical School Chicago , April 7 , 1966 ? Destructive Route 87 To the Editor : Rex Whitton , Federal Highway Administrator , Bureau of Roads , has announced that the long-disputed Route 87 will take the easterly route along Chestnut Ridge Road , instead of the westerly route . The latter route has been highly recommended by Secretary Udall of the Department of Interior , the Governor of New York State , the County Executives of Westchester County , the planning boards of Bedford , Mount Kisco and Pleasantville , and national and local conservation groups . Mr. Whitton promises that the sanctuaries bordering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that wild life will benefit by the changes he will bring about . In other words , cutting down fine old trees , damming the streams and filling in lakes will be an improvement over God 's work , and we must all agree to be happy with Mr. Whitton 's landscaping in Westchester County . Mr. Whitton is apparently oblivious of the fact that the sanctuaries will cease to exist . As the donor of the Westmoreland Sanctuary , I have no intention of continuing to pay for its support and the land will revert to me . Instead of 2,000 acres that have been given or promised as future open spaces for the recreation and enjoyment of the public , there will be roads and more roads for motorists to travel along . Wild , life must go elsewhere , the water table must recede and those who wish to enjoy the peace and beauty that God created must move away . Thanks to Secretary John T. Connor and to Mr. Whitton for destroying this part of our beautiful America . HELEN C. FRICK New York , April 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor : In a letter published April 8 , Dr.C . C. Dahlberg comments on statements by me and on a widely publicized report of the New York County Medical Society on LSD . It is indeed unfortunate that Dr. Dahlberg was not able to read the report prior to the time he wrote the letter . The following points are pertinent regarding Dr. Dahlberg 's comments . The Medical Society approves carefully controlled experiments on LSD . We are implacably opposed to increased illicit use . Dr. Dahlberg 's figures of LSDprecipitated psychoses occurring once or twice in a thousand are not true in regard to uncontrolled administration in a nonmedical setting . The dosages of LSD found in sugar cubes bought , for example , in Greenwich Village are much higher than the amounts Dr. Dahlberg uses in his experimental studies . With LSD the psychotic reactions are clearly dose-related . Consequently under carefully controlled use of modest dosage , the figure for precipitated psychosis probably , is one to two in 1,000 . But used indiscriminately with the dose uncontrolled , the incidence of psychosis is much higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoses re- ! quiring hospitalization at Belle-. vue Hospital . Prior to that time , virtually no cases of LSD psy- ! chores were seen here . This is a very substantial and disturb , ing experience and , along with dramatic and unfortunate cases such as that recently reported in a 5-year-old girl in Brooklyn , indicates the extraordinary dangers of LSD when used indiscriminately . Because of these dangers the Medical Society urges strict penalties for illicit manufacture and sale of LSD or its administration to one without that person 's knowledge . We also urge greater education regarding the potential dangers of injudiciously administered LSD . Surely these are reasonable recommendations and can not be construed as contributing to public hysteria , as Dr. Dahlberg implies . Comparison With Heroin Second , in regard to heroin , I was asked in a press conference which is more dangerous and replied that they were both dangerous , but on a milligram for milligram basis a single ingestion of LSD was far more dangerous . It is true that LSD is not addicting and heroin is . But a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of LSD may cause severe and , on occasion , prolonged mental derangement . It seems to me unnecessary to get into a polemic as to whether opiates or potent hallucinogens such as LSD are more dangerous . Used incautiously and incorrectly , both opiates and LSD are dangerous . DONALD B. LOURIA , M.D. New York , April 8 , 1966                     