@@723031

txt Washington Can the restive American taxpayer get his money 's worth in foreign aid ? Joe Doaks has dug deep into his jeans since World War II to the tune of about $100,000,000,000 for overseas aid . To help pass a large part of this year 's bill of $4,900 , - 000,000 the Kennedy ad ' - ministration appointed a " citizens committee " to assess the aid program , and it has just reported . Military Cuts , Too The committee , headed by Gen. Lucius D. Clay , now a Republican corporate executive , researched for weeks . It says that " if our criterea were now in effect , " the Agency for International Development ( AID ) budget could be trimmed by $500,000,000 on the basis of the ( 1962-1963 ) $3 , - 900,000,000 appropriation . Also the committee reports that the hard military aid , apart from complementary military-economic assistance , might be trimmed by about one-third to an annual bill of $1,000,000,000 by 1968 if world conditions remain about as they are . Besides General Clay , the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Robert A. Lovett , New York banker and former Secretary of Defense and Undersecretary of State ; former Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson ; Eugene R. Black , former World Bank president ; Dr. Clifford Hardin , University of Nebraska chancellor ; Edward S. Mason , Harvard University economist : L. F. McCollum , president of the Continental Oil Company ; Herman Phleger , former State Department legal adviser , and Howard A. Rusk , associate editor of the New York Times . The lone dissent came from Mr. Meany , who said aid funds should be " substantially increased " and protested that the report could be " disastrously misused " by opponents of the United States program at home and abroad . Highlights of Report Following are highlights of the report from the Clay Commission , which remains as a standing body and will tackle the personnel and administrative problems of AID next : ? More help from the Allies . If anything runs strongly all the way through the Clay report it is an insistence that the United States industrialized allies . should " bundle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance of payments problem is stressed . The report says that the burden aid is " falling unfairly upon the United States and that the industrialized countries can and should do more than they are now doing . " Demanding more allied spending , the report says that Italy should allocate budgetary funds for aid , expand volume , and liberalize terms ; Canada should raise the volume of aid which now is very low ; Great . Britain should lower interest rates and up its aid volume ; West Germany must raise volume and soften terms ; and the same for France and Japan . ? Alliance for Progress . As well as being the longest section of the report , the language about the alliance was the stiffest . Facts indicate to the committee that the alliance has an " urgent necessity " but is a " short-term impossibility . " It said that " nothing will avail " from aid unless there is basic reforms in much of Latin America . It asked for more than " promises . " It said the United States can no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report reminded Latin America that the United States is " serious about self-help , fiscal reform , and other changes . " It gives an exhaustive list of economic changes that are necessary . ? Phasing-out programs The committee does not go as far as administration spokesmen have . The report says that conditions in the near future may make it possible to stop aid to Israel , Formosa , and Greece . Earlier it was known that elimination of aid to Libya and Thailand is in sight . ? Is aid necessary ? Although much of the report is couched in reproachful tones , the committee defends the concept of foreign aid . If the program is " properly conceived and implemented , " the Clay group says , it is " essential to the security of our nation . " Partial text of Clay report : Page 15.                     