@@723286

txt London Differences not only of viewpoint but of emphasis between the British government and opposition have emerged once more in the two-day foreign affairs debate in the House of Commons . In respect to several major issues , these differences hold a particular significance for Anglo-American relations . For a change front a Conservative to a Labor government would cause a reorientation of basic policies . on such matters as West Germany 's association with a NATO nuclear force , the membership of Communist China in the United Nations , and even the conditions of a nuclear test ban . ' Divisive Issue The mixed-manned surface nuclear force has provided an issue on which government and opposition opinion have divided sharply . Proposed by the United States as a means of giving NATO a nuclear role and at the same time preventing the spread of nuclear arms , the concept of a multilateral force has been coolly received by the Macmillan government . But it is categorically opposed by Labor . Edward Heath , Lord Privy Seal , told the Commons on Tuesday that Britain recognized Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nuclear weapons . Not ... Only Way ' The multilateral force idea was put forward by the United States in what Mr. Heath called " a high-minded spirit following a further attempt to solve this problem . It has met with a response in the same spirit from the Federal German Government . " ? " In its present form , the proposal is not necessarily the only way of meeting the objective , " said Mr. Heath . " We want to strengthen the alliance and prevent the proliferation of national nuclear forces . " Speaking for the opposition , Patrick Gordon Walker , Labor 's shadow foreign minister , said he thought it was the common position of Britain , the Soviet Union , and the United States that Germany should not have nuclear weapons . " There are many reasons why we are critical of the proposals for a multilateral force , " said Mr. Gordon Walker , " but the fundamental one was that it would bring Germany too close to nuclear weapons . " Wilson Quoted Mr. Gordon Walker went on to say that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson , Opposition Leader , when they visited Moscow recently , " that there is no chance of a settlement with the Soviet Unic.n and no chance of fruitful negotiations if the MLF were even started or even it it remains in contemplation . " Whether or not it participates in the multilateral force ? should the force come into being  --  the Macmillan goi , ernment firmly believes in retain- ing Britain 's role as an independent nuclear power . Labor , on the other hand , would not replace the British V-bomber force when it becomes obsolete in about five years . After that , said Mr. Gordon Walker , " we should negotiate with the United States for a share in the formulation of the nuclear strategy of the entire weapons of the Atlantic alliance . Control Rejected " We should not ask for hand on the trigger or a hand on the safety catch , " he continued . " What we should ask for is close , intimate , continuous discussion about . . . the deployment of nuclear weapons , their targeting , future plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons , " Germany would , according to Mr. Gordon Walker , " be offered an equal place with us in this arrangement , " which would give that nation " a fair and proper place in the Western alliance and yet keep her finger from the trigger , safety                     