@@723194

txt Letters to The Times KENNETH WENTWORTH , The Rev. JOHN F.C . WHITE.COPAL MINTZ.EUGENE V. ROSTOW , ELJZA ... Letters to The Times Queens.Reactor Opposed Polluting Air Harland Forbes , chairman of Consolidated Edison , cited in a press release on Dec , 10 , 1962 , " the reduction of air pollution " as one major advantage of nuclear power plants located near centers of high electric usage . Reduction of air pollution from conventional soot and grime , yes . But what about radioactive air pollution ? Scientific information indicates that this might be considerable . Consolidated Edison 's record in this area has been far from exemplary ; we question granting them the opportunity to pollute the air with radioactive materials . Will consumer electric costs be lower or higher ? The previously cited Moses report makes it clear that not until the 1970 's or 1980 's will electric power produced by nuclear reactors even he competitive with power produced by fossil fuel plants . The foregoing are only a few of the points which must be developed at the June 14 hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A.D.A . has invited one of this country 's leading atmospheric physicists , Dr. James E. of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics at the University of Arizona , as an expert witness on our behalf . KENNETH WENTWORTH , Chairman , New York A.D.A . New York , June 8 , 1963 . British Observances Explained 1 ' 0 THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your London correspondent SidLey Gruson appears surprised that we in Britain do not observe Queen islizabeth 's Coronation Day . The ' act of the matter , as far as I am ! ware , is that we have never been Isked to , for there is no need for my such observance . What is far pore important is the anniversary if the monarch 's accession , for which the Anglican Prayer Book Irovides a special service . A coroiation is naturally a time for the xpression of national joy since this s impossible at the time of accesion with the former monarch only very short while dead and , indeed , s yet unburied . Truth to tell , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other nations keep . However , though undemonstrative about them , many of us remember them and are no less proud of our nation 's history . As for the Queen and those closest to her , they have but to tour any area in the British Isles , and I have no doubt that the townsfolk will turn out with the same enthusiasm and fervor they showed at the coronation 10 years ago , Such opposition to the monarchy as there is counts for very little , The Rev. JOHN F. C. WHITE , Rutherford , N. J. , June 2 , 1963 . Equal Pay ' Queried Greater Economic Responsibilities of Men Pointed Out To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yon : TIMES : The apparently general approval of " equal pay for equal work " including your editorial of May 25 seems to me to overlook a reality of our socio-economic order : the inequality , by and large , of the economic responsibilities of men as compared with women . How many women support spouses or also spouses and several children ? Pay to the sole supporter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supports only herself ( or himself ) means inequality of access to the necessities ( and material niceties ) of life . Where the pay , is low or very modest  --  as it is to the nm . jority of our wage or salary earners ? there necessarily results deprivation to the members of the families ? in short , poverty  --  certainly not a desideratum of the welfare state , The evil goes much deeper , since lack of means to purchase all of the family 's needs results , in oui ? " affluent society , " in " surpluses " which lead to curtailment of prsduction , unemployment and wide spread economic recessions , A sound remedy would be a system of supplemental wage or salary payments for dependents . In tile absence of such a scheme of compensation ( which many would view as ' revolutionary ) , higher pay to men than to women  --  dreadfully unfair to women with dependents. - - on the whole , I suggest , is socially and individually sounder and 11101'C equitable than the " equal pay " which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unarticulated fashion , did , it Bumf to me , to some extent take into consideration and alleviate the ma ? jority inequality of need , and s , step backward is now being compelled by law under the beguilement of a slogan which , at first blush , seems to express a high ideal . I submit that for the health of our economy no less than for the well-being of families , " to each according to his need " should receive greater , not less , consideration . And it would be much wiser to depend upon enlightened social and economic pressures gradually to iron out inequities to some of the women bread earners than to mandate by . law a harmful leveling . COPAL MINTZ , New York , May 29 , 1963 . Dean Rostow 's Position To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Foster Hailey 's useful article in The Times of May 26 , summarizing recent events in Birmingham , reports that Prof. Louis H. Pollak " was asked by me to see what he could do to bring about a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement is incorrect . The facts are these : On May 6 I was asked by a private citizen close to the negotiations in Birmingham for help in keeping channels of cone . munication open . He is a person in whose judgment I have confidence , He believed that , despite the pressures and tensions of the moment , the underlying negotiating situation was characterized by good faith on both sides . I thought that both groups might well trust Professor Pollak , in view of his character and ability , and his long association with the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense Fund , After Professor Pollak checked to make sure that his efforts would be welcome , he flew to Birmingham . I am informed that he did indeed help to facilitate the negotiations and thus contributed to advance a vital national interest , EUGENE V. ROSTOW . Dean , Yale University Law School . New Haven , Conn. , May 27 , 1963 , Rent Control Necessary To THE EDITOROF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Where are the houses available for low- and middle-income families ? All we see around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper-thin walls and exorbitant rents . How can rent controls be ended under these conditions ? ELIZABETH KLINGER . , New York , June 3 , 1963 . A.D.A . Supports Proposed Laws Prohibiting Con Ed Plant To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : A hearing on Local Laws 309 , 310 and 311 which would amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York will take place before the Committee on General Welfare of the City Council on June 14 at 11 A. M. The first proposed law would prohibit the use of industrial nuclear reactors in New York City , the second would prohibit the manufacture of electricity by nuclear reactors here , and the third relates to violations of the first two . All three have been introduced by Council Vice Chairman Eric Treulich . On June 6 the Board of Directors of New York State Americans for Democratic Action , with some 40 members present , voted unanimously to support Vice Chairman Treulich 's bills . By so doing , A.D.A . places itself squarely in opposition to the proposed construction of a nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of the Borough of Queens . Basis for Stand Our organization bases its opposition to the construction of this one-million kilowatt power plant by Consolidated Edison ( to be the largest nuclear power plant in the United States ) on its concern for the welfare and safety of the people of New York City and the densely populated suburban counties . We believe our position is supported by the following points : Many scientists contend that the development of nuclear power plants is still only in an experimental stage , and this would seem to preclude their location in or near metropolitan areas . For instance , we understand that present Atomic Energy Commission regulations prohibit such construction nearer than 13 miles to a community of 25,000 . Robert Moses , as recently as Dec. 31 , 1962 , stated in his report as chairman of the Power Authority of the State of New York that Consolidated Edison " faill s to make reference to the section of Reactor Safety : Siting Problems ( A.E.C. report to President Kennedy on the , future of civilian nuclear power ) , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are proved out , prudence dictates that large reactor installations be fairly , far removed from population centers . " Yet by the utility 's own figures some 5 million persons are within a five-mile radius of the Ravenswood site during the daytime .                     