@@726319

txt Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker today placed Gen. William C. Westmoreland , the United States military commander , in over-all charge of the American role in pacification . The change from civilian to military command reflected White Muse dissatisfaction with tile pace- of the program , which seeks to re-establish Government control over the nation 's thousands of rural villages and bamlets . Deputy Ambassador William S. Porter , before his recent departure , held the responsibilities that have been given to General Westmoreland . But the inability of  --  the South Vietnamese Army to protect pacification teams from Vietcong attack has hampered the program 's progress . Improvement Foreseen At a news conference here , Mr. Bunker declared : " Unified management , a single chain of command and a more closely dovetailed advisory effort will , in my opinion , greatly improve United States support of the vital revolutionary development program . " The decision was a defeat for Mr. Porter , who had successfully resisted a similar plan last year . Mr. Porter , who was widely respected in South Vietnam , had argued that soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Komer , former assistant to President Johnson for pacification , will serve as a deputy to General Westmoreland with the personal rank of ambassador . General Westmoreland , speaking from the same platform as Ambassador Bunker , said he hoped to delegate " a major share of my responsibilities as senior adviser to the Vietnamese armed forces " to Gen. Creighton W. Abrams Jr. , his deputy . Thus in- effect General West- moreland will be respensible.th the program . as a whole , with Mr. Komer overseeing the civilian aspects of the plan and Geiv. eral Abrams the military . Eugene M. Locke , the Deputy Ambassador , will serve as his " alter ego , " Mr. Bunker said , and will be in charge of the missionwhenever Mr. Bunker is absent from South Vietnam . The Ambassador also disclosed that two men who had been expected to leave Saigon had agreed to stay on indefinitely . They . are Barry Zorthian , chief of the . public-information program , ' and Edward G. Lansdale , special liaison officer . Mr. Landsdale , a retired major general in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Nguyen . Due Thong , chief of the South Vietnamese Pacification Ministry . To replace Leroy . S. Wehrle as economic counselor in June , Mr. Bunker . said , President Johnson planato appoint Charles Cooper otWashington . Mr. Cooper , ? who- , will be responsible ' ' for anti-inflationary programs *and similar matters , worked for Mr. Komer at the White House and served as special assistant ? to- Walter W. Heller , chairman of the Council Dressed hi ? ? a beige a blue-and-white , stripeashirt and a striped silk ' tie , Mr. Bunker answered questions for 20 min. utes . Speaking carefully and without emotion , the Ambassador , who is , 73 years old today , supplied few details of the new system . In the four corps areas . of South Vietnam , the directors ' of the Office . ? of Civil Operations will become deputies to , senior American Military commanders . In the I , Corps , for example , Henry L. T. Koren will work for Lieut . Gen. Lewis W. Walt , commander of the 75,000 United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Such a vital civil-military United States advisory effort in the vital field of revolutionary development is unprecedented , " he said . " But so , too , is the situation we confront . " Revolutionary development is , in my view , neither civil nor military , but a unique merging of both to meet a unique War- ; time need . Thus my solution ' is to have United States civilian and military officials work together as one team in order:to more effectively support our South Vietnamese allies . " The news conference this morning was Mr. Bunker 's second important public statement in two days . Yesterday he told American officials here .. that they must exercise the " patience and restraint to fight a limited war ? with limited objectives . " In a memorandum to all members of the United States mission , the Ambassador struck a milder and more reflective tone than his predecessor , Henry Cabot Lodge , from whom he took over on April 25 , The American effort in Vietnam , he said , " requires minds open to new approaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole spectrum of everything we do here ? military , economic , political , social and psychological . " Mr. Bunker 's statement to the members of the mission was excerpted from remarks he made on May 1 to the Mission Council , which comprises the key American officials in Saigon . Hinting , at the changes he was to announce today , Mr. Bunker said in his memorandum that he disliked the term " the other war . " The phrase has been used by President Johnson and other Administration officials in reference Ito the pacification effort . ' Understand Asian Ways ' Mr. Bunker , who filled diplomatic posts in India and Indonesia before ' coming to Sal- , gon , said in his Message s that Americans here.should try " to understand Asian ways of thinking . " The Ambassador commended to his staff a book by the , San Francisco essayist Eric Hoffer , " The Ordeal of Change . " The book , Mr. Bunker said , " deals wisely with the psychological problems one invariably encounters in the developing world . " By evening the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the volume , which was published in 1963 by Harper &; Row . A librarian said that the only available copy was missing but that she had ordered three new copies from New York by air mall . In what many American officials construed as a response to ' General Westmoreland 's denunciation of antiwar demon ? strators , Mr. Bunker argued that the United States must guarantee a free South Vietnam without muffling political protests at home .                     