@@721095

txt In a fast round of cat-and-mouse on the Senate floor , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson won majority support today for his effort to force a civil rights vote with round-the-clock sessions next week . The vote endorsing the Senate Democratic leader 's decision Was 67 to 10 . Many of his Southern opponents , moving quickly to recoup after being caught off balance , sought to make the test look meaningless by joining in the vote for his position . The vote was Senator Johnson 's reply to an intense Southern campaign , led by Senator Spessard L. Holland of Florida , to hold him responsible for the possible collapse of any of the older Senators under the strain of continuous sessions . Majority on Record " I do not want to have blood on my hands , " Senator Johnson said after the roll-call . He , said he had put the majority on record as favoring his strategy to dispel suggestions " that I have made art individual decision that was not in accordance with the majority wishes of this body . " The Southerners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience , still refused to concede that today 's vote had freed him of responsibility for whatever " accidents " may befall any members . The test , as set up by Senator Johnson , was merely " a straw man erected to be knocked down , " said Senator Richard B. Russell of Georgia , chief strategist for the Southerners . Senator Holland said the test showed that his campaign had " hit pay dirt and that the leaders want someone to share with them the responsibility for round-the-clock sessions . " Tenth Day of Debate The result , he said , did not exculpate them from what allnight sessions might do to aging members . The vote was the highlight of the Senate 's tenth day of the civil rights debate . Senator Russell , challenged to agree op a fixed time for the first of many votes expected on the bill , still refused to give ground . Meanwhile , the Southerners were beginning widespread use of the time-honored techniques of filibuster . Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas , for example , amused the galleries by propounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer , Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr. , Democrat of New Jersey , one of the Senate 's freshman . Senator A. Willis Robertson of Virginia announced that he was canceling " with regret " hearings scheduled before his Appropriations subcommittee on Treasury and Post Office money bills . Senator Robertson said all his time would be needed to fight civil rights bills until the issue was settled . Unseemly Word Privately , most Senators agree that the filibuster is already on . At this stage of things no one likes to say so publicly because " filibuster " is an unseemly word apt to inspire a four-hour Southern speech explaining that this is not a " filibuster " but merely an " educating enterprise . " Today 's test vote came after Senator Johnson pointed out that the civil rights bill had already been before the Senate for more than 100 hours of debate . A " substantial majority , " he said , wants an opportunity to vote on the first of the bill 's seven . parts . Senator Everett 1 Dirksen of the Republican leader , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote . " Could Senator Russell agree with the leadership on " an appointed time " to vote ? he asked . " I can answer the Senator I very briefly , " Mr. Russell replied . " No . " Senator Dirksen took objection to Senator Holland 's effort to hold Senator Johnson responsible for " the ? well-being " of members during round-theclock sessions . " It is so easy for him to resolve his trouble , " Mr. Dirksen taunted Senator Holland . " All he has to do is to move to adjourn . Let the Senate determine whether this is cruel , unusual , heinous , tyrannous , barbaric , hell-hacking . " Adjournment is a procedural matter for the leadership to decide , Senator Holland protested . The South , he said , needs time to let the issue " congeal " and find what specific measures the Senate has in mind . Johnson Explains Senator Johnson took the floor to explain that he was merely trying to arrange a schedule that would give the Southerners an opportunity for the prolonged debate they wanted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he could easily move that the Senate agree to adjourn at 5 P. M. next Monday , the , day he has set for the start of round-the-clock sessions , and let the members vote , In fact , he said , he would make that motion immediately and vote against it . The voting was half over before Senator Russell , who had been off the floor momentarily , moved to prevent a clear-cut test of strength . Members of the Southern bloc suddenly stopped voting against Mr. Johnson and started voting with aim . Others who had already , been polled switched their votes . In the end only eight South- , ? rners and two Republicans toted against Mr. Johnson .                     