@@727932

txt Without any public announcement the Air Force last week ' ordered the controversial mul- , tiple warheads for its Minuteman 3 intercontinental missiles . The Air Force awarded an $87-million contract to the General Electric Company for production of 68 missile re-entry vehicles , known as MIRV 's , an acronym for multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles . It will be the first production run in an Air Force plan to equip 500 Minutemen 3 missiles with multiple warheads . The contract was awarded last Thursday , the same day that President Nixon told a news conference that the Administration was considering the possibility of a moratorium on MIRV testing as part of an arms control agreement with the Soviet Union . Not Easily Controlled To opponents of an American antiballistic missile system , however , the clear implication of the production contract was that the situation was passing beyond the point where deployment of the multiple warheads could be readily controlled by a moratorium on testing . The Defense Department acknowledged that it had not announced the production contract . The reason given by a Pentagon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a routine follow-up contracting procedure " making formal an informal contract given General Electric a year ago and announced at the time by the Defense Department . The award of the contract was disclosed today by Representative William S. Moorhead , Democrat of Pennsylvania , who accused the Pentagon of " willful concealment " about a " crucial development that could escalate the arms race and endanger hopes for serious arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union . " The contract , he noted , was awarded at the very time that ' 11 Senators were introducing a resolution calling upon the Administration to enter into a mutual moratorium with the Soviet Union on the testing of MIRV warheads . At his news conference last week , President Nixon described the resolution , sponsored by Senator Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachusetts , as " a very constructive proposal . " But the President clearly suggested that any such moratorium must await the strategic arms talks , which are now likely to begin in August . But by that time , Mr. Moorhead noted at a news conference , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed on operational missiles some time in 1970 . Sees Soviet Reaction Calling for an immediate halt to the contract Representative Moorhead said : " The critical issue here is the fact that the Soviet Union , when it hears of this production contract , will naturally feel that our testing has been successful and we are sufficiently confident of the accuracy and reliability of the MIRV to enter into a contract to produce it . " Conservative Soviet military planners then will be forced to counter this multiplication of our offensive nuclear capability with added defensive and offensive forces of their own , and a new round of the arms race will be on , " Mr. Moorhead acknowledged ' that the Air Force had Congressional authority to proceed with the production contract . Production money was included in the defense appropriations bill passed last year under a line item reading ! " Missile procurement ? Air Force . " But one of Representative N.loorhead 's complaints was that " most members of Congress , " including some members of the Appropriations and Armed Services Committees , were unaware that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the three military budget analyses provided to the House defense appropriations subcommittee , he said , the Pentagon never identified planned M1RV production . Nor , he said , from a study of the hearings , the subcommittee report and the appropriations act was it " at all clear " that funds were appropriated for production of the multiple warhead . Calls It ' Inexcusable ' In light of the debate going on in Congress over continuation of MIRV testing , he termed it " inexcusable that the Pentagon did not adequately inform , the Congress " that it was going to award the contract . " On an issue of such grave national consequence , " he said , " the Pentagon owes it to the American people to adequately inform its elected representatives when it takes a step of such monumental proportions . " Mr. Moorhead , a member of a subcommittee of the Joint Economic Committee that has been investigating defense spending , said he had learned of the contract award after - we heard a rumor and traced it down . " According to information supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract " to produce ( i Mark 12 re-entry vehlc lcs f or the Minuteman 3 was given to General Electric 00 July 10 , 1905 . , At that tittle , the Defense Dopartment issued a press release lannouncing the matter . A letter contract represents a statement of intent , which then has to he incorporated in a formal contract . Under the letter contract , G.E . was permitted to spend $33.9-million to tool up its production line and purchase long-lead time items but not to go into actual production . The formal contract , according to information supplied to Mr. Moorhead , was negotiated in April and May and awarded last Thursday . The granting of the formal contract constituted , in effect , a go-ahead for production . Through press releases , the Defense Department normally announces the award of major contracts . No mention of the contract award was made in The Commerce Business Daily for the last five days , a Commerce Department publication that lists all unclassified Government contracts exceeding $25,000 . The Mark 12 re-entry vehicle will contain three independently targetable warheads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent to one million tons of TNT ) . General Electric will he responsible primarily for ' making the so-called " bus " that . will carry the warheads and then release them toward their separate targets .                     