@@723269

txt New York Current demonstrations in the South by Negroes are mild compared with those which could take place here and in other Northern cities with large concentrations of Negroes . This is the assessment of many New York citizen leaders as the " spirit of Birmingham " spreads to city officials , segregated institutions , and public order . " Of all the promised lands , New York to the Negro is the most promised . But once he gets here , he finds himself pretty much on the end of a gangplank . Then there is nothing for him to do but turn back and fight . " That is the way Whitney M. Yount Jr. , executive director of the National Urban League , sums up the situation from the Negroes ' standpoint in this metropolis that , in the last census , led all other United States cities in the number of Negro inhabitants . Negroes comprise 23 percent of the population of ' Manhattan . Inequality Sighted The Negro in New York City may be better off than the Negro in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all equal rights and opportunities with other citizens . The city and state have passed laws that prOhibit racial discrimination in various forms , but the average Negro in New York still lives in a largely segregated society . ? Right now , with President Kennedy having , in the wake of Birmingham , proelaimed the race issue a national and moral one , the New York Negro sees a chance to elevate himself out of the " place , " and he is out to strike while the iron is hot . Hope Expressed In general , New Yorkers consider themselves to be people of goodwill and are hopeful that spirit will prevail hi the current crisis . Police Commissioner Michael J. Murphy has even expressed the hope that the city will " set a national example of ? how demonstrations can be peacefully conducted . " He has issued a 10-point program on what will be expected of the public and police during what may be a troublesome summer ahead . One influence in dampening down the danger of violence is the close personal touch that Mayor Robert F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours after the Birmingham riots he was telling a city Hall mass meeting of Harlem Negroes that he had been talking on the phone to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy to get a firsthand report on the crisis . New York has been in close touch with the informal , special task force that has framed the White House civil-rights program . The spirit of goodwill toward the Negro that pervades City Hall is. also evident in the offices of the pioneer desegregation agencies at work in New York City , but other factors may stand in the way of the fulfillment of the current demands for fundamental and compensatory action in behalf of the city 's beleaguered Negro citizens . Aim Set High " Our people do not want just equal treatment , " says Mr. Young . " They want to make up for generations of deprivation . They wo n't be satisfied now unless they get something special . " Token integration and pilot placement are not enough . The best school and best teachers are needed to prepare Negro children to the point where they will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve and prepare to advance up the economic ladder with full realization of the rewards that will accrue in the process . " Our society must recognize and put a higher value than it has ever before placed on the human potential possessed by Negro citizens . And then it must move positively to develop that potential . Citadel of Freedom ' New York City has a long history of fair-practices legislation , which is one of the reasons it has often been cited as a " citadel of freedom " for Negroes . The city 's antidiscrimination housing measure was the first of its kind enacted anywhere dating back to 1958 . It is supplemented now with a state law that , beginning Sept. 1 , will cover 95 percent of the housing accommodations in the state . Both laws are aimed at providing equal opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race , creed , color , or national origin . Discrimination in publicly assisted housing has been banned since 1955 . An open enrollment plan for the city schools was first initiated in August , 1960 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in schools with a varied ethnic population . Two-and-a-half years ago , Mayor Wagner issued an executive order providing equal job opportunities in all jobs performed under contract to the city . The Wagner administration has spent more money on public housing and urban renewal than any in history .                     