@@725893

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Democracy Under Diem To the Editor : On Oct. 29 you published a letter from F. E. Nolting Jr. , former United States Ambassador to South Vietnam , in which he reminded The Times of Ngo Dinh Diem 's " republic " in South Vietnam . Mr. Nolting suggested that such reporters as Charles Mohr overlooked the fact of Diem 's democratic elections and rule which preceded the most recent Vietnamese elections . I doubt that Diem 's rule was " overlooked . " If one examines the two elections Diem triumphed in , he will find that : " The first opponent to Diem , Professor Dan of the University of Saigon , was kept from campaigning , and after he had received 2 per cent of the Saigon vote he mysteriously disappeared . Neither the professor nor his body ' has ever been found . In 1961 , ' free ' elections took place again  --  Diem versus an 85-year-old religious mystic who never campaigned because he was too ill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Time had early in Diem 's regime hailed him as a Vietnamese savior and a true democrat , even these two rather rightist publications eventually admitted : " Pleading the Communist threat , Diem has ruled with rigged elections , a muzzled press and political reeducation camps that now hold 30,000 " ( Time , Nov. 21 , 1960 ) . " Behind the facade of photographs , flags and slogans there is a grim structure of decrees " re-education " centers , secret police ... . The whole machinery of security has been used to discourage active opposition of any kind from any source ' ( Life , May 13 , 1957 ) . Other Sources If one does not want to take Time 's word as final ( which is readily understandable ) , he might read such men as Jean Lacouture , Bernard Fall and Philippe Devillers . They are all respected scholars on the Vietnamese question and for the most part have been in Vietnam and studied it for many more years than Mr. Nolting 's two . An example of their opinion : " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encirclement of villages , searches and raids . ? . plundering , interrogations sometimes enlivened by ' torture ( even of innocent people ) , deportation , ? " ( Devillers , China Quarterly , Jan. - March 1962 ) , Finally , we may go to the Vietnamese themselves ; in a. recent Times article describing the new Saigon appeal to Vietcong defectors ( Times , Oct. 25 ) , a Vietnamese source Is quoted : " We also know that a lot of young men joined the Vietcong between 1960 and 1963 during the regime of Ngo Dinh Diem because they thought the Government was rotten and it was . " Perhaps Mr. Nolting also noticed the newspaper accounts of the recent deaths in Saigon when a National Day parade was shelled . National Day celebrates Diem 's ' downfall . More frightening ( to myself as a U. S. citizen , at any rate ) than Diem 's corrupt and brutal regime is the fact that our former Ambassador could be so utterly misinformed . No , I doubt that Charles Mohr forgot about Diem 's rule ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MAX J. Mama ? University Park , Pa . Nov. 5 , 1966 To Reactivate Nurses To the Editor : I think the present shortage ' Of hospital nurses may be artificial in that we do have many registered nurses who are unable to work because of their responsibilities toward small children . Salaries offered these nurses will not allow them to hire competent help for child care and still have anything left over . They have no incentive , therefore , to return to work . These young women might feel differently if the employing hospitals would offer them inexpensive child-care centers within or adjacent to the hospitals , staffed competently by paid and volunteer workers , The nurses could work a full shift or only a few hours on a flexible schedule . I am sure if something this practical and immediately possible were available that many registered nurses could and would return to active duty . CLAIRE W. BAIRSTOW Concord , N. H. , Oct. 31 , 1966 ? For Additional Airport To the Editor : The Federal Aviation Agency deserves praise for pressing for an additional airport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic , air and ground , is another consequence of our myopic planners . The decentralization of Kennedy International Airport is long overdue . Editorial Nov. 7 . ) MAX M. TAAHR New York , Nov. 3 , 1966 ? Parking for Motorcycles To the Editor : If Traffic Commissioner Henry A. Barnes and the police are willing to overlook the " within 12 inches " law to have cleaner gutters , why ca n't they also overlook the archaic law which forces two-wheeled vehicles to park parallel to the curb ? The city is starved for parking space , clean or dirty , and angle parking for two-wheelers would reduce by about 80 per cent the space the old law forces them to consume . The announced creation of only 249 angle parking spaces for the thousands of such vehicles now in the city is but a meager step in the right direction . ROBERT EVAN SCHARF New York , Oct. 26 , 1966 ? To Retain City Golf Courses To the Editor : I was dismayed to read in your Nov. 1 issue that Parks Commissioner Hoving is considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of playing golf , Since when are public facilities to be farmed out to enrich private speculators ? Most of the people on the city links ale people of limited income . Otherwise , they would not endure the appalling waits and congestion to be found weekends at the public courses , The justification that Commissioner Hoving 's scheme would shift city golf-course employes to other work is a feeble one , valid only if the city were in dire financial straits . This is certainly not the case , as a news article on the same day , " City 's Finances Now Excellent , Controller Says , " will prove . Government action in raising the cost of living without true cause is legal larceny . Mr. Hoving 's scheme , if executed , would add to the factors that already are . causing an exodus , leaving New York more and more a place for the very rich and very poor . I suggest that instead of considering ways of raising the cost of golf , Mr. Hoving consider ways of lowering it , thereby showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income taxes , and other scourges recently inflicted upon us . JACOB MUFSON New York , Nov. 1 , 1966 ? Plumbers ' Group Opposes Revised Code To the Editor : Your editorial of Oct. 10 " The New Building Code " contains some errors . It is quite true that Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute has made a gargantuan effort for nearly four years and that many building trades labor unions and construction industry officials tried to steer the Institute along lines which would make the code an effective and viable document . But the efforts of the people in charge of the project were concerned with the problem of economy in much the same manner as the automobile manufacturers who build cars to last three years . This auto manufacturing mentality which is embraced by the New York City Buildings Department is a guarantee that the new code will develop New York into a . makeshift , jerry-built type of city which we all look at with abhorrence and fear . It wo n't work ! Need for Strict Laws We must write into our city construction code strict laws which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue an inspectional force which will guarantee these safeguards . The old cry of corruption among the inspectors , and therefore their elimination , Is the equivalent of eliminating the police force because we might have 6 , few policemen on the take . Our specific problem is with the materials and installation practices which are written into the new code . Many of the new materials which will be allowed by this revised code have been tried and discarded in smaller cities . The elimination of the Board of Standards and Appeals by the code as a testing and inspection agency for these new materials is a guarantee that poorer products will be used . In the plumbing portion of the code , this is extremely dangerous , for it will cause unsanitary conditions and probable disease due to inferior materials and design in the private home . The indexing and simplification of our city laws in relaion to plumbing is one thing , nit the inclusion , while this is being done , of procedures and material which have been found wanting over the years is dangerous and expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to the aventual homeowner and the general public . There is nothing in the present code that does not allow for the use of new materials or installation procedures providing they are presented to and passed by the Board of Standards and Appeals , after testing and/or inspection of their value to meet realistic standards . What are the dangers in the haphazard installation of plumbing ? Disease tops the list , and in many cities this has been proved time and time again . A case in point is the Chicago epidemic of 1938 which caused a re-examination of plumbing codes all over the country . Adding Safeguards Additional expenses to own . ers who have to install new plumbing in their homes and buildings when sub - standard plumbing is installed is going to be commonplace under the new proposed code . The experience of many year ! has made our Plumbing Code the finest and safest in the world . That code is now it danger . Why must we be stain . peded into accepting the revised code until all have had a chance to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GEORGE V. WHALEN Executive Director Joint Code Committee of the Plumbing Industry Boarde New York , Nov. 1 , 196E ? Taxis ' Anti-Pollution Device To the Editor : The Oct. 24 letter from Charley A. Hebert criticizing the cab in ? industry for contributing to air pollution was misleading . As the representative of the licensed fleet-owned taxicabs of New York City , we would like emphatically to point out that we do not have old cabs in op ? eration here . On the contrary , ever since the industry was per . mitted to use the standard-make car we replace each taxicab on an average each twelve to six . teen months with a new model I think that the average car seen on the city streets far ex. ceeds this age bracket . It also might be noted that fleet cabs total about 6,500 , compared to the thousands of private cars , delivery trucks and buses crowded into Manhattan . Auto manufacturers in Detroit have for years used New York City taxicabs as a testing or proving method for many new devices to help the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit built specifically to burn up engine fumes and minimize air pollution . We are proud to state that by utilizing this device and other improvements on which we co. operate with auto manufactur. ers we are making a positive contribution to the battle on air pollution . JACK PLOTSKY President , Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade New York , Oct. 31 , 196E ?                     