@@725611

txt The opposing Arab camps are increasing pressure on the United States to abandon its attempts to remain neutral between them . Their leaders , President Nasser of the United Arab Republic and King Faisal of Saudi Arabia seek assurances that Washington will not back their opponents . King Faisal 's nine-day trip to the United States scheduled to begin June 21 after his current visit to Spain comes amid reports of intense political ferment inside Saudi Arabia . Arrests and expulsions of Egyptians and their supposed sympathizers in the big desert monarchy are multiplying , according to political emigres here . President Nasser , in the meantime , seems to have abandoned his own twoyear-old policy of peeking harmony between " socialist " and " traditional " Arab governments . In a speech at Damanhour , northern Egypt , on June 15 , Mr. Nasser said cooperation with " reactionaries " like King Faisal and Jordan 's pro-Western King Hussein had proven " futile . " Reactionaries rapped He said experience after the three previous Arab summit meetings in 1964 and 1965 shows " reactionaries " can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they fear Arab revolutionaries more than they fear Israel . " The speech strengthened doubts already raised by his March 22 , 1966 , attack on Arab summitry , which he himself initiated in 1964 , that Cairo would attend the fourth Arab summit now set for Algiers Sept. 5 . President Nasser stopped short of withdrawing the U.A.R. from the Algiers talks . He did say Cairo was " deceived " by previous summits " but we are not going to be deceived in 1966 . " The Egyptian President also has avoided new strong direct attacks on the United States . Washington faces a decision on Cairo 's requests for renewal of loans and food deliveries . Food aid and recent requests by American businessmen about new investment opportunities in Egypt are the last important U.A.R.-United States links in a J.A.1t , economy which despite Mr. Nasser 's Saudi Arabia 's King Faisal United States visitor with a purpose efforts to the contrary is growing more dependent upon Soviet aid . Tangible results of the Arab summit policy are slim . Propaganda attacks of Arab leaders on each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ September . Jordan has begun a $30 million program to divert a Jordan River tributary , but this has little effect on Israel . The unified Arab command set up in 1964 remains largely on paper . The " traditional " regimes of Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Morocco , and Libya , receive Western aid . The " socialist " ones , U.A.R. , Republican Yemen , Syria , Iraq , and Algeria , get their military hardware from the Soviets . In the United States King Faisal 's visit is likely to be utilized by Mr. Nasser 's foes to press for still more Western backing for the " traditionalists . " Britain , wrestling with the mechanics of Its own promised evacuation of South Arabia by 1968 , is seeking United Nations support there . Difficult relations Jordan harbors the largest number of Palestine Arab refugees . But it presently has the worst relations of all Arab governments with Ahmed Shukairy 's Palestine Liberation Organization which has threatened to send Arab contingents to fight the Americans in Vietnam . King Hussein 's arrests in May of Nasserites , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public refusal to cooperate further with the Palestine organization . North Africa has shown more reticence about commitments to either Arab camp . The Shah of Iran . President Nasser 's arch enemy in the Middle East , is paying a long and cordial visit to Morocco . But King Hassan appears reluctant to commit Morocco to Saudi Arabian efforts to form an anti-Nasser " Islamic front . " Tunisia has shown only limited interest . After talking with Syria 's Foreign Minister , President Boumedienne 's Algerian government has shown reserve about Syrian proposals for a " little summit " of the socialist Arab regimes . Libya , like the Sudan , Lebanon , and Kuwait , is avoiding involvement . Kuwait 's ruler , Emir Sabah al-Salim al-Sabah , is due here June 20 for talks with Lebanese Premier Abdullah Yafi on the general Mideastern situation .                     