@@724535

txt Springfield , Feb. 4-The Illinois Supreme court in a vacation opinion ruled today it would retain jurisdiction over reapportio n ment of the state legislature on a population basis . The Illinois justices moved to take jurisdiction over a " one man , one vote " Senate redistricting case that already is before the United States District court at Chicago in a case brought by Joseph Germano of the AFL-CIO Steel Workers ' union . Uphold Tripartite Basis Whether the Illinois Supreme court will take control of redistricting of the state House of Representatives was left for future determination . Both legislative houses are faced with rival Republican and Democratic reapportionment plans . Justice Robert C. Underwood of Bloomington wrote the opinion , which upheld the view of Republican legislators that districts must be apportioned on a tripartite basis among Chicago , the Cook county suburbs , and downstate . It held invalid the Democratic attempts to have districts overlap the Chicago city limits and the Cook county line . Backed by Six . Judges Rulings of federal courts in other states were cited as the Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges in Chicago , are the proper agency to see that new districts follow the strict population mandate of the United States Supreme court . A jurisdictional conflict between the state and federal courts could be appealed to the high court in Washington . The Underwood opinion , filed with the clerk 's office here , was approved by six of the seven Supreme Court justices . Justice Walter V. Schaefer of Chicago is on a trip abroad . The ruling upheld briefs presented by Don H. Reuben of Chicago , who as attorney for State Treasurer William J. Scott intervened in a suit in which Robert H. Engle , a retired Chicago teacher , sought to invalidate a 1954 state constitutional amendment under which the Illinois legislature was reapportioned for the first time since 1901 . The federal court judges ruled two weeks ago that , unless the Senate is reapportioned to their satisfaction , all 58 senators must be elected atlarge in 1966 . The possibility of a conflict between the state and federal courts in the reapportionment controversy was suggested by Assistant State Atty . Gen. Robert M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' It Is Our Responsibility ' The Underwood opinion said in part : " As the final forum available in this state , it is our ' responsibility to construe and apply provisions of our state and federal constitutions as related to the problems of legislative reapportionment . We conceive it to be the responsibility of the state of Illinois to establish its own constitutionally selected legislative body , and that the state agencies , both historically and logically , are the proper forum for resolution of the problems herein , consonant with the federal constitutional interpretations relating to the equality of representation . " ' We Retain Jurisdiction ' Rulings of courts in other states and congressional enactments were cited in support of the view that state courts should have priority in settling similar questions . " All parties to this proceeding either request or concede that we may retain jurisdiction , " the opinion continued . " We have express confidence that the General Assembly will successfully perform its duty to enact a constitutionally valid plan during the current session . Nevertheless , we retain jurisdiction of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as may be necessary to insure that the 1966 election is pursuant to a constitutionally valid plan . " The Supreme court added that , until the legislature situation clarifies , it is nor necessary to determine whether to supervise reapportionment of both houses . Court Clash Not Necessary The entire membership of the Illinois House was elected atlarge last November as the resuit of a deadlock In procedures required by the state constitution . The Germano case in Chicago involves only the state Senate , which under the 1954 amendment was based primarily on area . As the result , Illinois House reapportionment has never been before a federal court . The legislature had recessed for the week-end before the Underwood decision was announced . Some experienced lawyer-legislators who were still in Springfield expressed belief that a reasonable basis could be found for avoiding a conflict between the state and federal courts . The state Supreme court held that invalidation of the section establishing Senate districts on area did not make other portions of the state constitution invalid . Tripartite Plan Compulsory As a result ; it held that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbs , and downstate was " compulsory in so far as it can be used compatibly with the equality-ofpresentation theme and any future redistricting of the Senate . " Presumably the same provision for tripartite- allocation of districts would also apply to the House . The Democratic bill for House reapportionment would provide for six districts overlapping from Chicago into the suburbs : all of which would be carried by Democrats . For Senate reapportionment , the Democratic plan before both Houses would have eight districts overlapping the Chicago city limits and one overlapping the Cook county line , extending from the northwestern suburbs into Lake county .                     