@@723303

txt A civil rights . sit-in was staged at Governor Rockefeller 's office in the city yesterday , as one at City Hall went through its second day . Both offices remained occupied into the night . The first arrests during any of the recent demonstrations at public offices or public construction projects took place during the day as a result of picketing disorders at a state project in Brooklyn . And , as a result of violence in the Bronx , the City Commission on Human Rights called a meeting for today with representatives of the White Castle hamburger chain , in an effort to settle what it called " the explosive situation " in the Bronx . The commission referred to " rowdy and unruly " bands of white youths who have been harassing pickets who are seeking to get the chain to hire more Negroes and Puerto Ricans . Halt on Work Sought The demonstrations at the state and city offices seek to halt more than $2,500,000,000 worth of state and city construction projects until the organizers are assured of more jobs for Negroes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in controlling union employment and apprenticeship programs . Mr. Rockefeller is on vacation and will not be back until Monday . But his counsel , Sol Neil Corbin , and his civil rights aide , Alexander Aldrich , met for an hour and a half with the seven initial demonstrators at the office , at 22 West 55th Street . Robert L. , the Governor 's press secretary , said later the two aides had received the demonstrators ' proposals and in reply had " outlined the positive action taken and being taken by the Governor in assuring full equality of opportunity . " Pickets Play Radio With Mayor Wagner in France at the bedside of his ' ailing 19-year-old son , the demonstrators at City Hall made themselves at home with pillows , blankets , containers of milk and a bag of fruit strewn on the floor of the corridor outside his office . They also played a transistor radio . A new picketing demonstration by the same group at a construction project of the State Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn resulted in the arrests of three demonstrators after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project . In response to questions about // the legal position of the sit-in at City Hall , Leonard E. Reisman , Deputy Police Commissioner in charge of legal matters , said " it is not a police problem at this time . " Commissioner Reisman said there was no " backing away " from Police Commissioner Michael J. Murphy 's order of June 20 against blocking " access to buildings . " As to why no arrests had been made when entry was being blocked to the Board of Education office at 110 Livingston Street , Brooklyn , last Friday , Commissioner Reisman said : " Neither the responsible officers of the Board of Education nor those persons who were inconvenienced wished to have arrests made . Each case will be decided as it arises . " The sit-ins at the Governor 's office and at . City Hall are being conducted by the Joint Committee on Equal Opportunity . That group includes the ' Congress of Racial Equality , the Urban League of Greater New York , the Negro American Labor Council , the Workers Defense League , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Advancement of Colored People . At the Governor 's office , one demonstrator was Arnold Goldwag , director of community relations for Brooklyn CORE . He had taken part in all but three days of a 20rday. sit-in at the office of the State Commission for Human Rights , 270 Broadway . Another was the Rev. Robert Kinloch , who recalled a 168-hour sit-in at the , Board of Education that ended Monday when a request for the . transfer of a Negro high school student was granted for health reasons . " The accommodations here are fine , " he said , " much better than at the Board of Education . " Artist Leads Protest Seven demonstrators  --  four white and three Negroes  --  arrived shortly after 10 A.M. at the five-story building . Their leader , Miss Vicki Morris , a 20-year-old artist , gave her address as New York CORE headquarters , 239 West 125th Street . She said they would remain " until such time as a fair number of Negroes and Puerto Ricans are given employment in construction . " The Governor 's staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ground floor . The airconditioned room , with an impressionistic painting of a seashore on the wall , has two couches , 20 chairs , four telephones and a. desk alongside which there art a United States flag and a New York State flag . It also has a bathroom . The demonstrators set up three home-made signs : " Governor Rockefeller  --  Civil Rights Begin at - Home , " " Stop the Shame of Job Discrimination , CORE , " and " Segregation Is Morally Wrong . " They assured Police Capt . Thomas Henry that Mr. Corbin had given them permission to stay in the room day and night and to replace their contingent as they wished . During the day , they brought in sandwiches and a television set with a six-inch screen . In Albany , Mr. said the Governor 's efforts in the construction field started with an undisclosed meeting here six weeks ago between the Governor , George H. Fowler , chairman of the State Commission for Human Rights , and Negro leaders . The Negroes included the Rev. Fred L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tee Walker , representing the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , and Whitney M. Young Jr . executive director of the National Urban League . Cabinet Meeting Held In the wake of the meeting , Mr. said , the Governor named Mr. Aldrich as chairman Of a special Cabinet committee on civil rights . That was followed by a Cabinet meeting on June 25 at which the Gov governor directed department heads to review their efforts to promote equal opportunity by changes , if necessary , in job specifications , recruiting , training and promotion . To increase job opportunities , Mr. went on , the Governor moved on June 27 to accelerate state - sponsored construction projects . He also reported agreements with both the State Building Trades Council and the heads of four leading business associations to work for nondiscriminatory job programs . The union group promised to review membership practices " in every labor market area of the state . " The City Housing Authority was the target of the second day of picketing yesterday at its Rutgers Houses project . Mayor Wagner 's office said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions in the construction industry here was being drafted at City Hall last night under the chairmanship of former General Sessions ) Judge Samuel R. Pierce Jr . The report is expected today or tomorrow . The number of demonstrators at City Hall varied during the day from seven to 14 . However , city business went on as usual . But one 67-yearold white man came down tol look at the demonstrators and proclaimed ; " This is a disgrace ? do n't they know this is City Hall ? " Another straw-hatted elderly white man exclaimed : " Is this America . Are these Americans ? " Thirty CORE pickets showed up at the Downstate Medical College project , an extension of Kings County Hospital , at Clark son and Brooklyn Avenues , at 7 A.M. , pursuing the same demands . When some sat down in the Clarkson Avenue roadway , stopping approaching trucks , one demonstrator , Gilbert Bank 37 , of 979 Smith Street , Uniondale , L. I. , was arrested for disorderly conduct . A half hour later , Jerome Bibuld , 37 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Elaine , 33 , were arrested . The police charged Mr. Bibuld had kicked Dne policeman and her husband had punched two others when the policemen tried to move them out of the path of cementmixing trucks . They were charged with disorderly conduct and assault in the third degree . The Bibulds , who are Negroes , were brought into Brooklyn Family Court last December on a Board of Education complaint that they had kept their three children out of the neighborhood school , which they called segregated . The case was settled with the transfer of the children to another school .                     