@@725922

txt Defense Secretary Robert S. said today there was " considerable evidence " that the Soviet Union was building and deploying an anti-ballistic missile system , probably requiring an increase in the United States ' offensive capacity . Mr. , made this report in a news conference at the LBJ Ranch . Question 1 , Page 18 . The Secretary said that the Administration would probably recommend to Congress that the United States begin production and deployment of the Poseidon missile , a large submarine-launched missile with greater ability than the Polaris missile to penetrate sophisticated defense systems . statement , Page 18 . Prediction Recalled In the past Mr. has told Congress that the Russians were developing a missile defense system and were expected to deploy it as soon as it was perfected . His statement today suggests that the Johnson Administration believes such deployment is now taking place . In the defense budget submitted to Congress last January , Mr. asked , and got , funds to develop the Poseidon missile . He has now recommended to the President deployment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. reported today that no decision had yet been made to deploy  --  that is , produce and locate at sites in the United States  --  the controversial Nike-X antimissile missile , on which $500-million has already been spent for research and development . Cost of Poseidon Regarding the Poseidon Mr. said that develop . ment of the missile would require almost $2-billion in Federal expenditures . He said its deployment would cost " several additional billions . " Among other things , deployment of - the Poseidon would mean complete re-engineering of the firing tubes on this country 's fleet of Polaris submarines , from which the missiles would be launched if necessary . The Secretary said that this and other " refitting " changes would cost " somewhat in excess " of 60 per cent of the initial cost of the Polaris submarines . ( A Navy spokesman in Washington placed the average cost of each of the 41 Polaris submarines at $106-million , or a total of $4.34-billion . Sixty per cent of that would be about $2.6-billion . ) Mr. flew to the LBJ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense and budgetary matters . This afternoon , he addressed newsmen in the front yard of the Johnson home before returning to the capital . Today marked Mr. 's third extended conference with the President in the last week in preparation for the supplemental military budget requests for the present fiscal year and requests for the fiscal year 1968 . On the subject of United States antimissile missiles , Mr. said he has discussed with Mr. Johnson the " possible deployment of such systems , " but had concluded i that " it is much too early to make a decision for deployment against the Chinese threat , and we have not arrived at a decision on any other deployment . " He did not , however , rule out the future deployment of the Nike-X system against Soviet offensive missiles , adding that " we will continue our discussions on this subject for some weeks to come . " On the relationship between the Nike-X system and the Chinese threat , the Secretary said : " The length of time required to deploy such a system is less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to develop nuclear weapons that conceivably could threaten this nation . Therefore , it is not timely at this time to make a decision to deploy such a system to defend against the Chinese Communist threat . " Question 5 . Mr. , coatless and relaxed in the warm Texas sun , also assured his listeners that development of an anti-ballistic missile system by the Soviet Union had not removed the United States ' capacity to penetrate that country . He declared : " There is absolutely no question about our capability of penetrating the Soviet defenses with both our missiles and our aircraft . " Question 8 . He said " there had been no question about that " during the last 15 years and " there is no question about it now when they are similarly trying to defend against intercontinental ballistic missiles . " ' We Must Assume ' In his opening remarks , the Secretary had indicated that the Soviet Union was building a new antimissile system . Newsmen then asked Mr. whether the Russians were in fact doing so . " Yes , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are . " " Is it an effective system ? " asked one questioner . " I think you would have to ask them , " he replied . But he added . " We must assume it is effective . " Asked when the Russians started deploying the system , he said he would " rather not try to approximate the date , " but added unequivocally : " They have started such deployment . " Question 3 . As a result , Mr. reported , " we recommended , and 1 believe will present to the Congress , a proposal to produce ' rid deploy " the Poseidon offensive system . He described the Poseidon as -a new missile for deployment at sea . " Initial development work on the missile was begun under the budget for the current fiscal year , 1967 . Greatly expanded funds , however , would he required to produce the missile and refit the Polaris submarines to accommodate it .                     