@@726764

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times ALBERT W. WILSONSTEPHEN J. FEARONWOODSON D. SCOTTJANE BENEDICT Letters to the Editor of The Times Europe 's Fear of U.S. Industrial Takeover To the Editor : On one particular point President de Gaulle is right , although reaching his conclusion from distorted premises . It is that we must balance our international payments . It should be done quickly , in 1968 , or we face grave trouble . In this respect , coupled with the French assault on the dollar , de Gaulle has us " on his hip . " We can escape our peril by cutting back foreign aid , demanding French payments on its war debt ( never canceled ) , limiting tourist spending . We should order that our big flow of currency to Saigon is only good in United States banks there and stop its drain back to Paris through French Vietnam banks . De Gaulle 's charge that American business is taking over France and Europe is pure political bunk or an ignorant aberration . Most companies I am familiar with go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have scores of licensees and technical-aid customers . Is this a takeover ? Corporations I am familiar with are happy and successful in equal fifty-fifty partnerships all over the world . Other United States companies have only 15 , 25 or 35 per cent ownerships abroad  --  one large American packaging firm insists on only 6 or 8 per cent . Foreign Investors There are some 51 to 100 per cent investments , but it is also true that French and other foreign investors are included in the so-called United States ownerships . We should encourage more European institutional investors to channel funds into our companies  --  it would ease our problem . The new book by the publisher of L'Express , JeanJacques Servan-Shreiber , " The American Challenge , " says American industry is taking over Europe not financially , as de Gaulle says , but through its creative know-how , entrepreneurism , management techniques and decision-making . But here , too , most American industries I know are examples of where he is wrong . Many of these companies license their equipment and processes . They are only paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States firms I know about have management or technical aid contracts in more than thirty countries . They are paid only as consultants . De Gaulle 's and Servan-Shreibees themes are an old story to Americans . They pop up in Canada every few years . American investments in Canadian pulp and paper are tremendous , far in excess of those in Europe . Canada 's independence always survives these manufactured panics . Canada always opens its door again to U.S. investments when needed . The French will come back for United States investments if we cut them back . De Gaulle wo n't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs . Cooler heads will prevail in France , as they always have in Canada . But how silly to suggest that business could take over the ultra-socialistic nations of Europe . ALBERT W. WILSON New York , Dec. 4 , 1967 The writer is editorial director of the periodical Pulp and Paper International . Cardinal Spellman To the Editor : I write in response to your editorial of Dec. 4 concerning Cardinal Spellman . It is not surprising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagree in public with Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt should be remembered with disdain by The New York Times . But , even with that , your characterization of the Cardinal 's 28-year tenure as Archbishop of New York as being dedicated to " authoritarianism " and the " narrowly orthodox " is just a little silly . That His Eminence was not another John XXIII is perhaps a serious disappointment to The Times . Even some Catholics winced on hearing one elderly man 's statements on " Baby Doll , " Senator Joseph McCarthy , Vietnam and other issues of public . interest . The Times has a right and a duty to take anyone to task for what it regards as a political or tactical gaffe . But to memorialize Ws Eminence with a dreary litany of actions and statements you found displeasing is not the clearest evidence of a deep understanding or commitment to the spirit of ecumenism , or even simple charity . While The Times may regard his accomplishments as being in the field of " trivial issues " and " lost causes , " the Cardinal will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faiths , his work among the poor and the orphaned , racial and religious minorities , and for speaking out when he thought he was right on behalf of parochial school children of all denominations even at the risk of being chastised by The New York Times . Your pompous editorial can only be regarded as insulting to his memory , and offensive to the Catholics of New York City and others who mourn his passing . In a word , it was a very small commentary from such a great big newspaper . STEPHEN J. FEARON New York . Dec. 4. 1967 Mayor 's Western Trip To the Editor : The recent political junket of Mayor John Lindsay to California presents vital questions to citizens of New York who pay the new taxes and increase in fees imposed and threatened by the Lindsay administration . How many people went to California in Mr. Lindsay 's party , or preceded him to make elaborate arrangements ? How much did the trip cost , and who paid for it ? How could , the Mayor be absent from New York City so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rerouting of , subway trains and the threatened transit strike boiling here ? Why did Harry O'Donnell , the Mayor 's press secretary , said to be a political professional , find it necessary to make midnight trips to news agencies in ' Los Angeles to supply details of the Mayor 's California trip ? The answers to these questions may help those New Yorkers who still have doubts to determine the extent of the ineptness of the Lindsay administration , which has engendered widespread disappointment and caused New York City bonds to be downgraded from A to B ratings in the financial services . WooDSoN D. ScorT New York , Nov. 27 , 1967 Public Housing in Sheepshead Area To the Editor : Neil Gordon 's plea for the Sheepshead Bay 's fleet ( letter Nov. 27 ) is a new wrinkle in trying to stop the building of the low-rent public housing in this community . At hearings we have heard that the dissenters are not opposed to public housing , but a parking lot or playground or school or road is needed more urgently for those living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Mr. Gordon is sincere in his lament that the " high-rise buildings " will destroy the community , then he will be as delighted as we are that the New York City Housing Authority is redesigning the project to build garden apartments instead of multistory buildings . Will Mr. Gordon and his lovers of beauty join with the numerous organizations in Queens and the Metropolitan Council on Housing in coming to the Board of Estimate in January and speaking for this project with this change in the architecture ? We would welcome such support . JANE BENEDICT Chairman , Metropolitan Council on Housing New York , Nov. 28 , 1967                     