@@725181

txt Moscow is preparing for a possible Rubicon in its relations with Peking and Washington , a major diplomat with wide contacts here believes . This explains why the current cold wind out of Moscow is whipping just as hard ap Peking as it is at British foreign ministers and American columnists . In this analysis , Moscow sees its possible great watershed brought suddenly closer by the threat of further American escalation in Vietnam . It does not quite believe Washington will escalate to the point of bombing Chinese Communist territory . But it is preparing its position toward each side , just in case . Thus , after a year 's forbearance , the government of Alexei N. Kosygin has just hit out three times at Peking  --  even accusing the Chinese of " hampering the struggle of the Vietnamese people and helping the aggressor " by splitting Communist ranks . War evaluated And , after a mild autumn of " selective coexistence " here at the UN , Moscow now has bluntly closed off even this partial detente with the single stop sign " Viet-. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would damage the Soviets ' two major rivals . But it would also be vastly dangerous . Soviet leaders would have to decide how fully they would honor their treaty commitment to aid Peking if called on . Or what to do if not called on . One decision would mean facing possible war with the United States ; the other , a probable Chinese break in relations . The latter choice seems more likely to many diplomats here . It is probably this likelihood that Mr. Kosygin is trying to becloud . The next move is up to Washington . ' American officials here have assured top UN authorities that President Johnson is strongly resisting pressures to escalate the bombing in North Vietnam in coming weeks . Uncertainty injected But diplomats here understand why the Kremlin is taking its insurance steps now . Its Westward warning  --  conveyed by Mr. Kosygin to British Foreign Secretary Michael Stewart and New York Times columnist James Reston and loudly underlined by the Soviet defense budget rise ? is read here as intended to inject uncertainty into Pentagon estimates that the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier this fall may have encouraged this view . Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko spoke here in late September , making what appeared to be only a stock reference to Vietnam , a relatively mild one on West Germany . and hopeful sounds about progress on halting the spread of nuclear weapons . Eastern European diplomats began to speak of a " selective " return of the Moscow-Washington cooperation that followed the test-ban treaty . The Vietnam war , some said , had been digested , compartmented off from other East-West relations . Double Nvarning That was before escalation . That was when the Eastern Europeans and perhaps Moscow felt that mediation proposals ? from Britain , Ghana , Hungary , and from U Thant ? might yet reverse the acceleration of the war . Now that those attempts to slow the machine have failed , Moscow is believed to be making its current moves with two purposes in mind : First , to warn off Washington and Peking . Second , if this fails and escalation proceeds , to solidify its position in the rest of the world against both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Eastern Europe and line up Communist Party solidarity elsewhere . ' Both the Pravda and Izvestia attacks on China in recent days have had " unity " as a refrain . They have pictured the " superrevolutionaries " of Peking as aiding " imperialist " designs . This is a reply in kind to Peking 's assertions that Moscow is " singing a duet " with Washington .                     