@@721171

txt With the civil-rights issue all but out of the way , Congress is getting set for battles in the weeks ahead that will separate parties and philosophies rather than geographic sections . Central to almost all of them will be the battle of the budget . Heading the list will be the question of how to help older people pay their medical bills . Little action on any of the pending issues , most of them quiescent while the civil-rights war was being waged , is expected this week . But after Easter , the fur should begin to fly . The end of the road may be more Presidential vetoes , partisan struggle and a big impact on the voting in this election year . These are the main items on the list : Medical care . for the aged ? Hearings continue in the Senate . The House Ways and Means Committee will not tackle the matter this week , but may vote again later . It has already rejected a plan to provide hospital , surgical and nursing home care under the Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social Security taxes on workers and employers . Social Security Changes Social Security generally ? The House committee has been quietly considering a long series of changes , almost all aimed at improving benefits in one way or another . This week the committee staff will try to draft legislative language to cover the changes tentatively approved . The Administration has been silent so far , but it has typically gone along with some election year liberalization . Depressed areas ? Northern Democrats in the House have been putting increasingly strong ? pressure on the Rules Committee to free a bill that goes far beyond what the President has asked . The Senate passed a bill last year . Some sort of action is highly likely , and a veto is a distinct possibility . Election implications are large in a number of states . School Aid Program Housing  --  The Rules Committee may release any day a Democratic bill carrying $1 , - 000,000,000 for mortgage purchases , designed to ease some of the tight-money pinch on the mortgage market . The final outcome , on both the House floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it stands is almost certain of a veto if it reaches the President 's desk . Education  --  Again , the Rules Committee is unlikely to prevent the House from voting on a bill to provide nearly $400 , - 000,000 a year in grants to the states for school construction . The Senate has already passed an even more liberal bill . The Administration is strongly opposed to the Senate bill  --  because , among other things , it permits grants to help improve teacher salaries  --  but there have been hints the President might accept the bill pending in the House . In any case , there will be a big struggle . . Taxes  --  Several major items are pending . In some , there may be advance compromise between the Administration and Congress , but in others there probably will not be . There is maneuverj.ng in the Senate to prepare the way for a law - requiring tax withholding of dividends , and there will also certainly be an effort to repeal the present tax benefits accorded to dividend recipients . A bill to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-employed now looks like a , certainty . Finally , there will be strong pressure to permit the lapse of several excise taxes requiring Congressional action for extension  --  chiefly the telephone , and transportation excises . The President urgently wants all these taxes extended : In addition , Federal pay and farm legislation are lurking in the wings , with a good chance of action this session ,                     