@@721206

txt President Eisenhower appointed two members to the politically sensitive Federal Power Commission today . Thomas J. Donegan , former agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and now a member of the Subversive Activities Control Board , was named to replace William R. Connole , whom the President recently re ? fused to reappoint . In explana ? tion of his refusal , the President said only that he could get " a better man " for the job . Paul A. Sweeney , attorney in the Justice Department , was designated to fill the unexpired term of John B. Hussey , who died recently . A Civil Service career man , Mr. Sweeney served as an attorney in the State Department from 1928 to 1932 and before that was with the Civil Service Commission . Change in Practice In announcing the appointments , the White House press office said the President was abandoning the practice of naming representatives of consumers or the oil or natural-gas interests to the commission . " The President does not think this is the way it should be done , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James C. Hagerty , press secretary , said . " He believes that members should be representatives of all sections of the United States , and not one segment of the economy . " Mr. Hagerty recalled that the late Mr. Hussey , who was appointed by President Eisenhower in 1958 , had been generally described as representing the natural-gas industry 's point of view on the agency . Mr. Connole has been similarly identified as representing consumer interests . Trouble Looming An indication of trouble ahead for the Donegan nomination came in a statement by Senator Thomas J. Dodd , Democrat of Connecticut . He said he was " deeply disturbed " because the Administration had given no reason for dropping Mr. Connole . He said he would press his demand for a White House explanation on the floor of the Senate . " It has become more necessary every day that the public be told the reasons if we are to achieve and maintain a high degree of public service , " he declared . Both appointments require Senate confirmation . Mr. Dodd did not indicate whether his planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donegan . Mr. Connole 's strong stand against high gas rates had prompted Mr. Dodd and other Senators to call him a champion of the consumer . At a recent news conference the President declined to go into why he would not reappoint Mr. Connole , except to say , " I think I can get a better man . " Unusual sensitivity has been attached to Presidential appointments to independent agencies and commissions once Congressional investigating committees turned up evidence of questionable conduct by a few members of the Federal Communications and Trade Commissions and the Civil Aeronautics Board . Recently the F. P. C. was brought under investigation by the House Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight following charges that some of its decisions might have been influenced by " off-the-record " contacts with representatives of gas pipeline companies . The charges have been denied by Jerome K. Kuykendall , chairman , and other members of the agency . Mr. Donegan was an enrolled Democrat in 1947 . He has since become an independent . Mr. Sweeney and Mr. Done-1 have long resided in the District of Columbia . The for-I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1933 . Mr. Sweeney was born in Washington , Pa. , July 12 , 1893 . His family moved to Bartlesville , Okla. , in 1908 . He is a graduate of Georgetown University here . In World War I Mr. Sweeney served as a naval aviator . Afterward , still in the Navy , he flew seaplanes to deliver the mail between the capital and Hampton Roads , Va . He was admitted to the Oklahoma bar in 1921 , and practiced in Tulsa until 1924 . His wife is the former Flora Thrasher of Nashville . They have two children , Paul A. Jr. , 19 , a student at ' the University of Maryland , and Patricia D. , a senior at Holy Cross Academy here .                     