@@726777

txt CAPE TOWN , South Africa , Dec. 5 Tuesday ' ? The transplanted heart of a dead girl beating steadily inside him , ' Louis Washkansky was put on a diet of soup and a soft boiled egg today , and one of his doctors said he is gaining ground . " All is going as well as an ? open heart operation can be have . " said Dr. S. C. W. Bos man . heart . surgery registrar al Creole Schour hospital . where the 55-year-old businessman received the heart of Denise Ann Darvall. 25. in a five-hour operation Sunday . The girl was killed in an auto accident . The respirator pump that helped Washkansky breath e after the landmark surgery has been removed . Breathing Under Own Steam " He 's breathing under his own steam now , " said Dr. Jacobus Burger , medical supervisor at Groote Schuw ' . Washkansky , who doctors said probably would have died today or tomorrow of a deteriorating heart without the transplant , drank water , orange drink and milk yesterday . He . also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I am feeling much better . " Washkansky last night asked the head of the pioneering surgery team , Prof. Christian Bar ! nerd : " What kind of an operation did I have ? You promised me a new heart . " " You 've got a new heart , " Barnard replied . The transplanted heart is in good condition , Pro . Jan H. Louw said . It required only a single shock to start it beating after being transplanted during the five hour operation . Up to Transplant Rejection of the heart by Washkansky 's body is the greatest danger now , physicians said . Louw said that drugs were being administered to lessen the chances of such a rejection . Doctors also were bombarding Washkansky 's heart with cobalt radiation to help his body accept it . The doctors said the radiation treatment was crucial . " The most serious possibility of rejection will come at the end of a week , " Louw said . " This is the crucial time for the success of the operation . He may not show any effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bit anxious . " As this is the first operation of its kind , there are many questions that are unanswered and this is one of them . We must meet them as they arise . " Washkansky. a Lithuanian-born Cape Town business man , could be kept alive on a heart lung machine if the transplant is rejected , said one specialist , but only for 24 hours at the most . The 30 year gap in ages between donor and receiver makes no difference , Prof. Barnard said . After 3 Years Research There were no serious problems in the transplant , he said . Three years of research with animals preceded the operation . " This research was to work out a technique , " Barnard said . " Once we decided we had this worked out , we felt we could do a transplant on a human . . . . We realized that the donor would probably have to be a victim of a motor accident . " A young physician who watched the 30 man team of medical specialists perform the operation said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was taken up with anastomosis ? the painstaking work of suturing main arteries and veins of the patient to those of the donor heart .. " Then , when the last anastomosis was in place they clamped the tubes leading from the heart to the pump . This was the moment of truth . Everybody leaned forward . " " Prof. Barnard muttered : It 's going to work . ' The four surgeons stood back with their hands clasped , waiting . Time seemed to stop . Then the patient 's heart took over . Mr. Washkansky was on his own .                     