@@723451

txt Premier Georges Pompidou outlined today the Government 's " stabilization plan " intended to check the inflation that is weakening the French economy . The main points of the plan include a drastic effort to cut some Government spending , tightening of credit , agreements with shopkeepers to maintain prices at present levels and ultimately to reduce them , and an attempt to keep wage increases within reasonable bounds . The Premier also disclosed that in an effort to increase France 's labor force many young men would be exempted from military service on Nov. 1 . Details of these and other measures in the campaign against inflation will be announced Thursday . Mr. Pompidou 's outline of policy appeared in the Paris weekly ParisMatch . Legislation to Be Offered VaMry Giscard d'Estaing , Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs , said the Government program included legislative measures that would be submitted to the National Assembly . The steady rise in prices , and the demand for wage increases to meet them , are regarded by the Government as serious dangers to France 's continued prosperity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inflation in France is indicated by the rise to consumer prices of 6 per cent over last year . In the same period consumer prices in the United States rose 1.5 per cent . In the last three years in France consumer prices have risen more than 16 per cent . Increases in food prices have put an especial strain on the people . Wage Increases Lag Wage increases , particularly in the nationalized industries , have lagged behind rises in Hying costs .. The Government believes in tying wage increases to advances in productivity . But ' management and employe antipathy to such a policy has prevented its development in many industries . The connection between stable prices and continued prosperity has not been understood by a large section of the population . Statements in the last two days by agricultural and industrial unions emphasized the re-I sistance that would be made to the stabilization plan . Agricultural unions criticized the Government 's rejection of increased farm prices . The farm- ers are also opposed to Cabinet plans to stimulate imports of pork and eggs , and to release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Three major industrial unions also attacked the Government 's position . They demanded a reduction of profits to make possible lower prices , greater participation by workers in industrial planning and the elimination of unproductive Government enterprises . The Government appeared caught between its desire to maintain the growth of France 's economy and the threat of a wave of strikes this winter if price rises continue to outstrip wage rises . Mr. Pompidou emphasized that although some Government expenses would be reduced in the next budget , overall spending would increase . This , he said , is natural in " a country in expansion . " Unions Are Warned France , he insisted , mush expand her civil service , especially in education . " Our requirements are imperative , " he said . " We are not able to discard them . " The Premier warned the unions that the plan must be carried out energetically . Otherwise , he said , " this Government or the next " will be forced to employ " surgical " operations painful for all . He called for restraint by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stabilization plan effective . Each , he said , must accept some reduction in the rate of his individual economic im- provement . The left wing in French politics has benefited from the public 's dismay over prices . Even before details of the stabilization plan are known , Socialist and Communists are denouncing it as a device to maintain industrial profits at the expense of the workers .                     