@@726365

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 45 Letters to the Editor of The Times U. S. Commitment To the Editor : The relation between the open warfare in the Middle East with all its tragic entailments and the war in Vietnam should be noted and emphasized . Fighting erupted only when it had become clear to the Israelis that the United States was unwilling to take the necessary forceful action to honor its commitment that the Gulf of Aqaba shall remain open . As sonic senior Congressional leaders stated openly and Administration officials undoubtedly determined in private , the United States would not be involved again in unilateral action unless our most vital and direct interests were at stake . Thus the colossal blunder of Vietnam has not at all shown , as Secretary Rusk is so fond of repeating , that the United States is ready to stand firm behind its commitments , if need be alone . On the contrary . the lesson of Vietnam is that we will be extremely hesitant to take unilateral action in support of our commitments where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how solemn those commitments and how worthy their beneficiaries . CHARLES FRIED Professor of Law Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , June 9 , 1967 . ? To Internationalize Waterways To the Editor : The present crisis in the Middle East was precipitated , as was the crisis in 1956 , by an issue of access to international waterways , To prevent a recurrence in the Middle East or anywhere else In the world of this kind of crisis , we should seize upon the present moment to promote , through the United Nations , the internationalization of all channels which control any maritime nation 's convenient access to any international body of water . There would be a price to pay for such an arrangement . We would be required to surrender control over the Panama Canal to an international body , Many have endorsed just such an internationalization of the Panama Canal on its own merits , however , And we would gain , through internationalization of the Gulf of Aqaba , the Suez Canal , the Straits of Gibraltar and other such channels , increased security and freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internationalized , they will be tempting targets for everyone front Colonel Nasser and his successors to ardent Panamanian nationalists . ROBERT .1 , WoLEsoN Professor of Economics A. DALE TUSsING Assistant Professor of Economics Syracuse University Syracuse , June 8 , 1967 ? Family Court System To the Editor : Before the Lindsay administration took office I met with Deputy Mayor Timothy Costello to discuss the problems of the family court system . Mr. Costello indicated that the administration could effect little change because the courts and Youth House are not within the Mayor 's control . Only tragedy has focused attention upon correcting the horrendous conditions that existed at Youth House . Must we wait for a second tragedy before the city administration becomes concerned with the inefficiencies , inadequacies , and inequities ' of the Family Court ? Procedures Criticized For instance , why must telephones ring without being answered ? Why must probation officers serve duty on juries ? Often the probation officer is the only person who is in a position to help a troubled child in a moment of crisis . While supervisors carry the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often damaging to the child who has to relate to a new person . Why must all judges take lunch at the same hour ? Why can not judges rotate their lunch hours so that people may be serviced all day ? Why is there no central clearing agency that correlates information among the courts in all boroughs ? At present a child may be brought to two different courts on the same charge without either court being aware of the other charge . Why is it that a Law Guardian , a lawyer supplied by the court , meets the child only minutes before the case is heard , and is most often totally ignorant of the child 's background , problems and needs ? Most often , the Law Guardians are concerned only with their own records of achievement and in getting an acquittal for a child . In such cases I have even seen Law Guardians fight against psychiatric referral . Apparently their approach is that of a criminal lawyer who wants to get his client " off , " rather than that of a professional concerned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed to this court be appointed only on the basis of political expediency ? This is the most meaningful court in our city in the sense that this is where human dignity can either be saved or destroyed . Judges without knowledge of psychological needs , behavior and motivations and without skill in dealing with interpersonal relationships can do more harm than good . This Is a court where we Jo not need political hacks but people of stature on whom it should be incumbent to take training in the disciplines of mental health . ESTHER P. ROTHMAN Principal , Public School 8 New York , May 29 , 1967 ? For Cooperation With Medicaid To the Editor : May I congratulate you for printing Martin Tolchin 's news article " Pharmacies Here Accused of Fraud . " Once again you have rendered a public service for which all citizens , including physicians , should be grateful . One more thing , however , should be brought out : Medicaid prescriptions are being filled by some Harlem pharmacies with such delays as to cause great , inconvenience to.patients and to endanger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Medicaid program . But if the pharmacy does , it seems to me it should provide prompt , efficient , honest and courteous service , I am well aware that pharmacies ( as well as physicians ) are waiting for payments under Medicaid , but if we choose to participate in this essential program , then let us give recipients the same prompt , courteous and considerate service as our Park Avenue patients receive , GEORGE SIMMONS , M.D. New York , June 6 , 1967 ? Premier Ky Praised To the Editor : In his attack on Premier Ky for daring to say he 'd keep on fighting the Communists , even if they won the September election , your correspondent Edward C. Devereux ( letter May 26 ) tries to hoist the frankspoken Vietnamese leader on one of the many platitudinous petards of our Incurably " political " President . Ky knows , as does everybody else , with the possible exception of letter-writer Devereux , that the real reason for spending our blood and treasure In Vietnam is to stop a well-advertised Communist program of world conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr . put it in his talk to State University ( May 281 , to discourage " a worldwide rash of sponsored wars , civil in form , but imperial in global pattern . " If Vietnam happens to get a democratic government after that goal is achieved , so much the better . But realist Ky puts first things first : defeat of the deadly Communist conspiracy that almost conquered his people . GERARD P. KIRK Bridgeport , Conn. , May 29 , 1967                     