@@722024

txt Nearly half of the city 's 1,000,000 public school child dren seem to require some kind of extra help from their ! schools , the final report of the Mayor 's Juvenile Delinquency ! ! Evaluation Project estimates . The report , issued yesterday , considered how to increase the effectiveness of the schools Iguidance programs  --  which are already helping many of the troubled pupils  --  to meet the needs of all the half-million children . If the pressure goes unmet , the report explained , delinquency may be the conseH : iuence . The report said : " A child who shows in school , serious problems of reading retardation , of adjustment and achievement , of truancy , of academic failure , or of disruptive behavior  --  all earmarks of potential or actual delinquency ? needs help and needs it as early as he can get it . " Study Took Five Years The evaluation project , which took five years , closed with the submission of the report to Mayor Wagner . The report divided the halfmillion pupils in need of special help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( school children have " learning difficulties arising from emotional or mental disturbance . " A somewhat smaller group is mentally retarded . The biggest category ? " at least one-third or more and the proportion seems to he increasing year by year " ? consists of pupils from culturally and economically poor homes . Of this last group , the report ' said : " These children are likely , to have language difficulties and live under poor family conditions ; they are likely to lack motivation and interest ; they are likely to be educationally retarded . " While the school 's function is to teach , the report said , if the child has not been prepared to learn , the school " must step in ? ' to provide the needed social adjustment and psychological development within its capacity . In discussing the public schools ' three general guidance agencies  --  the Bureau of Attendance , the Bureau of Child Guidance and the Bureau of Educational and Vocational Guidance  --  the report said their programs were designed to treat rather than to prevent maladjustments . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad preventive program starting at the earliest grade levels . " The Bureau of Attendance had a caseload of more than 350,000 in the 1960-61 school year , the report noted . This caseload of a third of a million pupils , the report said , meant that the bureau 's works were " summary and have left little opportunity for the study or the treatment of the variety of problems that underlie absenteeism . " Since the bureau 's official task is enforcement of attendance and tracing the factors leading to absenteeism , the report went on , the bureau had to investigate the older children , who presented the most difficult attendance problems , leaving the area of more promise , the younger absentee , with much less attention . On the gradeschool level , the report said , the bureau 's services were spread very thin . Child Guidance Needs Similar difficulties plague the Bureau of Child Guidance , the report went on . Its caseload for 1959-60 was 20,067 children , or 2 per cent of the enrollment . This bureau 's Area Clinical Service was characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was found to handle only a small proportion of the emergencies it was set up to care for  --  children who are sent to be tested for retarded mental development , those with overt behavior problems and those returning from state hospitals and training schools . Staff shortages have plagued the Bureau of Child Guidance , but the report foresaw some help through a newly approved salary scale for professional workers . An enlarged staff , the report said , would permit the bureau to continue its effort to work directly in the schools . The practice of sending a psychologist and a social worker for a half-week of appointments and consultations in a school is now preferred to the former emphasis on long-term clinical treatment away from the school . The report cited the bureau 's reason for moving in this direction ? " most maladjusted dren are not so sick as to require psychotherapy "  --  and said that the move would reduce a situation where the " most work is done with cases producing the least results . " The preventive work , particularly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at less cost and at a time when it does the most good . Such a move could reduce the Area Emergency Service , the study said , but such a reduction should also be accompanied by more clinical facilities in the community itself . The third bureau , Educational and Vocational Guidance , the study said , has " conic to exercise a kind of loose control over a variety of guidance activities . " in addition to dealing with transferring and plar:ing students , bringing employment counselors to the high schools and providing counseling to children who have left school , the bureau provides liaison with the courts on delinquent youngsters , working with school and probation officers . In the elementary and junior high schools it provides educational guidance through counselors to help teachers handle problem children . The report said that these counselors had often found themselves giving clinical help beyond their competence because of the rather broad nature of the bureau 's activities . Recommendations Noted The evaluation group made the following recommendations toward reassessment and integration of guidance work : Thedevelopment of guidance programs should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , made by an independent research unit . 9Pupils should be screened and classified before assignment to special guidance programs . 9Before special guidance programs are expanded , efforts should be intensified to insure an adequate staff . Because of overlapping guidance programs , a standing committee representing the three major bureaus should be set up to study proposed projects and to supervise the whole guidance system . lThere should be special efforts to recruit and train a staff adequate for the whole guidance system . The school 's help to troubled children should , of necessity , the report said , be limited to what it is best equipped to give . The report urged that the community assume more of the burden outside the schools ' boundary . The report closed the fiveyear project , which was directed by Dr. Robert M. Maclver , Professor Emeritus of Political Philosophy and Sociology at Columbia University . It was the last of three " final " reports made by the project , which was set up in January , 1956 , to study all aspects of delinquency in the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     