@@726943

txt A controversial report that would severely restribt the news coverage of criminal trials was adopted yesterday by the American Bar association 's house of delegates . By a voice vote , the delegates also rejected requests by-representatives of the news media for a. one-year delay in action until a survey of 3,000 trial judges can be completed under the auspices of the American Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation . The delegates acted after more than two and a half hours of debate during which D. Tennant Bryan , spokesman for the publishers , invited the A. B. A. to join in the trial judge survey . He said he made the offer as evidence of the good faith of the press . 9 Ask for Deferment The vote to adopt the report of a special A. B. A. committee headed by Justice Paul C. Reardon of the Massachusetts Supreme court came after nine of 14 delegates had spoken in favor of a year 's delay suggested by Francis H. Fairley , a delegate from Charlotte , N. C. The delegates , Ithwever , who spoke against deferral of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. B. A. president-elect ; Earl F. Morris , the bar 's president ; and two-former A. B. A. presidents . Stanton L. Ehrlich , president of the Illinois State Bar association , said he voted against adoption of the Reardon report , but that virtually all of the rest of the state delegation voted in favor of the report . Report-Goes to Committee The Reardon report will now be transmitted to the A. B.A. 's committee on the evaluation of ethical standards which is rewriting the bar 's canons of ethics . Its report is expected this summer . In addition , the report recommends that law enforcement agencies adopt similar rules of conduct for policemen in dealing with the - news media in criminal cases . It also suggests that if the police fail fo do so , the courts and the various legislators should act to enforce the committee recommendations . Main Recommendations Briefly , the Reardon committee recommended that the police , defense and prosecuting attorneys , and judges be restrained from disclosing information about criminal records , confessions or admission of guilt , and the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delegate action , Bryan , Theodore F. Koop , Chairman of the joint media committee , and Michael J. Ogden , president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors , expressed disappointment . They predicted that the battle to prevent press censorship in crime news would now shift to the arena of state and local bar associations . Cites Position of Probe In addressing the delegates , Ogden expressed alarm at plans to force policemen to comply with the proposed regulations . " Adoption of these proposals placing policemen , who are not lawyers , in charge of the rules of evidence and policemen , who are not editors , in charge of the news , " he said . Koop told the delegates , " The public needs more rather than fewer facts if it is to evaluate realistically the current crime wave . Bottling up information about one isolated arrest may seem a trivial matter , but quashing details about 10 or 20 or 50 consecutive arrests may give the community a false sense of security . " In pleading for a year-long delay during which the publishers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Yours has been a life dedicated to the proposition that a verdict should not be rendered until all the evidence is in . " Later , when the delegates themselves spoke from the floor , the news representatives were supported by such speakers as William J. Raggio of Reno , Nev. , president of the National District Attorneys association , and Walter H. Moses , former president of the Chicago Bar association . Cites Good Faith It was Moses who told the delegates : " I think the media have shown good faith in inviting the bar association to join in their survey . " He , too , urged a year 's delay in the vote . In making his offer to the A. B. A. , Bryan remarked : " It is apparent to us from Justice Reardon 's remarks before the American Bar Foundation on Sunday that he questions the good faith , integrity , and trustworthiness of the press . " To illustrate our continuing good faith , we hereby invite the American Bar association to participate in , these studies on the same basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association . " After the delegates adopted the . Reardon report , Bryan told reporters the trial judge survey would go on , but apparently without any bar associations participation . Calls Study Redundant Justice Reardon , in a talk Sunday before the Fellows of the American Bar Foundation , and again yesterday before the delegates , dismissed the publishers ' survey as redundant . He again declared that he and his committee already knew the thinking of the trial judges . Some of the delegates who spoke in support of the news media , such as Alfred J. Schweppe of Seattle , Wash. , Herbert H. Anderson of Portland , Ore. , and William W. Gaunt of Denver , Colo. , pointed out that voluntary guidelines for news coverage of criminal cases already evict in their states between the news media and the bar . Schweppe reported that the voluntary codes had worked well in several recent murder trials in his state and that he doubted that the Supreme court of his state would adopt a compulsory rule in view of this success . Fairley tried twice to defer a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds its next meeting in Chicago in a year . His first attempt several hours before the debate failed for want of a second . In Public Interest But when he was finally permitted to place his motion before the house , Fairley told his fellow delegates that the publishers ' survey " would be in the public interest . " " It seems to me that one year is not an unreasonable request . " Fairley said . He said that a year would also give all of the nation time to study the questions raised by the Reardon report , questions which he said are vital to America . Fairley likened the study of the fair trial-free press issue to eating bear meat . " The more you chew it , the tougher it gets , " he observed .                     