@@722633

txt Letters to The Times pg . 24 Letters to The Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a member of the House Education and Labor Committee for ten years , I was much interested il ? ' your Sept. 4 editorial " School Aid : Stalemate . " Having long advocated a more aggressive  --  though carefully defined  --  role for the Federal GOernment in the field of education , I share your concern , and your pessimism , about the lack of accomplishment this year . This was not inevitable . I agree with you . that President Kennedy 's " strange silence " is partly responsible , as is the lack of interest of others in the Executive and Legitlative branches .. Another factor , in my opinion , is that some of the programs recommended Were poorly conceived . In any event , as you point out , expediency seems to have prevailed . Ringing declarations of need proved to have a hollow sound because there was no follow-through . Education apparently has been abandoned by the New Frontier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a variety of piecemeal measures , including bills to aid construction of college facilities , and to combat adult illiteracy . Your editorial , however , implies that a fight was made to pass these relatively minor measures , and thus build up a record . This is hardly the case , as even these bills have not been enacted . Far more could have been accomplished had a sustafned and honest effort been made . Sharp differences exist about the advisability of Federal aid to education , but this fact can not account for the Democrats ' defeatism , and their obvious reluctance to risk a fight . In previous years bipartisan efforts brought some success , and a similar search for a reasonable compromise should have been made this year . Regrettably , no such effort was attempted . Solid bipartisan support developed for the bill to accelerate the construction of needed college academic facilities , but even here the result has been only a prolonged stalemate . As your editorial suggests , nothing of substance will be accomplished in the field of education without courageous leadership . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invites further defeats . PETER FRELINGHUYSEN Jr. , Member of Congress , Fifth District , New Jersey . Washington , Sept. 8 , 1962.  - -  - For Control of Ragweed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The care of its citizens should be one of the foremost duties of a city government . It should always act according to the old rule that " an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure . " Unfortunately , there are eight to nine million people in the Unites States who suffer from hay fever . Approximately 400,000 to 450,000 of them live in New York City . Judging from the many telephone calls I receive , the city apparently has neglected to do very much about the ragweed this year . We found , for instance , giant ragweed all around the lower part of the Riverside Drive promenade . Why is n't it cut down before - it conies into full pollination ? There is also ragweed growing in other sections of Riverside Park . The Department of Health should look into this matter immediately . MANFRED GEORGE , Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Illuminating Fifth Avenue ToTHEEDITOROF THE NEW YORK TIMES I have noted with more than ordinary interest that Commissioner of Traffic Henry A. Barnes has recommended changing the beautifully designed ornamental bronze traffic light standards along Fifth Avenue to a more functional type that will project over the thoroughfare . It is quite understandable that when the existing standards were erected thirty-two years ago the traffic on the avenue was much less congested and less heavy as compared to the complex situation facing the Commissioner today . Therefore , his proposal ' would appear to be meritorious . However , the important thing that must receive only the most careful thought in his proposal is to make dead sure that the new design combines utility with beauty . This is a responsibility that falls rightly within the jurisdiction of the Art Commission of the City of New York . In this connection , I am reminded of the unfortunate installation of the ugly lighting standards . that were erected on Park Avenue some twenty-five years ago and which are still there today doing constant damage to the appearance of this delightful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How the design of these standards ever passed the scrutiny of the Art Commission at that time has always been a mystery to those of us who are interested in preserving the charming and refreshing aspect of this wonderful avenue . This is a situation that never could have happened in Paris and it must never be repeated in New York on any of our important thoroughfares . It is reassuring to know that the president of the Fifth Avenue Association , Andrew Goodman , is cognizant of the necessity of protecting the appearance of one of the most beautiful ; avenues in the country . FRANCIS KEALLY , F. A. I. A. , Past President , New York Chapter , The American Institute of Architects . New York , Sept. 4 , 1962 . Aid for Latin America Suggestions Offered to Improve Alliance f6i . Progress TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I , who have dedicated many years to help solve the problem of the suffering masses in Latin America , in all humility offer the following proposals which might help put the Alliance for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two special administrators , one American and one Latin , of the country involved , who would be directly responsible to the President and Congress of both countries . Make strict embargoes on transferring money out of the country and enforce a law for nationals who have removed their money from the country to foreign lands to report it to the Government and , if possible , force such capital 's re-entry . Reform tax laws and enforce their collections . To prevent further hate , vengeance and mass murders  --  enforce severe punishment for bribery and corruption and uphold equal ' justice for all , rich and poor alike . Junk the antiquated status quo and replace it with a cooperative and coordinated program with a definite policy to achieve the goal of the alliance , which must be strictKurdish Cause Backed Submitting Independence Demands of Iraqi Minority to U.N . Proposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIM ES : I am intrigued , by the Dana Adams Schmidt article of Sept . IC concerning the current revolt in . Kurdistan . I shall read the series with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association with and affection for the people of Kurdistan and their long fight for national freedom . The obsession of my own country ( Great Britain ) in setting up  --  a Arab-controlled Iraq after World War I gave little consideration to the rights of Kurdish nationalism . Hindsight shows that it would have been wiser to have established a Kurdistan related to Iraq as Scotland is to England . The Kurdish highlanders have al ' the characteristics ( including th pipes ! ) of the clansmen who fought Bannockburn and the lost Flodden Field . The Scots never hesitated to use dangerous allies ? in their case the French  --  and Mullah Mustafa is serious when he says he 'll make deal with the U. S. S. R. He hal a certain Churchillian approach to this problem of allies , but he 'll never be a Communist . In 1943 he tied up the then Royal Iraqi Army and apologized to the British Ambassador ( Cornwallis ) and asked diplomatic intercession for the Kurdish cause . At that time he did not ask more than proper representation in the Baghdad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Scottish Secretary for Scottish affairs -- and religious , legal and tribal rights ; although Moslems , the Kurds are mainly of the Sunni persuasion , the Iraqi Arabs are Shins . The strongly entrenched proArabs in the British political bureau turned all this down , the major war and Arab friendship being the concern of the hour . The intelligence reports of people like myself were ignored , or condemned as trivia . It was very hard to explain this away to Kurdish chieftains who were not in open revolt against Baghdad and who believed in slow , ' British-backed political support for their cause , Lack of School Aid Action Frelinghuysen Says Administration . Exerts No Leadership f h e f ly adhered to if the country is to receive the promised help , Our negotiations so far have been with the minority , the rich oligarchy who did n't want any reforms and who refuse to concede the power and control they have had for centuries over the depressed masses . Whatever negotiations have been made in the past were always favorable to them and did n't benefit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1 If a general poll were taken among the poor masses asking whom they would prefer to administer the Alliance for Progress project for them , the answer would be 99.9 per cent Americans , Not until the poor man and his family have enough to eat , selfrespect and a future to look forward to , will the violence , murder and executions stop . JoSe H. Z.tccot7R . New York , Sept. 1 , 1962 . Sterilization Clinic Approved TO THE EDITOR OF THE . NE YORK TIMES : One can understand that the Roman Catholic Church has a doctrinal and dogmatic opinion on the question of any form of artificial birth control . Its hierarchy and its priests have the duty to speak out s in defense of its position . a But do not those who disagree c with this position also have the right i to state their opinions  --  especially when the prelates of that church i pose their objections in terms of i " offense to human dignity " ? It seems to me that it is human r dignity itself which now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a limit his numbers and to prevent the birth of those whose miserable t and handicapped lives will place a s burden upon society . How is human dignity compatible with the ever-in- h creasing numbers of pitifully hungry p children or with the anguish of t those who have produced them be- d cause they were denied the knowl- p edge and the means to prevent their conception ? Recent Catholic objections to sterilization clinics in Virginia have stated that to permit the limitation of indigent families to three children s to treat them as " second-class citizens , " But unless limitation is allowed , how can the vast increase of population fail to produce thousands doomed to live as third- or ourth-class citizens ? Is it too much to hope , in the name of human wisdom and of uman mercy , that some day the Roman Church will accept the invitability of population control if mankind is to have any tolerable uture ? CHARLES W. LESLIE . Norwich , Vt. , Sept. 10 , 1962 . We had no United Nations in those days . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i the Kurdish question could be put before that high tribunal . Added should be the fate of the Assyrians , a Christian minority living among the Kurds . C. VERNON FROST . New York , Sept. 10 , 1962 . Reserves ' Call-up Criticized TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Although President Kennedy 's latest request for Executive authority to call up another group of reservists will probably pass Congress without opposition , it seems wise to examine more critically the efficacy of this move with regard both to our national and international position . Internationally , partial mobilization , even on a relatively small scale , has historically been a very crude , dangerous and ineffective instrument . If the move is purely defensive , it induces a like response among " enemies " and misunder. standing and suspicion among neutrals and allies . If the move is the beginning of a forceful attempt to eject Castro and his Russian ad'isers from Cuba , we stand immediately condemned as the aggressor . Domestically we have already ' een the results of using the reserves s a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an mage of weakness , not strength . Nobody wishes this country to be n a weak position militarily . But t seems that the way to become and remain strong is not to call up the eserves in every international crisis this rapidly demoralizes our forces nd the population behind them 1 , ut to build up our standing strength o a level sufficient to handle every ituation short of all-out war . The purpose of the reserves is to elp fight such a war , not to be a awn in the cold war . The difficulies of last year 's call-up will unoubtedly occur again , since this principle is again being violated . THOMAS W. ROBINSON . New York , Sept. 7 , 1962 . Visiting Hours at Prison TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : Nightly , a pathetic spectacle takes place outside the House of Detention for Women in Greenwich Village , Relatives and friends of inmates " visit " by shouting from the sidewalk to the prisoners who answer from barred windows . Could not something be done . to ease visiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This shameful situation ought to be alleviated , and not by police pursuit of the sidewalk visitors . IRVING BEARMAN , New York , Sept. 2 , 1962.                     