@@724558

txt London Over the past week the United States has been drawn into deeper military and political commitments in Southeast Asia . A series of attacks on United States military positions in South Vietnam triggered the official American policy of retaliation . American planes and pilots joined South Vietnam planes and pilots in a series of air strikes in North Vietnam . European allies of the United States watched with varying feelings . The British , deeply involved next door in the defense of Malaysia . were sympathetic . The British Government adopted a policy of avoiding any word or deed which would embarrass or cause trouble for the United States . The French were openly disapproving Not a single newspaper or a single important political figure spoke for Washington policy . Trap for U.S. ? The Italians were plainly anxious . One line of thought in conservative circles was that the United States had allowed itself to he trapped by the Soviets into doing Soviet dirty work against Communist China . The Germans want American first interests to remain in Europe where conditions have been improving for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation of former " satellite ' states The first beneficiary of the policy appeared to he Moscow . The Soviets seemed to have been taken by surprise but quickly issued a call for " solidarity in the socialist camp . " The call put Moscow back in front of the " camp " at a time when it badly needed a gain in its position there . Monopoly Enjoyed The Chinese Communists were building up an anti-Soviet propaganda campaign . The climax was expected to come just before the March 1 Communist gathering in MosCThe Chinese are boycotting the meeting and have done their best so far to discourage others . Moscow invited 26 Communist parties . So far only 14 have said they will come . China also sought propaganda benefit but Moscow appears to have been more successful . Also Moscow may put antiaircraft weapons into North Vietnam now . This could he Moscov. , ' s reentry into influence in Southeast Asia . The Chinese have been enjoying a monopoly for about two years . American planes met heavy antiaircraft fire . The loss of three United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising . The North Vietnamese are better provided with flak than could have been expected . Unknown Motives IThe West has no real knowledge of who pulled the trigger for the attacks on the American bases . The motives must also be guesswork . They could have been the result of local action by local guerrilla leaders . They could have been ordered from Hanoi , the North Vietnam capital . An order from Hanoi could have been inspired by the Chinese or the Soviet faction The Communist Party in North Vietnam is known to be split between the two . Difficult Exit i Perhaps most plausible is that the attacks on the American bases were part of a long : standing plan by the Communist forces . Their military activities have been building up steadily over years . There is a rhythm of ever-faster beat and stronger force . They must be approaching the tmal big push which they expect to carry them through to victory . The big push probably is on now . The United States is I deeply involved , and more so now than before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disengage from this ordeal . It is always easier for a Western power to become engaged on the mainland of Asia I than it is later to disengage .                     