@@725438

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times For Water Metering of Tenants To the Editor : It certainly is great to know that James Marcus , special assistant to Mayor Lindsay , favors a metered water system for New York City . This puts him in company with many distinguished commissioners and water engineers employed by the city who have argued for this constructive move . We can but hope that he has more influence with the Mayor than his predecessors . Of special interest is his proposal that the cost of water be equally divided among the tenants of the apartments , to place the obligation of water conservation more directly on them . You may recall that The New York Times proposed this some years ago , during this city 's previous period of water shortage . Guide to Supply The meters provide the only way that we can tell accurately whether the water gathered from our upland supplies , and now from the Hudson , actually ? will reach our faucets . Reductions in water requirements with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacular . Most interesting has been the reduction in requirements at night , which rather clearly shows that the savings have been through repair of plumbing and improvement of water mains . Inasmuch as our water requirements directly affect the water resources of a three-state region at least , we have an overriding responsibility to see that the use we make of this water is efficient . Now that the really desperate portion of our water shortage seems over , and we can consider long-range measures , a reorganization of waterworks financing in this city , based on a totally metered system , is imperative . WILLIAM S. FOSTER Editor American City Magazine New York , April 11 , 1966 ? Medicare Enrollment To the Editor : Your April 3 editorial " Medicare 's First Test " states that " the present breathless push to extend the sign-up period for medical insurance under Medicare " results from " mechanistic adherence to actuarial practice "  --  a situation you quite obviously regard as unfortunate . The March 31 deadline for benefits that begin July 1 was introduced more for administrative reasons than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elderly , such as " New York 65 , " found that about half of the applications were received in the last three days . If this same experience would have resulted under the supplementary medical insurance program , it would obviously have been inefficient , if not impossible , to have processed about ten million applications and begun paying benefits through intermediaries a few days later . Further , it is unlikely that many of those who missed the March 31 deadline would have made a June 30 deadline if this had been originally specified in the law . If the enrollment period is extended , however , many who would have missed either deadline may be signed up . I quite thoroughly agree with you that there are good and sound actuarial reasons for some waiting period , after enrollment , before insurance coverage begins , so as to guard against abuse . ROBERT J. MYERS Chief Actuary Department of Health , Education and Welfare Washington , April 5 , 1966 ? For Free Elections To the Editor : On April 8 James Reston reported that Thich Tri Quang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a parliamentary government within three months , and that it would " vote on whether to invite the United States to remain in Vietnam . " The very next day the Johnson Administration openly berated this prominent Buddhist leader and encouraged other Vietnamese to resist his leadership and his call for prompt elections . We have repeatedly asserted that we favor free elections in Vietnam and that we are there only at the invitation of their Government . To make these assertions credible , we should not appear to oppose prompt elections and a renewal of our invitation to remain . DANIEL J. BERNSTEIN Scarsdale , N. Y. , April 11 , 1966 ? I.L.A. Head Defends Union Course To the Editor : Your April 6 editorial on the wildcat strike in two areas of the Port of New York does not give sufficient credit to the vast majority of longshoremen in this port and to the International Longshoremen 's Association as such . Particularly unfortunate is the editorial 's title , " Anarchy on the Docks ? " The official figures show that on April 5  --  the preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this port , with less than 2,000 on strike . Both the and its officers have issued firm directives to the striking men ; and the failure of this relatively small number to obey , serious though it is , hardly justifies references to " organizational bankruptcy " and " anarchy . " The underlying dispute , as your own press reports indicate , involves not the reduction in gang members , which is the principal change obtained by the employers , but the number of men required to perform a particular industrial operation . Times news stories have reported recognition on the part of some management representatives of the need for additional men on certain types of cargo . This , I emphasize , does not justify a strike in the face of adequate grievance machinery . But it does show that the substantive issues are not as simple or one-sided as your editorial asserts . A union consists of thousands of human beings , none of whom are automatons . We are trying to put into effect an agreement which I am convinced is , on the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admittedly imposes radical changes in their working conditions . In the main these have all been accepted by waterfront workers , and those difficulties which have been encountered merit , in my view , a more sympathetic understanding than your editorial evinces . THOMAS W. GLEASON President , International Longshoremen 's Association New York , April 6 , 1966 da editorial on this subject appears today . ? Commuter Backs Tax To the Editor : As a commuter living in Nassau County but earning my living in New York City , I am unable to understand my fellowcommuters ' objections to contributing to the support of the city through an income tax . No one enjoys paying taxes . But as citizens we have an obligation to support the community which gives us our living . Good city government is expensive . I believe the Mayor wants New York City to have the best in all the manifold areas of services for which the city is responsible . Let us give him the chance to do what he wants by providing the money he needs . If we use city facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , we must help pay our own way . PAUL W. SPEAR , M. D. Director of Medicine Montefiore-Morrisania Affiliation New York , April 8 , 1966                     