@@724660

txt Johnson City , Tex. , March 20 CT ) ? President Johnson today ordered A lab a in a national guardsmen on federal duty to protect civil rights marchers in Alabama . Earlier story on page 21 . Montgomery , Ala. , March 19 AP )  - -   - -  Gov . George Wallace opened the door wide today for President Johnson to federalize the Alabama national guard for security during a civil rights march . Wallace stopped short of asking the President to take the step . In a telegram to Johnson , the governor said he himself was willing to call up the guard but t he state could n't afford it . Wallace said in the telegram he concurred with resolutions adopted by the Alabama legislature . They said the federal government should bear the costs since a federal judge has permitted the Selma-Montgomery march . Implication of Wire The United States government would pay the costs only if the guard is placed under federal control . The implication clearly was that Wallace and the legislature wanted the guard federalized . The President , keeping in close touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would call up the guard if Wallace was unable or unwilling to do so . Wallace 's telegram said : " Mr. President , I am willing to do whatever is necessary to maintain peace and order , including calling the Alabama national guard . However , our state is financially unable to bear this burden . Therefore , I respectfully inform you that . I do concur with the actions of the Alabama legislature . " Court Refuses Stay Wallace sent the telegram shortly after Federal District Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr . in Mongomery turned down the governor 's request to stay the order permitting the 50-mile march starting Sunday . A three-judge federal court in New Orleans , pending the outcome . of a full appeal to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals there , rejected tonight an appeal by Alabama attorneys to stay the march . One of Wallace 's attorneys said the case could be taken to the United States Supreme court . Wallace estimated it would take 6,000 men to provide the marchers with proper protection as they make the 50-mile trip to Montgomery from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources said it would cost about $12 a day per man to use the national guard . This would total $360,000 for the march if 6,000 guardsmen were used . A federal judge ordered civil rights demonstrations restricted to a limited area of Selma tonight after police took into protective custody 313 demonstrators trying to picket Mayor Joseph T. Smitherman 's house in a white residential area . Judge Daniel H. Thomas , in Mobile District court , ordered demonstrators to confine their civil rights protest activities to the immediate area of the Browns Chapel A. M. E. church , the starting place of the Selma demonstrations , and the streets leading from the church to the city hall aui u.ee Dallas In his telephoned order to laker , the judge said , " Persons can peacefully congregate , demonstrate , or picket . . . in the areas around the church and along the route to the city hall and courthouse . An aid of the Negro integration leader , Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , the Rev. William Greer , said civil rights leaders had not received a copy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is restricted , the order would be appealed to the 5th federal Circuit Court of Appeals . The demonstrations at Smithson 's home were aimed at stirring action by white residents toward bi-racial taiks . At one spot , a white man pushed a priest . Both were taken into custody . About 400 marchers went to the Selma city ball , held a brief demonstration of singing and praying outside , then left . Two men arrested Wednesday near the mayor 's house were freed on bond . In Montgomery , police arrested more than 70 persons late today after they tried repeatedly to demonstrate on sidewalks surrounding the capitol grounds .                     