@@723808

txt The Johnson-Lopez Mateos meeting in California was held against a background of a major review by the Johnson administration on its Latin-American policy . Washington is taking a broad look at its local hemisphere stance . President Johnson 's meeting with Mexican President Lopez Mateos is regarded as a major opportunity for the American Chief Executive to try out his hemisphere thinking on one of Latin America 's leading statesmen . Meeting of Envoys ? To Washington planners , the policy review now under way is of top priority at this time ? because of the disappointment over the two-year-old Alliance for Progress expressed in many circles , the recently erupted Panama crisis over the Canal Zone , and the continuing controversy with Premier Fidel Castro 's Communist - oriented island , Nevertheless , what to Latin-American capitals appears as a lack of firm United States policy toward the hemisphere and uncertainty over the Johnson administration 's approach to Latin-American issues are causing serious concern . Washington is aware of this Latin - American feeling , and the Johnson - Lopez Mateos meeting , it is hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks that the review of Latin - American policy is under way . The review may well include a meeting in March of United States ambassadors to Latin-American countries , although the actual call for such a meeting has not been issued . If it does materialize , the United States diplomats would be brought back to Washington for a week or more  --  according to Washington sources ? and would meet with the President , top Latin-American specialists in the State Department , and perhaps also with congressmen for an exchange of ideas on hemisphere policies . While no new hemisphere approaches of the United States will be made until the review now under way has been completed , Washington observers say the United States-Mexican talks this past weekend afforded President Johnson : ? An effective sounding board to air some of his thoughts on the hemisphere ; ? An opportunity to get a Latin-American point of view from an experienced hemisphere statesman . The primary issues for settlement in the United States-Mexican talks dealt with the question of salinity of the Colorado River . The two Presidents agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Colorado 's waters which are delivered to Mexico after United States irrigation farming places a great deal of saline material in the water . All Helping All ' But for the administration the other topics which came up for discussion during the talks served to give a better idea of Mexico 's thinking on hemisphere issues : Alliance for Progress . President Lopez Matcos regards the alliance as " not a matter of one helping others but of all helping all and each one helping himself , " as he told a press conference following the talks . Panama . President Lopez Mateos has again repeated his offer to mediate the United States-Panama dispute over the Canal Zone . The Mexican leader stressed to Mr. Johnson his feeling  --  and he indicated that this was the feeling of the rest of the hemisphere ? that the first necessity was the reopening of discussions between the United States and Panama . Mr. Lopez Mateos. in line with most other Latin-American countries , took no position on the issues dividing the two disputants . Cuba . It was on Cuba that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He told a news conference that " since Cuba has been ousted from the OAS Organization of American States 1 think it is the United Nations to which the United States should turn to find a solution of its problems with Cuba . " In Washington 's thinking , Cuba looms large .                     