@@726970

txt BOSTON , March 6 ? Lester Hyman , the chairman of the Massachusetts Democratic party , did not move far from a telephone yesterday . First at his handsome house in suburban Newton , later at the party office on Beacon Street , Hyman waited for instructions from Washington with mounting suspicion that they would never come . They almost did n't . At 4:43 P.M. , just seventeen minutes before Hyman was required by law to tell Secretary of State John Davoren whether or not President Johnson or any Democrat designated by him would enter the Massachusetts Democratic primary , the call finally came . Jim Rowe , the Washington lawyer and old-line Democrat who is the unofficial manager of Johnson 's unofficial re-election campaign , told Hyman that the President did not want his name entered against Senator Eugene J. McCarthy , nor would he name any " stand-in " to run on his behalf . A Favorite Son Of course , Rowe said , if Hyman wanted to enter the name of Maurice Donahue , the president of the Massachusetts Senate , or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hyman 's business . But such a candidate would be a " favorite son , " not a " stand-in " for Johnson . That is the kind of distinction that can get through the eye of a needle , if not into heaven , but the astute Hyman had little difficulty in recognizing it . A favorite son that he might choose would be his political as well as financial responsibility , win , lose or draw ; a stand-in designated by Lyndon Johnson would be the positive choice of the White House and the representative of the President , whether or not he won the race against McCarthy . Seventy-two Votes But without any Democratic opponent , McCarthy  --  who had legally been entered in the primary  --  would automatically receive Massachusetts ' 72 votes on the first ballot for a Presidential candidate at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago . Thus the President was telling Hyman , through Rowe , that he was willing to lose the Massachusetts delegation rather than fight McCarthy for it ; that he would not take the risk of designating a standin who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to act to save the delegation for the President , he would have to do so on . his own . But Hyman had been besieging the President for months to run himself , or at least to choose a stand-in for whom an adequate campaign could be mounted ; he had repeatedly assured the President of victory in either case . With barely time to get from his own office to Davoren 's by the 5 P.M. deadline , he had had enough . He did not enter anyone and the delegation went to McCarthy , the antiwar candidate . Now not even a write-in campaign is likely to save it for Johnson . In this state , voting machines make write-ins so difficult that the White House will actively oppose any effort to start such a campaign on the President 's behalf . All this has left Democrats here puzzled and unhappy . It has caused Speaker McCormack and Postmaster General O'Brien to withdraw from the delegation rather than be forced to vote for McCarthy , and it has probably given McCarthy himself his biggest boost in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus the reasoning of Rowe , O'Brien and other White House advisers ? no one yet knows how much Johnson himself is responsible for this kind of decision ? is being sharply questioned here . It is true that the best standins were not available ; Senator Ted Kennedy did not wish to oppose the McCarthy position . on the war or to borrow trouble for his 1970 re-election campaign ; Speaker McCormack believed himself too old to campaign and feared he would not run well enough if he did n't . It is true also that stand-ins like Donahue or O'Brien or the Speaker 's nephew , Edward McCormack , would have suffered from local political involvements and rivalries . Nevertheless , given time and preparation , such a stand-in might have held the delegation ? for the President . The fact is that Johnson and his advisers are not greatly concerned about the primaries . They calculate that if they stay out of all of them they will lose only about 400 of the 2,500-odd delegates . In Massachusetts they feared it might cost them ' $500,000 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider it good politics to picture Johnson as too busy running the war to run in primaries . Among the Delegates Beyond that , however , there was considerable unhappiness in White House political circles , about the presence on the Mas sachusetts delegation of such ' Democrats as Richard N. Good-. win , Jerome Wiesner , Adam Yarmolinsky and others considered antiwar , pro-McCarthy ; and  --  worse ? pro-Kennedy . , So the Massachusetts delega ; tion , in effect , was conceded to : Gene McCarthy . What remains to be seen is how much lift this , will give McCarthy in the New Hampshire primary next week .                     