@@722639

txt A military buildup by the East German Communist regime is beginning to worry intelligence experts in this free world outpost . The buildup began a year ago . soon after the German Reds built the Berlin wall . But it has accelerated sharply in recent weeks And it is taking a line that suggests to some Western officials that the East Germans and their Soviet allies may be preparing to try an experiment in the war of nerves over Berlin . Key factor While East German military forces are being expanded around a regular army core , much effort also is going into creation of a factory-workers ' militia that could be called quickly to arms from the assembly line , released in time to keep the satellite state 's production going , then perhaps called up again . The Allied suspicion : Red bosses may be planning this militia as a sort of flexible crisis-generating force , created not td fight but to back up , with what the Communists hope would be a scary military display , any political squeeze or series of squeezes Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Intention ? " The intention seems to be to organize Milts so that men could be called into uniform quickly in any cold war maneuver , shifted back to their jobs after the maneuver works or fails , then recalled again for the next pressure move . " says one Allied expert . Only time , of course , will tell if this reasoning is correct . But whatever the Reds ' motive , the fact of their buildup is no guess . Signs of it are obvious enough to have caught the attention of . such a non-cold war agency as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe , which recently suggested a defense buildup as a likely-explanation for the fact that production gains at East German factories have n't been matched by any rise in distribution of civilian goods from these plants . Allied intelligence officers claim to have much more specific data . From tales of refugees , reports of agents working inside Communist territory and study of industrial pro . duetion data they have pieced together this general piatutii ' of the preparation . The National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been expanded to 200,000 men , from 150,000 at the end of the year and 110,000 in mid-1:331 . The " Hundertschaften " Some 320,000 East German factory and farm workers have been organized into a militia , with perhaps 150,000 ready for call on short notice . . ' Htmdertschaften , " or combat groups of 100 men each led by hard-core Communists , have been organized in every factory in the country . By adding to these forces an expanded army of border guards , and by calling up some of the 400,000 East Germans who already have completed some military service and have been sent back to industrial jobs , Allied officials figure the German Reds in a few days could throw a force of about 500,000 men around Berlin  --  where they would face a garrison of only 15,000 Allied soldiers . Western intelligence men concede the fighting value of this force might not be very great ; one military expert says W. would consist of little more than a " bunch of fellows in green uniforms . " But that only reinforces their impression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reds with the means to create a scare that would severely test Allied will to stay in Berlin . As intriguing to Allied Intelligence as the size of the buildup is a considerable body of evidence indicating that the varied East German forces are being prepared for quick action if any Berlin incident blows up  --  or if the Reds create one . Guns in Lockers The factory " hundertschaf ten . " for instance , are said to keep their uniforms and weapons in plant lockers , so that in an emergency the workers can take the field without even going home to pack . The factories themselves , according to . intelligence reports , recently received alert orders notifying them to supply fuel , any necessary supplies which might be available , and quarters on demand by military forces . A military communications network is reported to have been established around the country to take over in an emergency . In addition , Allied sources say , every motor truck in East Germany currently is being inspected , and a program is being laid out to convert all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carriers for the army . Each truck reportedly is having a reserve fuel tank installed ; drivers are being instructed to keep this full at all times for " emergencies " and also to make sure that regular tanks are kept as full as possible while the truck is driving about its normal routes . These preparations are steadily being stepped up , Allied officials say . Since the Berlin wall went up last year , Army physicals have been given to 700,000 East Germans , according to the intelligence reports . Now , Western officials say , selective service regulations are being revised to send nearly every one of these men who can walk into some branch of serdce . The preparations for hurry-up action also are being accompanied by measures to increase East Germany 's long-term military preparedness . The regular army , for instance , is being equipped with new Soviet tanks , more tnodern artillery and rocket launchers . Rusman production experts are said to have been rent into East Germany to direct military production planning and allocation of materials . Though the East Germans have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to East German field commanders earlier this year did call for creation of a " very modern and strongly armed force equal to the level of Soviet troops " in combat efficiency and directed that " special attention " be given to " atomic war conditions . " It added visit " we must strengthen the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) against the revanchionists of the German Federal Government " ( West Germany ) . " Revanchionist , " a term taken from the French word for " revenge , " ordinarily means a person who wants his country to reclaim land it formerly held ; Communists use it as a synonym for " warmonger . " Factory Disruptions The buildup , and its diversion of resources to military uses , appears to be putting some strain on the East German economy . Allied sources hear stories of a pipe factory in Dresden which runs on short time because the alloy steel it requires does n't arrive , of a Potsdam electrical goods plant which arbitrarily postpones civilian orders , of shortages of motor vehicle parts , nails and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such disruptions could be held to a minimum if troops were called up not to fight but only to back a Red power play for a short period . Of course , the Reds do n't need a big East German force to create a Berlin incident , . if that is what they intend ; 20 Soviet divisions in East Germany are quite adequate for the purpose . But a key aim of Mr. Khrushchev since he started issuing Berlin ultimatums in 1958 has been to get the Allies to recognize and deal with the East German government . Use of satellite rather than Russian forces to stir up trouble also has been a Soviet pattern throughout the cold war , Allied sources in Berlin point out . And some see a further advantage to Mr. Khrushchev if the Reds create an incident that brings mobilized East German forces face to face with the Allied Berlin garrison . In that case , they suggest , the Soviet Premier could play the role of " peacemaker " by issuing a call for UN action or for some sort of international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , that it would result in some major compromise of the Allies ' Berlin position .                     