@@721024

txt Leaders of the Republican minority in Congress hoisted a " save that surplus " banner over President Eisenhower 's budget ' today . The consensus of members of both parties , however , was that the President 's forecast of a $4,200,000,000 surplus was unrealistic . The unfavorable outlook for approval of his requests for increases in postal rates and gasoline taxes alone was sufficient Ito reduce the prospective surplus to about $3,500,000,000 . In addition , demands imme , diately arose for higher outlays than the President budgeted for defense , space and soil conservation .. These undoubtedly will be followed as the session progresses by rising pressure for housing , education and other social-welfare programs that exceed the budget limits ' tions in cost and scope . ' Spender ' Label Foreseen ; In public statements today , Republicans minimized or ignored the President 's possible underestimation of revenues and gave notice that they would try to stamp a " spender " label on , the Democratic Congress if a . big surplus failed to materialize . Democrats countered with sharp attacks both on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reliability of the revenue projections . I The Republican strategy was defined most clearly by the iparty 's leader in the House , Representative Charles A. Halleek of Indiana . He called the budget " a promise and a challenge . " " The promise , " he said , " is that of meeting the nation 's immediate military and civilian needs out of income , with something left over to apply to our burdensome national debt . " The challenge lies in holding the line against added spending which would wreck all hope for a balanced budget , let alone a surplus . " Dirksen Voices Optimism The Senate Republican leader , Everett Dirksen of Illinois , took the same line in more subtle language . He declared that " the surplus can be achieved , " and said : " The whole responsibility rests on the shoulders of Congress since under the Constitution it is the only body in Government which has the authority to appropriate funds out of the Federal treasury . " Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas , Speaker and chief Democratic leader of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He expressed doubt that Congress would raise postal rates or gasoline taxes . Others , including some Republicans , predicted without qualification that no such increases would be granted . Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Senate Democratic leader , said the budget seemed to be based on " assumptions " that ' were " questionable , or at best , speculative . " The impact of Democratic attacks on the defense budget 's adequacy was offset somewhat by the prediction of Representative George H. Mahon of Texas that Congress would not increase it . Mr , Mahon , a Democrat , is chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee in charge of defense funds . He indicated his approval of the $41,000,000,000 total , but said Congress probably would want ? to reshuffle funds within lit to increase some programs land reduce others . One of the main attacks was by Representative Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia and ehairman of the House Armed Services Committee . He called for an Increase even if it entailed higher taxes . From the standpoint of national defense , he asserted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign instead of military requirements . " Senator John V. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , prolested what he called " an arbitrary ceiling ton defense outlays which actually represents a smaller share of our national economic effort than last year 's budget . " A prediction that Congress would exceed President Elsenhower 's recommendation of $600,000,000 for space programs came from Representative Overton Brooks , Democrat of Louisiana . Mr. Brooks , chairman of the House Science and Astronautics Committee , declared that to accept the budget figures would be to admit " we wo n't overtake the Russians . " He favors outlays of at least $1,000,000,000 . The President 's proposed reduction of the program of incentive payments for soil conservation practices brought a vigorous protest from Representative Jamie L , Whitten , Democrat of Louisiana . Mr , Whitten , chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that handles agricultural funds , said it was " ridiculous " to make such cuts while increasing soil bank subsidies for retiring land from production of surplus crops . Representative Lee Metcalf of Montana , leader of a group of liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appalled " at the President 's plans for reduction or termination of programs in the fields of water pollution , hospital construction and veterans and college housing . Representative Clarence Cannon of Missouri , chairman of the House Appropriations Committee , took a different line from most of his Democratic colleagues . He said the President should have proposed greater spending cuts . He expressed doubt that any surplus , let alone one a $4,200,000,000 , would be achieved .                     