@@726624

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times M.D. Shortage To the Editor : The Sept. 28-29 news articles by Richard D. Lyons describing problems with the use of foreign physicians in our hospitals and in private practice are not only timely but highly informative . Dr. Harold Margulies , assistant director of the American Medical Association 's Division of Socio-Economic Activities , calls the situation " a major national scandal . " Mr. Lyons points out that of the thousands of foreign physicians who emigrate here ( last year 7,952 ) many are of doubtful ability who arrive to practice here sight unseen and " quality untested . " Mr. Lyons adds that especially doctors from the developing countries have been unable to pass tests of basic medical knowledge and are practicing here without license . He also points out that twenty states have limited licensing arrangements , " allowing physicians to practice medicine even though they have not been licensed to do so . " Those who prefer working in hospitals as interns can make $400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to their own countries , it is to be expected that they become ambassadors of goodwill for the United States . Need for Action The articles should urgently initiate serious consideration in medical schools , university and other hospitals of formulation of plans to alleviate the situation as exposed by Mr. Lyons . It has been known for many years and has given concern to administrators , medical organizations , boards of trustees and American physicians . The great shortage of physicians in our country , especially in rural areas , has created a serious manpower problem . Smaller communities have been helped immeasurably by the Federal Hill-Burton Act of 1946 , which enabled construction of well-equipped hospitals in such communities , staffed in many instances by well trained American physicians who have been induced to practice in the country because of the available facilities . More needs to be done to stimulate a more equable distribution of physicians . It is suggested that medical schools make heroic efforts to admit more students , even though the schools are burdened with many critical problems , especially financial . One hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced physicians who have been retired from hospital staffs because of the mandatory age requirement and there are many practicing physicians who can spare the time . They might be willing to help by giving half or full time in hospitals , industrial medicine or various medical agencies for jobs clinical , supervisory or administrative , provided red tape could be hurdled . Pension plans and fringe benefits could be waived . With our rapid increase in population ( by 1970 , 206 million ) , the physician shortage will continue to create even greater problems for sufficient and adequate medical care . Let 's try to make better use of available manpower . Louis CARP , M. D. President , Board of Visitors Rockland State Hospital New York , Oct. 2 , 1967 ? To Rescue Jerome Mansion To the Editor : Herbert Fischbach and Jackson A. Edwards , owners of the apparently doomed Jerome mansion ( news article Times , Oct. 5 ) , meet " several other unnamed parties " who are interested in leasing a Manhattan mansion ( the story on the Carnegie mansion , same issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Landmarks Preservation Commission , which has , according to The Times , been looking around for a tenant for the Jerome mansion before the Fischbach-Edwards wrecking ball crashes into it . If there is such a surfeit of possible tenants for the Carnegie mansion that Columbia University can pick and choose ? choosing , incidentally , a suitable tenant for the area in the form of the Smithsonian Institution  --  then certainly someone has been remiss in not finding one to take over the Jerome house on Madison Square , thus preventing the destruction of a fine building and , much more importantly , an appropriate corner to one of Manhattan 's few organized open spaces . If all the parties concerned here can be somehow put into one room for an hour or so , perhaps we can prevent , in one fell swoop , the demolition of two notable structures . JAMES T. BURNS Jr . Senior Editor Progressive Architecture New York , Oct. 5 , 1967 ? Vietnam Withdrawal To the Editor : Herbert L. Matthews was entirely correct when he stated in a recent column on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate the Vietnam war as the greatest blunder in American history . " For the truth is we did make a colossal and stupid blunder when we involved ourselves again in a land war on Asian soil . The pathetic part of it all was stated by Henry Cabot Lodge when he said : " I think everyone is for peace . Both parties are for peace . All the responsible officials I know of are for peace . The difference of opinion is how to get it . " All of which begs the question that if everyone is so anxious for peace , why are we continuing to fight a war in Vietnam , a war that is gradually becoming an American war ? Much has been made of Gov . George Romney 's assertion that he was brainwashed regarding the situation in Vietnam . But who was so brainwashed as to get us into this most controversial and unpopular war in the first place ? To the Editor : It is always encouraging to read of plans to expand theater in the midtown area by , building new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opportunity to rehabilitate a number of excellent theaters in West 42d Street . It will be fine to welcome new theaters in new office buildings . But until this dream materializes , once more please permit this weary crusader the privilege of asking why the . theaters between Broadway and Eighth Avenue on 42d Street are not rescued . This would not only benefit show business . and playgoers and the midtown ? image , it would also help , to . improve a bereft neighborhood . ROBERT DOWNING . Director National Theatre Services New York , Oct. 3 , 1967 ? Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     