@@724556

txt President Johnson r.:mmoned the National Security Council today to discuss new Communist military successes against American and South Vietnamese troops , but gave no hint whether- the United State would respond . On Sunday and Monday United States and South Vietnamese planes raided bases in North Vietnam in retaliation for an attack by Vietcong forces at Pleiku in South Vietnam . Eight Americans were killed and more than 100 wounded in the Pleiku attack . Tight secrecy was imposed at the White House on the question whether Mr. Johnson would respond to the new Vietcong onslaughts with air strikes on North Vietnam . Some usually informed sources said that they strongly doubted there would be any announcement of United States intentions until tomorrow at the earliest . At the State Department , however , officials said that the new Vietcong attack was regarded here just as gravely as last weekend 's . Delay Is Expected The President was informed this morning that a United States Army barracks at the seacoast town of Quinhon had been attacked by Vietcong terrorists . He was also told that South Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Province . Mr. Johnson summoned his top military and diplomatic advisers to the National Security Council meeting in the Cabinet room at 2 P.M. The meeting lasted about an hour and 45 minutes , A few minutes after it had ended Mr. Johnson unexpectedly walked through the lobby of the west wing of the White House and onto the driveway leading toward the northwest gate . He was accompanied by Marvin Watson , who reported to w ? rk Feb. 1 as a special assistant to the President . Scores of newsmen and photographers tumbled excitedly after him , and pursued him to a point near the gate , where Mr. Johnson ? turned and followed the main drive toward the White House proper . . Asked by a reporter what he would do about Vietnam , the President said : " I think I 'll just walk up to the house . " A second reporter asked about Vietnam , and Mr. Johnson said : " I just-told him . " When a third asked about the crisis , Mr. Johnson said he thought that the White House press secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we know . " The President siriiied and disappeared into the White House . After the Security Council meeting , Mr. Reedy had said that the situation was receiving the closest attention . " Other than that I have no statement , " he said . Mr. Reedy was repeatedly asked about the possibility of new United States air strikes on North Vietnam and what degree of gravity the President assigned to the new Communist attacks . Repeatedly he answered : " I have nothing to say . I have nothing further to say . " The Administration said last Sunday , in explanation of the air strikes on North Vietnam , that the Vietcong attack on Pleiku was viewed as a clear test of American will and parpose and that no official had ' doubted that some response was necessary . The question that preoccupied Washington was whether Mr. Johnson would regard the Quinhon explosion as a similar test of American will and react accordingly . Comment by Sylvester One informed source said that it was felt that the North Vietnamese , who direct and support the Vietcong rebellion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too costly to North Vietnam itself to press for an American defeat in South Vietnam . But it was not known whether the Quinhon or Binhdinh assaults were of the kind that the United States has said it will not tolerate . No one in the White House would discuss the matter . The battle fought in Binhdinh Province , involving South Vietnamese troops , appeared far more disastrous than the Quinhon incident . Yesterday United States officials made it known that the United States was prepared to retaliate in North Vietnam not only for attacks on American personnel , but also for major assaults on South Vietnamese . Arthur Sylvester , Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs , said that a news agency dispatch that qquoted American officers as having said that the Binhdinh battle was the worst defeat suffered by the Government so far in the war " is , to say the least , inaccurate . " Mr. Sylvester said that the agency had attempted to get a United States military spokesman in Saigon to use such language , but that the officer had sain that casualty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It became known , however , that American officers who visited the scene of the battle had commented that there might be about 300 casualties . Among those who attended the National Security Council meetin , " were Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey ; Secretary of Defense Robert S. ; Acting Secretary of State George M. Ball ; Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon ; John A. McCone , the ' Director of Central Intelligence ; Carl Rowan , United States Information Agency director , and Under Secretary of Defense Cyrus R. Vance . Adm . David , Chief of Naval Operation ; the State Department 's chief Soviet affairs expert , Ambassador at Large Llewelvn E. Thompson ; William P. Bundy , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs ; Leonard b Une.er , who is deputy to William Bundy , and Bundy , the President 's special assistant for national security affairs .                     