@@722266

txt Fifteen persons were arrested here today in the aftermath of an all-night sit-in at City Hall to protest segregation in the elementary schools . Eleven demonstrators were arrested at 8:30 this morning after they had refused to leave the Council Chamber , where they and others had spent the night making speeches , singing and vowing not to leave until the school boards met their demands . When the eleven were arraigned this afternoon , four sympathizers were arrested . The four were accused of refusing to leave court after a magistrate had ordered , it cleared because of an outburst of applause for the first defendants . 2 Women Choose Jail Two women among the eleven demonstrators refused to post 810 bonds after pleading not guilty at their arraigrment charges of being disorOcrly persons . They were remanded to the Bergen County Jail in Hackensack pending trial next Friday morning . Tonight , with lighted candles in hand , a procession of some fifty persons walked silently in front of City Hall to continue the protest . Earlier in the evening , some of the sit-in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rally at the Galilee Methodist Church . The sit-in started at 7:45 last night after the Board of Educa- tion had upheld a decision not to register nine Negro children in the predominantly white Donald A. Quarles School . The board 's action was based on state law that provides that children must attend school in the district in which they live . Thirty-five of the 300 persons who had been at the board meeting stayed in the Council Chamber all night . At 8:15 this morning , Mayor Austin N. Volk , who had spent the night in his office next to the chamber , gave the demonstrators fifteen minutes to leave . He said that they would interfere with the business of the day and that the chamber had to be cleaned for this afternoon 's regular session of court . Seven white and four Negro demonstrators refused t7.3 leave . Eleven policemen entered the chamber and each arrested one person . When the eleven were arraigned , Mrs. Barbara Kay and Mrs. Anne S. Baer did not post the $10 bonds . Mrs. Kay is a Freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miss. , last summer . Mfsi Baer 's husband Byron was jailed ' in Jackson at the same time as Mrs. Kay . Mr. Baer is chairman of the Education Committee of the local Committee of Racial Equality , which led the sit-in . He also had been arrested , but posted bond . Defendants listed In addition to Mr. and Mrs. Baer and Mrs. Kay , who are neighbors at 135 and 143 Belmont Street , respectively , the defendants are : Benjamin Weissman of 1413 , Hubert Terrace , Teaneck ; Mrs. ) Sharon Brightman , 39 , of 165 Crescent St. , Englewood ; Mrs. Maggie Nealy , 40 , of 40 Brookway Avenue , Englewood ; Mrs , Patricia Hainey , 31 , of 122 Belmont Street , Englewood ; Norman Hill , 29 , of 55 West 156th Street , New York , secretary of C. 0 . R. E. , and his wife , Velma , 24 ; Mrs. Angela , 41 , of 433 Mountainview Place , Englewood , and Mrs. Vera Fyer , 39 , of 233 West Hunton Ave. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave the court on his order , Magistrate Henry J. Bendheim said he could deal summarily with them for contempt of court , but he preferred not to do so . They pleaded not guilty to being disorderly persons and posted bonds of $25 each , They will be tried Feb. 16 . They are Gordon R. Carey , 29 , of 367 Avenue S , Brooklyn , national field director of C. 0 . R. E. ; Mary Hamilton , 30 , of 403 First Street , New York : Terry Pearlman , 19 , ' of 2010 Grand Concourse , the Bronx , and Jocelyn Boyd , 22 , of 83 Rutland Road , Brooklyn . Clergymen Assemble An attempt to bring calm to the city was made by its clergymen this afternoon . They assembled on brief notice for a three-hour session that ended at 6:30 P. M. In a statement seventeen clergymen called on the citizens not to be swayed by rash actions , It noted that the Board of Education had undertaken a study to solve the segregation problem and urged that time be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city to act . An issue in the dispute has been a $2,500,000 school budget that will be adopted Tuesday by the Board of School Estimate . It contains no provision for implementing any recommendations the segregation report may make . The clergymen said : " The consideration of the 1962-63 budget submitted by the Board of Education Feb. .1 in no way prevents the authorities . or the people from giving full consideration to the study on the schools when presented through duly constituted channels . " Money can not be appropriated when it is not known for what or how much it will be . We urge that the city , its officials and its citizens give the report of the special committee their most constructive and energetic consideration and implementation . " The statement was signed by three rabbis , one Roman Catholic priest , one Eastern Orthodox priest and twelve Protestant ministers , four of whom are Negroes . They met at the First Presbyterian Church . De facto segregation in the schools . has existed for many years because of the heavy concentration of Negroes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lincoln School in that district to be more than 95 per cent Negro . However , each of the five elementary schools has Negro pupils . The senior and junior high schools , drawing from all districts , have many Negro pupils and all schools have Negro teachers . No records are kept by race so there is no precise breakdown . The school study now under way began in September and was supposed to have been finished by Feb. 1 . Because of , this , parents of several Lincoln School pupils delayed an effort to enter their children in the Quarles School in September . Now they say their patience has worn thin . They are demanding action .                     