@@721181

txt President de Gaulle arrived here tonight to begin a series of presummit talks with Canadian and United States leaders . He is expected to seek to promote a better understanding of French policies . The French President was given a warm welcome as he began his four-day state visit to Canada . Prime Minister John Diefenbaker declared that Canada and France were linked " by historic racial ties " and " the blood of sacrifice in two world wars . " " Your presence here again serves to emphasize the importance we both attach to the preservation and strengthening of those bonds , " he added . Also tendering a greeting at the airport was Governor General George P. Vanier , an old friend who represented Canada with General de Gaulle 's Free French forces during World War H. A twenty-one-gun salute was fired as the Air France Boeing 707 jet transport carrying the President and his party came to a stop at a Royal Canadian Air Force hangar . After an exchange of handshakes between hosts and guests , an Air Force band played " La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint of snow added a true Canadian touch to the scene and forced the transfer of the official welcoming ceremonies to the hangar . General meetings de Gaulle with will Prime have three Minister Diefenbaker and mem1 bers of the Canadian Cabinet during his stay in Ottawa . After visits to Quebec , Montreal and Toronto , he will fly to Washington Friday to consult with President Eisenhower . The French President will be in New York next Tuesday and Wednesday . He will also visit San Francisco and New Orleans before leaving the United States April 29 for visits to French Caribbean territories ? French Guiana , Martinique and Guadaloupe . He is scheduled to return to Paris May 4 . According to reports reaching Ottawa from Paris , the French leader , after his recent talks with Prime Minister Macmillan and Premier Khrushchev , is hopeful of gaining a more sympathetic treatment of France 's policies toward the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , Algeria and the atomic bomb during his talks here and in Washington . He is reported especially to be counting on his talks in Ottawa to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is to convince the United States that France should be encouraged to develop her own atomic weapons potential . Canada is regarded by France as in a special position to influence the United States , both because of her geographic proximity and her close Commonwealth links with Britain . It is doubtful , however , that Canadian leaders will listen entirely sympathetically to General de Gaulle 's atomic arguments . Canada has been unalterably opposed to the extension of the " atomic club " and to a continuation of nuclear tests . In their addresses of welcome tonight , both Mr. Diefenbaker and General Vanier stressed Canada 's joint French-British heritage . The Prime Minister spoke also of Canada 's high hopes for the future of NATO and declared that the closest unity of its members was essential . " While Canada is vastly different from the Canada of your last visit fifteen years ago , the feelings of Canadians toward France , awl toward you , have not changed , " he told the French leader . In a brief reply , General de Gaulle said he had considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come here to meet with the government and people of this dear , strong and vigorous Canada . " Only a few stragglers lined the route of the President 's drive from the airport through the city to Government House , and the downtown streets were almost empty . The President and his wife were immediately plunged into a round of social activities tonight . An hour after their arrival at Government House they stood beside General and Mrs. Vanier to receive guests at a glittering state banquet . The current visit is General de Gaulle 's third to Canada and the United States . The first , in July , 1944 , was for World War II consultations with President Roosevelt and Canadian leaders . On the second , in August , 1945 , his purpose was to meet President Truman on the morrow of victory in Europe .                     