@@724817

txt Santo Domingo , Dominican ' Republic Santiago , San Francisco de Macoris , Barahona , Puerto Plata , La Roniana , and La Vega . These are little more than dots on a map of the Dominican Republic . But these interior cities and towns are potentially explosive elements in the current Dominican civil strife . They are some of the several dozen place names visited by this reporter in the past five weeks of covering this strife-torn country . And they tell a similar story . Each shows clear , evidence of unrest where frustration with conditions is mounting . Each tells a story of police intimidation and , in some cases , police brutality . The general mood of the countryside is one of support in one degree or another for the rebel forces who began a revolt against the military supported government six weeks ago and who still maintain a stronghold in downtown Santo Domingo . Dissatisfaction mounts The frustrations of the countryside stem from the legacy of military rule and domination by graft-encrusted oligarchy in this island nation . Current problems are many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an inflationary spiral boosting living costs by large percentages , and the much-discussed reports and rumors of police brutality . " We are living on a gigantic volcano which could erupt at any moment , " said a banker in San Francisco de Macoris , the nation 's third largest town with 20,000 inhabitants . " It is now smoldering , but it could go off at any time . " Essentially the countryside folk are unhappy with the military propped junta led by General Imbert . They oppose it because rightly or wrongly they see in the Imbert junta the same old evils which have been part of governments here for decades ? dictatorship , graft , corruption , and the like . General Imbert for his part denies these suspicions . Further he says that his government , officially known as the Government of National Reconstruction , effectively controls the nation . 100 leaders jailed ? His claim of control over the country appears valid . National police , together with the Army , are able to maintain control of the countryside through a variety of methods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intimidation , say many people in its interior . Even police officials in many of these cities say , as did one in Barahona , " We lock up the potential agitators as a warning to all that we mean business when we maintain law and order . " The citizenry in the country do not always see things in the same manner . They charge that the police interfere with legal political gatherings and the free expression of opinion . " More than 100 political leaders are in jail here , " said a businessman in Santiago whose charge was echoed by layers , teachers , church officials , and a variety of others in the city , the nation 's second largest .                     