@@721183

txt Several lawyers and a retired New York City detective are being investigated in connection with the substitution of records showing no convictions for defendants with prior convictions in gambling cases . In another development , Police Commissioner Stephen P. Kennedy disclosed yesterday that 183 policemen , making up the entire complement of the Bureau of Criminal Identification , were being screened by high police officers . The arrest records are prepared and kept in the bureau . Chief Justice John M. Murtagh of Special Sessions hesitated to discuss the recordswitching because , he said , " I do n't want to impede the District Attorney 's investigation . " He did say , however , that he felt all court personnel were blameless and that the court staff was in no way involved in switching the arrest records . But he declined to express his views on whether lawyers and bondsmen were also " in the clear . " 15 Convictions Hidden The " substitution racket " came to light when Justice Murtagh fined a policy collector $100 because the defendant 's record showed he was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the defendant 's true record that disclosed he had fifteen prior gambling convictions . Justice Murtagh commented that he had " a pretty good idea how the substitution of clean records was accomplished , " but he would not elaborate . Assistant District Attorney Jay Goldberg , who is investigating the record substitutions , refused to discuss the case , other than to say he expected his inquiry might be long . , As a result of what he has learned so far , Justice Murtagh directed that no court paper was to be inspected by a lawyer or bondsman except in the presence of a member of the court 's staff . Lawyers ' Out of Town ' Two reports circulated in the Criminal Courts Building at 100 Centre Street . One was that the fee charged for substituting arrest records ranged from $500 to $2,500 . The other was that a number of lawyers whose main practice was representing gambling defendants were out of town . Neither report could be confirmed . The " manufacture " of clean yellow sheets , or arrest records , for defendants began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy in Gamblers Court . He has imposed more jail terms in that court between Feb .. 29 and the present than have been meted out there in the last ten years . The retired detective under investigation was reported to have been . an intermediary in having the clean records submitted to Justice Murtagh . Justices of . Special Sessions are guided by the arrest records in imposing sentences . Last Friday it was announced that Police Commissioner Kennedy had ordered a " complete and intensive investigation " into the Bureau of Criminal Identification . Deputy Commissioner Walter Arm asserted on Friday that the substitutions of records were made at a place between the bureau and the court . Mayor Wagner said he had not asked Investigation Commissioner Louis L Kaplan to look into the matter because he had been informed that the racket was under control and was not widespread . In another development concerning gambling , 100 handpicked plainclothes patrolmen are being trained to take part in Commissioner Kennedy 's stepped-up drive against gamblers . The men will complete their training course next Monday and will be assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group will supplement 450 plainclothesmen already assigned to these activities in the five boroughs . Within the next month , it was learned , a second group of 100 plainclothes patrolmen will be assigned to gambling and vice duty after completing the training .                     