@@722883

txt France reluctantly agreed today to attend one more ministerial session of the negotiations for British entry into the European Economic Community . But she also signified her unchanged determination to end the negotiations by announcing that her experts would no longer attend scheduled technical talks . Maurice Couve de Murville , the embattled French Foreign Minister , agreed to return to the negotiations on Jan. 28 , but only to discuss the French demand for an indefinite suspension . This tactical concession came in the face of a firm and united stand by France 's five Common Market partners against breaking off the talks . This was the outcome , for the present , of one of the most dramatic and tense 48-hour periods in the long history of the movement to forge a united Europe . It left prospects for British entry into the Common Market slim , for France by herself , has the right to stop the talks and block entry . Stand h Unchanged The unchanged French stand that the talks should end was made clear when a French official spokesman announced late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled technical meetings next week ? one on Hong Kong in Brussels and one on coal and steel in Luxembourg . The only thing that could revive the prospects of British entry would be a change of heart by President de Gaulle between now and Jan. 28 . The main hope of France 's partners in the Common Market was that Chancellor Adenauer of West Germany , President de Gaulle 's stanch ally , would make the effort of persuasion when he visits Paris next week . Dr. Adenauer is under heavy pressure in Germany to make this effort , even to the point of being tough . But even if he does , General de Gaulle is not noted for changing his mind . While France can succeed in ending the negotiations with Britain , she was left in no doubt yesterday and today of the strength and unanimity of her partners in opposing her stand . British sources took heart in this firm stand of the " five " ? West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg -- and were refusing to give up hope . Explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief British negotiator , said tonight : " The developments in the second half of the week have demonstrated how strongly five of the community countries wish the negotiations to succeed . . . This is of great importance for the future of Europe as well as for the countries of the community and Britain . I hope therefore that when the conference resumes on Jan. 28 it will be possible to make further progress toward a successful conclusion . " ? The opposition to the French demand for the suspension of the talks reached the point of barely disguised threats today . Joseph M.A.H. Luns , foreign minister of The Netherlands , is reliably reported to have warned his French counterpart that if the French stand continued it might be difficult to get Dutch parliamentary ratification of such Common Market actions as the new convention with 18 African associated states  --  a convention earnestly , desired by France on financial and other grounds . A high-ranking Italian delegate explained his country 's opposition to France in these terms : " While we will do anything to avoid breaking up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces such as these . " He left no doubt that his reference was to General de Gaulle . Today 's final agreement on a postponement of the final showdown was announced at a news conference by Henri Fayat , Belgian Deputy Foreign Minister , who was chairman during the conference . A statement said : " The French delegation has requested that the negotiations with Great Britain be suspended . The five other European Economic Community delegations and Great Britain opposed this proposal . The discussion of this question ' will be pursued during the next session of the conference , which is set for Jan. 28 in Brussels . " The statement was agreed upon by all seven delegations . For the first time since Wednesday morning , Mr. Heath entered the conference room late in the afternoon to give his formal assent . As he left he had what veteran observers here felt was a look of fatigue and strain such as he has never shown in all the 15 months of the negotiations . The drama began Monday with General de Gaulle 's news conference , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Common Market , at least for the present . Then for the next two days the negotiations here continued almost as if nothing had happened , though four of lerance 's partners issued strong statements challenging the de Gaulle argument and urging a successful conclusion of the negotiations . Bombshell Dropped Then Mr. Couve de Murville dropped nis bombshell on Wednesday evening . he announced w the Common iviarket councries that . ca rance wanted a session the next day devoted to a discussion of tile future of the negociacions . Liming die course of a dinner that night and suosequent private conversations the r rencn eoreign mincster left no doubt that , a keystone of General de Gaulle 's opposition to bricisn entry was ale Nassau agreement between Britain and the United States , under which Britain will receive the Polaris missile and in return will devote her nuclear forces to a still undefined North Atlantic Treaty Organization force . This has evidently confirmed a suspicion in General de Gaulle 's mind that Britain is a sort of satellite of the United States . Rumors have been cirmlating in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the matter of the Nassau agreements . They could not be confirmed , ) ut in any case he did not even - efer to the Nassau agreements n the formal sessions among he six . He did make plain , iowever , that it was on politi:al grounds that General de Gaulle opposed British entry . These sessions , with only the Foreign Minister and ' one offi:ial present from each country , ) 1us Dr. Walter Hallstein , : hairman of the Common Marcet Executive Commission , bean yesterday afternoon after hurried plane journey brought lerhard Schroeder , West Gernan , Foreign Minister , to Brusels . They continued until ,                  