@@726462

txt Britain announced plans today to withdraw from her bases in Singapore and Malaysia in the middle nineteen-seventies . The announcement , which foreshadows the end of Britain 's military role in Asian areas east of Suez , was made over strong opposition by the United States Government . Deeply embroiled in Vietnam , the United States has attached great importance to Britain 's presence in the Far East . President Johnson and Defense Secretary Robert S. , according to diplomatic informants , had hoped the British would focus on smaller , short-term cuts and leave long-term policy open . White Paper Issued The new policy was contained in a white paper on defense , which said manpower of 80,000 in Singapore and Malaysia , half military and half civilian , would be halved by 1970-71 . " By the early nineteen-seventies , " the statement said , " British forces still stationed in Singapore and Malaysia will consist largely of naval forces ( including an amphibious element ) and air forces ; there will still be some Gurkhas in Malaysia . " The white paper also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one-seventh below earlier estimates , and of military manpower , by 75,000 in the mid-seventies from the present figure of 417,360 . Third Major Statement This was the third major British defense policy statement since February , 1966 . Each one has represented a milestone in the winding up of Britain 's functions as a great power , and all have been dictated by the economic and political necessities of this island . The key to London 's policy lay in the introduction to the white paper , which emphasized " a more pressing need to reduce overseas expenditure , a slower rate of growth than expected in the British economy , and the consequent necessity to keep Government expenditure as low as possible . " Confronted with continuing pressure against its balance of // payments and the need to meet a growing burden of expenditures for social services , the British Government hag found it politically necessary to economize on overseas expenditures , mainly in the Far East . But the withdrawal will be gradual . The precise timing of the British departure ; from the Far Eastern bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for stability in Southeast Asia and in resolving other problems in the Fat East , " the statement said . " Other problems , " according to authoritative British sources , means Vietnam . This ? qualification is a concession to the United States desire to keep the British forces ' in the Fat East as strong as possible as long as the Vietnam war continues . Aid Promised to Singapore The white paper promised financial aid to Singapore and Malaysia to help them over the economic shock of the British departure . The Southeast Asia Treaty organization , Malaysia and the Commonwealth were informed that " we intend to change our Far East commitments . " Obligations to the treaty organization will be " progressively altered in nature and size , " the statement explained . Thee will be consultations on the means by which Britain will honor her obligations under the British-Malaysian defense agreement , it said , while contributions to the Commonwealth strategic reserve will continue to be " substantial . " After her forces have been completely withdrawn from Singapore and Malaysia , the white paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Far East " for the foreseeable future . " To meet these requirements , she plans " a military capability " in the form of a strategic reserve stationed in Britain , as well as " some naval amphibious forces in the Far East . " The possibility of " using facilities in Australia and of making a new staging airfield in the British Indian Ocean territory " is being examined , the statement said . However , these reservations did little to diminish the dramatic shift in policy from the February , 1966 , white paper , which said that Britain would continue her role east of Suez . " We decided , " Defense Secretary Denis Healey said then , " that we should try to maintain significant political influence outside of Europe . " Other key points in today 's white paper included these : ' Defense costs are to be reduced below the goal of ? 2-billion ( $5.6-billion ) a year at 1964 price levels that was set in last year 's white paper . By the mid-nineteen-seventies , the budget is to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , navy and air force will be cut by 37,000 by April , 1971. tilOn the assumption that " a Soviet attack in Europe is unlikely in present circumstances " Britain has proposed to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization a shift of one army brigade and one Royal Air Force squadron from the Army of the Rhine to bases in Britain . This would save ? 5.5-million ( $15.4-million ) a year in foreign exchange . Britain had 156,000 members of her armed forces serving abroad at the beginning of this year , most of them members of the army . Johnson Hopes for Change Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , July 18 ? President Johnson expressed hope today that Britain , despite her planned reduction of military strength in Singapore and Malaysia , would continue to maintain an " interest " in Southeast Asia . In a brief comment at his White House news conference , the President indicated that the Administration was still hopeful the British Government would modify its decision to withdraw completely from its major Southeast Asian land bases by the mid-nineteenseventies . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their interest in that part of the world , " he said . " We are very hopeful that they will find it in their interest to do so . " Question 16 , Page 20 . On Capitol Hill , - the British decision provoked warnings against the assumption of greater military burdens by the United States . The Senate Democratic leader , Mike Mansfield , said that it " should be understood by all concerned ahead of time " that the United States was not going to " assume the responsibilities of Britain or any other nation . " Observing that Britain seemed to be " withdrawing into isolation , " Senator Mansfield suggested that the United States should take some " unilateral action " of its own , such as reducing its troop strength in Western Europe . The Senate Republican leader , Everett Dirksen of Illinois , deplored the British action as " extreme " but said it apparently had been " a choice between that or devaluing the pound , " Assurances for Hong Kong Special to The New York Times HONG KONG , July 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hong Kong as a result of the recent disturbances here and of a border incident during which a British police post came under fire from Chinese territory . Gen. Sir Michael Carver , commander of British Forces in the Far East , said today at the conclusion of an inspection tour of the colony that there was " no immediate need for any reinforcements . " He was speaking to reporters before his return to Singapore . " Provided things do n't get a great deal worse , there are adequate troops of all kinds in the colony , " he said . At the same time , it is understood , British officials here have been reassured that there would be ' no reduction in the present garrison , which numbers about 8,500 men , and that extra troops would be flown in from Singapore as soon as they might be required . The British white paper issued in London today asserted that a garrison would be maintained in Hong Kong despite Britain 's plans to withdraw from her bases in Malaysia and Singapore in the next decade . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and troops have the internal security situation well in hand , while the external threat has receded . The actit'ities of Communistled rioters in Hong Kong have become increasingly sporadic during the last two days and tension has eased at the border town of Shataukok , where regular Chinse Communist forces have taken over from the militia and frontier guards .                     