@@726293

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 31 Letters to the Editor of The Times Objection to War Service To the Editor : Some young men of draft age are conscientiously opposed to military service because of their objection to the Vietnam war . Your April 29 editorial " Clay vs. the Army " answers the argument that they should be granted an exemption with the comment , " Citizens can not pick and choose which wars they wish to fight any more than they can pick and choose which laws they wish to obey . " This comment misconceives and seriously oversimplifies a complex issue . The easy analogy between " wars " and " laws " breaks down If one looks at existing exemptions from military service . Although citizens can not choose to disobey all laws any more than they can disobey some laws , they can be classified as conscientious objectors if they are opposed to participation in all wars rather than participation in a particular war . Few laws require persons to violate their deeply held moral convictions ; however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the consciences of individuals . Surely the aim should be to minimize these conflicts . The present exemption for conscientious objectors implielty recognizes both that the obligation to serve in the Army Is a special kind of legal duty and that we can live with limited exceptions to the general obligation . Moral Obligation I happen to agree with The Times that in a democratic society one 's moral obligation is to serve in the armed forces even if he dissents from engagement in a particular war . But many sincere people feel differently ; and the venerable , disregarded doctrines of just war give them some support . Perhaps extending the exemption to cover their genuine claims of conscience would significantly impede the draft or undermine the morale of those willing to serve . But I doubt it . It gives some pause that Great Britain managed to get through World War II with a much broader exemption statute than our own . At any rate , one thing that is clear about the troubling question of selective conscientious objection is that it can not be disposed of by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KENT GREENAWALT Assistant Professor Columbia Law School New York , May 1 , 1967 ? Hebert 's Colleagues To the Editor : It is not the attempt at circumvention of First Amendment civil liberties concerning draft protests that is so frightening but that " no one on the committee took issue with Representative Hebert , " according to a news report in The Times on May 6 . Such abrogation in the defense of civil liberties has too often led to the disastrous destruction of democratic societies . FREDERIC W. WILE 3d New York , May 7 , 1967 ? Labor 's Profit Sharing To the Editor : The demise of The World Journal Tribune , viewed as an overall labor-management problem , is a frightening development . It demonstrates that even merger is not the answer to increasing costs resulting from spiraling taxes and labor demands . If this situation continues we may become a nation of business failures , thus providing an excellent foundation upon which to build a socialist or communistic society . The alternative is to devise some method of bargaining that will protect and satisfy both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study be made of the possibility of substituting for the present type of demands a system of profit sharing or stock sharinct for rmnInves . Reproduced with permission It is not necessary to give shares of company stock outright to employes ; they may simply be assigned the dividends from a certain number of shares , commensurate with the jobs they hold , with the shares being retained by the company when the employe leaves the company 's service . Bonuses could be in the form of stock shares which employes could keep . If an employe 's income depends upon dividends , stock options , stock bonuses or similar arrangements , he will be more than a little reluctant to strike . He will be just as reluctant to waste company resources , including his own time or that of others . And he will insist that whatever bargaining action is taken in his behalf insures the continued existence of his company . PHELPS PHELPS Jersey City , May 8 , 1967 ? Church-School Aid To the Editor : The letter of Prof. Seymour Siegal published May 3 , stressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blaine amendment , " was most opportune . Roman Catholics are not alone in desiring the removal of Article XI , Section 3 , from the State Constitution . As well as the Jewish community , Protestant groups , too , are divided on this issue . Many Lutherans , Episcopalians , Christian Reformed , Greek Orthodox , and others of goodwill are desirous of bringing our nineteenth-century Constitution into line with twentieth-century reality . Almost one out of every four . children in New York State attends church-related schools . These children , as well as public school children , are citizens of tomorrow . Fairness dictates educational excellence for all children , including those children whose parents send them to religiously affiliated schools . An increasing number of Protestants are coming to the conclusion , as I have , that Article XI , Section 3 , is too restrictive and that its removal from the New York State Constitution is dictated by the social realities of today 's world . RICHARD H. ENGEBRECHT The Atlantic District Lutheran Church New York , May 8 , 1967 ? Predictions of Riots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights leaders and politicians about race riots in the summer have become a harbinger of hot weather . The doomsday prognosticators not only predict racial holocausts with certainty , but seemingly with satisfaction . Their predictions are probably no more accurate than those of any habitu ? of the pub around the corner . What makes their statements unfortunate is that each one of them prescribes the public treasury as a magic preventive for riots . Dr. Martin Luther King named ten cities in which there is danger of racial discord this summer , if the public treasury does n't come to the rescue . Eugene Callender , executive secretary of the New York Urban League , said a conspiracy to riot exists among the more extreme youths in some cities , and public pap was the only thing that could soothe them . Money alone is no panacea for riots . A case in point is what happened in the East New York section of Brooklyn last summer . For years the city had spent hundreds of thousands of dollars trying to head off racial trouble . The staffs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission on Human Rights and the Police Departments had labored there to stop the growing tensions . They did n't or they could n't , and the riot broke . A child was shot to death fifteen minutes after Mayor Lindsay was in the neighborhood . The biggest riot Harlem ever had occurred on a cold day in March 1935 . Its perpetrators did not wait until summer . Nor should government give money as a kind of bribe to keep the peace during hot weather . Mutual disrespect between policemen and Negroes caused by police corruption is a basic factor for riots in colored communities . When riots occur in black belts , white persons and most Negroes , except the rioters and riot watchers , are miles removed from the pillage and the killing . Although the whites are not directly affected , they are fearful because a rioting Negro , though miles away , somehow seems to be a threat to them . However , wherever real clashes have happened the whites have been the aggressors . Riots are not annual events like the Army-Navy football game . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights leaders continue to predict their arrival with summer , and the press , including television and radio , continues to play up talk about trouble , thereby tending to trigger trouble . EARL BROWN New York , May 7 , 1967 ? Yugoslav Dualism To the Editor : The Times editorial " Mihajlov 's Conviction " ( April 21 ) , while abhorring this vindictive punishment , concluded that " it is difficult to justify Mihajlov 's claim that Yugoslavia is still a truly totalitarian state . " On the other hand , your Belgrade correspondent writes ( April 23 ) that " in pointing out insistently that this country , for all its reforms , is still a dictatorship , he ( Mihajlov ) is right . " What are the facts ? The League of Communists is the exclusive repository of all effective political power in the country . All significant posiATLANTIC FLIGHT Southwestward-bound , aimed at Brazil 's white shores , the DC-8 spans the Atlantic in the dull labowr of speed . Relativity bores the senses : at 600 miles an hour we sit still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's gleaming metal , drag , pull , thrust , restrain speed . Swaying : a ailverbirch z heathstorm the plane , its proud height lost . Where are the Americas in all this sky , n all that curving seat Blue mirrors blue , 7ymbals held apart . We fly : and still ; we fly . rn this space twice the speed would be as slow . ZULFIKAR GROSE tions in government are staffed by party members , and important decisions are first made at party forums . When on occasions dissenting political opinions are bravely voiced , they are effectively suppressed . This has been so from Djilas to Mihajlov . Even the " Declaration on theName and Position of the Croatian Literary Language " of March 16 and its scholarly signers have been so treated . An ominous warning was issued on March 24 by the League of Communists of Slovenia threatening unnamed " reactionary individuals and cliques that assumed the legacy of clericalism and Slovenian bourgoisie " with " extreme administrative measures . " The statement adds that the post-Rankovic " re . form " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . ? in uncovering phenomena hostile to socialism . " Nonpolitical Changes Speaking about the announced reorganization of the party , Tito himself stated on Sept. 1 , 1966 : " The role of the League of Communists is not being diminished , as some people are , saying . . . . On the contrary , its role . . . will be growing bigger fora long . time to come . . . until we succeed in lifting the conscience of ordinary citizens to that level . when it will no longer be nee . essary for us Communists to guide them . " Real changes in Yugoslavia are not political . They are on lower levels : in partial self-man. agement of enterprises , in marketlike economic relations , in increasing federal decentralize- ? tion of the formal organs of government and in upgrading of " parliamentary " bodies with . ' in the decentralized government apparatus . These changes differentiate the Communist system of Yugoslavia from other Communist regimes . They have increased nonpolitical participation , enhanced economic efficiency , generated a growing social plural. ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ' party . Yet for all the continu=-ing political control , with the ' fall of Aleksander Rankovic ? this nonpolitical evolution seems to have passed the point of no return . Socialist Democracy Discounting an unforeseen major upheaval , it is possible t4 visualize that the so far nonpolitical evolution within the Communist system of Yugo. ' slavia will some day assert itself also politically by the gathering strength of its own dynamics , perhaps by freeing the existing political front organization , the Socialist Alliance , of its party tutelage . A sort of political dualism would then be , added to the already effective national and social pluralism . Then Yugoslavia would indeed become a genuine union of its six national repthlics and a socialist democracy , which now it : is not . CYRIL A. ZEBOT Washington , April 26 , 1967 The writer of this letter is Professor of Economics at Georgetown University . ? Prometheus Bound ' To the Editor : C. L. Sulzberger 's scornful and condescending May 5 column on the imprisoned Papandreous is a disgrace to the journalism profession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Los Angeles , May 5 , 1967 .                     