@@726068

txt IAlbert H. Bowker , chancellor of the City University , has recommended that the university establish ' ' one or more new units " in Harlem . Among the possibilities he mentioned for the largely Negro area were a two-year community college , an upper-division college and a division to train persons for health careers . In asking the Board of Higher Education to approve in principle the idea of Harlem units , the chancellor said : " From an educational standpoint , locating a unit of the university in an area which historically sends only a small portion of its students on to higher education may act as a motivating force to its young people and ' may help to reverse current patterns of educational under-achievement and dropout . " The board , which sets policy opinions of the Harlem community would be an important fac ! tor in considering possible units for the ? university , win con sider the matter at its next meeting on : Monday . The system consists of 13 colleges and a graduate center with al total enrollment of more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board , made public ? esterday , Dr. Bowker said that for several years the- City University has been considering the establishment of a unit in Harlem . More Building Urged " Both public policy and educational considerations appear to support the location of an institution in this area , " he said . He noted that state and city officials , headed by Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Lindsay , have urged increased building in Harlem by governmental agencies . During his re-election campaign , Governor Rockefeller said that a state office building would be built in Harlem . " In addition , " Dr. Bowker said , " the chairman of the Cit.3 ' Planning Commission , : the Manhattan Borough President and representatives of the Harlem community have , on various occasions , stated that the pre ? ence of the university is essential to the development of the Harlem area . " Dr. Bowker said that nu pare students employment in andtechnical them to go on lege to obtain for the area Other factors , he added , include the educational needs of Harlem and " the abilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of students in the area while at the same time attracting students from outside Harlem . " Dr. Bowker said that the possible establishment of a community college in Harlem was attractive from an educational standpoint . Attitudes Unknown Community colleges offer two-year programs that prefor Immediate semiprofessional fields to a senior cola bachelor 's degrec . However , the chancellor said that the attitude of the Harlem community toward this type of a college was not yet known . " Although the image of the community ' college is slowly changing , " he said , ' ' it has not in the past enjoyed the high prestige of our four-year colleges . There is also a real concern as to whether a community college in Harlem could attract an integrated student body . " Other possible units under consideration for the area , Dr. Bowker said , included the following : 9An experimental upper-division college offering undergraduate work at the junior and senior year and at the master 's degree level . This would be intended for students " specifically Interested in teaching the disadvantaged . " 9A four-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careers as public health nurses , medical technologists and psychiatric aides . This unit , the chancellor said , " to be effective , must be located near a hospital complex , since , its para-medical programs must be integrated with clinical experience . The Northside Redevelopment area of Harlem , which is near Flower and Fifth Avenue and Mount Sinai Hospitals , is therefore a possible location of the proposed unit . " tiThe establishment ? as units of City College ? of an Engineering Research laboratory , a baccalaureate nursing school and faculty housing . The college , the oldest institution in the City University system , is situated on the western edge of Harlem . Urged to Move Quickly Dr. Bowker told the board that regardless of which institution the university decided to establish , " it is important that the university make a commitment in principle to plan for a unit in Harlem . " " Plans for the development of land in some of the prime areas of Harlem are proceeding rapidly and the university should move quickly if it wishes to reserve land , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Circle Urban Redevelopment Arca have offered to reserve a site for a university unit . The area runs north from Central Park to 125th Street and from Lenox Avenue eastward to Park Avenue . At its meeting on Monday . the university board will also consider a proposal that 100,000 square feet be requested in the planned , state office building in Harlem . This would be used to house a special center operated by the Borough of Manhattan Community College under contract with the State University . The center , which opened last month , prepares high school graduates from disadvantaged areas for occupations and possible admission to college . It is now in a building at 109 West 125th Street that will be demolished to make room for the new state building . ?                     