@@725129

txt President Johnson won the twoweek aluminum war tonight as the leading producer announced ! it would rescind a price increase ! for the metal . The President , quoted by Sec --  ; retary of Defense Robert S. Mc-I Namara , hailed the decision of the Aluminum Company of ; America as " an act of indus- ! trial statesmanship . " Mr. Mc-I Namara , who announced the ! price reduction five minutes be-i fore Alcoa did , called the action ; " patriotic . " Within two hours the Reynolds ! Metals Company , the No. 2 pro-I ducer , followed the Alcoa move. ; saying , " We have no other re- ! course . " Officials of the Kaiser ; Aluminum and Chemical Cor-1 poration and the Olin Mathie-1 son Chemical Corporation also ; indicated that they would follow ! Alcoa 's lead . The cut will drop the alumin-1 urn price by one half cent to 24l- ' 2 cents a pound , where it was two weeks ago . Talks Will Resume Mr. announced ! that in return for the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; with the industry for " orderly ! disposal " of the 1.4 million tons ! excess supply of aluminum in ; the Government 's stockpile . He said the Government be- ; lieved " it would be possible to ! limit the quantity of metal to ! be disposed of from the stock- ! pile in 1966 to less than 200,000 tons . " That was the amount the ; Government had said last Sat-1 urday it would sell , an amount ! raised to 300,000 tons by an ! announcement yesterday . Using the stockpile as President Kennedy before him had ? used verbal pressure in 1962 against the steel industry , Mr. Johnson succeeded in inducing ' a major industry to roll back , a price increase it thought jus- , tified but the Government ; deemed " inflationary . " In the ' current dispute , Mr. Johnson ! never said a word in public . Change in Position Mr. first announced the Alcoa decision at ; 8:35 P. M. He disclosed at a ! later press conference that he had met yesterday and today , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leon E.i Hickman , executive vice president . The company 's decision ; was communicated to him by I telephone this evening , the De- ! fense Secretary said . Mr. Hickman had said as re cently as Monday that the corn- ! pany had " no present intention " of rescinding the price increase , though he added that all price changes " must be tested in the market place . " In effect , the Government ! changed the marketplace by its ! threat to pour in additionat aluminum from the stockpile . Mr. said at the news conference tonight that he had communicated Alcoa 's deeision to the President in Texas.1 The President , he said , askedi him to " congratulate " the corn- ! pony for " an act of industrial statesmanship , " In his formal announcement Mr. said , " At the meeting Messrs . Harper and Hickman stated that they continue to believe price increases are required in the aluminum ' industry to assist in raising , profits to levels that will at- ' tract the investment the industry requires to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American market . " However . they also recognized the need to maintain price stability at a time of ris-1 , di g demand and increasing defense production associated with operations in South Vietnam . ' " They said , . therefore . they were prepared to rescind the price increase in aluminum : ingots and fabricated products recently announced by their company . " In order to insure the ; maintenance of stability in the , aluminum industry and to avoid : disruption of its price pattern , ! I agreed to the immediate resumption of negotiations for ; the orderly disposal of the total surplus of 1.4 million tons of aluminum now held in the national stockpile . " The text of the Alcoa an- ' nouncement to tonight 's price cut made in the form of a news release , follows : " Aluminum Company of America announced today that it is rescinding the price restoration it made last Monday when it advanced its price for primary , , aluminum ingot 1 ; cent per pound to 25 cents and adjusted , most fabricated ' upward an average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it . continues to feel strongly that its pricing actions were noninflationary and were justified . by economic circumstances . It pointed out that its return on invested capital is inadequateand that aluminum prices even with the Noy. 8 increases remained considerably below those of several years ago . " However the company said it felt compelled to cancel the ' price restoration because of the ' insistence of the Government ' that it is urgently concerned ! about the possible adverse effect of any general price in- : creases on national economy ! . while the Vietnam militaryi operations are being waged . " It is of great interest to the industry to have an early agreement With the Government on disposal not only of the 200,000 tons needed for additional defense purposes next year but also for the entire 1.1 million tons . As long as this excess supply exists , as Mr. Hickman explained graphically on Monday , a situation such as has happened in the last week could happen again . Mr. said he now thought the Government might he able to dispose of less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the price decrease there was now less of a danger that the extra needs for aluminum would he met by imports . He repeated the official view that rising imports threatened to increase the deficit in the nation 's balance of international payments . What came to be known as the " aluminum war ' ' began quietly Oct. 29 when Olin Mathieson , a relatively small producer , announced a half cent increase in the price to 25 cents a pound . Reynolds Metal and ! Kaiser promptly followed suit , but Alcoa remained silent . The price increase was to take effect a week later , Nov. 5 . The Administration began what some observers described as a war of nerves , including a leak that the President v an " sputtering mad " about the price increase . He and his top economic advisers have made clear they are deeply concerned about the threat of renewed inflation , after years of relative price stability , as the economy moved nearer to its capacity of plant and labor . Secretary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler said as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to resist the temptation offered by stronger demand to raise prices . With little in the way of public announcement , the war of nerves continued until last Saturday after Alcoa announced on Friday that I would join the price increase . The Government then moved . On Saturday Mr. announced at a White House press conference the decision to sell 200,000 tons from the stockpile . By his side Gardner Ackley , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers . issued an analysis of the industry 's price , wage and profit picture and described the price increase as " unjustified " under the Government 's guideposts and therefore " inflationary . " Mr. said tonight he knew of " no major industry where a price increase is justified . "                     