@@726245

txt BRUSSELS , Belgium , April 10 MondayCommunist-led demonstrators pelted Vice President Humphrey 's car with rotten eggs and fruit yesterday and burned a United States flag in a riotous protest against American policy in Viet Nam . Humphrey was not hit but his black limousine was smeared in several places by flying eggs . Some members of his body guard were hit . The demonstrators , who chanted such slogans as " Johnson and Humphrey , murderers , " and " Yankee go home , " were dispersed by police and army troops after about 10 minutes . Several of a band of about 50 , mostly bearded sympathizers with Red China 's brand of communism , were clubbed to the ground . About a dozen were taken to police headquarters for questioning . Attacked at Tomb The outbreak came as Humphrey was placing a wreath at the tomb of Belgium 's Unknown Soldier . Pro-Peking Communists have been calling for anti-Humphrey demonstrations for several days , but until today Belgians had ignored the call . Humphrey was the target of similar demonstrations in Italy , Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Netherlands , and in Switzerland . Early today , the Vice President wound up his two-week tour of Europe and flew home . In a statement he stressed the unity of interests between Europe and the United States . The Vice President said : " I leave Europe heartened by what I have seen and heard here and convinced that we must and that we shall work together to meet the problems and to realize the promises of the years ahead . Talks Very Helpful " I have found my talks with leaders of the Belgian government and the European communities very helpful . My visits here and to other western European capitals have confirmed my belief that the enterprise and undertaking which unite Europe and the United States are of vastly greater importance than the minor differences which so me times distract us . " Eggs , Burning Flag A small crowd of Belgians waved and cheered when Humphrey arrived at the Tomb Of the Unknown Soldier yesterday . The demonstrators went into action when two police motorcycles with wailing sirens led Humphrey 's car to the tomb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flour was thrown at the car . A burning United States flag landed behind Humphrey 's car . Secret ' servicemen formed a living shield around Humphrey as he lidd a wreath of white lilacs and red roses on the tomb . Aids hurried him thru the ceremony and back into the car . But his departure was delayed when his nervous driver dropped the keys . The car finally shot forward , leaving the secret service men far behind . Drives Off to Church Humphrey then drove as scheduled to the American Protestant church for services . The Rev. Halloch M. Mohler chose Christ 's meeting with the Samaritan woman as the theme for his sermon . He likened the dialog with those which the Vice President has been having during his seven-nation , twoweek European mission . After services , Humphrey moved among other Americans and laughed and shook hands . He picked up one little girl and hoisted her head-high . From the church , Humphrey returned to his hotel for private talks with Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer , allied supreme commander in Europe . Allied headquarters moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set last year by French President Charles de Gaulle to get out of France . Lemnitzer assured Humphrey that the Atlantic pact organization is operating efficiently from its new headquarters . Mao Reds Stir Riot Officials said the demonstration against Humphrey Friday in Paris also was whipped up by Maoist Communists . The Gaullist tabloid , Paris-Jour , observed under a picture of demonstrators burning the American flag : " The sole excuse for these young men frantically burning the American flag is that they did not know the dark hours of occupation and the immense joy of liberation  --  a liberation in which millions of American soldiers participated , many of whom met their death in this country . "                     