@@725292

txt Democratic and Republican legislative leaders opened the way today for a possible compromise on reapportionment . They did not reach the compromise at a two-and-a-halfhour closed meeting , but they did agree to create a bipartisan conference of Senate and Assembly leaders to resolve conflicts in the divided Legislature . The joint conference would be patterned after the SenateHouse conference committees in Congress and would seek to work out differences on individual bills between the two houses of the Legislature , which are divided in control for the first time since 1938 . Deadline Is Feb. 15 Reliable sources described the meeting of the top legislative leaders as the first indication that a compromise on reapportionment was possible . Until today there had been only fitful discussions on a compromise , mostly among Republican and Democratic officials at the local and county level . The Court of Appeals has given the Legislature until Feb. 15 to work out a plan for new Senate and Assembly districts . If the deadline is not met , the courts will undertake the reapportionment task and will draw the new districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being , the Democrats and Republicans are completing separate plans for 57 new Senate and 150 new Assembly districts . Leaders of both parties are planning to seek passage of their separate proposals . Partisan Plan Doubtful But with the Senate controlled by the Republicans and the Assembly controlled by the Democrats , it is considered doubtful that one plan can pass both houses unless agreement is reached on a compromise . " We talked in terms that it is the Legislature 's responsibility to draft a reapportionment plan , " Senate Majority Leader Earl W. Brydges , Republican of Niagara Falls , told reporters after the leaders had met today . " All of us are hoping we can resolve it . " " That 's right , " said Assembly Speaker Anthony J. Travia , Democrat of Brooklyn . At another point in the leaders ' joint news conference in the Speaker 's gold-carpeted office , Mr. Travia said of the reapportionment issue : " If we come to an impasse , no one wants to be bullheaded . So I think we must talk to each other ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that obtaining bipartisan agreement on the new legislative districts " presents thorny political problems . " He did not elabo // rate . Creation of the joint SenateAssembly conference could provide the machinery and establish the lines of communications to resolve reapportionment and other legislative problems that are expected to arise during the session . In past years the Senate Majority Leader and the Assembly Speaker , who were members of the same party , coordinated the work of the two houses on an informal basis . The liaison problems dealt with such matters as which major legislative proposals to push and whether the Senate or Assembly version of . a particular bill should be passed in both houses . Today 's session was the first joint meeting of the full leadership of the divided Legislature . ! Besides Senator Brydges and Speaker Travia , others at the meeting were Senate Minority Leader Joseph Zaretzki , Democrat of Manhattan ; Assembly Majority Leader Moses M. Weinstein , Democrat of Queens . and Assembly Minority Leader I Perry B. Duryea Jr. , Republican of Montauk . The joint Senate-Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other legislators from each house , Mr. Travia and Mr. Brydges said . They said that the conference members had not yet been selected , but that the group probably would meet each week . The aim of the bipartisan conference is " to see if we ca n't sit down and iron out the wrinkles , " Mr. Travia said . Senator Brydges said the conference would provide " an open and aboveboard method " of resolving differences between the two houses . With the legislative control divided , there could be many differences . One is over the date of the primary election , now scheduled for June 21 . Because of the delays on reapportionment and the setting up of the new districts , some Republicans are advocating a later primary date . As their meeting broke up . Mr. Travia said : " I think a spring primary is : till possible . " " 1 do n't think it is , " Senator Brydges dissented.                     