@@723723

txt Lesa Gibson and Cynthia Thornton , nine-year-old girls at Buena Vista Elementary School , consistently score high marks in fourth grade reading , writing and arithmetic . A few blocks away at North Nashville Junior-Senior High School , Geneva Ware , 12 , is speedily stepping into the ranks of honor students in the seventh grade , and also is president of her home room class . The experience of these youngsters is significant for three reasons . They 're Negroes attending school with mostly white classmates . Their academic and social gains are being made in an Old South city where classroom integration began with racist bombing of an elementary school seven years ago . And , say many Southern educators , their progress is not at all untypical of Negro children studying under such circumstances . A large number of Southern whites refuse to believe this  --  and , their stubborn conviction that school desegregation lowers academic and moral standards for both Negro and white children is a major reason why classroom integration is still the South 's most explosive racial issue . Nor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " from integration , insists a white businessman in St. Augustine , Fla. , who 's regarded by many as a moderate on the race question . " Regardless of merit , the fact remains that when you integrate classes you dilute the level of education . " " Normal or Nearly Normal " But Southern schoolmen who have had ac , tual experience with desegregation tell a different story . W. H. Oliver , Nashville school superintendent , readily concedes that Lesa , Cynthia and Geneva are outstanding among the 800 Negro youths now attending Nashville schools with whites . But , he says , the Negro students generally " are achieving normal ( levels ) or nearly normal from a social , emotional and scholastic standpoint , and the achievement of white students has not been adversely affected to an appreciable degree . " Other educators concede that the first Negro children to enter formerly white schools often lag behind their white classmates scholastically , because of their environment and the poor education many had been receiving in Negro schools . But once in school with whites , teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gap  --  and the white children often study hard to prevent having the Negroes pass them . Typical result : Tests made the year before and the year after integration in Louisville , Ky. , show substantial gains in scholastic achievement for both Negro and white second , sixth and eighth graders , with the Negroes making proportionately the larger gains . Socially too , teachers report , the Negro children usually win gradual , if grudging , acceptance from their white classmates . It 's true many draw jeers and rebuffs at first , and some drop out . But educators relate many such incidents as that of a Negro high school girl in Atlanta who was snubbed all during her senior year . On the last day she was approached by more than 15 white students who asked to autograph her yearbook . Easing Other Race Tensions ? Altogether , despite some remaining problems , many Southern educators think classroom integration is working well enough to prepare the way for eventual Dixie harmony on other race issues , too . " Students are making more rapid progress toward race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herbert Wey and John Corey in Action Patterns in School Desegregation , a guidebook for Southern schools that expect to integrate . " When the students now in school become parents , many of the problems that seem insurmountable will decrease in impor- tance . " This , of course , would be far in the future . For the time being school desegregation seems rather to be inflaming Southern racial tensions , as can be gauged from some of the incidents that attended the reopening of Southern schools last fall . In Birmingham . classroom integration and white resistance to it stirred passions that led to a church bombing in which four Negro children were killed . In Tuskegee , Ala. , white students have boycotted the previously allwhite high school following admittance of 13 Negroes . Surry County , Va. , closed its only white public school this year when seven Negroes were assigned to it by the state 's pupil placement board . Nevertheless , desegregation is making continual Southern gains . In the 17 Southern and border states which had compulsory school segregation prior to the 1954 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 3,053 biracial districts now have some desegregation , according to the Southern Education Reporting Service . Mississippi is now the only U.S. state with no mixed schools . In all , 318,039 of the South 's 3,412,799 Negro students , or 9.3% , now attend classes with whites , and the number grows almost daily . What Happens As a result , Southern teachers are gaining more experience with the results of desegregation , and many Northern educators have been studying their progress and problems . Here , in some detail , is what they say usually happens when a Southern white school begins admitting Negroes : The first Negroes to attend a formerly white school are often one to two years behind their new classmates in scholastic achievement , educators say . That 's partly because their social and economic environment had given them little incentive to learn , and partly because many of them had received inferior teaching in Negro schools . Many of the children have had " traumatic experiences in learning " in poor Negro schools , and feel hopelessly behind their white classmates at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of desegregation . However , schoolmen say , once they do begin attending school with whites the Negro children usually develop a burning desire to learn enough to catch up with their new classmates . This " motivation factor compensates for deficiencies of past academic records in many cases , " says R. W. Stephens , deputy superintendent of Atlanta schools . " Although we have found that Negro high school students generally are about two years behind white students , they are highly motivated , and they tend to be over-achievers in desegregated schools . The Negro student does better actually than his tests might indicate . " As a result , most teachers report , the Negroes learn more rapidly than they did in segregated schools , and soon begin closing the gap with their white classmates . When Negroes were first admitted to San Angelo , Texas , high school , says Superintendent G. B. Wadzeck , those who had received A marks in Negro schools usually dropped to B , those who had been getting B dropped to C , and so on . " Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Nashville , Glenn Hale , principal of the Buena Vista Elementary School , finds many Negro pupils entering the second and third grades about a year behind their white classmates in learning . But , he says , by the time they leave his school at the end of the seventh grade , they " knock three or four months off " that deficiency . After one class of Negroes has gone through all 12 years of elementary and high school with whites , he believes , the gap will disappear . Studies of the Washington , D.C. , school system , which began integrating immediately after the 1954 Supreme Court decision , give strong support for Mr. Hale 's belief . In the early months of integration in 1954 , achievement tests showed Washington students generally far below national standards . In progress reading tests , for example , the typical Washington sixth grader scored 4.9  --  the level he should have reached the ninth month of the fourth grade  --  against a national norm of 6.6 . In the most recent comparable tests , however , Washington sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell only two to four months below the national norm in reading , world knowledge and social study skills . And they surpassed the norm by two months in arithmetic , by three months in language usage , and by five months in spelling and language study skills . Some 84% of the students in Washington public schools now are Negro . While Negro students thus learn rapidly in desegregated schools , the achievement of white pupils does n't seem to suffer . " Even the strongly segregationist ( white ) children we have followed for two years have continued their studies without impairment , " reports Dr. Robert Coles , a Boston cliild psychiatrist who spent two years in extensive research on how desegregation affects Southern students . He tells of one white student who worked much harder after integration because of the fear that several of his Negro classmates might get better grades . The and result , says Dr. Coles : " We have ? yet to hear a Southern teacher complain of any drop in intellectual or moral climate in a desegregated room or school . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from child to child . Some mediocre and poor Negro students have turned up in classes with whites . And , says Dr. Coles , " if the younger ( Negro children beginning to attend class with whites ) manage well , the older ones sometimes have the burden of their former years " of limited educational opportunity and incentive . On the other hand , some Negro students have made outstanding records in desegregated classes . A Negro girl who was graduated recently from Oklahoma City 's desegregated Central High School made the National Honor Society and won a scholarship to the University of Oklahoma , where she 's now studying for a medical degree . In Little Rock , where Federal troops first had to be used to end violent resistance to integration , two Central High Negro seniors last term won college scholarships . In general , J. Kenneth Morland , professor of sociology at Randolph-Macon Women 's College , Lynchburg , Va. , concluded in a study of classroom race-mixing that desegregation has had no " adverse effect on the achievement of the most gifted ( students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , younger white and Negro children attending desegregated classes seem to accept each other better than the older ones . Negro and white youngsters can be seen playing together on the slides and swings of almost any desegregated Southern elementary school 's playground . At Nashville 's Buena Vista Elementary School , Negro boys have won two of the three positions of captain on the school 's safety patrol . And in Birmingham , often called the most segregated U.S. city , a Negro boy was chosen vice president of a sixth grade class that was desegregated last fall . Even in desegregated high schools , some Negroes win quick social acceptance . When a lone Negro was admitted to the 10th grade of one high school in a small Texas town , he was elected vice president of the class his first day . A Negro also has become president of Oklahoma City 's integrated Central High School student council . Educators concede , however , that desegregation poses some other social problems for Southern schools . At North Nashville JuniorSenior High , where Negroes now are in the seventh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school dances to be held this year . " We might have to curtail some of these things , " says W. J. Mullins , principal . But he 's enthusiastic about the reception 20 Negro parents got the other night from white parents at a school chili supper . the school 's first biracial social affair . Mr. Mullins and other school officials who know desegregation first-hand dispute segregationist arguments that race mixing brings new problems in discipline , delinquency , morals and health . They do not deny , however , that it accentuates those problems already present in the schools . It brings about some teaching changes , too . Incoming Negro children , for example , often are grouped with whites according to their academic abilities . The ones who lag far behind scholastically are taught alongside whites of comparable academic achievements , even if these white children are younger . The brighter Negroes go into more advanced groups . This permits a speedier education pace for the fast learners . And one Nashville teacher is making her new Negro pupils feel at home by " integrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children from magazines and pastes them on the board .                     