@@723668

txt Washington , Dec. 19 ? The Senate tonight , by a 60 to 25 vote , approved appropriations totaling 3.27 billion dollars for foreign aid , after striking out a House-approved ban on trade with communist nations on credit . This latter action was taken after President Johnson warned that credit restrictions would jeopardize the pending 250 million dollar wheat deal with Russia . Provides More Money The Senate measure provided 471 million dollars more than the 2 billion 801 millions voted by the House . The bill was returned to the recessed House , which reconvened briefly and appointed conferees headed by Rep. Otto Passman D. , La. to meet tomorrow with Senate conferees headed by Sen. John 0 . Pastore D. , R. I.. The major differences between the legislative versions passed by the two houses must be worked out in conference . Adjournment plans of the 88th Congress were in doubt . The House appeared adamant in retaining the credit curb as the price for passage of the foreign aid bill before adjournment tomorrow . Rider Loses , 52-32 The Senate vote against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guaranteeing credit to communist countries purchasing commodities from the United States , was 52 to 32 . Just before the record roll call , the majority leader , Sen. Mike Mansfield D. , Mont. , announced he had been hearing rumors that the House would refuse to pass the foreign aid bill without the communistcredit prohibition in it . " Let us not be subject to threats of that kind , " he said . Mundt Leads Fight Sen. Karl Mundt R. , S. D. led a floor fight for approval of the House action . He argued that it was " international idiocy " to ask American taxpayers " to underwrite with their money the good faith and credit of communist conspirators . " Mansfield read to the Senate a letter from President Johnson which strongly urged against indorsement of the House rider . " I strongly urge the Senate to reject the amendment preventing the use of facilities of the Export-Import bank in connection with trade with communist countries , " Johnson said in the letter . Cites Kennedy 's Words " In one of the last letters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Export-Import bank has a record of judgment which fully justifies confidence in its ability to use its powers wisely , with a net gain to the taxpayer . " The proposed restriction on the bank would " jeopardize not only the possible sale of wheat to the Soviet Union but sales of other important commodities , such as corn , tobacco , and cotton to a number of communist countries , " Johnson said . The proposed restriction was doubly objectionable , he said , ecause it contemplated the Insertion of a major shift of policy in an appropriation bill . " I can assure the Senate , which knows me well , " wrote the former Senate majority leader , " that this administration proposes to protect the interests of the United States in all matters affecting trade with communist countries . " Johnson said trade with the communist bloc would be good for farmers , exporters , shipping , the railroad industry , the balance of payments , " and good for the country . " " It makes no sense to jeopardize these possible gains by this legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissenting , Mundt told the Senate that it was being asked to vote on an issue which , in some ways , was more important than its vote on the nuclear test ban treaty . The wheat sale to Russia , first advanced on Oct. 9 , he noted , was " a cash on the barrelhead " proposal . However , the negotiations had proceeded in an atmosphere of appeasement , he asserted , until now the United States taxpayer was being asked to bear the burden if Russia defaulted on its payments . " Can you go back to your constituents , " he demanded of senators , " and tell them you have pledged their money on the good faith and credit of Nikita Khrushchev ? " The Senate has debated this issue twice before . On Nov. 14 and again on Nov. 26 , debate was cut short by motions to table . Mundt won the first clash , 46 to 40 , but lost the second , 57 to 35 . Reject Other Attempts The Senate trimmed 27 million dollars from the foreign aid fund but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senators Wayne Morse D. , Ore. and Allen J. Ellender D. , La. were defeated in four successive drives to impose slashes ranging from 30 millions to 300 millions from the measure . Their aim was to reduce the total to the House level . These economy efforts , featured by charges of excessive waste and poor administration of the aid program , were beaten by votes of 54 to 28 ; 53 to 34 ; 54 to 30 ; and 55 to 31 . Supporters of the bill cited President Johnson 's admonition that " false economy " would be dangerous to national security . By voice vote , the Senate accepted a 23 million cut in the billion dollar fund for military assistance to foreign nations and another 4 million reduction in administrative expenses of the agency for international development , which handles the aid program .                     