@@726410

txt Alexei N. Kosygin 's speech to the UN General Assembly was , in the words of one of those he attacked : " Tough enough to fend off Arab , Afro-Asian , and Chinese criticism ? but not so tough as to offend the White House and doom the summit we 've all been watching for . " Mr. Kosygin did go through a grim listing of Soviet criticism which hit Washington , London , and Bonn as well as Israel . But sprinkled in the long and bristling attack on Israeli " aggression , " were a number of statements by Mr. Kosygin which gained careful diplomatic analysis . Israeli recognition ? One of these was his apparent assumption of continuing Israeli existence , a recognition which most of his Arab allies are loath to give . Another was the Kremlin leader 's apparent interest in getting the Suez Canal working again . He approached this subject by demanding immediate Israeli withdrawal from the east bank of the canal . But many delegates noted , nonetheless that the Soviet Union appeared to be interested in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other sections of the generally grim speech which appeared to hold out an olive branch . Early in his speech , the dark-suited Soviet leader made it clear that he realized no nation , including his own or the United States , wants to risk nuclear war . This seemed to mirror Moscow 's policy in keeping clear of the brief third Arab-Israel war . Later he ended a long listing of Israeli offenses with a promise that " the withdrawal of Israeli forces " from the seized territories may change the situation in favor of a d ? tente . For the rest , it was clear that the Soviet // * Kosygin takes hard line at UN // leader was sticking to a policy of diplomatic attack in the wake of military failure . His strategy appears to many delegates here to be one of trying to isolate Israel as much as possible in the Afro-Asian world . At the same time he has put a high asking price before the General Assembly  --  a Soviet draft resolution demanding more than the Assembly is likely to vote . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forces , repayment by Israel for all damages inflicted in the war , and enforcement of these steps by the Security Council . Of these four steps , only the second  --  a call for withdrawal ? is generally believed able to win the required two-thirds majority in the Assembly . And even if it does , the result is not mandatory . This Soviet course had been generally expected . What was somewhat less expected vas the general tone of Mr. Kosygin 's speech . He is known to many diplomats here as a pragmatist interested in detente  --  author of the " Tashkent spirit " on Kashmir and of an attempt to maneuver a Vietnam compromise last February . No doors opened But his General Assembly speech made no particular attempt to frame his expected condemnation of Israel in a context inviting Soviet-American talks searching for a longterm solution . This was in strong contrast to President Johnson , whose Washington speech little more than an hour before was self-consciously moderate in tone , although slightly pro-Israeli in content . Mr. Kosygin 's tour of the horizon at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the world : for its bases and fleet maneuvers , for intervention in the Congo , Dominican Republic , and Vietnam . It appeared that the Kosygin who has pragmatically sought expanded American trade and credit , agreement to halt the spread of nuclear arms , and hot-line insurance against letting local wars get out of hand , had decided to register in stiff terms the Kremlin 's concern that Washington has won too many rounds in recent encounters . Small powers wooed Both Mr. Kosygin and Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban , who spoke after him , used time-honored tactics in the General Assembly . Each tried to paint a vivid picture in which small powers of the world might see themselves caught at some time in the future . Mr. Kosygin said : " There are many regions in the world where there are bound to be those eager to seize foreign territories . . .. Unless Israel 's claims receive a rebuff today , tomorrow a new aggressor , big or small , may attempt to overrun the lands of other peaceful countries . " Mr. Eban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine themselves , like Israel , surrounded by hostile neighbors , egged on by a great power , the Soviet Union . Summit still seen As this fencing for tactical advantage rolls in speech after speech , the attention of world leaders here continues to switch back to the subject of a big-two summit . The key to prospects for such a meeting apparently continues to lie in the talks which American Secretary of State Dean Rusk is expected to hold here with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko . Many analysts still hold that Mr. Kosygin 's tough speech is only expected to show publicly that Moscow is faithful to its pledges made to the Arabs  --  and is not colluding with Washington , as Peking charges . Beneath that public show , these analysts argue , there is still the intention to hold summit talks that would explore for possible joint efforts on the Middle East , Vietnam , and nonproliferation.                     