@@723791

txt This state 's hotly contested , highly publicized Republican Presidential primary race , first in the nation , is moving close to the wire . Yet the outlook is actually far snore confused than when the campaign began last fall . The candidates have been endlessly slogging their way back and forth across the state . Newspapers , radio and TV broadcasts , and mailboxes are jammed with campaign news . Yet , with the March 10 balloting now less than three weeks away , talks with GOP politicians and many scores of voters yield an inconclusive picture something like this : Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona , far out in front last fall , has slumped badly in popular support . partly from lackluster campaigning and partly from statements that many voters label as " too extreme . " A saturation publicity barrage and some whirlwind personal campaigning reminiscent of nis 1958 New York gubernatorial bid have pulled New York Gov . Nelson Rockefeller up close to the Senator . A huge group of GOP voters remains deeply dissatisfied with both men , convinced neither can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them plan to . respond to local campaigns to write in the name of either of two unannounced candidates : Former Vice President Richard Nixon or Ambassador to South Vietnam Henry Cabot Lodge . ( There are no campaigns here for two other possible compromise choices , Gov . William Scranton of Pennsylvania and Gov . George Romney of IMichigan . ) A very small number of voters plan a protest vote for either of two other active candidates : Sen. Margaret Chase Smith of Maine or Harold Stassen , onetime governor of Minnesota . And a large group , unenthusiastic about either Mr. Rockefeller or Mr. Goldwater , is still wavering . A Write-in for Lodge " Lodge did a good job handling the Russians at the UN . " says Rochester utility worker Vernon Atkins , who 'll write the ambassador 's name on his ballot next month . " My reaction to Goldwater and Rockefeller is strictly negative . " " There are so many things about those two that I do n't like , " declares Mrs. George Copp , a bank teller in Laconia . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write his name in . " Says Neil Schiot , a retired naval architect in Portsmouth : " Goldwater is too extreme , too ready to get us into war , and Rockefeller seems a little weak to me . Nixon and Lodge are good experienced men and I 'm inclined to write in one or the other . " Both Gov . Rockefeller and Sen. Goldwater are launching ardent efforts to win converts from the undecided bloc and from those leaning to Mr. Nixon , Mr. Lodge , Mrs. Smith or Mr. Stassen . Both are handshaking and speaking in the state right now and will almost live here until March 10 . Their organizations have grand , and expensive , plans for expazided radio and TV broadcasts , new direct mail solicitation , newspaper ad campaigns , and door-to ' door canvassing in larger towns . Rocky even plans broadcasts in French for French-speaking Granite Staters , and an election eve hourlong " telethon " to answer phoned-in questions . Siphoning Off Votes Gov . Rockefeller is particularly doing his darndest to get Mr. Lodge to discourage writein votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be taken away about evenly from Sen. Goldwater and Gov . Rockefeller ; Mrs. Smith and Mr. Stassen , while probably drawing chiefly from the New York governor . will command a comparatively small number of votes . But the Lodge write-in campaign is well organized , seems likely to pay off in a large vote , and draws almost entirely from Gov . Rockefeller rather than Sen. Goldwater . " I 'm a moderate Republican , " says Harold Rocker , forestry professor at the University of New Hampshire in Durham . " I 'm inclined to write in Lodge , but if I do n't do that , I 'll vote for Rockefeller . " In nearby Somersworth , General Electric inspector Kenneth Larow and his wife think " we 'd be in war right now if either Goldwater or Nixon were in . " They , too , will either write in Mr. Lodge 's name or go for Rocky . So far , all signs are that Mr. Lodge will ignore the Rockefeller appeals , made directly and through intermediaries , to discourage write-in votes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go ahead , he 'd have stopped it long ago , " an old friend declares . As an alternative way of attracting Lodge partisans and other non-Goldwater voters , Mr. Rockefeller is shifting the burden of his campaign from attacks on Goldwater views to a positive portrayal of his own experience and record as governor . And while the governor himself ca n't quite take this line . some of his lieutenants will argue that any Goldwater for should back Mr. Rockefeller . " You might prefer Lodge or Nixon , " voters will be told , " but if you do n't use Rockefeller to stop Goldwater , then Nixon or Lodge never gets a chance at the nomination . " And apparently worried that Mr. Nixon or Mrs. Smith will draw votes from him , Mr. Goldwater is urging New Hampshire voters to " make your vote count " and not support someone " who 's not going any place . " There 's no question that ninny New Hampshire voters are thoroughly confused . Again and again they declare , as does a pretty young secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just too many of them running . " Actually there are two independent parts to the Presidential primary . One is a popularity or " beauty " contest , in which voters indicate their Republican Presidential preference . The other involves the actual selection of 14 delegates and 14 alternates to the GOP nominating convention in San Francisco in July ; in most cases the men running for delegate announce whom they favor for President . On the beauty contest ballot will he the names of Messrs . Goldwater , Rockefeller and Stassen , Mrs. Smith , and a perennial New Hampshire office-seeker , Norman Le Page . The names of Mr. Nixon , Mr. Lodge or anyone else must be written in ; Mr. Lodge and Mr. Nixon have given neither approval nor disapproval to write-in campaigns now under way . Delegation slates are running favorable to the nomination of Mr. Rockefeller , Mr. Goldwater , Mr. Lodge and Mr. Stassen . There 's also a group uncommitted to any candidate . Mrs. Smith and Mr. Nixon have no delegates running ; Mr. Nixon requested the one candidate favoring his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Govs . Romney and Scranton made similar requests of their backers . Political Maneuvering The confusion is compounded by intense political maneuvering among state GOP officials , leaderless since the 1961 death of Sen. Styles Bridges . Within the Goldwater camp , there 's jockeying among Sen. Norris Cotton , Sen. Bridges ' widow Dolor 's , and New Hampshire House Speaker Stuart Lamprey . Mr. Nixon 's write-in campaign is being staged by former Gov . Wesley Powell , who has many friends but also many enemies who contend he 's using . the Nixon move as a device to regain power . Many a voter will likely cast his ballots for certain well known delegates favoring a Presidential candidate other than his preference ? voting perhaps for Sen. Goldwater in the beauty contest but for some pro-Rockefeller or uncommitted delegates along with some Goldwater men . Both the Rockefeller and Goldwater camps privately indicate they 'd consider nine or 10 out of the 14 delegates a good score . Despite the chaos , the primary 's outcome will have Impact . It may not be as conclusive as seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were involved , but it is still being watched closely by Republican politicians all across the nation . " The headlines will say either that Goldwater beat Rockefeller or that Rockefeller beat Goldwater , " comments old pro Nixon . " The results wo n't knock anyone out of the race , but they will be a big psychological help for the winner . " Naturally , a big write-in for Mr. Nixon and Mr. Lodge would hurt both Gov . Rockefeller and Sen. Goldwater , considering their huge investment of time and money . Many politicians would become even more inclined to stay uncommitted until convention time , and the chances for final choice of a compromise candidate would become even greater . liow Campaign. , In Sen. Goldwater and ( o% . Rockefeller are running quite different campaign , The governor 's New Hampshire organization is comparatively weak . so he 's relying heavily on intensive personal campaigning and blanket publicity coverage . The Senator has more of the state 's influential political leaders backing him , and he is counting on their personal organizations to deliver the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in over 90 ' of the towns and good ones in close to 75r ; ; of them . The Goldwater campaign emphasizes consei vatism ; his red-white-and-blue literature proclaims " Sanity ! Solvency ! Security ! " and declares " New Hampshire Republicans are tired of the straddle and soft touch . " Some voters certainly respond . " We want a conservative for a change , " declares Concord railroad worker Ed Heath . A housewife whose husband works at the Sylvania Electric Corp . plant in Hillsboro likes " what he says about Cuba and other foreign countries . I 'm tired of having the U.S. pushed around . " Mrs. Gertrude Roth , wife of a Contoocook Army man , finds " I like his ideas of putting America first for a change . " But Sen. Goldwater has not scored high with his on-the-spot campaigning . Whether the reason has been fatigue or his aching foot or a feeling of strangeness , his speeches have seemed wooden and uninspiring . " He could n't draw a tub of water , much less an audience , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Some of his stands have cost him support , particularly as Mr. Rockefeller charges the Arizonan is too bellicose or would switch Social Security to a voluntary system . Where Goldwater forces were once predicting a substantial majority of the total vote , they now say they 'd be satisfied with a five or six percentage point lead over Mr. Rockefeller , provided the **25;959;TOOLONG vote is n't too great . " I was leaning toward Goldwater until I heard him speak , " says a Meredith housewife . " He seemed bored , doing us a favor to be there . " She 's now inclined to Mr. Rockefeller , though she says " I was mad at him about his divorce . " Florence La Porte , wife of an Enfield construction worker , has cooled on her earlier support of Mr. Goldwater . " He says one thing one day and then contradicts it another , " she says ; she 's planning to write Mr. Nixon 's name in . A Franklin minister believes Mr. Goldwater 's foreign policy views are " too extreme ? he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is hesitating between a Rockefeller vote and a Nixon write-in . The reluctance of many anti-Goldwater voters to view Mr. Rockefeller as an acceptable alternative remains the New Yorker 's major problem . Thus Claremont insurance executive Ken finds Goldwater " too ex. treme , particularly in foreign affairs , " but Rockefeller " too liberal , especially on medical care for the elderly . " So he plans to write in Mr. Lodge 's name . Paul Stewart , a Goodrich rubber footwear salesman in Laconia , will write in Mr. Nixon as " the lesser of four or five evils . " R. 0 . D. Hopkins of Hopkinton , a retired charity fund-raiser , will " cast a protest vote for Mrs. Smith . Goldwater has some interesting ideas but they 're not realistic for this age . Rockefeller has too many qualities that just do n't suit a President . "                     