@@727289

txt Miami Beach , Aug. 9 ) - Cov . Spiro T. Agnew said today he now feels " totally relaxed " about his surprise choice for the No. 2 spot on the Republican national ticket but that he will be going full speed when the campaign starts . " They 're going to nave to give me a tranquilizer to slow me down , " he told newsmen in his hotel suite .. It is no secret that Richard M. Nixon was not happy at times about the slow campaign pace set by Henry Cabot Lodge , his running mate in the 1960 White House . battle . Plans Hard Campaign ? Agnew said he had ' not discussed this point specifically with Nixon . " I 'm just assuming lie expects me to join . fully in a hard campaign and that he knows I will , " he said . The Maryland governor said he is especially pleased that he will attend the briefing at President Johnson 's ranch tomorrow and then go with Nixon for a campaign planning . session in California . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants me to be fully prepared to assume the Presidency should that contingene ) , arise , " he said . " I am glad to know I am going to be in on the big decisions from the beginning . " Cites Labor Experience Agnew voiced confidence that he will bring assets to the campaign besides energy . " For one thing , I had considerable experience in my law practice with labor relations , " he said . " I prided myself on my ability to bring two parties together and work out a reasonable position between them . I hope I can do this in this new role , perhaps even in international affairs . " On the question of riots , crime , and law and order , Agnew said his views have been subject to misinterpretation . Explains nights Views " I do not see how an official can fairly be said to oppose civil rights when he opposes civil disobedience and opposes the claim of individuals to decide for themselves what laws to obey , " be said . " To me , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ? Agnew said he has been called a hard liner for recent statements on looters and that he is willing to accept this designation if his views are presented correctly . What he believes , he said , is that a policeman must use whatever force is necessary to stop a looter if he has good reason to believe the looter may have committed a serious ( crime , such as murder or arson , in connection with his looting . He added that the policeman always must . analyze the situation on the spot and use only what force is necessary .                     