@@724626

txt Washington The President 's war on crime , as outlined in his message to Congress , is necessarily a limited one . The powers of the federal government in this area are limited . This is the underlying import of the message . Even so , President Johnson 's proposals for pressing this war at the federal level go beyond that of his recent predecessors . His recommendation for a federal law to halt the mail-order sale of guns is regarded as both radical and rash by some congressional authorities . The strongest gun legislation yet considered by Congress  --  the bill of Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut  --  would screen but not prohibit the sale of guns by mail order . Registration urged A spokesman from Senator Dodd 's office told this reporter , " Such a bill the Johnson proposal would hit and hurt hundreds of reputable and nationally known gun and mail-order houses . " Obviously even Senator Dodd would not support it . On the other hand , there are those in Congress who feel that the President should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , he did so , recently In the case of the District of Columbia , in calling for the registration of pistols as a means of curbing crime in the nation 's capital . However , the President acknowledges the limitation of federal jurisdiction when it comes to firearms control on a national basis . One of the most significant  --  and perhaps most important  --  sections of . the message is his appeal to state and local officials " to review their existing legislation in this critical field with a view to keeping lethal weapons out of the wrong hands . " Forty-seven out of the 50 state legislatures-are meeting this year . Gun legislation of any kind has been consistently  --  and // Johnson war ' // usually successfully  --  Opposed at the local at well as the national level by the powerful gun lobbies . While the President can not apply pressure at the local level , he appeals in his crime message to all citizens to enlist in this war . He devotes an entire section to " the role of the individual . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcement of the law if they want it , insist on it , and participate in it , " he states . With respect to narcotics , the President put great stress on the importance of the rehabilitation of users : He disclosed that the Justice Department is about to submit proposals for limiting penal sentences for addicts " to the fullest extent consistent with the public safety " in order to give offenders every opportunity for return to normal life . As another approach to crime control , the President has proposed that the attorney general be authorized " to assist state , local , and private groups to improve and strengthen crime-control programs and make generally available information as to their effectiveness . "                     