@@724123

txt San Francisco Now having scuffled among themselves , the Republicans move into the real campaign . Fighting Deniocrats may well be considerably more arduous , and this is the reason why : The Goldwater victory was becoming apparent at the Governors Conference in Cleveland . In fact , as former VicePresident Richard M. Nixon said at the time , the " ball game " was " probably over " with the Goldwater win in the California primary . The exercise here was not one of futility . The democratic processes call for a letting off of steam , and a lot was let off here in the past few days . Safety Valve Useful This is part of the peaceful revolution the United States embarks on every four years . The argument is that this is part of the country 's unmentioned checks and balances that prevent emotions getting so high that a real revolution is threatened . Words , not guns , constitute the American way and once again it is doing everyone a lot of good just to have his say . But Sen. Barry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his plane at the San Francisco airport . There were his delegates , practically everywhere one might look . It was , as the politicians said , " all sewed up . " The Goldwater forces worked diligently for this victory , and it could be said that no matter how hard the " moderates " had Worked the outcome would have been the same . But , at the same time , it must be written that there really was only a modest challenge to the Goldwater bid to the nomination . There was Henry Cabot Lodge remaining in Vietnam until almost the last moment . There was New York Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller carrying on his campaign under the burden of personal political liabilities that months ago put him out of contention ? even though he kept doggedly on in the face of the inevitable . Eastern Power Aloof And , finally , there was Pennsylvania Gov . William W. Scranton. a noncandidate well beyond the time when an honest-to-goodness candidacy should have been launched . He showed spunk . But that is about all he had time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even the Eastern bankers and industrialists who usually are the power behind a Dewey or a Willkie or an Eisenhower bid were not really a part of the challenge to Senator Goldwater ? even though the Arizona Senator and his followers spoke after that " shadowy group " known as " the establishment . " The Clays , the Hagues , the Alcorns , the Gateses , and many other influential Easterners who normally would be a part of the so-called " Eastern wing " of the party were never really in this  --  or , at least , not until it was far too late for their influence to be effective . Void in Support In fact , some of the moneyed people in the East lined up with Senator Goldwater . And others , not too unhappy with President Johnson and the business climate he is shaping , have just sat on their hands . The amateur nature of the Scranton campaign reflected this particular void in support . Had the Eastern-based professionals been involved in mapping campaign strategy , the mark of skill would have been apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the race a lot , earlier , May l at the latest . Then there would have been a carefully mapped-out effort to wrest delegates away from Senator Goldwater ? instead of the helter-skelter flitting about the country that Governor Scranton indulged in during his last-ditch drive for the nomination . There would have been none of the naive excesses that came through so obviously in the Scranton letter to Senator Goldwater  --  which bore Governor Scranton 's name but which he said he did not read . Defeat by Default But , even more basic , the professionals would have been out beating the bushes for delegates a good six months ago , laying the groundwork for Governor Scranton 's personal campaigning effort . Senator Goldwater did get a contest . He even felt the hot breath of possible defeat in California . Certainly , if Governor Rockefeller had won in that close race , it is possible that the large California delegation might have been enough to shift the movement of battle . But in great measure the moderates really did not mount a serious bid for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , content with Mr. Johnson . They were guilty of default , their inaction being conditioned by a consensus that Mr. Johnson 's popularity was too great to challenge at this time . In this default , the moderates may have given up the Republican Party , for years to come . Mr. Goldwater is certain to know the measure of his victory here . It was a tremendous one . But the big one is still ahead .                     