@@724308

txt Former President Herbert ' Hoover was in critical condition ' last night as a result of massive ' internal hemorrhaging . Mr. Hoover , who celebrated his 90th birthday on Aug. 10 , ' was stricken at 3:55 P.M. Saturday in his suite on the 31st , floor of the Waldorf Towers ; where he has lived for the last 30 years . The bleeding , which was in the upper intestinal tract , worsened during the night and at 8:45 yesterday morning his1 doctors issued their first bulletin . It said the blood was ' being replaced by transfusions , and , although Mr. ' Hoover 's , condition was critical , his heart , was performing well . At mid-afternoon they reported that the hemorrhaging appeared to he abating and that " replacement of blood by transfusions has kept pace with the losses , which have been large . " Resting Comfortably Shortly before 9:30 last night , it was reported that there had been no change in Mr. Hoover 's condition . It was said that he continued to rest comfortably . The next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " today . Neil , a close associate of Mr. Hoover , said no further bulletins would be issued until this morning unless the former President 's condition suddenly worsened . He said Mr. Hoover slept most of the day , , but was alert and " very kind " to his physicians and nurses when he wakened . The afternoon bulletin , issued shortly before 4 P.M. , said : " His blood pressure , pulse and vital signs are stable , and he is comfortable and in no pain . The prognosis is extremely guarded , especially in view of the patient 's advanced age . " The bulletin was signed by Dr. Michael J. Lepore , his personal physician , and Dr. Howard A. Patterson and Dr. J. Bean Rodgers , both surgeons . Mr. Hoover , the 31st President has not left his suite for 17 months . His last venture out was on May 22 , 1963 when he went downstairs to greet L. Gordon Cooper Jr. , the astronaut , against his doctor 's orders . Apparently as a result of the effort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August , soon after his last trip to his native Iowa , he underwent surgery for a malignant intestinal tumor . Last February , he suffered hemorrhaging of the right kidney and a pulmonary infection . Since then , he has been constantly under the care of a nurse . Sons at Bedside Mr. Hoover 's two sons , Allen H. and Herbert Jr. , were at his bedside last night . The latter , an Under Secretary of State in the Eisenhower Administration , flew in during the day from his home in Pasadena , Calif . Like their father before them , the sons are engineers . Mr. Hoover 's wife , Lou , died 20 years ago of a heart attack lin their Waldorf suite . Although confined to his suite , Mr. Hoover has kept in close touch with current affairs . Recently he has had to have the newspaper read to him , Mr. said . But , always a baseball fan , he was able to show a keen interest in the World Series . Mr. Hoover 's last public statement was issued on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barry Goldwater , the Republican Presidential candidate , could report that he had received advice on his campiagn from his party 's patriarch . Senator Goldwater said that Mr. Hoover , along with former Vice President Richard M. Nixon , had urged him to press the " soft on Communists " issue against the Democrats . Cited ' Superabundance ' Here In the birthday statement , Mr. Hoover was not partisan . The United States , he predicted , would grow in freedom and prosperity . The " superabundance " of American life , he said , overshadows the nation 's difficulties . In this vein , he said : " Deeply as I feel the lag in certain areas which denies equal chance to our Negro population , I can not refrain from saying that our 19 million Negroes probably own more automobiles than all the 220 million Russians and the 200 million African Negroes put together . " Mr. Hoover did not hold his usual birthday press conference that day . But he did entertain guests for dinner , sharing with them a birthday cake modeled after the Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 90 electric candles . " ' Asked how he felt , Mr. Hoover replied , " Too old : " according to Mr. . Only one other President attained Mr. Hoover 's age . That was John Adams , who died four months before his 91st birthday . In July , the former President sent a message to the Republican National Convention at San Francisco , wihch was read to the delegates by Senator Everett Dirksen , It beban : " With each succeeding convention for 28 years , you have honored me with a request that I speak to you , At recent conventions I have given you assurance that this is my last appearance . But this is really it . " The living room of the Hoover suite at the Waldorf is draped with both the blue-and-white Presidential flag and the flag of the United States . Glass cabinets contain the china that Mrs. Hoover collected in the Far East , where her husband earned his fortune as a young mining engineer in the early years of the century . His assets were estimated at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alto , Calif. , after he was derented the Waldorf apartment Franklin D. Roosevelt . They entered the Waldorf apartment when charitable activities brought them to New York with increasing frequency . In those days , Mr. Hoover was at the nadir of public esteem . Although historians now generally agree that he could not be blamed for the ravages of the Great Depression , his name had become almost an epithet for millions of Americans . They thought of him as a cold , humorless man , more moved by theory than human suffering . A bitter joke of the time had Mr. Hoover asking an associate for a nickel to call a friend , and getting the reply : " Here 's a dime . Call all your friends . " Has Published 32 Books But Mr. Hoover did have friends , and they knew how deeply he suffered as a result of such cruel /lemon The former President took to writing , to explain and justify his beliefs and actions . Recently he published his 32d book . As the years passed , Mr. Hoovers image changed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starched collar was replaced by a picture of a genial , pipe-smoking elder statesman . The text of the morning bulletin on Mr. Hoover 's condition follows : " Former President Herbert Hoover has had a sudden and massive hemorrhage from the upper gastrointestinal tract . The blood loss is being replaced by transfusions . His condition is critical but he has thus far withstood the increased demand upon his heart and vascular system remarkably well for a person in his 91st year . " The afternoon bulletin declared : " Former President Herbert Hoover remains critically ill . Blood loss from the upper gastrointestinal tract has continued but it appears to be lessening . Replacement of blood by transfusions has kept pace with the losses , which have been large . " His blood pressure , pulse and vital signs are stable , and he is comfortable and in no pain . The prognosis is extreme-1 ly guarded , especially in view of the patient 's advanced age . "                     