@@723846

txt Dr. Norbert Wiener , worldrenowned scientist who was considered to be the father ofl automation , died today in Stockholm , it was announced by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He was 69 years old . The notice of Dr. Wiener 's death came in a cablegram from his wife , Marguerite Engemann Wiener , who was traveling with him . Dr. Wiener had been on the faculty of M.I.T. for more than 40 years until his retirement in 1960 . The mathematician and his wife left Cambridge in January for Amsterdam , where he was to be a visiting scholar at the university . The couple arrived in Sweden from Norway several days ago . Dr. ' Wiener was to lecture at the Royal Academy in Stockholm . Upon learning of Dr. Wiener 's death , Dr. Julius A. Stratton , president of called him // " one of the world 's greatest mathematicians and one of M.LT. ' s most distinguished professors . " Dr. Wiener , the father of the term cybernetics , was considered one of the world 's ranking mathematicians . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literary scholar . He had been a child prodigy , receiving a Ph . D. degree from Harvard at the age of 19 . Since 1932 Dr. Wiener had been professor of mathematics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He studied and lectured at many other institutions here and abroad . During World War II he made significant contributions to the development of radar , tracking and gunaiming devices . Dr. Wiener was best known to the public for his contributions to the field of cybernetics . He coined the word from the Greek kybernetes , meaning steersman , from which also comes the word governor . Dr. Wiener used cybernetics to define a field that " combines under one heading the study of what in a human context is sometimes loosely described as thinking and in engineering is known as control and communication , " He said that cybernetics attempted to find the common elements in the functions of automatic machines and of the human nervous system and to develop a theory that would cover the entire field of control and communications in machines and in living organisms . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Animal and the Machine " ( 1948 ) , evoked wide interest among scientists and laymen . Saw Devaluation of Brain Dr. Wiener continued to be one of the leading scientists in this field . He saw the development of giant electronic computers and automatic control devices as heralding a new Industrial Revolution . He suggested that this new revolution might devalue the human brain for routine work much as the original Industrial Revolution had devalued human muscle . He was disturbed over the destructive potentialities of military devices based on his work and that of other scientists . In 1947 he announced that he would not contribute to any further military research . With his gray mustache and beard , Dr. Wiener resembled a kind of Monty Woolley of the classroom . Colleagues described him as " full of nervous energy . " In more relaxed moments , he wrote detective stories that were submitted to publishers under the pseudonym W. Norbert , He was once described as a man with a " view of life so critical and lacking in humor as to set him apart from his colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man who has never made peace with the world . " Among his most recent endeavors , in collaboration with other scientists , was the development of electrical equipment for automatic analysis of human brain waves as an aid to psychiatric and physiological diagnosis . Recently , in an interview , Dr. Wiener expressed the view that , there existed a danger that computers would someday get the upper hand over men " if we do n't take a realistic attitude . " " The danger , " he said , " is essentially intellectual laziness . Some people have been so bamboozled by the word ' machine ' that they do n't realize what can be done and what can not be done with machines  --  and what can be left , and what can not be left , to the human beings . " In the same interview , he predicted that within the next decade substances allied to human genes would be used as the memory core of computers instead of magnetic tape . He based this on the discovery of nucleic-acid complexes in the brain and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory . This development , he said , " will involve a lot of new fundamental research . " " How to get in and out of these genetic memories  --  how to put them to use  --  involves much research which has scarcely started yet . Several of us have hunches  --  these are not verified  --  that this can be done by light of specific molecular spectra , to get in and out Of the complexes . " Dr. Wiener was born on Nov. 26 , 1894 , in Columbia , Mo. , to Leo and Bertha Kahn Wiener . His father was Harvard 's first professor of Slavonic languages . During his childhood De . Wiener was subjected to a great deal of publicity because of his brilliance . It was reported that he knew the alphabet by the age of la months ; that he could read and write at 3 years , and that he had mastered arithmetic , algebra and geometry at 6 . He graduated from the Ayer ( Mass. ) public high school at the age of 11 and received a bachelor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Ph.D . from Harvard at 19 he won an M. A. degree there . Dr. Wiener once remarked that- he had got his classical education from his father and his scientific education for himself , In addition to his work at Harvard , his first years of graduate study took him to Cornell , Cambridge University , where he was a student under Bertrand Russell ; Gottingen University in Germany , and Columbia . He returned to . Harvard for the 1915-16 years as docent leeturer in mathematics . The next year he held a comparable position at the University of Maine . He also worked briefly is a staff writer for the Encyclopedia Americana and for The Boston Herald . During World War I he served first as a civilian computer at the Aberdeen Proving , Ground in Maryland and later as a private in the Army . In 1919 Dr. Wiener became ? instructor in mathematics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He was promoted to assistant professor in 3.1121 , associate professor four years later and full professor in 1932 . In 1926 he did research at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among his several exchange land visiting professorships was one during 1935.36 at Tsing Hua University , in Peking . In addition to " Cybernetics , " Dr. Wiener was the author of " The Fourier Integral and Certain of its Applications , " " Harmonic Analysis in Complex Domains , " " The Human Use of Human Beings , " two autobiographical books " Ex-Prodigy , " which covered his childhood and youth and " I Am a Mathematician , " published in 1956 . He also contributed many articles to mathematical and other scientific journals . Against Repetitive Job In " The Human Use of Human Beings , " he wrote that " it is a degradation to a human being to chain him to an oar and use him as a source of power ; but it is an almost equal degradation to assign him a purely repetitive task in a factory , which demands less than a millionth of his brain capacity . " On the social changes resulting from such inventions as the steam engine and the atomic bomb , Dr. Wiener noted : " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these changes are purely changes in degree and that changes in degree do not vitiate historic parallels . The difference between a medicinal dose of strychnine and a fatal one is only one of degree . " As for his definition of man , he wrote that " it will not do to say that man is an animal with a soul . Unfortunately , the existence of the soul , whatever it may mean , is not available to scientific methods of behaviorism . " What does differentiate man from other animals in a way which leaves us not the slightest degree of- doubt is that he is a talking animal . There are animals besides man which are social , and live in a continuous relation to their fellow creatures , but there is none in whom this desire ? or rather this necessity ? for communication , is the guiding motive of their whole life . " Dr. Wiener was elected to the National Academy of Sciences , one of the highest honors to American scientists . He received the Bocher Prize of the American Mathematical Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Award in 1949 , Earlier this year , he was one of five distinguished Americans to be awarded the National Medal of Science by President Johnson . The award was given for his contributions in the fields of mathematics , engineering and logical science . He was a past councilor of the American Mathematical Society and a member of the London Mathematical Society . Dr. and Mrs , Wiener made their home in Belmont , Mass In addition to his wife , he leaves two daughters , Mrs. Gordon Raisbeck of Lexington , Mass. , and Miss Peggy Wiener of Albany .                     