@@725964

txt This is a serious problem , since if it were to be the state where a taxpayer lives that would collect the share , such states as New York , Illinois , Pennsylvania and Missouri , many of whose workers live on the other side of a state line , would be forced to suffer loss of revenue . Moreover , since localities would also share , urban areas would again lose tax revenues while suburban areas mignt gain at their expense should point of residence be the determining factor . Lack of Federal Control The proposal would undoubtedly result in an increase in Federal taxes . Unless there is a reduction in other services there would be no way of avoiding an increase in taxes ( a tax decrease would be barred under any conditions . ) Such an increase , with the revenues going to the states , would in effect be an additional state tax . It would thus be a state tax enacted by the Federal Government , a needless and wanton incursion by the Federal Government into a state preserve . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our Federal structure and would make of the states little more than vassals of the central government The lack of control by the Federal Government would likewise cause serious problems , not the least of which would be the decline-of the merit system and good fiscal policies by the states . Only rigid controls of fiscal and audit policies have Made specified grants-in-aid by the Federal Government to the states workable . In some states these controls have ended the system of patronage in welfare and education . Should moneys be made available without controls , patronage would again become rampant , and corruption would again rule the day in state and local government , as it did before the Federal Government set standards for grants-in-aid . Burden Shifted to Poor Should some states ? decide to use this income for reductions on real estate taxes , the primary beneficiaries would be the large landholders , particularly of slum and commercial properties . Not only would this shift the burden of taxation from those most able to pay to those least able , but it would also ease the tax burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small landowner ? the homeowner or farmer  --  might find his real estate tax cut slightly , but he would be faced with a Federal tax increase much greater than his real estate tax reduction . It is worth noting that those who favor this tax-sharing proposal were the most vocal opponents of President Johnson 's urban programs because they bypassed the states in offering financial aid to the cities . Yet their proposal would bypass the states even more directly . The proposal is hardly a genuine tax-relief measure ; it is , in reality , little more than a political gimmick . BERNARD K. JOHNPOLL Albany , Dec. 4 , 1966 The writer is Associate Professor of Political science , Graduate School of Public Affairs , State University . before the assembly or its committees . The assembly would thus become a considerably better forum for frank debate and development of constructive ideas than the conference has been , as well as a vehicle for greater understanding between the elected representatives- of the Atlantic peoples . Now that the NATO Parliamentarians have finally worked out a practical plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Atlantic community to the future of free men must hope that our Government will take the lead in bringing this plan to fruition . LIVINGSTON HARTLEY Washington , Nov. 23 , 1966 ? Risk to Water Source To the Editor : . It is interesting to note , in tht letter of Charles Eble President , Consolidated Edison Company published in The Times on Dec. 4 , that when Consolidated Edison cuts the Catskill aqueduct in connection with its proposed . Storm King plant , " the aqueduct , both above and below this section , would remain in service . " Unless water is brought in from another source , it seems a rather good trick to keep the aqueduct in service below the cut . I do n't doubt that Consolidated Edison hopes that the aqueduct will be shut down for only four months , which seems long enough to me , but will Mr. Eble guarantee it ? When the aqueduct was originally built , unexpected rock conditions under the river caused a delay of one year in completing the bore . Will Consolidated Edison guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering miscalculations ( by no means unheard of ) , or a strike ? Can the city afford this risk to one of its principal sources of water ? L. 0 . ROTHSCHILD Chairman , Scenic Hudson Conservation Conference New York , Dec. 6 , 1966 ? Against Use of Force in Rhodesia To the Editor : Although it is clear that more should be done ( through the United Nations ) to coerce the illegal reghne ? in Salisbury to relinquish control and allow Rhodesia to proceed toward a responsible independence ruled by the votes of all of its people , it is not clear that the use of military force should be instituted to accomplish this . The argument for mandatory economic sanctions is preferable to that for the use of force for , among other reasons , this one : Each time the United Nations takes or recommends action to solve an international dispute , the method used , whether successful or unsuccessful , sets a precedent for future U.N . action . The use of military force as a solution in a situation in which it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is certainly not clear in the case of Rhodesia ) causes an undesirable effect whether the measure is successful or not . If a violent solution fails , many lives , great sums of money and , not least , much faith in the United Nations will be lost . If the measure succeeds , many lives will still be lost and military force , in a situation which presents possible alternatives , will become the means for solving problems for an organization supposedly committed to seeking peaceful settlements . Primary Considerations In the search for an answer to this problem , neither political and economic expediency nor quick justice should be primary considerations . Rather , the first consideration must be to secure the rights of all Rhodesians in terms of the future of the Unit -- ed Nations and - the role it will play in a world desperately , in need of learning - the ways of peaceful reconciliation . JEFFREY COVEN New York , Dec. 6 , 1966 ? Too Many People r To the Editor : . " Temperature inversions " and " stagnant air Masses " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these conditions of themselves bespeak only what used to be clear , ' Still , Indian summer weather , problem is more basic , and more terrifying . Too many people . Overpopulation is associated by most with distant countries , not our own . But crowding of the affluent society is starting to be felt , right here . More production , more cars , more furnaces , more trash , all quite literally foul the film of earth 's atmosphere , till now thought limitless . Just for example , annual U.S. per capita petroleum products consumption already is about twenty barrels , that of paper and paper board about a quarter ton . Most of this material Is burned off into the air ( though a sizable amount too soils our waters or is strewn about the landscape ) . ' And we seem to be only at the beginning . Life in much of our country . is becoming ugly , thanks to : the unquestioned ethic that fecundity is a moral good , and the fallacy that population increase necessarily fosters the nation 's economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1966 ? P4ley Defends C.B.S . Election Reporting To the Editor : In your Dec. 4 editorial ' ! Election Night Rivalry " criticizing , the network news organizations for their Election Night reporting , The Times in its eagerness to reaffirm its devotion to what it calls " those dull virtues , restraint and caution , " manages to avoid both . ' Had it practiced restraint and caution ' The Times would ! nave found out that in the only seven states where C.B.S . News projected the outcome " while the polls are still open , " the overwhelming percentage of the voting precincts . were already closed : in Texas 98 - per cent were closed , in Michigan 94 , in Tennessee 89 , in Florida 87 , . in Nebraska 87 , in Kentucky 74 and in Alabama 74 per cent . In most cases the time gap between the C.B.S . News call and the closing of the last precincts was thirty minutes or less . In all seven states the C.B.S . News calls were correct ; in all seven the winners ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , it should be pointed out that authoritative surveys found no indication that . the early reporting of election returns influence late voters  --  e.g. , that voters changed their intentions to vote for one candidate or the other , nor did they find an indication that voters who planned to go to the polls stayed home , as a result Of having heard returns on the balloting elsewhere . ( See 1965 studies by Dr. Kurt Lang , department of sociology , State University of New York at Stony Brook ; Dr. Gladys Engel Lang , research foundation of the State University of New York , and Dr. Harold Mendelsohn , director of research , School of Communication Arts , University of Denver . ) The Times also scolds the networks for erring in announcing some probable winners after the polls closed . C.B.S . News called one probable and two winners incorrectly , but made corrections In two cases within a matter of minutes . The longest time C.B.S . News took to correct as error was seven hours , in the still unresolved Georgia election . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page that Lester Maddox and Howard Callaway , each had 47 per cent of the Georgia vote , and in a tabulation on page 34 of the same issue that Mr. Maddox had 49.5 per cent of the vote and that 3/fr . Callaway had 50.5 per cent  --  this , two days after the election . , On the , same day The Times made other errors in reporting other elections , The Times sees fit to remind me that " speed and accuracy do not always go together . " Neither , apparently do slowness and accuracy , or , for that matter , ponderousness and consistency . Reform in Practices Finally , The Times states that my " only solution to the problem of the early reporting of election results is to adapt elections to television . " This is a distortion . I was not pleading for changes to ? accommodate television . What I urged and what Dr. Frank Stanton in ber half of C.B.S . has consistently urged is that our hodgepodge of voting practices , largely evolved in the nineteenth century , be reformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and geographic barriers and make voting easier , more orderly and more efficient  --  a proposal centering on a real-time 24-hour voting day throughout the country . The same proposition was urged in a resolution forwarded to the President of the United States by the National Governors Conference last July . Far from benefiting television or any other one medium exclusively , it would make returns simultaneously available to everybody . Among other things , it would also eliminate , once and for all , the fears , despite the lack of any evidence , that late voters are somehow influenced by reports of early returns . Meanwhile , The Times might remenibee that its function is to report events after they have happened . It is the job of radio and . television to report them while they happen . The difference in margins of safety is obvious . WILMA ! S. PALEY Chairman Columbia Broadcasting System , Inc . New York , Dec. 7 , 1966 ? To Renew Excise Taxes To the Editor ! ' " In its Dec. 5 issue The Times quotes from the Monthly conomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , " With the slowdown of the civilian sectors . ( of the economy ) aleady so pronounced , it is somewhat surprising . some Government officials that and well-known economists fire still calling for a tax , incresse ... . a tax increase , is imposed on a slumping economy , the Government 's tax yield might fall rather than rise . " It should be added that an increase in personal and corporate income taxes would in all probability enlarge the presently spotty recession into a significant downturn of the economy and , retard the process o modernization in the American industry . This modernization , however , is of the greatest significance in combating inflation and in maintaining the worldwide competitiveness of American exports . The rising cost of the Vietnam conflict . should be met without an excessive deficit in the Federal budget . Therefore , I suggest the reinstatement of excise taxes on luxury goods . Such necessities as products for bgby-care or luggage , previously subject to the excise tax , could remain exempt . On the other - hand , a large segment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new " luxury tax , " the gate of which could , possibly even exceed 10 pen cent still without bringing about any excessive reduction in the . sales volume of such luxury goods . PAUL F. DE MARXOV New York , Dec. 5 , 1966 . Conrad In The Los Angeles Times " Help ! I ant being held prisoner by Lin Pine in a Chinese fortune cookie factory ! ? Mao . " ? An Atlantic Assembly To the Editor : The serious Atlantic problems which you outline in your lead editorial of Nov. 21 , " European Journey , " give added interest to a positive development in Atlantic relations which has just occurred . After four years of efforts to set up an Atlantic Assembly , the NATO Parliamentarians ' Conference has worked out a plan to convert itself into such an assembly . 6n Nov. 18 it ' unanimously approved a report and a draft charter which would achieve this goal , forwarded them to the North Atlantic Council , and recommended that member Governments draw up and adopt an agreement establishing such an assembly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an official status and an adequate budget and secretariat which the NATO Parliamentarians ' Conference has lacked . Its functions would include making recommendations on any matter of common concern , receiving reports from the NATO Secretary General , submitting questions to him and inviting his representatives or those of the council to appear Analyzing History ? To the Editor : One of the most exciting of the relatively new historical tools is psychoanalysis , an approach to historical investigation used as early as 1920 by J. C. Flugel in his article on the marriages of Henry VIII , ' and most effectively by Eric Erikson in his " Young Man Luther , " 1958 . One wonders ; therefore , whether the shock and disbelief which characterize the recep-. tion of Freud and Bullitt 's soon- : to-be-published interpretation of Woodrow Wilson- is fully . . justified , especially when one . considers that most historians have accepted for almost ten years the findings of A. L. and J. L , George in their " Woedrow Wil-. son and Colonel House , " 1956 . These were ably summarized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interpretation of Woodrow Wilson " in B. Mazlich 's " Psychoanalysis and History , " 1963 . As Brodie states the signifi-. cance of this method : " . . . the book interests us basically as an outstanding . portrayal of how great enterprises can be turned awry for reasons other than the opposition of wicked or stupid men . " IRA M. BERGER New York , Dec. 2 , 1966                     