@@726406

txt Following its incredible military victory , Israel is now centering its efforts on three major political objectives . These are : ? Warding off joint Soviet-Arab efforts aimed at reverting to twilight conditions of neither peace nor war in the Middle East . ? Seeking a formal settlement with the Arab states which would ensure security and peace . ? Searching for a solution of the 20-yearold problem of the former Palestinian Arabs by helping to establish some kind of a state-like entity for them . This was disclosed by Foreign Minister Abba Eban in an exclusive interview with this correspondent before he left for New York to attend the United Nations General Assembly . Guarantees offered The Foreign Minister also said that Israel was prepared to give " the most clear and explicit guarantees for safeguarding the holy sites " in Jerusalem 's Old City . This is the first time that a comprehensive and authoritative outline has been given of what might be described as Israel 's peace doctrine . Israel 's endeavor at the General Assembly would be aimed at " preventing harmful intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Forward-looking statesmanship must prevent a decision which would encourage the Arab states to believe that there is some alternative to both war and peace . " Arab leaders should not be encouraged to believe that international pressure can secure them the kind of victory which eluded them during the war , " he continued . But if such a policy crystallized , Israel would resist it , he indicated . " If the General Assembly were to vote by 121 to 1 in favor of Israel returning tomorrow to the armistice lines , Israel would refuse to comply with that decision . This has been made clear to the major powers , " Mr. Eban said . " We must not go back to an intermediate situation between war and peace , with all its ambivalence and obscurity , " the Foreign Minister stated . Terms called ' just ' " That kind of situation has been completely outstripped by events . " If the Arab states wished to change the cease-fire position , they would have to reach a peace settlement with Israel , he added . The Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free passage through the Suez Canal and Tiran Strait could be secured , " Mr. Eban said . The Foreign Minister added that several " ministerial and other groups " had been working " to elaborate alternative viable solutions ( for a peace settlement ) . " These should , however , be submitted " not so much to public discussion as to negotiation . " If the Arab states decided to come to the conference table " they will find Israel offering solutions that are reasonable and just and which hold promise of viability and durability , " he ' said . Asked to give a general idea of the gov- ernment 's thinking regarding settlement , the Foreign Minister said : " What Israel wants is very simple : security and peace . " But he added : " Security and peace have territorial implications . " In the case of Syria and Egypt , Mr. Eban sees the problems as " Very similar to the general pattern of international relations . " The problems center around the question of how nations which have been at war adjust their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the problem is much more comples . We face here a population which was part of what once was called Palestine , " he said . I asked Mr. Eban whether it would be correct to assume that among the possibilities for solving the problem of the former Jordanian west bank were the establishment of a separate Palestine Arab state , the setting up of a form of Arab " canton " within Israel , and the establishment of a confederation between such an Arab state and Israel . " All these figure among various suggesttions that have been made , " Mr. Eban answered .                     