@@727573

txt Mitchell I. Ginsberg , the city Human Resources Administrator , . denied yesterday a New York Times report that " apparent mismanagement " in the antipoverty program was the reason three local health centers were receiving funds directly from Washington instead of through his agency . It was learned on Monday that the health centers originally received their funds through the H.R.A. Referring to the change , Mr. Ginsberg said in a statement : " Contrary to The Times allegations of continued incompetence in my agency , the truth is that we are now developing , at the specific urging of O.E.O. the Office of Economic Opportunity , a procedure by which , H.R.A. will entirely take over ' the handling of fiscal matters . " Mr. Ginsberg said that under the new plan , O.E.O. , one of the Federal organizations that largely finance local poverty ' programs , has agreed that the three health centers now being directly funded will again receive their funding through H.R.A. beginning about March 1 . Requested by Hospitals The Administrator said that some hospitals had requested direct funding from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the shared responsibility of H.R.A. and the Controller . " " As The Times did quote me as saying , another element was the hospitals ' desire to bypass provisions requiring the involvement of the community in developing programs . " Daniel I. Zwick , associate director for program management of O.E.O. 's Health Services Office , commenting on ' Mr. Ginsberg 's statement , de-clared : " I would n't want to change what I said yesterday  --  I think we 'll have to discuss this with Mr. Ginsberg and see what he has in mind . " Mr. Zwick said on Monday : " They have made some efforts toward improvement , but their fiscal problems are not all resolved . " Kenneth Sparks , assistant director for ** Office of Public Affairs , issued the following statement last night : " The matter of funding* the hospitals is still under negotiation . No decisions have heed made yet . " The three hospitals receiving funds directly from Washington for administration of neighborhood health centers are the Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn , Beth Israel Medical Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals still to be funded through the H.R , A. 's Community Development Agency , which supervises neighborhood programs , are the Long Island Hospital , the Provident Clinical Society and the Catholic Medical Center , all in Brooklyn . " Since direct funding was started in August , H.R.A. , the Bureau of Budget and the Controller have developed a plan that O.E.O. found so satisfactory that it suggested that H.R.A. take over complete control of funds for all federally funded antipoverty programs of all kinds , " Mr. Ginsberg said . Mr. Ginsberg also took " very strong exception " to The Times reporting of the situation in which H.R.A. borrowed $5.2-million of the $5.6-million health grant late in 1967 to sustain community action programs . He said : " First , The Times first edition stated that the then Commissioner of the Community Development Agency had ' lent some of the money to fellow employes , ' including Mrs. Helyn Lewis , who was subsequently arrested on an embezzlement charge on my initiative . Buried deep in the story is the information that , the ambiguous ' sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Objects to Caption Mr. Ginsberg objected also to the caption under the photograph of George Nicolau , former head of the Community Development Agency . The caption said that he called the borrowing of health funds for community action a " bookkeeping action . " " The use of quotation marks in such a context clearly implies that The Times ' view is that the Commissioners misused the funds , " Mr. Ginsberg said . Mr. Ginsberg objected further that The Times did not use his explanation of the borrowing of funds which applied all over the nation late in 1967 . " At that time , Congress had delayed appropriating funds to O.E.O. , " he said . " O.E.O. staff was unpaid , community action programs were folding all over the country , and every locality was using every penny available to keep poor people employed . The use of health center funds for this purpose was known to O.E.O. , has been fully accounted for and entirely repaid . " Mr. Ginsberg said that an aczount in The Times was the first he had heard of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 26 delegate agencies prepared by the Department of Labor late last year . " If the Labor Department felt this finding to he valid and significant , why have they not shared it with those who are responsible for the program ? " he asked . Mr. Ginsberg said that the conclusion by The Times Oat these ratings equally applied to all antipoverty - programs was " entirely unjustified . " The Labor Department gave the 26 agencies an average rating of 2.2 for the 31-day period ended Dec. 6 1968 , on a scale where 1 was good , 2 adequate and 3 poor . " We have been unable to identify the criteria used by the Department of Labor regional office in rating performances , " Mr. Ginsberg said . " Fortunately , late editions of The Times contain at least some of the contents of yesterday 's interview . However , the reluctance of The Tin-Les to use any information that would contradict , or at least place in perspective , some of their findings , raises serious questions in my mind about the paper 's objectivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' concerning H.R.A. " City Controller Mario A. Procaccino , commenting on Mr. Ginsberg 's ? charge that he shared with H.R.A. the responl sibility for delayed payments , which led hospitals to seek direct funding from Washington , said : " If he 's looking for a partner , he has n't got one . That 's as far as I 'll go . " In another development , the City Council has scheduled for today a closed meeting of the Special City Council Committee for an in-depth study of the Human Resources Administration .                     