@@724324

txt An avalanche of votes ? an expected record total of more than 70 million  --  will decide today the outcome of the 1961 Presidential election campaign . Every index points to an overwhelming victory for the Democratic candIdate , Presi- . dent Johnson , over his Republican rival , Senator Barry Goldwater . The polls are unanimous . Those giving the President the biggest lead indicate he is ahead by margins of 64 to 36 per cent or more . If these polls are correct , he would win with a plurality of up to 20 million votes , the widest margin ever achieved by a Presidential candidate , President Johnson 's aides have conceded to Senator Goldwater only the two Deep South states of Mississippi and Alabama . 2 Slates in Alabama The President 's name will not even appear on the ballot in Alabama . Instead , Alabamians may choose between two slates of electors : a Republican slate pledged to Senator Goldwater and an unpledged Democratic Slate , A slate pledged to President Johnson was defeated in the May primary . Residents of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time since 1800 , Congress barred voting in the District , because of the fear that Federal employes would always vote for the party in power . Fair weather , with mild temperatures , has been forecast for the metropolitan area , Long Island , New Jersey and Connecticut . The Johnson plurality , assuming he wins , may be cut by oter apathy . Few believe that the apathy is pervasive enough to produce a lower total vote than the previous record , the 68,838,005 in the Kennedy-Nixon election of 1960 . Causes Are Traced Observers feel that apathy exists because the campaign seemed dull and because the polls eliminated suspense by showing President Johnson a top-heavy favorite . It was believed that many would abstain , sharing the gloom of the Very Rev. Francis B. Sayre Jr. , dean of the Washington Cathedral . He concluded that the tactics and ethics of both Presidential candidates offered little choice . Besides electing a President , the voters will choose 35 Senators , 25 Governors and all 435 members of the House of Representatives . In the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy is making his first try for elective office , running against Republican Senator Kenneth B. Keating . Mr. Kennedy , fighting to keep the family tradition of political victory alive , has been given an edge over Senator Keating by most polls and surveys . If he wins , he will do so despite expected widespread ticket-splitting against him . To punish Senator Keating , who has refused to endorse Senator Goldwater , the Conservative party is fielding a Senatorial candidate , a professor named Henry Paolucci . Prospects in State The Paolucci vote , even if only 50,000 , could be critical for Senator Keating . A Johnson landslide might give Democrats control of both houses of the state Legislature for the first time since 1934 . Many observers believe President Johnson may carry New York by 2 million votes , surpassing the previous high mark , a 1,597,562 majority for Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956 . If that happens , not even the expected heavy ticket-splitting could prevent an overturn in the control of the Legislature . A Democratic pickup of 16 seats  --  five in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Republican , with a hostile Legislature for his expected tax increase program and reapportionment . Republicans now hold the state Senate by only 33 to 25 and the Assembly by 85 to 65 . The New Congress As for the new Congress , neither party expects anybdras tic change in the political lineup . Arithmetic heavily favors the retention of Democratic control of both Senate and House . To win Senate control , Republicans would have to hold all the nine contested seats they now hold and pick up 17 of the 26 contested seats held by Democrats . The present Senate make-up is 66 Democrats and 34 Republicans . Defeat of Senator Keating , in New York , and of Senator Hugh Scott in Pennsylvania might gravely weaken the chances of Republican liberals and moderates for wresting control of the party from the Goldwater conservatives . But , like Senator Keating , Senator Scott is in trouble . Senator Scott , a former Republican National Chairman , may lose to Miss Genevieve Blatt , the Democrat who scored an upset victory over the of ganization candidate , Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wire , Senator Scott was still rated a slight favorite on the assumption that up to half a million Johnson voters would split their tickets . Salinger Found Slipping In California , Pierre Salinger , the Democratic Senatorial candidate , who looked like a sure winner a few weeks ago , has slipped badly , according to the polls . He now is rated only a 50-50 chance of beating the former song-and-dance man of the movies , George Murphy , a conservative Republican . Mr. Salinger , who was press secretary to President Kennedy , seems to have been hurt by the carpetbag issue and by the prevalent opinion in California that he came off second-best in a television debate with Mr. Murphy . Californians will also vote on a crucial referendum that would , in effect , kill existing fair housing legislation in the state . Proposition 14 is California 's hottest political issue . It was designed to nullify the Rumford Fair Housing Act , which prohibits discrimination in the sale and rental of about 70 per cent of the state 's housing . In Texas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the usual split among liberal , moderate and conservative factions . While backed wholeheartedly by President Johnson , Senator Yarborough has been at odds with Governor John Connally . Democrats still hope that Senator Yarborough will defeat the Republican nominee , George Bush , but concede that Mr. Yarborough has been slipping in the final days of the campaign . In Ohio , Robert Taft Jr. , the Republican challenger , is expected to lead Democratic Senator Stephen M. Young unless President Johnson carries the state by 400,000 or more . Elections of Governors Half of the states are electing Governors today . Of these 25 , the Democrats now hold 18 , the Republicans seven . Of the 50 states the Republicans hold only 16 . In Illinois , Charles H. Percy , a Republican businessman , was given a 50-50 chance to take over the Governor 's mansion from the Democratic incumbent , Otto J. Kerner . Election of Mr. Percy , who has never held a full-time government position but is sometimes referred to as " the boy wonder of business , " would put him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although polls showed President Johnson far ahead of Senator Goldwater in Illinois , the Kerner-Percy contest looked close . Tile Chicago Sun-Times straw poll , usually within 1 per cent of actual election outcomes , rated President Johnson 62.63 and Senator Goldwater 37.37 per cent ; in the Senatorial race Governor Kerner had 52,09 per cent and Mr. Percy 47.91 per cent . Michigan voters will decide the fate of Republican Gov . George W. Romney . The outcome is rated a toss up . Governor Romney 's opponent is Representative Neil Staebler , former Democratic State Chairman , In Arkansas , Gov . Orval E. Faubus is seeking a sixth straight term against Winthrop Rockefeller , the state 's first serious Republican contender . Mr. Rockefeller , ' a brother of Governor Rockefeller of New York , has run a vigorous campaign , and is expected to produce the best Republican showing since 1872 . But the odds favor Governor Faubus . Congressional Elections Both Republicans and Democrats predict narrow gains in today 's Congressional elections . To win control of the House , the Republicans would have to pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harry S. Truman 's surprise victory 1948 has there been a House turnover of such proportions ; this year Republicans would be content with a gain of 15 seats . Democrats hope to gain 10 or 12 seats . In New York , one of the most significant contests will be in the 17th Congressional District , where Republican Congressman John V. Lindsay seeks a fourth term against two opponents , Mrs. Eleanor Clark French , Democrat-Liberal , and Kieran O'Doherty , a Conservative . In 1962 Mr. Lindsay won easily by a margin of 53,000 votes . He expects to win again , but he will have to survive a probable avalanche of Johnson votes . A respectable showing by Mr. O'Doherty  --  some Republicans estimate that the Conservative candidate will poll 12,000 ? could topple Mr. Lindsay . The polls in New York , both in the city and the state , will be open from 6 A.M. to 9 P.M. All voters in line at closing time are entitled to cast their ballots before the polls close . During voting hours all liquor sales are prohibited by law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off-premises consumption by grocery stores and delicatessens . There will be no garbage collection today . Alternate - side - of - the-street parking regulations will be suspended but all other traffic regulations , including parking meter rules , will remain in effect . Mayor Wagner will queue up to vote at St. Joseph 's Parochial School , 410 East 87th Street , at 10 A.M. A Liberal party spokesman predicted yesterday that more than half a million votes would be cast under the party label for President Johnson and Robert F. Kennedy . That would exceed the party 's previous high of 416,000 votes for Adlai E. Stevenson in 1952.                     