@@722825

txt The Government is considering possible action against Mississippi television and radio stations accused of fomenting trouble during the Mississippi integration crisis . The staff of the Federal Communications Commission has completed an investigation into charges from private citizens against stations in Jackson and Columbus . A report of its findings is now being prepared and the matter is expected to go before the commissioners next month . The F. C. C. could decide that there has been no violations of its broadcast code and do nothing , or , if it feels the findings warrant , it could impose penalties up to $10 , - 000 or revocation of broadcast licenses . Commission spokesmen have declined to discuss the contents of the report or to identify the stations involved . Reliable reports from Missis- sippi indicate that among stations checked were WLBT-TV in Jackson and WRBC radio and television in Columbus . Contrary to previous reports , the 10-day investigation was limited to stations in those two cities . Charges were that WRBC urged crowds to gather at Governor Ross Barnett 's mansion in Jackson on Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Negro , arrived at the University of Mississippi 's campus . Other stations were accused of urging Mississippians to go to the university in Oxford to stop an intrusion against the state 's rights . Rioting on the campus that night cost two lives and scores of injuries . The station told investigators that their appeals had been for " peaceful assemblies " and thus could not be blamed for the rioting . Complaints alleged that even this type of appeal , in view of the general atmosphere , was not in the public interest . There were also accusations that some stations had violated the F.C.C. 's " fairness doctrine " by presenting segregationists ' editorials on the air . The " fairness doctrine " requires that when one side of a controversial public question is aired , the broadcaster must " encourage and ? implement " broadcasts of all sorts on the situation . Commission spokesmen em ? The field investigation did ( check into reports that walkietalkie and car radio transmitters had been used illegally by rioters batting Federal troops and marshalls in Oxford . Evidence was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating at Oxford the night of the rioting , but operators of the cars have denied using their radios to call up the mob . All the complaints received by the commission came from white citizens , a substantial proportion of them from the immediate vicinity of the university . Some complaints enclosed printed copies of material broadcast and one tape of a recorded broadcast was submitted . ? Investigators conducted about 50 interviews among both white and Negroes . One source indicated that the investigation showed that " a substantial number of people were unhappy with some of the broadcasts . '                     