@@727330

txt ? Vice President Humphrey 's supporters demonstrated a precarious grip on the Democratic convention early today by beating back a formidable challenge to the delegation of President Johnson 's home state of Texas . By a vote of 1,368 to 955 , with Texas barred from voting , the delegation led by Gov . John B. Connally Jr . was formally exonerated of charges that it inadequately represented Texas Negroes and MexicanAmericans . As developed through a tense roll-call , however , the issue really turned into a test of the combined strength of backers of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy , Senator Edward M. Kennedy and other anti-Administration delegations . The New York and California delegations , cheering each other on with V for victory signs , voted solidly against the Texans . Illinois , Michigan and Pennsylvania voted heavily with the Humphrey camp , along with most Southern states . The New Yorkers adhered to a caucus decision that they would vote unanimously for all minority groups charging discrimination . The chaotic session , revealing many of the powerful cross-currents at work in this convention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to oust Georgia 's regular slate . One Negro delegate from California was burning his party credentials while his delegation and that of New York shouted a long and vigorous tribute to Julian Bond , the 28-year-old Negro State representative who is leading the Georgia challengers . The demonstration forced the . convention managers into recess at 2:40 A.M. without completing considerations of the credentials committee 's report . The Georgia regulars had been hand-picked by Gov . LesterG . Maddox , but among them . sat a number of delegates who , are ready to break with the - Governor and sit in harness with the Bond group . The motion to seat only the Bond group lost , 1,041% to 1,413 . Still pending is a motion . to seat only the Maddoxpicked group , but it is almost certain to be defeated by a wider margin . McCarthy supporters took thelead in forcing a floor fight on the Texas challenge , trying thereby to gain something of the - momentum that Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower 's forces gained in a Texas credential fight against Senator Robert A. Taft at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours more to prepare for this . test of strength , but lost the ' convention 's first roll-call on . that point , 832 to 1691/2 . A half-hour of argument on the:brief for and against Texas received scant attention on the floor as both sides marshaled their forces . There was great confusion on the floor as delegations were being polled , many of them asking to chair to define and redefine the question . lt.was after 1 A.M. here before the Texas vote was completed , with the credentials committee 's compromises in Georgia and Alabama , at the least , facing challenge . Despite the bitter credentials battles , in which at one point several hundred delegates were challenged ; despite great confusion and by dint of the tenacity of some of the challengers , ' there was a Democratic delegate behind every state 's standard when the convention opened at 7:30 last night  --  and eventually there were two for every seat allotted to Georgia . Georgia 's regulars had a claith to only half of each chair and Georgia 's challengers stood angry and impatient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proudly in a remote corner in seats that they wrested from the regulars in a four-year fight . North Carolina 's whites end blacks were still trading votes among themselves to avoid a floor challenge and the partisans of Vice President Humphrey and Senator Eugene J. MCCarthy were still maneuvering. among other contested delegations . Amid further confusion , the Georgia challengers grudgingly took seats in the balcony until temporary floor passes were found . Then , with spotlights playing upon them , most delegates cheering and some booing , they marched triumphantly from the balcony toward their share of the Georgia section . But the regulars sat stubbornly in the state 's seats as the challengers crowded into the *narrow aisle . Their leader , State Representative Julian Bond , stood there asserting his half of the state 's vote with half a foot in the convention door , but the crush was too great to bear . Wisconsin , Mississippi and others offered a temporary , haven , but the Bond group finally retreated into caucus to plan its next move . Just before midnight , ushers , found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whereupon the arguments shifted to ownership of the state standard and microphone and the possible violations of Chicago 's fire laws . During their search for seats , the convention was put through its first roll-call on a motion by California that the entire credentials fight be delayed until today , as originally scheduled . The national committee , over the protests of McCarthy supporters and others who said trey were not ready for the credentials showdown , had moved the issue onto last night 's calendar to leave time for an extended platform debate tomorrow . The committee was upheld by . a vote of 1,6911/2 to 875 , with impatient Georgians  --  the seated regulars and the standingchallengers  --  voting ) unanimously for a decision last night . But after the threat of chaos , arising from challenges to several hundred delegates , the final skirmishing was almost a relief to the convention managers . And though they lost most of their specific claims to more seats , the McCarthy forces were close to success in their drive to break open the processes of delegate selection to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battles over seats , the convention 's credentials committee carved into tiny fractions yesterday Georgia 's votes at this convention and offered to move in chairs for both the challengers and the challenged in an intrastate feud . This was the most intractable of l5 cases heard by the committee over the last week When the credentials committee submitted its long list of decisions of the past week , the first challenge from the floor was brought by McCarthy supporters against the Texas regulars led by Presirilent Johnrson 's friend and political associate , Governor Connally . The challengers charged inadequate representation for Negroes and Mexican-Ameri- , cans , and presented a brief but fervent assault on " all racism " by Paul O'Dwyer , the Demo- , cratic candidate for the Senate ' from New York . The Texas regulars , actively supported by the Humphrey forces here , heatedly denied the charges and accused the challengers of seeking to gain in Chicago what they lost in a fair political fight in Austin . " I assure you the merits of the case have nothing to do with the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of battle there were evident the signs of great change in the composition of Democratic delegations , especially those from the South , and signs of still greater change to come . The hastily written compromise written in the midst of the Mississippi credentials battle at the 1964 convention turned out to be a most dramatic opening wedge at this assembly . Having ordered every state to assure full participation to citizens without discrimination , the national Democratic party watched dozens of black faces appear behind the standards of Texas , Alabama , Louisiana and other Southern states , and heard the leaders of some of these states challenge their Northern colleagues to do as well by the Negro . Besides supporting the integration drives in still disputed Southern delegations , the McCarthy forces used the same convention call for full participation to charge unfairness and undemocratic procedure in many other states . They did not get the seats they wanted but their principles were well on the way to becoming official party doctrine . The credentials committee voted unanimously to ask the convention for sweeping rules changes before it next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state laws be altered to provide " meaningful and timely opportunities " for participation by all Democrats and that a sanding committee be named to establish guide:ines and to assist the states in meeting the new standards . It asked specifically that the processes for selecting delegates remain open to challenge : n every Presidential election year , that unit rules blocking minority views be re-examined and perhaps abolished at the precinct , county and state level , and that no state be permitted to send delegations that are handpicked by a few party leaders . It was the legal but disputed selection of Georgia 's delegates by just two men that created the most difficult credentials case for the convention . Gov . Lester G. Maddox and the state 's party chairman , James H. Gray , named all 64 delegates and 41 alternates to cast 41 of Georgia 's convention votes . Two other votes are automatically assigned to two national committee members and were not in question . A slate of challengers led by State Representative Julian Bond demanded admission in place of the Maddox regulars , complaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' own state convention was taken over by McCarthy supporters and most of their votes were earmarked for the Senator . The credentials committee , led firmly in this case by its chairman , Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey , tried over the weekend to split the state 's votes in half and to assign them to 21 members of each slate . The challengers agreed , but only a dozen of the regulars were willing to defy Governor Maddox , and Mr. Gray threatened to thwart the plan by refusing to certify electors for the Democratic ticket for the November ballot . Yesterday , under a broad mandate from the national committee that allowed him to bend a number of rules in the interests of compromise , Governor Hughes retreated two paces and offered to seat all loyal members of both slates provided they still split the votes . If necessary , this would have left some delegates with one-third or even one-fourth of a vote .                     