@@723037

txt Letters to The Times pg . 32 Letters to The Times Scientists as Seers Limits Set on Ability to Make Forecasts on Strategic Issues The writer of the ' following letter , member of the Research Council of the Rand Corporation and Professor at the University of California at Los Angeles , was scientific adviser to the American delegation at the Geneva Conference on Surprise Attack ( 1958 ) . To THE . EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of March 30 Western edition cgrees with my " Scientists , Seers and Strategy " in the current Foreign Affairs in holding that physical scientists and engineers have no magical foresight on strategic issues . But it does not accurately state my argument and hardly recognizes the dangers of the myth punctured . Moreover , the " body of evidence " you cite illustrates the power of that myth . My article does n't deny that some scientists have sometimes been right ; nor that " politicians and generals " have frequently been wrong . Only that " it would be hard to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I do not " indict . . . the public activities of scientists " ; just the claims of clairvoyance . The cardinal choices C. P. Snow refers to as a domain of physical science and engineering involve many factual considerations besides the teohnologies . The notion that , simply by their status as scientists rather than by empirical work on all the major factors affecting such decisions , scientists deserve a special authority is silly and dangerous . We need the methods of science , not merely the authority . Even more dangerous is Snow 's view that only they can " have a first-hand knowledge of what those choices depend upon . " Snow believes that scientists have " the future in their bones , " and unfortunately a good many others , less extreme than Snow , agree . Record for Predictions Your editorial perpetuates this folklore . The " telling instance " it assumes I ignore is the record scientists made in predicting the date of Soviet acquisition of nuclear weapons . This is the standard example often cited by scientists themselves . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Nostradamus too made many successful predictions . And many predictions that turned out poorly , After the first Russian nuclear test , articles appeared , for example , in The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist , comparing scientists ' predictions of this event with those of the " wartime administrators . " Quotations showed that in 1945-46 a good many scientists said the Russians would get a bomb in about four years . General Groves , Vannevar Bush and Conant were cited as examples of the interior prescience of " wartime administrators . " The first thing odd is the treatment of Bush and Conant . On Snow 's definition , to say nothing of more rigorous ones , they rate , and rather high , as scientists .. Snow wants some scientists on top rather than on tap precisely because they have tho future in their bones , It would be most unfortunate , then , if as soon as they got on top they lost their power of prophecy , as is implied for Bush and Conant . The successful prophecies cited cluster in 1945-46 , In these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only alternative to the imminent spread of nuclear weapons . After 1916 , when the Russians turned the plan down , many scientists , including some quoted for their successful prophecy , reversed their views and , in 1948 and 1949 , predicted it would be many years before the Russians got the bomb ! Meanwhile the explosion was getting closer . In fact , Bush and Conant recorded good as well as bad predictions as to the date of the Russian bomb . They guessed right , in September , 1944 , sooner than the others quoted . Even the " good " 1945-46 predictions , examined more closely , appear less prophetic . For example , one Nobel laureate expected six countries to enter the nuclear club in as few as five years . Another expected Russia to be fourth , after Canada and England . Sequence of Decisions Forecasts of the progress of a military atomic energy program are not simply matters of technology . They try to foresee a complex sequence of national decisions . Each sequence is affected by the decisions of other countries , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political worth . Scientists often treat nuclear diffusion as mechanically as the diffusion of a gas . Three years ago Snow ' assured the American Association of Atomic Scientists that " all physical scientists . know that for a dozen or more states it will only take perhaps six years , perhaps less , " to acquire fission and fusion bombs . In 1963 only the most ill-informed would water that there will be a dozen new entrants to the nuclear club by the end of 1966 , Such heady and wrong-headed self-confidence is an extreme manifestation of the myth . In brief , your example simply illustrates a major point of " Scientists , Seers and Strategy . " " No one has had the gift of reliable fore ? sight in these cardinal choices . " On these matters " answers are won precariously and intermittently in the course of hard empirical inquiry into the major factors affecting choice . " ALBERT WO H LSTETTER . Los Angeles , Calif. , April 10 , 1963 . Park for Fire Island Establishment of Area as National Seashore Is Urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everywhere have been encouraged by Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall 's continued support for the establishment of a Fire Island national seashore . This kind of preservation for the remaining undeveloped miles of Fire Island is an absolute necessity if this and future generations are to continuo to enjoy one last appreciable stretch of unspoiled seashore in this area , It . has been noised abroad that Fire Island is not big enough to become a national park . A simple look at a World Almanac refutes this claim . There are existing national parks that are much smaller than Fire Island , such as Hot Springs National Park in Arkansas ( 989 acres ) and Platt National Park in Oklahoma ( 912 acres ) . The acreage available for such use on Fire Island would make a national park there aearly half again as big as the one on St. John in the Virgin Islands , Indeed , only allowing for the area from Fire Island 's Sunken Forest Preserve ? a remarkable botanical sanctuary ? eastward to Moriches Inlet , here are nearly 20 unsponeo miles totaling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , plus wetlands and the beach itself ) broken only by five small clusters of cottages , Some of this land , including the 75-acre Sunken Forest Preserve , is waiting to be given to the Federal Government as soon ai the Department of the Interior has the authority to receive it for inclusion into a national park . Meanwhile , every day of delay robs the public of a little . bit more of Fire Island . Scores of houses are under construction on the island at this very moment . Whole new subdivisions are in the planning Stage . Why , then , is Congress dragging its heels ? Two bills have already been introduced by New York legislators to establish a Fire Island national seashore . Is n't it time that these bills had some support from the resi , of our Congressional delegation ? HARRY GRAYSON . New York , April 4 , 1963 , Ban on Pro-Castros Upheld To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK ' rims : Your April 2 editorial " How to Help the Reds " is false on facts and unfair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbidde:i in accordance with our Constitution and laws , as was duly certified by a magistrate and by the Federal Government itself . Law and order are not a luxury or a privilege to be disposed of by your editorial writers , It is sad to see a great newspaper falsely inform a great people about our effort and misjudge our intentions . You said that no prominent Leftists attended the gathering . To show you were falsely informed , the present Brazilian Secretary of Labor was one of the sponsors of the proCastro congress and messages from Khrushchev and Mao were received . Your editorial gave substantial help to Brazilian Reds . It came just in time to justify the attempt at intervention by the Federal Government against the state of Guanabara , as part of an attempt to subvert Brazil . CARLOS LACERDA . Rio de Janeiro , April 10 , 1963 . The writer is Governor of Guanabara Province . To Aid School System To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Drastic and imaginative work will be needed to have a marked effect on our school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would alleviate some of the existing dire shortages , Three-year contracts with the United Federation of Teachers would help cut down on labor strife . PAuf , ENnei , SON , Floral Park , L. I. , April 3 , 1963.                     