@@723978

txt ? The Government was reported tonight to be negotiating abroad for the purchase of bombers , fighter planes , torpedo boats , antiaircraft guns and other heavy equipment . The report was distributed by the Cyprus News Agency , a semiofficial service that frequently has been used by the Government to communicate important decisions . The news agency reported that the Cyprus House of Representatives would enact a conscription measure soon , covering five age groups , " to increase the numerical strength " of the Greek Cypriote armed forces . Glafkos Clerides , president of the legislature and a key figure in the Greek Cypriote leadership , confirmed the report on the conscription act and the negotiations for new arms . He would not discuss the nature of the armament . Leader Refuses Details Mr. Clerides declined- to indicate what countries had been approached for arms . He also refused to divulge the age groups that would be affected by the conscription act , how large a force was contemplated , or how long the service period would be , other than to say that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources suggested that the armament might come from the Soviet Union and the United Arab Republic , or at least be paid for with generous Soviet credits . The Government of Cyprus has maintained the closest links with those two countries , which have supported the Greek Cypriote cause from the beginning of the communal strife in December . The news agency , citing authoritative sources , said the measures had been decided upon " with a view to completing the necessary preparations to face possible Turkish aggression " against Cyprus . It spoke of the new arms as " the necessary war equipment , " Force Could Be Legalized The present size of the Greek Cypriote security forces is estimated to be between 15,000 and 30,000 men . There was some speculation that the conscription act would seek in effect to " legalize " the ? present force by providing for regular pay and by covering basically the age groups of the Greek C , 3715-totes now bearing arms . It was widely agreed that , ' even if the news agency report was not accurate in all details , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to restore peace to the island . Vigorous reactions were expected from Western capitals . There was apprehension over what impact the measures would have on Ankara . The disconcerting word of the proposed arms purchases offset two encouraging developments . Greek and Turkish Cypriotes dismantled some of their fortified positions in the port town of Famagusta , while 70 per cent of the ports ' longshoremen both Turkish and Greek , returned to work . A United Nations spokesman said the developments were " due in great measure to the cooperation " of the local authorities in both communities . He said the rest of the longshoremen were expected to resume work tomorrow . Basle ( Defenses Remain The arrangements to dismantle the fortifications affected only those put up since the killings in the Turkish quarter a Week ago of two Greek army officers and a Greek Cypriote policeman . Basic defensive positions of the two sides were not modified . An essential requisite for the restoration of calm remains the release of 34 Turkish Cypriote hostages seized by Greek Cypriotes since the Famagusta incidents . The United Nations command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be released by Wednesday . United Nations sources believe the prisoners are alive . There are unconfirmed reports that some of them have been killed . A Government spokesman announced that 10 Turkish Cypriotes were arrested last Thursday at Nicosia ariport . The spokesman said the 10 had " arrived on the island to embark on subversive activities . " The 10 were understood to have come from Turkey . A note of romance relieved the daily fare of bulletins on communal tensions . Sgt. Leif Ahlden of the Swedish contingent of the peace force became the first United Nations trooper to become engaged to a Cypriote girl . The sergeant 's Greek Cypriote fianc  --  e is Miss Maria Pavlou of Morphou . Neither speaks the other 's language , nor do they know a spoken language in common . They met a month ago . They are scheduled to be married at the end of June and to move to his home town in Sweden in mid-July .                     