@@727538

txt The Board of Health yesterday declared the city to be in " a state of peril " because of the continuing fuel crisis faced by thousands of New Yorkers , many of them ill with the flu . Health Commissioner Edward O'Rourke reported three deaths directly attributable to the lack of heat because of fuel shortages arising from last week 's strike of deliverers and oil-burner servicemen . The city 's Emergency Control Board directed that a rep resentative of the Health Department be stationed at each , of more than 100 oil distributing depots . They are to make sure that deliveries go first to buildings where there are health emergencies . The Health Department cer- , tifies as emergencies situations in which there is no heat and sickness is present and places these buildings on the priority list , a spokesman explained . The Emergency Control Board said that the Health Commissioner , under powers granted to him during a " state of peril , " would press charges against companies or individuals who failed to make deliveries to those given priority certification . Industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York City Oil Heating Association , pledged that the 300 member companies would do " everything within their power to make deliveries of fuel oil to locations certified as emergencies " and would do so on a " strict priority basis . " Mayor Lindsay and Dr. O'Rourke had criticized the companies and drivers for  --  failing to devote their full resources to making emergency oil deliveries over the Christmas holiday . But Mr. Heeg said a survey of the largest companies in the association yesterday showed that every one of the 25 companies checked had " operated at maximum capacity within the limitations of manpower available " on the holiday . Health Department sanitary inspectors and nurses have been checking on conditions in heatless buildings . A spokesman for the department  --  which has charged the oil companies and drivers with failing to meet their responsibilities in the emergency  --  said yesterday that the department did not require most of the inspectors and nurses to work on Christmas . Any certifications made during the holiday , the inspector said , were on the basis of reported illness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain there would be big numbers of sick persons . The volume of complaints of buildings without heat rose sharply following Christmas day . indicating that the fuel crisis was still acute . Forecasts for only slightly warmer weather today gave little hope that thousands of shivering New Yorkers in heatless homes and apartments would get quick relief . As a result of the low temperatures Wednesday and yesterday , some buildings that had received only partial tank refills after the strike was settled last Sunday ran out of oil again . iThe Health Department received 1,192 complaints of no heat in buildings with sickness during the period from 4 P.M. Wednesday to 4 P.M. yesterday . This was almost twice the total received from 4 P.M. Monday to 4 P.M. Tuesday . The department did not have the figures for Christmas Day . Of the 1,192 complaints of no heat , the department said , 354 were certified as emergencies by inspectors and nurses who checked them yesterday . Further Figures The Department of Rent and Housing Maintenance , which takes complaints of no heat in cases where illness is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 P.M. Wednesday and 4 P.M. yesterday This was up substantially from the 2,124 complaints of no heat received from 4 P.M. Tuesday to 4 P.M. Wednesday . Last January , a generally cold period , the department received an average of 2,000 calls a day . Deputy Mayor Timothy W. Costello estimated there were about 28,000 apartments or ! homes still without heat . And the Health Department figured there were 19,000 sick people involved in the 1,192 emergency situations reported in the 24-hour period ended at 4 P.M. yesterday . Mayor Lindsay , before leaving for a vacation yesterday in the Bahamas , issued a statement urging fuel-oil distributors ? and drivers to give " extraordinary priority " to oil deliveries for emergencies . " Although the drivers ' strike ended last Sunday and special ! efforts have been under way to handle the great backlog of orders , extraordinary around-theclock service is required to take care of the remaining serious situations as long as a threat exists to the personal health and well-being of any New Yorkers , " the Mayor said . State Senator Murray Schwartz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charged that the Lindsay administration had completely " bungled " the emergency distribution of fuel oil . Communications Lag Over the last weekend , he said , 50 trucks of independent fuel-oil distributors were virtually idle because for some unexplained reason the emergency requests had not been channeled to the distributors . Mr. Schwartz said he had tried to reach Mayor Lindsay and other high city officials during the weekend emergency , but was told at each place that the responsible city officials were away for the weekend or were not available . " I have learned since then , " he said , " that some 2,500 requests for emergency deliveries were processed by the Mayor 's Emergency Committee last weekend , but the independent fuel oil distributors were only given 96 deliveries to make on Friday and Saturday . " Subsequently . Senator Schwartz said , Health Commis. sioner O'Rourke blamed the fuel oil industry for not making adequate deliveries on Christmas . The Mayor 's office , told about Mr. Schwartz 's criticism , said it had no comment . But a Health Department spokesman reported that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day yesterday . Some other oil dealers serving private homes and small apartment houses maintained that the only oil shortage remaining was in the No. 6 grade of heavy fuel oil used by large buildings such as housing projects , hospitals and hotels . Fred Allegertti , who operates the Bayside Fuel Oil Company in Brooklyn , blamed statements by city officials for provoking oil hoarding by owners of smaller buildings . " On No. 2 and No. 4 oil there is no problem , " he said . " They 're calling us like crazy . They 're ordering oil when they do n't need it . " The Board or Education reported , however , that it was forced to close the 850-pupil Public School 95 at 345 Van Sicle.n Street , Brooklyn , because no fuel oil was available there . The board said also that 2,000 students attended morning classes in cold rooms at Midwooci High School because its heat sour ( e , a plant opor ? algid by adjacent Brooklyn College . was shut down tor the holidays . An engineer from the college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit apartment house at 1767 Weeks A rime in the Bronx , which had been without heat since a week ago last Sunday . received a long awaited oil delivery yesterday afternoon and the heat came up shortly after 4 P.M. The plight of residents in the building was described in The New York Times yesterday . In emphasizing the seriousness of the emergency , the Health Department said 1,282 deaths had been reported for the five-day period ended at midnight on Christmas Day . Of these , the department said , 20 were caused by the flu and 95 by pneumonia . The pneumonia toll was two and a half times greater than number of such deaths reported for the same period last years and three times greater than the number two years ago . Dr. J. Warren Toff , assistant commissioner for community ( health services , said there might have been a lot more , than the three deaths reported by Dr. O'Rourke as directly attributable to the lack of heat . ' " We know Iihat people have been taken to hospitals , " he ! said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mount . " The three cases cited by Commissioner O'Rourke were that of an elderly man in an unheated building in the Bronx ' who died Christmas night after ' developing the flu ; that of a man in a furnished room whose death from asphyxiation was laid to a space heater , and that of a person ill with the flu in an unheated building . Meanwhile , the Greater New York Blood Program inventoried blood-bank supplies at the 43 largest hospitals in the city and at its own centers and ! found that an emergency situation had become worse . Dr. Julian B. Schorr , director ' of clinical services for the blood program , said Christmas Day . donations had failed to keep pace with withdrawals . As a result , he said , the steady de-. pletion of reserves continued , ' aggravated by illness among ' , both donors and blood processors . " It is quite clear . " Dr. Schorr ' said . " that our situation vitt get worse unless we get 1.000 , pints of blood a day for the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday to ar- , range the immediate transfer oft 50 pints of blood from the Sea-1 farers Blood Bank in Brooklyn to any appropriate public insti- ' tution or organization designated by the Commissioner of Health .                     