@@722787

txt EDUCATORS SPUR RIGHTS TEACHING Legal Experts Join Effort to Improve School Study A group of leading educators and legal experts has been appointed to improve the teaching of the Bill of Rights in the nation s schools . The group made its first recommendations as it completed a three-day seminar yesterday at the Airlie Conference Center in Warrenton . Va . The honorary chairman at the seminar was Supreme Court Justice William 0 . Douglas . The panel of experts was organized because of widespread dissatisfaction with high school students ' knowledge of and concern with issues of civil liberties . It is sponsored by the Civil Liberties Educational Foundation , a tax-exempt body under the chairmanship of Frank P Graham , United Nations mediator and former Democratic Senator from North Carolina . In a statement after their seminar , the experts expressed the belief that the nation 's schools were falling far short of discharging a " difficult but basic responsibility . " " Surveys of secondary-school ! curricula leave us in no doubt that education in the principles i ) f a free society is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed to it and the care and thought devoted to determining its method of content . " The group said " other surveys of student and adult opinion disclose a lamentable ignorance of both the content and // history of the Bill of Rights and a dangerous indifference to its application to current issues . " The statement added that this was not- solely , or even primarily , the fault of school teachers and administrators . It noted that schools were an organ of the community and as such reflected the climate and disposition of all citizens . " The root of present shortcomings seems to lie in a fear of controversy , " the statement said . " From an educational standpoint , this is especially unfortunate . " Nothing is more closely attuned to the educational process than the probing of controversial public questions , for nothing serves better to demonstrate the immediate relation between the classroom and the world outside its walls . " New Meeting Proposed The group , calling itself the National Assembly on Teaching the Principles of the Bill of Rights . recommended that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the next twelve months . The need for reform was considered urgent when studies of students ' attitudes showed that 37 per cent of a sample of 10 , - 000 did not object to third-degree police methods , and that 43 per cent either favored curbs on public speech or were undecided on the issue The study was made by Purdue University in 1960 . Other surveys indicated considerable confusion among students about the meaning of freedom of the press and wiretapping . Many were found to be vague about the meaning of due process of laws ( legal proceedin ? - in accordance with the law ) . The foundation warned that since most teaching about civil liberties was concentrated in the eleventh-grade history course , the great number of students who dropped out before high-school graduation might never be taught effectively about this important issue . It is estimated that 40 per cent of all American youngsters are in that category . The foundation also stressed the need to teach the meaning of civil liberties before entering on required courses on Communism . Participating in the closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council for the Social Studies , the - Association of American Law Schools and the Civil Liberties Educational Foundation . The sessions were considered a preparation for recommendations to schools on how to teach ! effectively the meaning of personal freedoms . An outline of priorities included the following : q To determine to what extent 11 the public school is faling to provide students , especially in high school , with a working understanding of the Bill of Rights and its importance in understanding " our way of life . " ( IT ? list specific steps to remedy deficiencies . Charles Frankel , professor of philosophy at Columbia Univerr sity , and Louis H. Pollak , professor of law at Yale University , are co-chairmen of the task force . Among those joining the reform discussions were the state education commissioners of New York and Pennsylvania , Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan , several deans of leading law schools and ' schools of education , and ' Dr. Calvin E. Gross , New York City 's new school superintendent . The first official . follow-up will be a detailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the annual meeting of the National Council for the Social Studies in Philadelphia . The presentation will be by Justice Brennan . Guide Is Provided As a background guide for curriculum improvement , the foundation , in cooperation with the council , has made available proposals agreed on last summer in a workshop of teachers and legal experts at Williams College . A 52-page report on " A Program for Improving Bill of Rights Teaching . High Schools , " published last week , is available at the foundation 's headquarters at 200 Park Avenue South . The cost is $1.65 , with discounts for teachers . Among the recommendations is an appeal for civil liberties instruction in junior high schools " to reach the millions of students who drop out " later . The report asks " a coordinated curriculum from kindergarten through high school and college " to take account of the growing maturity of young people . In view of the growing number of special courses on Communism in public schools , the preliminary study recommends that where such courses are required , the schools should first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual rights . " On the college level , the report calls for " required courses on our legal system and judicial process that would further develop the knowledge , conceptual understanding and respect for freedom in our society . " The foundation believes that action to reform civil liberties teaching is particularly important now because of the rapid progress of school reform in academic subjects . The panel of educators and legal experts , in its statement , recommended that the Civil Liberties Educational Foundation continue its support of the development of a comprehensive program for the improvement of Bill of Rights teaching . It recommended that the Association of American Law Schools , the American Political Science Association , the National Council for the Social Studies and other professional organizations continue their active cooperation in the project . It also urged that the . Civil Liberties Educational Foundation develop a corollary program of general public discussion of the Bill of Rights .                     