@@721229

txt Mayor . Wagner served notice yesterday on opponents of the proposed new zoning law that the statute was long overdue and should be en- - acted . The Mayor 's declaration i was the most unequivocal one favoring rezoning that he has made since the City Planning Commission undertook its zoning study more than three years ago . His statement , however , came in the face of mounting criticism of some of the . zoning proposals , some of it from members of the Board of Estimate . Mr. Wagner emphasized his endorsement of rezoning in a 3,000-word policy speech delivered yesterday at a luncheon of the Committee for Modern Zoning , a pri- vate group , at the WaldorfAstoria Hotel . 4 Other speakers were Robert W. Dowling , head of the City Investing Company , and former City Administrator Luther H. Gulick , chairman of the Committee for Modern Zoning . Mayor Wagner 's address constituted a virtual tally-sheet of projects of all sorts initiated or advanced by his administration . He predicted that a master zoning plan for the city would provide a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's ; citizens and its industry alike . This golden age , he prophesied , would be " one which will find public and private effort and enthusiasm dovetailing to produce maximum . benefits to , those who live , work and seek recreation in our city . " - In his endorsement of rezoning , Mr. Wagner asserted that the need for " a modern , cornTrehensive zoning ordinance for New York should no longer be la subject for debate . " The zonling plan evolving in the City Planning Commission , he said , " has withstood the test of years of study , review and public examination . " The Mayor promised that the Board of Estimate would hold more public hearings before acting. , However , he added : " But the cause before us is clear . We make no progress when we choose to mark time . We must work out our problems constructively , we must air all views but we must not drag our feet . Modern zoning of the city must ? find its place soon , or we will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies ahead . " The city 's existing zoning law , enacted in 1916 , was described by the Mayor as " clouding " the city 's accomplishments in civic improvement . Some areas of the city are congested , he said , " because antiquated zoning permits overcrowding and overbuilding . " " We find other areas underdeveloped , blighted and unproductive because zoning was n't geared to realistic land needs , " he added . " We see streets choked with traffic because we failed to provide adequate off-street parking sites years ago . " " We see industry begging for breathing space because our zoning failed to give the necessary protection . We see residential areas pockmarked with commercial and industrial uses that do n't belong there  --  only because they slipped through loopholes in the zoning code . " Brooklyn Borough President John Cashmore expressed fear yesterday that many industries now in Brooklyn might be driven , out by the proposed rezoning . He told James Felt , City Planning Commission cnairman , in a letter that " the proposed amendments appear to be far more voluminous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application to specific planning and building problems . " Two other board members , Manhattan Borough President Hulan E. Jack and Queens Borough President John T. Clancy have expressed reservations over parts of the new plan . The three Borough Presidents cast a total of six of the twentytwo votes in the Board of Estimate . The zoning proposals also have been coming under a mounting barrage of attacks by real estate and community groups , including the New York Real Estate Board and the Queensboro Chamber of Commerce .                     