@@725223

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the Editor of The Times Dismissals at St. John 's To the Editor : We are pleased that The Times has been giving special attention to the chaotic situation at St. John 's University because that situation is so bad that it needs as much exposure as the press can give it . Apparently the administration at St. John 's thinks that the only way to bring peace and order to a strained academic atmosphere is to dismiss , in a summary fashion , whomever it considers troublesome . Doubtless the administration is going to find that there are more than 31 troublemakers on its campus , and that  --  to be true to its " principles " ? it will have to dismiss an even greater number of its faculty . It is very important that those outside the academic community be made aware of how very wrong the administration 's action has been . There are absolutely no acceptable , professional precedents for it . There was no consultation , no proper investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an abrupt , ruthless and autocratic wielding of authority by a leadership which acted as though authority were nothing but a big , blunt instrument to strike down dissent . Extreme Action No matter what else happens at St. John 's , its present administration has shown that it does not know what a university is because it does not know how to operate one . It seems unaware that the dismissal of a professor during the academic year DJ the most extreme action that a university can take , and that when taken it is ordinarily associated with immoral , criminal or scandalous conduct by a professor  --  not simply the harassment of an administration . Moreover , it seems unaware that even such an extreme action requires certain standard procedures : that charges be known to the dismissed man , that he have an opportunity to defend himself , and that the judgment of his peers be considered before any final action . Having dispensed with all protocol , it is ironic ( even pathetic ) that the administration at St. John 's should think that it can now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedures . Its action has made its words meaningless . right . What is happening will also , for a while , mar the whole picture of Catholic higher education in the United States . A torturing lesson is being taught , but it is vitally important that it be heard and remembered . As professors at a Catholic university we should like to congratulate you for the coverage you have given the matter . JOHN P. MCCALL THOMAS P. MCTIGHE WILLIAM S. HAYMOND Washington , Jan. 7 , 1966 The writers are members of the faculty of Georgetown University . ? Lindsay Praised To the Editor : I view Mayor Lindsay 's stand in the transit strike as fair warning to all those who thought otherwise , that the re , cent mayoralty election has truly brought a change to this city . No longer is our city government going to permit cynical power-hungry and venal men to rule this city . The time for a rebirth of decision and action based on principle has come . Clubhouse Politics The attempted humiliation of Mayor Lindsay , the contemptuous behavior of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York , is the beginning of the last gasp of those who have played clubhouse politics with the best interests of the citizens of this great city . It goes without saying that the transit strike has caused untold personal hardship , loss of money and great inconvenience . But I believe that this is the price we must pay to reverse the downhill course on which we were headed during the twelve years of spiritless , unimaginative and hopeless government under the Wagner administration . The transit strike has put Mayor Lindsay to the test of making decisions based on the welfare of all New Yorkers regardless of the effect of these decisions on his popularity and regardless of their grave immediate consequences for the city . But there comes a time when a man must draw the line beyond which he will not go when he believes to do so will lead to ultimate destruction . Mayor Lindsay has drawn that line . He has refused to sell out to the " power-brokers . " We are finally experiencing leadership based on principle instead of expediency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City once more may be proud of City Hall 's aspirations , actions and , even at this early stage , its achievements . MELVIN C. HARTMAN New York , Jan , 13 , 1966 ? Free Transportation To the Editor : Perhaps if the suggestion that the City of New York operate a free transportation system were seriously considered and adopted , the traffic congestion problem could be resolved overnight . Is the price really too high for a solution to a problem that threatens soon to strangle the very life of the city ? JOHN T. SHEEN AN Middlesex , N. J. , Der . 29 , 1965 ? Troop Withdrawal To the Editor : Aleksandr Shelepin , who led a Soviet delegation to North Vietnam , restated Soviet support for Hanoi 's peace demands , which include the withdrawal of United States troops from South Vietnam before talks begin . If the United States is going to withdraw its troops before peace talks begin then we can expect nothing less than that South Vietnam will be handed over to the Communist aggressors , In that case , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the sacrifices of the Vietnamese people , and the cost in blood and treasure heretofore expended in this conflict  --  will all have been in vain . Are such leaders as Shelepin and Ho Chi Minh so impractical and unrealistic as to believe the United States would withdraw from South Vietnam without receiving assurances that the South Vietnamese would be free to determine their own form of government ? This is the most fearful and frightening aspect of international affairs and diplomacy in the nuclear age : the absence of statesmanship which can resolve this conflict peaceably and the kind of leadership wherein the blind is leading the blind . MARK LOVEWELL Middle Village , L. I. , Jan. 9 , 1966 ? Price Control Charged To the Editor : Until the post-World War II period , price control by government was exercised only during time of war . For the Federal Government to attempt to control prices of steel or any other product in peacetime is socialism and clearly in opposition to the principles in which Americans profess to believe . If the Vietnam war is sufficient cause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it is not , then let the Administration either discontinue its insidiously oblique methods of price control or tell the public honestly that we are taking yet another step toward socialism and Communism and away from freedom . WILLIAM D. LAMBORN Bronxville , N. Y. , Jan. 4 , 1966 What is happening at St. John 's will take years to set                     