@@727897

txt Ronald W. August , a suspended Detroit policeman charged with murdering a Negro youth during the Detroit riots in 1967 , was acquitted today by an allwhite jury of 11 women and one man . The jury deliberated 2 hours 35 minutes before reaching its verdict in the Algiers Motel case . As John Engles , the jury foreman , rose and announced that the defendants had been found not guilty , a gasp was heard from Mr. August 's wife , Genevieve , who bowed her head and sobbed silently . Mr. August stood at the defense table , blinking back his tears . He was accused of killing Auburey Pollard , 19 years old , who was shot to death at the Algiers Motel annex in Detroit after the police and National Guardsmen had arrived to investigate reports of sniper fire . Mr. August admitted shooting young Pollard , but he said it happened after the youth lunged for his gun . Just before the jury returned , Circuit Judge William Beer told the hushed courtroom that he had been approached a few minutes earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slain youth . " She said that she was satisfied that this had been a fair trial , " Judge Beer said . " A woman she introduced as the I mother of Carl Cooper another youth slain in the motel said her experience was the same . " The two mothers were the only Negroes present today . Mr. August and his family were permitted to leave the courtroom before the jury was dismissed . They were ushered down the stairs of the old-fashioned courthouse under a heavy guard of sheriff 's deputies . As Mr. August stepped into a waiting car , he was asked what he planned to do now . ' " I 'm going to pray , " he blurted . The suspended Detroit patrolman is still awaiting trial in Federal court on conspiracy charges in connection with the deaths . of young Cooper , 18 , and Fred Temple , 17 , who were killed just before young Pollard died . Mr. August has also been , named a defendant in a second conspiracy trial on these deaths ? in a Detroit court . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the unusual stand that the jury must find Mr. August guilty of willful , premeditated murder in the first degree or acquit him . The usual Michigan murder case instruction permits a jury to reduce a first-degree charge to second-degree murder with malice or to manslaughter . A first-degree murder conviction in Michigan requires a life sentence , which can be reduced only through pardon by the Governor . This state has no capital punishment . Judge beer , who normally sits in Oakland County , a Detroit suburban area , said that after listening to all testimony and arguments of counsel , he had concluded that as a matter of law only a verdict of firstdegree murder or art acquittal was possible . He noted that the prosecution had contended from the , beginning that Mr. August was guilty of willful , premeditated murder " and nothing else . " " Michigan law states that premeditation is not governed by time , " Judge Beer said . " It may be a matter of moment or of hours . Nor do you have to believe that Mr. August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not an essential element . Further , motive is different from intent in this case . " No murder charges have been filed in the Temple and Cooper deaths . , David Senak and Robert Paille. who are also suspended Detroit policemen , are awaiting trial in both local and Federal courts on charges of conspiring to deny these two young men of their civil rights . The case , in which 48 witnesses , including Mr. August , testified , lasted five weeks . In his charge to the jury today , Judge Beer said it should not be concerned with the rea'sons for moving the trial to Mason , 80 miles from the scene of the killing . " A book John Hersey 's " The Algiers Motel Incident " has been written about this case , and it has been given so much pretrial publicity . For these reasons it was deemed best not to hold it in Detroit , " the judge said .                     