@@725421

txt In the course of compiling the material for this series and interviewing dozens of the city 's prominent citizens and planners , the leadership of Mayor Daley in bringing about Chicago 's new stature has repeatedly been emphasized . The mayor tells of the city , where it has been and where it is going in an exclusive interview with THE TRIBUNE . Q.-What do you believe to be the main factors for the resurgence of Chicago ? A.-It has been done by the business community . The business men have seen public projects take place and this has spurred private development . O'Hare airport was discussed for six or seven years , then we got it done . The same with the expressways . Also , we are no longer following the rule of decentralization . People now realize that we can not have healthy suburbs and an unhealthy central city . Business and industrial leaders have sensed what is needed . Report Meets Challenge Q. ? What have you done to streamline the municipal government to meet the challenge of a modern day city ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission report prepared under the administration of Mayor Kennelly Daley 's predecessor . The annual budget is prepared by the chief executive rather than by the city council , which was the old practice . Much more authority has been given to the chief executive . Furthermore , we constantly survey to see what can be improved . We are Chicago 's resurgence and prosperity and looking to the city 's future. tration is a benevolent dictatorship . Do you agree this is so ? . A. ? It is not good to have this type of description . We are try-ing to get projects going ? get a decision and get the people to support it . People reject dictatorship and bossism . People Reject Bossism Q. ? How do you get things done ? A. ? The technical people make the recommendations . Then we go to the people and get their views . We give the subject great consideration based on the best advice possible and the views of the people . Once there is a decision , there can be no procrastination . Go ahead and do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campus is a good example . Many of those who strongly objected to it are now admitting that it is a great hnprovement . Q. ? The year 1959 has been called a significant period in the resurgence of Chicago . Do you agree ? A. ? In the summation of all things that are happening , if we are to set out a year , it would be 1959 . We had the Pan American games , the visit by the Queen of England on a beautiful day with a great civic turnout , the opening of the St. Lawrence seaway , the first international trade fair , and the start of work on O'Hare . Q. ? What are you doing to encourage big corporations to locate their headquarters in Chicago instead of New York City ? A. -- We have the committee of economic and cultural development , composed of the top leaders of business , industry , and labor , spelling out the advantages and natural resources of Chicago . We have ample water from the lake . Chicago is the rail hub of the world , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection created by our great police department and fire department . We are building up the neighborhoods . We have a fine labor market with the lowest percentage of losses per hour of strikes of any major city . The Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry and the Chicago Federation of Labor actively seek to make our city better . We have the lowest tax rates in the country for a big city , particularly in industry , and we have the lowest per capita debt . We are carrying out the theme that city government appreciates new business here . Our researchers and engineers are working with them . rys to rreserve Areas Q. ? What are you doing to encourage middle-class families to remain in the city ? A. ? We want to keep the neighborhoods from going thru a costly transition , going up , then going down . We have plans under way to preserve areas in the city for middle  --  income families . Q. ? At what point are we in Chicago 's resurgence ? A. ? There are so many things in the offing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new projects should be an accelerator . The removal of the elevated in the Loop would mean new vitality along Lake , Wells , and Van Buren streets and Wabash avenue . New buildings on west Madison street across the river , such as the Gateway center ; the consolidation of the railroad terminals , and the continued development of the University of Illinois branch to the north and south will stimulate the resurgence . Must Redevelop Areas We must redevelop neighborhoods with such projects as those we have in motion in Englewood , Woodlawn , Uptown , and Carl Sandburg Village . We must get them going within the next year or two . Q. ? In your view , what are the three most pressing problems for Chicago to splve ? A. ? Employment . We need full employment , particularly of those without skill who must be trained . Secondly , to provide a decent home so people can live in respectability in keeping with the American standard of living . Must Resolve Differences Finally , to bring about a solution to resolve the differences in human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructive leadership . Q. ? Do you see any dramatic changes in Chicago 's future ? A. ? Completion of a comprehensive plan for the city in 1966 to develop the lake front , libraries , education , and the neighborhoods . This has been done . Chicago is the first major city in the United States to set out its objectives . This is very important to the city .                     