@@723949

txt Washington President Johnson is vibrating so last in Washington that it almost makes people tired to think about it . But he is n't getting his program through Congress ? it 's a toss-up whether he will . ? The civil-rights bill ? Yes , most observers think there will be one . But appropriation bills are piling up in the Senate behind the civil-rights filibuster ; the fate of " must " bills in the House is uncertain , and it looks now as though Congress would have to come back fora brief , uneasy session after the COP convention , ( which starts July 13 ) and before the Democratic session ( which begins Aug. 24 . ) Such a session inevitably will be politically dominated . Second Return ? I And there could even be an extra session in September after the Democratic convention , if President Johnson really cracks the whip on Congress . The American public is having so much fun with its fa . voriie national sport , the pres ' ' donna ' election , that it has almost forgotten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but that is so dull that it is beyond the capacity of most people to follow it . Yet stalled in Congress are a ? continuation of bills vital in many sectors . The situation in Congress is like a main highway stalled by an accident up front . There is a long , angry line of blocked measures , whose drivers get out and look ahead . Up front the civil-rights van is right across the road , and little will move till theWhite House police ears and wrecking trucks get it out of the way . Tax Bill Won In brief , here is the situation : Before President Kennedy 's assassination he had got the tax cut through the House and the civil-rights bill on to the House floor . Mr. Kennedy 's assassination shucked and sobered a Congress that had dallied fur a year . It had one of the longest and least excusable delays in appropriation bills in history . President Johnson took over and got the tax bill through the Senate in February . Now he is working un the civil-rights bill . Any administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year will pat itself on the chest , and with : WOO reason . But a whole lot more waits to be done . First : appropriations . The House is doing a brilliant job here . It has passed six of the 12 major bills , including the money-monster , Defense ( half the United States budget ) . The bills are piling up behind the Senate filibuster . In the Senate , only one appropriation bill , Interior , has even been reported from committee . Committees ca n't function while the Senate filibusters , so the Senate Appropriations Committee has been meeting as early as 7:30 a.m. fur limited hearings . There 'll probably be a fearful traffic jam in the Senate the minute civil rights is settled . Lots of bills will be scuttled . President Johnson has listed the following " must " bills among others : civil rights , federal pay raise , antipoverty , food stamp program , medicare . But there are a lot more which are " must , " at least by inference . For example . the time-consuming , emotion-rousing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an echo on United Stales foreign policy around the globe . Tremendous ' Cask It may take more energy for ; President Johnson to get this stripped-down foreign aid bill through Congress intact than it did to settle the rail strike . Nor is this all . The House defeated three bills on the first round that President Johnson is now trying to revive . It is an illustration of his perserverence , adroitness. and power that he shows some signs of blasting them out on a second ' try . But this second try comes . only in the House . The Senate talk-in may frustrate the Johnson resuscitation act . The clown meat . round . In the foreign field it rejected the International Development Association , which is tied in with United States cooperation with other countries and which the White House considers vital . Again , the House panicked on the federal pay raise bill ( which includes higher congressional salaries ) and Mr. Johnson , with extreme difficulty , is now leading a revised version out of committee again . Blockade Complete Can President Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? They may get trampled in an adjournment stampede , even if revived in . the House . There is a long . winding line of stalled measures in OM-gross , all waiting behind the blockade up front . Congress hates to work in an election campaign , though President Truman called them back in his " turnip day " special session in 1948 , and there was an ineffective posteonventiou meeting in 1960 . Short of this Congress has about 10 weeks to run . Bills lost now must start from scratch at the next Congress . " How are we going to write a civil-rights plank at the San Francisco convention July 13 if Congress has n't yet passed the civil-rights bill ? " one important Republican asked here recently . The GOP resolutions committee starts work July 6.                     