@@726139

txt Washington , Feb. 19 11(AP)-The Civil Rights commission ' urged Congress and President Johnson tonight to take immediate and costly steps to eliminate school segregation . It said segregation persists thruout the United States and is severe in metropolitan areas . The report to the President , 16 months in the making , focuses on the big suburban areas of metropolitan districts . It said their white schools should be integrated by taking in Negro and disadvantaged children of nearby big cities . Attacks Housing Barriers It proposes elimination of racial barriers in all housing , as President Johnson recommended in a message to Congress last week . But it says this is not enough to remedy racial isolation in schools . It recommends the elimination , physically or otherwise , of schools it describes as doing permanent damage to the personalities and character of Negro children because of racial isolation . It proposes the creation of education parks , drawing students from wide areas . It suggists bus transportation between school districts to alter race patterns , or the adoption of any other feasible plan that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that substantial federal money be provided to aid in these projects and in upgrading the quality of education . It notes that Congress is in the best position of any branch of government to erase senrecation . The commission makes no effort to estimate the over-all cost of its proposed solutions . Jabs at Segregation At a news conference , staff officials of the commission were asked if this means Congress could enforce cooperation by withholding funds from school districts that do not cooperate . The officials noted that the 1964 civil rights act gives the commissioner of education that power , where segregation is found to be illegal . The report jabs at de facto segregation in northern cities , segregation caused by neighborhoods solidly Negro or white , or existing because school boards have set boundary lines that create solid white or Negro schools . The commission says purposeful segregation in the north , as in the south , is illegal . It asserts that it remains an open question whether school segregation not imposed by purposeful action of school authorities violates the Constitution , because the Supreme court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to try to stamp out purposeful and nonpurposeful segregation court actions , the commission recommends that Congress set a national standard to outlaw what it considers the worst of segregation situations . Large numbers of Negro children suffer harmful effects attributable in part at least to racial isolation in some schools , and the national standard should eliminate all of these , the report contends . There are large numbers of such schools , the report says . It contends that Massachusetts and New York created good standards for getting rid of them by defining as racially imbalanced any school with more than 50 per cent nonwhite pupils . If such a standard were set all schools in the nation with 50 per cent or more Negro enrollment would be eliminated either by demolition or the drawing of new boundary lines or using other devices to integrate students . The commission says Congress should leave to the states the responsibility for devising remedies , each in its own way . States in Best Position It says the states , rather than federal or local authorities , are in the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the construction of interdistrict schools may be necessary . In a supplementary statement Commissioner Frankie Freeman says that despite all Congress and the President do segregation wo n't be solved until the hearts and the minds of men are moved . Mrs. Freeman , only Negro member of the board , says the nation now is on a collision course which may produce " within our borders two alienated and unequal nations confronting each other across a widening gulf created by a dual educational system based upon income and race . " Commission staff members said as many as half a million new classrooms might be needed to carry out the commission 's ideas . They said some communities now are planning education parks and cited New Vntk anti Syrarimp The report says racial isolation in the United States is increasing both in the north and the south because of population increases among other reasons . The report notes that out of 24 metropolitan areas with more than one million population , nine have majority-Negro students as compared with white in the ' central city schools . The cities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit , Newark , Philadelphia , and St. Louis .                     