@@727111

txt Groton , Conn. , May 14 Special - Rear Adm . Husband E. Kimmel fret , 86 , commander-in-chief of the United States Pacific fleet when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7 , 1941 , died today in his home here . Adm . Kimmel was relieved of duty shortly after the bombing and then retired , but he contended until his death that he had taken a " bum rap " from the government when he was disgraced because of Pearl Harbor . In 1942 , a board of inquiry headed by Supreme Court Justice Owen J. Roberts found that Kimmel and Gen. Walter J. Short , commander of the Hawaiian department of the army , had been guilty of " dereliction of duty . " Short died on Sept. 3 , 1949 . Condemnation Modified Four years later , a congressional committee conducted an ? other inquiry and held that neither Kimmel nor Short hac been derelict but said " the er rors made by the Hawaiiar command were errors in judg ment . " At the same time , the com ? mittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed about Oper a t ion Magic , the name given to the operation thru which the United States had broken the Japanese code . Intercepted messages that indicated the Pearl Harbor attack was forthcoming , but neither Kimmel nor Short had been informed , it was said . Subsequently , various writers have . pointed out-that Kimmel and Short were not kept advised on Japanese-American negotiations prior to the war and that Operation Magic was a secret that was kept from those who should have been the first to know of it . Contradict Roberts Report Among these investigators was George E. Morgenstern , chief editorial writer for THE TRIBUNE , who wrote the book " Pearl Harbor : The Story of the Secret War . " He also wrote , in December , 1956 , a series of articles for THE TRIBUNE on the Pearl Harbor attack . The findings of the congressional committee that neither Kimmel nor Short had prior warning of the attack contradicted those of the Roberts report of 1942 , in which it was stated that the two officers were " warned that hostilities were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congressional hearing , Kimmel himself stated that no reasonable man could have interpreted the Nov. 27 messages as a warning . He said he received orders on the same day to transport planes and troops to Midway and Wake islands , which " indicated to me that responsible authorities in Washington did not consider an air raid on Pearl Harbor either imminent or probable . " Nevertheless , eight of the 10 members of the joint committee blamed Kimmel and Short for the errors , altho two Republican members , in a minority report , said President Franklin D. Roosevelt and several others had failed " to perform the responsibilities essential to the defense of Pearl Harbor . " Actually neither Kimmel nor Short was ever subjected to a legal trial . Kimmel demanded a court martial which he never received . In a book written 13 years after the Pearl Harbor attack , Kimmel wrote that he was a victim of secrecy imposed by high officials of the Roosevelt administration and that these officials withheld information that might have prepared him for the attack . The United States lost 3,435 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Japanese attack . " I can not excuse those in authority for what they did " Kimmel wrote , " and I do not believe that thousands of mothers and fathers whose sons perished on that tragic 7th of December will excuse them , " Son of Army Major Kimmel was born in Henderson , Ky. , the son of an army major . He entered Annapolis and received an engineering degree in 1904 . In the navy , he specialized in gunnery and administrative work . He served in European waters during World War I , and emerged as a commander . He was captain in 1925 and rear admiral in 1937 . Roosevelt passed over a number of senior officers to give Kimmel command of the Pacific fleet in 1941 . At the age of 59 , he was one of the youngest fleet commander in modern history . Then came the attack on Pearl harbor , and Kimmel retired in 1942.                     