@@721906

txt President Kennedy invoked the Taft-Hartley Act yesterday in an attempt to bring a quick end to the eleven-day-old strike of American seamen . He did so over the vehement objections of maritime labor and despite his personal reluctance to use a law he had voted against as a member of the House of Representatives in 1917 . The President appointed a three-man board of inquiry to study the issues in the dispute between five maritime unions and shipowners . The group will hold its first public bearing here today . The dispute has tied up approximately a quarter of the 941-ship United States-flag fleet . Despite the President 's move , labor spokesmen predicted that the number of idle vessels would increase during the next week as the ships returned to their , home ports . They did not expect that an injunction could be issued before July 5 , To Report to President fi The creation of the inquiry board is the first step under law for the settlement of strikes that are declared national emergencies . The board was instructed to report its findings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Attorney General to seek an injunction in a Federal court . Although the Federal judge must grant at least a temporary injunction ordering the seamen back to work for an eighty-day cooling-off period , labor leaders expressed confidence yesterday that they could stave off a permanent injunction . President Kennedy issued his order after receiving reports from eight Government agencies on the impact of the strike . He said that a supply line to Hawaii had been cut by . the strike and that there had been delays In shipments of - military cargoes . Tae President dismissed an offer by some of the unions to tem a 4oint committee with Giwernment agencies to clear essential Government cargoes . Mr. Kennedy described the offer " On first impression " as a lactiCan ' rather than a " substantial " gesture . ' Nonetheless union officials expressed the belief that the President 's inquiry board would have " a hard time proving that a ' national emergency exists , since under normal conditions the United States fleet mules only 10 per cent of the nation 's commerce . " In appointing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relying heavily upon Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg 's counsel to end the impasse . He appointed the same three men whom Secretary Goldberg named last week as a citizen 's panel to seek a solution . They are David L. Cole of Paterson , N. J. , a leading labor arbitrator and former director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service ; Samuel I. Rosenman , New York lawyer and former State Supreme Court justice , and James J. Healy , Professor of Industrial Relations at the Graduate School of Business Administration , Harvard University . The board is scheduled to hold its first session with " all principals to the dispute " at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York Building today at 2 P. M. Shipowners Approve The leading spokesman for management , Ralph E. Casey , president of the American Merchant Marine Institute , welcomed the President 's TaftHartley intervention . As when the citizen 's panel was appointed , the shipowners promised " full cooperation . " At the same time the institute and the Tanker Labor Service Committee , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges before the National Labor Relations Board against four of the unions . They said the unions had acted in " bad faith " in demanding that the shipowners agree to permit the unions to attempt to organize American-owned foreign-flag ships . This issue is a key union demand . There are about 450 ships , mostly tankers , in the foreign-flag category . They fly the ensigns of Panama , Honduras and Liberia . In filing the charges against the National Maritime Union ; the International Organization of Masters , Mates and Pilots ; the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association , and the American Radio Association , Mr. Casey said management " fully , realized the drastic nature " of this action . He called it " a last-ditch move on our part . " The fifth union in the nationwide dispute , the Seafarers International Union , was not named in the complaint , because it does not have contracts with the majority of owners in the two groups and has reached some agreement with other owners . Herman Cooper , lawyer for the N.M.U. , said the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor 's offer to keep essential civilian and military cargo moving while keeping management seated at the bargaining table . Mr. Cooper Issued a statement summarizing the views of I three of the unions . He said : " The Administration has thus forecast its future policy in labor disputes . Collective bargaining and the right to strike , extolled in theory , are made meaningless in practice . Economic realities and legal standards are subordinated to corporate convenience . " The N.M.U. approach , calling for the establishment of a special board to pass on " essential cargo , " was endorsed by George Meany , president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . It was rejected by another labor faction , however . The opposition was expressed by Jesse M. Calhoon , president of the National Committee for Maritime b Bar-uining , which includes the Seafarers International and the Marine Engineers among its nine unions . New Committee Opposed " We are opposed to the formation of any additional committees by the Government , as has been approved by the federation A. F. L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such committees would have the right to superimpose their authority and to interfere with the rights of unions , and could only be detrimental to the interests of all Maritime workers , as well as the industry ? ' Mr. Calhoon , who also spoke in the name of the International Longshoremen 's Association , said : " There is no evidence that an emergency to national health or safety exists . "                     