@@727392

txt Federal troops fired on a student rally with rifles and machine guns tonight , killing at least 20 people and wounding more than 100 . The troops moved on a rally of 3,000 people in the square of a vast housing project just as night was falling . In an inferno of firing that lasted an hour , the army strafed the area with machine guns mounted on jeeps and tanks . About 1,000 troops took part in the action . Tanks , armored cars and jeeps followed them , spurting .30- and .50-caliber machine-gun fire . Buses , trolley cars and other vehicles were set on fire at several places in the city . Ambulances screamed through the rainy night . Many women and children were among the dead and injured . Games Cast Into Doubt Also injured was Gen .. Jose Hernandez Toledo , a paratroop commander who has led troops into university campuses three times over the last two years . He was undergoing surgery tonight for a stomach wound . According to the army , at least one soldier was killed and 12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the square . The night 's events cast into serious question the prospects for the Olympic Games , which are scheduled to begin here on Oct. 12 . Until the troops moved in , it seemed that both the Government and t.14 city 's i-ebellious students were working to establish an atmosphere of calm after some 10 weeks of struggling . In a statement tonight , the Defense Minister , Gen. Marcelino Garcia Barragan , said that the troops had moved on the rally after snipers fired on the Federal District riot police guarding the nearby Foreign Ministry and a vocational school . The general 's statement was disputed by many witnesses . Hospital Full of Wounded The army moved immediately to keep reporters from the Red Cross hospital , near the housing project , three miles north of the center of Mexico City . But an interne in the hospital said that lit was full of wounded , all of them civilians . Army ambulances took the dead and many other wounded to the Military Hospital , which was closed to reporters . Witnesses described the widespread killing in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be counted by this correspondent in a small section of the square . The clash was the worst in student demonstrations that have been going on in the capital since July 23 . In the last serious fighting , two weeks ago , at least 7 and perhaps 17 people , most of them students , were killed . High-school and university students have been on strike here // for two months to protest the incident . In all , 150,000 have stayed away from classes . The rally tonight took place in the Plaza of the Three Cultures , a paved area 100 yards square , named for its proximity to some Aztec ruins , a colonial church and the modern Foreign Ministry . On two sides of the square are 12-story apartment buildings of the Nonoalco-Tlateleco housing project , a 10-year-old middle-class development housing 76,000 people . On the third side is Vocational School 7 , one of the institutions involved in the strike . It has been occupied by riot policemen for 12 days . The fourth side fronts on the ruins , consisting of reconstructed ceremonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the colonial church was taken from the Aztec buildings , so there is little left but foundations . The rally had been called by the 200-member National Strike Committee to seek the withdrawal of riot policemen from Vocational School 7 and of federal troops from the Santo Tomas campus of the National Polytechnic Institute , a mile away . The students had planned to march from the rally to Santo Tomas . By 5 P.M. , the rally participants were assembled . Many students shouted their school " locomotive " cheers and passed out leaflets . Parents , children and a sprinkling of workmen also turned out . Some workmen and peasant groups recently expressed sympathy for the student strike . ' We Ask You to Go Home ' The first speaker , a youth in a red sweater , announced that the march to Santo Tomas would not take place . He said there were 22 truckloads of troops , 14 jeeps with machine guns and many tanks at the Polytechnic campus . " The committee does not believe in sterile bloodshed , " he said . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The crowd hooted and hissed mildly but appeared to be in good humor . The speaker 's estimate of the troop strength a , . Santo Tomas was accurate . But , by 5:30 the troops had left the campus and were on the way to the rally site . Just after 6 P.M. , while the rally was going on , shooting broke out near the Foreign Ministry . The army said snipers in nearby building had started it . Other witnesses blamed the army . Troops moved from the Foreign Ministry through the Aztec ruins toward the plaza , firing as they ran . The crowd at the rally swirled in panic , running from the advancing force . Snipers , presumably allied with the students , opened up from the buildings around the plaza . Throughout the area , people ran for cover . The firing became louder . Grenade bursts and flares exploded over the square . The ground was littered with bodies . In surrounding buildings , people ran for cover , screaming . Families lay on the floor , away from the windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warning , " said one man who was there . " There was no tear gas . They just shot at everyone . " By 7 P.M. , the pitched battle was over , although sporadic firing continued through the night . An hour after the fighting , troops still crouched behind walls and buildings while pedestrians walked past them unconcerned . Soldiers brought stretcher after stretcher of the dead out of the plaza . Scores of young men , and even a few children , were led away , their hands behind their heads . And in the midst of it all was a little girl led by her mother . The girl held a towel to her left eye . Blood dripped from under the bandage .                     