@@727243

txt A mortar coughs in the night and shells explode in a sleeping Israeli kibbutz . A child picks up a " button " mine , and loses hands and eyes . Explosives , detonated by two boys , shake the Ambassador hotel in Jerusalem . The incidents ; of a kind that occur almost daily , are part of a guerrilla campaign against Israel that seems to be the most important and dangerous fact in the Arab world a year after the 1967 war . Tell Arab Frustration Nourished by the shame of defeat in that war ? and by frustration over the continued presence of Israelis in Arab territory they seized at the time , the guerrilla effort has become an end in itself . It seems to be preferred by many Arabs to a peace most of them consider either dishonorable or unobtainable . Guerrilla tactics were used by the Arabs as early as the 1930s against the Jews in British-mandated Palestine . Squads of commandos , known as fedayeen , operated against the Israelis prior to the Sinaicampaign of 1956 , and there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those opera ti ons lacked the scope of today 's resistance movement . Israelis Strike Back The Israelis speak of the guerrilla war as terrorism . They say  --  and in sharp retaliatory strikes from time to time demonstrate  --  that they will not tolerate it indefinitely . The Arabs speak of the fighting and sabotage as resistance to an occupying power . That it kills some civilians as well as soldiers , they say , is inevitable . They charge that Israeli intransigence has prevented a solution thru diplomacy . " The Arabs ' only option is resistance , " Dr. Mohammed H. el-Zayyat , the Egyptian government 's spokesman , said to ' an American . " Would you deny us what you encouraged in your European allies 25 years ago ? " Resistance feeds the demand for revenge and , most important , offers a unifying focus for 110 million Arabs otherwise sharply divided by ideology and economic standards . Has Little Effect That those standards are rising as oil revenues increase and compulsory education spreads does not alter , in the view of most Arabs , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feud with Israel . At present the resistance has little military effect . But Israeli generals , considering the available resources of the Arab world , concede that the resistance could become much more dangerous than occasional harassment . Foreign diplomats think the resistance has political importance . An American suggested that it might even have politically constructive value if , thru it , " Arab confidence is restored to the point where they will feel able to negotiate with Israel as equals . " Group Best Armed A Briton said that " the time to take the resistance seriously is when el Fatah starts cutting the throats of Arabs collaborating with the Jews . " El Fatah is the most adventurous , the best armed , and the most publicized of the resistance groups . The confrontation that keeps the middle east a battleground focused one morning this spring on nine el Fatah fighters clambering from a camouflaged truck on a sun-baked road by a ruined farm on the east bank of the Jordan river . They wore bright green overalls splotched with patches of yellow and orange . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their belts . Some were the unshaven , undisciplined thugs that lurk in any market place . One was a huge , glowering Sudanese . Five were frank , courteous young men , educated Palestinians . They were excited , talkative , and proud of their mission . Most Do n't Return The way things had been going in that area , the chances were that at least seven of the nine would not return . The chief political reason for Arab support of el Fatah , the Palestine liberation organization , and other guerrilla groups is the conviction that Israel is not prepared to withdraw from the territory it occupied in Jordan , Syria , and the United Arab Republic during the 1967 war . The conviction is reinforced by the belief that the Unite d States , credited by many in the Arab world with exercising decisive influence over Israel , does not intend to force it to withdraw . Consequently the Arabs reason that resistance is the only means of forcing Israeli evacuation from the Sinai peninsula , on the bank of the Jordan river , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent reports of proposed concessions by the Egyptians , the diplomatic efforts of Ambassador Gunnar V. Jarring of Sweden , named by the United Nations security council last November to promote a settlement , appear to have produced little of substance . Israel seeks peace , according to a senior official in its foreign ministry , thru face-to-face negotiations with the Arabs leading to a settlement that will provide maximum security with the minimum of Arabs in the country . Withdrawal from the occupied territories must be part of arrangements for the nation 's future security , the Israelis insist . Those arrangements would include mutually guaranteed Isr a eli frontiers under individual peace treaties with the Arab nations . Arab leaders have publicly rejected direct negotiations with the Israelis . Gives Faint Sign Hints from King Hussein of Jordan represent a faint sign of change on the Arab side . The king , his intermediaries have told Israel , might negotiate  --  thru a third party  --  a peace that would recover his lost lands and allow Israel the secure frontiers it seeks . But the king would do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nasser of Egypt could not arouse the Arab world , including Jordan 's unofficial opposition , the national charter group , against him . The group consists of army officers , civil servants , trade unionists , and politicians Gamal Abdel Nasser who oppose any concessions to the Israelis . In the virtually unanimous view of non-Egyptian leaders and politicians , Nasser 's stature among Arabs has been drastically reduced by last year 's defeat and his country 's increased dependence on soviet aid . In these circumstances , he can do little more than blame Israeli intransigence for the diplomatic stalemate and try to stimulate a disillusioned people toward greater economic and military efforts . Syria Rejects Proposal Syria , the third  --  and most intransigent  --  of the principal Arab combatants , has refused to have anything to do with Jarring 's mission . So the guerrilla effort goes on , with financial support from thruout the Arab world . Posters showing a warrior of el Fatah dropping a grenade thru the hatch of an Israeli tank cover walls in bazaars a thousand miles from the Jordan river . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communist China get to resistance training centers in Syria , Egypt , and Algeria . In the atmosphere of shock and shame arising from the defeat last year , Arab leaders as varied as King Hassan II of Morocco , President Abdel Rahman Arif of Iraq , and Premier Abdul Hamid Bakkush of Libya give public support for the resistance as the main expression of the Arab will to continue to fight . Insist on Pullout Repeatedly the visitor is told that the " wrong " of Israel 's existence , inflicted on the Arabs by the west , must be righted , certainly by Israel 's withdrawal to the pre-war frontiers , hopefully by its defeat and the creation of a new Arab  --  Palestinian stnti . " I would support a Palestinian state where Arab and Jew lived together , " King Faisal of Saudi Arabia said . " But there must be no foreign Jews living there or coming there . " The guerrillas expect a long struggle . They do not see 1948 or 1956 or 1967  --  the years in which Arab armies were routed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way to final victory . If the resistance is the focus of the common struggle , the recovery of Jerusalem is the common objective of that struggle for the Arab world . After Mecca and Medina , Jerusalem is the third holy city of Islam . Speaking of Jerusalem , Hassan asked how any Moslem " can be silent and accept Jewish occupation ? " Kuwait 's foreign minister , Sabah Ahmed Sabah , said that while territorial adjustments may not be of primary interest to his countrymen , " the liberation of Jerusalem is all  --  important . " The Israeli view is that the annexation of the former Arab section of Jerusalem is not negotiable . Cadillac Image Fades The stalemate and the deep bitterness perSist at a time when the old stereotypes of sheiks in Cadillacs and bedouins on camels are giving way to something more dynamic and modern . The chief element in the change is the rapid expansion of education . Arab countries . on the average spend 10 per cent of their budgets on education . The common goal is free compulsory education thru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is compulsory . Libya and Saudi Arabia subsidize university students . Libya spent about 56 million dollars for education in 1967-1968 and is spending more than twice that in 19684969 . Trying to Diversify For many Arab countries , oil r em ains the chief revenue earner . Bit those states are seeking to diversify , and to expand agriculture  --  first to feed growing populations and , they hope , eventually for export . Processing industries are being built , and a few countries , such as Algeria , are venturing into heavy industry . A fundamental question is whether economic and social ; Fisal left and Hassan progress will promote political maturity and , eventually , coexistence with Israel . At the moment there are no definitive indications of this . Inflamed by resistance and the loss of Jerusalem , the Arabs seem to feel that they are headed for another war . Even if a settlement is reached , the prospect seems to be a Iong , uneasy truce broken by sporadic fighting as the Arabs , rearmed by the Soviet Union , grow stronger . Guerrilla War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all likelihood , the mortar shells will burst and the mines will explode and the temptation to the Arabs to make one more try at the elimination of Israel will remain great . Beyond the confrontation between Arab and Israeli , with its danger of another full-scale war , are two other major de , velopments : the broad , rapid extension of soviet power and influence in the Arab world and the concomitant decline in the influence and popularity of the United States . 1 TOMORROW : The Soviet Union 's increased role .                     