@@725817

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 40 Letters to the Editor of The Times Police Opposition to Review Board To the Editor : The full-scale political campaign being carried out in the name of the police force of this city in opposition to the Review Board can scarcely benefit policemen , whatever the direction of the November vote . This appears inescapable because the campaign demonstrates both a lack of astuteness in distinguishing good from bad legislation and an unflattering tendency to react badly when events become puzzling and simple solutions seem to have fled . Strangely , however , this citizen has not observed this state of affairs in the thinking of most policemen . Their intelligence and good sense make a very favorable impression on a newcomer to this city . The pity is they seem to have allowed a few leaders to convince them they can not meet the challenges of a modern city , can not carry out their duties properly , without incurring the opprobrium of reasoning and scrupulously selected civilians . Role of Police The people have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review board enacted and by a policeman when he advises , directs and coerces the people to keep the law . If ability and patience are brought to these tasks , there is nothing to fear . If there is fear , then it is not fear of a review board but of something else . It is this unease , whatever the sources , that could easily undermine the trust owed policemen for their good service . It is tragic that able men demean themselves : they oughteto find themselves worthy of much more . Editorial Sept. 28 . ALBERT F. HEALEY New York , Oct. 3 , 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Rights in Brazil To the Editor : I have read with interest your ' Oct. .5 editorial on the election of Marshal Costa e Silva as Brazil 's next President . However , may I be allowed to make two corrections regarding facts : The " Institutional Act , " proclaimed on Oct. 27 , 1965 , did not deprive the judiciary of its freedom . It continues to function freely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of citizens ' rights . The reference to the President-elect 's promise " to restore to the people the right freely to elect their representatives " is misleading . He was obviously referring to Presidential . elections alone , as on Nov. 15 next there are to be free elections far State Assemblies , for the National Congress and for onethird of the Senate . VASCO LEITAO DA CUNHA Brazilian Ambassador Washington , Oct : 5 , 1966 ? Falkland Islands To the Editor : In your Sept. 30 editorial entitled " ' Capturing ' the Falklands " you seem to overlook one of the more important problems arising from ownership of the Falkland Islands . I refer here to the Falkland Islands Dependencies , a sector of the Antarctic continent . If the " sector principle " were to be applied , ownership of this territory would accrue to the owner of the Falkland Islands . This is one of the reasons that Argentina has tried in the past to include the Falklands in its territories , once by including them on a postage stamp showing a map of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove that Great Britain had allowed its title to lapse by failure to occupy the Falkland Islands continuously . The'United States , of course , does not recognize the sector principle and has expressly declared that it recognizes no territorial claims in the Antarctic continent . Nevertheless , other countries have tacitly adhered to this principle by the formal granting of whaling licenses and permissions to explore such territories . The possession of the Falkland Islands would thus appear to involve more than merely limited nationalism , and the sovereignty of a much larger and more important area . MARGARET L. RANALD Flushing , L. I. , Oct. 2 , 1968 ? Gauge of Pro-Vietcong Support To the Editor : Prof. Frank N. Trager 's letter of Sept. 26 charges ' that the debate over Vietnam ignores the fact that most South Vietnamese organizations oppose negotiations with what he calls " the Vietcong and National Liberation Front . " Presumably these organizations represent accurately ' , Vietnamese opinion on this issue . Facts as ambiguous and misleading as these are best ignored . They have a propaganda value , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam . If the South Vietnamese were free to organize and if they might speak out freely , then an organized and vocal opposition to the Vietcong might well tell us something of significance . Oh the South Vietnamese living under the Ky Government do not have these freedoms . To put it mildly , the Saigon Government would not look kindly on any group or individual espousing the Vietcong . Poll Not Surprising When in danger of their lives , people learn to say what is expected , or to hold their peace . Thus , to survey organizations and find , as Professor Trager has done , an almost total absence of pro-Vietcong sentiment is neither surprising nor informative . Of all the organizations cited by Professor Trager , the Unified Buddhist Church probably comes closest to mirroring rankand-file opinion toward the war . A careful reading of the statements attributed to this organization 's leaders during the past six months or so will show that they are by no means unequivocally opposed to negotiations with the National Liberation Front to end the war , as Professor Trager declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sentiment : public statements of special interest groups or pro-Vietcong acts deliberately taken by persons from all walks of life ? The hard fact is that a goodly cross section of the people in areas controlled by the Ky Government actively work for and deliberately aid the Vietcong , a fact attested to by the ability of sizable guerrilla bands to move in and around Saigon and American military bases like Danang . RICHARD J. COUGHLIN Professor of Sociology University of Virginia Charlottesville , Va . Sept. 30 , 1966 ? French Stand at U. N. To the Editor : The New York Times published the full text of Couve de Murville 's speech at the General Assembly issue Sept. 29 . It was a great speech which conferred fresh honor on France . It was also remarkable for a U.N . speech  --  remarkable for its sincerity , its calm frankness , its constructiveness , its realistic appraisal of the undeniable naked facts , and its unassailable logic . For those of us  --  and we are in the millions  --  who love France for the great humanistic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murville and General de Gaulle have given a glow to our hearts . We can only hope that the Government of de Gaulle will continue to act as a truly sovereign nation and persist in its quest , however discreet it may be , to inject sanity into the minds of those elements in Washington that are drunk with the heady wine of power . Vive Couve de Murville ! Vive de Gaulle ! LAWRENCE H. BATTISTINI Professor of Social Science Michigan State University East Lansing , Mich . Oct. 3 , 1966 ? Cornwall Project 's Aid to Cleaner Air To the Editor : That the proposed Cornwall underground pumped storage hydroelectric project will indeed contribute to ? improved control of air pollution in the New York Metropolitan area has been reaffirmed by the Federal Power Commission , the New York City Council 's Special Committee to Investigate Air Pollution and the New York . City Department of Air Pollution Control . The latter department has said , " . . . , The proposed Cornwall installation is the ideal power plant from the air pollution control point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a major contribution to the fight for cleaner air , not only in New York City , but throughout the metropolitan New York area . In the light of growing concern about the air we breathe ... approval of the Cornwall application would have far - reaching significance , with particular reference to public health considerations . " Prof. Henry B. Hansteen in a letter published Sept. 29 is correct in . saying that power to pump the water to a reservoir at Cornwall , whence the water would flow downhill to operate the . Cornwall generators as reTHE MINERAL KINGDOM This window formed of diamond panes Opens onto a building block world Wherein creation cut true : I call it the mineral kingdom . Our sunlight falls . upon it But changes much in passage ; It returns with a traveler 's tale Of colors fast through a very long time . I have been moved toward that kingdom With its colors fixed in all lights , But a guitar is strummed behind me , And I must pronounce animal names . Still , I stand by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too that the sun of our world May visit such a kingdom and return , CHARLES BLACK quired , must be provided from other sources . We have never indicated otherwise . However , as pointed out in Con Edison 's testimony recently submitted to the Federal Power Commission , the energy that will be used to pump water at Cornwall would normally be supplied by nuclear generating capacity which otherwise would be idle , and such pumping would be virtually free of air pollution effect . Less Fuel Burned Even if all the power for the Cornwall pumping operation were supplied by modern conventional units in the city , there would still be less fuel burned in the city than would otherwise be required . Once Cornwall is built , Con Edison plans to shut down some 1,500,000 kilowatts of older fossil-fueled generating equipment in New York City . In addition Cornwall would permit more efficient operation , of the company 's modern conventional plants from the standpoint of air pollution control . The Cornwall project , in addition to its many other benefits to the millions of people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleaner air . JOHN V. CLEARY President Consolidated Edison Company New York , Oct. 3 , 1966 ? Pedestrians ' Rights To the Editor : The traffic situation in New York City , where pedestrians continue to jaywalk despite all appeals , is explained by Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary 's own statistics , which show a leading cause of pedestrian fatalities to be crossing at an intersection with the traffic light in the pedestrian 's favor . The news story in The Times on Sept. 29 on jaywalking emphasizes once again the need for adopting a radical ( for New York ) approach to traffic safety by making it possible for pedestrians to cross the street without having their right-of-way contested by vehicles . Obviously , a green light which provides a pedestrian with no assurance whatever that he wo n't have to leapfrog back to the curb provides no greater attraction than a red light . Actually , jaywalking against a red light where you can see the enemy is safer by far than attempting to cross at a green light only to be threatened by vehicles which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City , unfortunately , is wedded to a philosophy that traffic has but one component : vehicles . Pedestrians are left to fend for themselves and , if they can add to their survival chances by jaywalking , no threat of a $2 ticket will deter them from attempting to live a day longer . Of course , if any of our selfstyled traffic experts ever get out to Los Angeles ( where you 'd have to look long and hard to find any jaywalking ) , they 'll learn that no car , under penalty of law , will move so much as an inch the moment a pedestrian sets foot in A roadway . This revolutionary and loving attitude toward pedestrians , if adopted here , might speed traffic . Leaflets urging pedestrians to cross at legally dangerous intersections wo n't . GEORGE KLINGER New York , Sept. 29 , 1966                     