@@723563

txt Letters to The Times . Guatemala Upset Seen Ousted Head Believes Opposition Is Rising to Regime To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : Although I do not agree with all of Paul Kennedy 's appraisal of the present political tragedy of the Guatemalan people , he deserves praise for his Nov. 3 news article " Guatemala Chief Facing Pressure , " for it sheds light on the tragedy . Some of the business sector accused my administration of being inept and corrupt , as your correspondent states , but that was due to the agrarian reform , the first income tax law and other social measures adopted by my constitutional government , which greatly affected the vested interests of the wealthy in Guatemala . They went so far as to imply that I was also a pro-Communist in disguise . The opposition to Col. Enrique Peralta Azurdia 's de facto and dictatorial regime is certainly growing , as I predicted . It should be borne in mind , however , that the despotic regime never did enjoy a wide and deep-seated popular appeal . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress and converted Guatemala into a police state . Almost all political parties , as Mr. Kennedy 's article points out , are bitterly against the present de facto regime , opposing by all means at their disposal the brutal internal policies and the senseless international measures adopted by Peralta and his associates in crime . Increased Terrorism Terrorism and guerrilla warfare have increased lately . Both have been so great , in fact , that on several occasions road and other communications have been severed between Guatemala City and other points in the interior , notably the northeastern seaboard . Military unrest has been growing despite Colonel Peralta 's attempt to court the affection of younger military officers and more liberal-minded military that remember with shame their oath to defend the Constitution . This unrest is bound to increase until the tyrannical regime is overthrown . Hundreds of Guatemalans are in prison . Undoubtedly , the more than 200 petitioners who signed the recent political memorandum are extremely brave citizens , who deserve the gratitude of the whole nation . It is imperative , as they urge , to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clique , who believe that free institutions always lead to chaos and , in the end , to Communism . The only legal solution is to return to constitutional government , calling the Vice President ( First Designate ) to rule the country and in accordance with our National Constitution ( Article 165 ) to call for Presidential elections in the next four months , supervised by the Organization of American States . Guatemala deserves this solution in order to benefit from such great undertakings as the Alliance for Progress . MIGUEL YDIGORAS-FUENTES , Constitutional President of Guatemala . Miami , Fla. , Nov. 6 , 1963 . Chasing Stolen Cars To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : I have just heard on a news broadcast , as I have many times before , of death and destruction caused by a police car chasing a stolen car . The driver of a stolen car is seldom caught alive . The chase usually ends when the panic-stricken driver crashes into al store front , a tree , a bridge abutment or a telegraph pole and is killed . Frequently a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed . Why is this item of death on the highway overlooked ? HARRIETTE H. WOLFF . Woodmere , N. Y. , Nov. 8 , 1963 . For Better Playgrounds To THE EDITOR OF THE NPR YORK TIMES : The news that the Parks Department will install safety surfacing under playground equipment is gratifying for many reasons , not the least of which is the demonstration that an aroused citizenry can get its voice heard at City Hall , The Council for Parks and Playgrounds , which has been sponsoring park tours and showing color slides of other cities ' playground innovations to neighborhood park committees all over New York , is pleased that several of its affiliated groups were pioneers in obtaining the experimental surfacing that currently softens falls in a number of Manhattan parks . We hope Board of Education and Housing Authority playgrounds will , follow suit . While the Ma or and Parks Commissioner are to be congratulated for taking this step , it should be pointed out that New York still has a long Way to go to match modern creative playgrounds seen elsewhere . Experimentation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the 1955 report to the Mayor , " Perspectives on Delinquency Prevention , " which cited the good effect of so-called " junk " playgrounds ( perhaps " do-it-yourself " would be the more American version ) of Denmark . England and Minneapolis , CAROL GREtTzER . Vice President , Council for Parks and Playgrounds . New York , Oct. 24 , 1963 . Evening Clinics Hailed Expansion of Program to Include Mental Health Facilities Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Announcement by Dr. Ray E. Trussell , our Commissioner of Hospitals , that the city is broadening its program of evening clinics in municipal hospitals was welcome news to those who are interested in health services for family heads and other wage-earners who can not afford care through the usual sources . We are confident that this move will significantly promote the health of the population . It will also promote job stability and economic productiveness , and help prevent dependency due to illness . The move is also significant in its recognition on the part of the city that medical services should be just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can pay part or all of the costs . We hope that the outpatient psychiatric facilities of the community will also move rapidly along these lines . Mental illness can be as disabling as physical illness . Even through short-term treatment , the work of outpatient clinics geared to the needs of low-income , working people can do much to limit psychiatric disability . This in turn can prevent serious repercussions in the form of chronic dependency , family problems and undue stress on children of mentally ill parents . Clinic Operated The Manhattan Society for Mental Health has long been concerned with the problem of making services more available . Last year we were able to stimulate , help plan and find voluntary financing for a general hospital-based , psychiatric clinic operating during evening hours . We also found the qualified professional staff for the expansion . After several months of operation , there is every indication that the clinic is successful and will prove a significant step forward in this hospital 's community mental health program . We believe that all the public and voluntary mental health clinics in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how they can make them more available to lowincome , employed patients during hours which will not interfere with their productivity as workers . Since most such clinics , both public and voluntary , are supported wholly or in part by state and city funds under the Community Mental Health Services Act , they should be stimulated and encouraged to do so by the authorities who supervise , coordinate and approve such grants . A. OAKLEY BROOKS , President , Manhattan Society for Mental Health . New York , Nov. 8 , 1963 . Marking the Buses To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It seems incredible that the Manhattan and Bronx Surface Transit Operating Authority , which enjoys a public franchise to operate buses along Fifth Avenue , apparently lacks either the wit or the energy to mark its buses legibly and clearly for the traveling public , its patrons . Today , in a pouring rainstorm , at every stop between 44th and 57th Streets knots of harassed passengers clustered at the bus door shouting to the equally harassed driver to ask whether or not the bus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is obvious that the present system of marking buses is not satisfactory . Either the buses themselves should be more clearly marked or signs placed on the sidewalk stanchions , as in many European cities . Whatever the solution , it seems high time that a company enjoying a public franchise should bestir itself over a minor problem that has been the subject of complaint by its customers for many years . G. W , SELLEW , New York , Nov. 7 , 1963 . Detentions in South Africa Ambassador Explains Operation of His Country 's Security Laws To THE EDITOR OF THE NswYout Tram : By arbitrary selection and interpretation of facts concerning security legislation in South Africa and the detention of persons involved directly or indirectly in a , campaign sirhose aims range from subversion to anarchy , your correspondent Robert Conley , with headquarters In Kenya , presented an unbalanced Ind inaccurate image of the situation . Facts not mentioned in Mr. Conley 's news report ( Oct , 26 ) include the following : There is no law in South Africa that makes it an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Government or of a political party . The detention of persons in terms of the General Law Amendment Act is not the arbitrary and callous procedure Mr. Conley makes it appear . Detention may be authorized only by the attorney general of a province ( a civil servant ) and not by " any commissioned police officer " : the latter 's powers are confined to apprehension of persons who may be suspected of complicity in activities which the law is designed to counter . Such powers are exercised by police officers in many other countries in related circumstances . No End in Itself The object of detention , where it Is properly authorized , is not , as Mr. Conley suggests , to consign detainedi persons to " oblivion " but to enable the country 's law-enforcement agencies to investigate the extent of suspected complicity in the act ivities described in the law and to bring to trial before the courts persons against whom a prima f ( ftio case has been established . Detention is not an end in itself , and persons are brought to trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The security legislation nowhere cites a political act as an offense . A political motivation does not render any offense such as murder , arson and the destruction of property and installations with jeopardy to human life and limb any less reprehensible and culpable than such acts would be under common law . As regards alleged treatment of detained persons ( and here Mr. Conley relies on hearsay and not on observation ) he does not mention that the law requires a magistrate ( the equivalent of a judge in the United States ) to visit each detained person weekly and to receive complaints , if any . Red Cross Invited But , more important , the Government took the initiative in respect of tendentious reporting about alleged ill-treatment of detained persons by inviting the representative in Southern Africa of the International Red Cross , Mr , Hoffmann , to visit such persons and to report his observations . This was after Mr. Hoffmann had requested and received permission to visit a detained person at Capetown . He was invited by the South African authorities to visit any detained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hoffmann could not , however , accept the invitation , on the grounds that it fell outside the scope of his normal duties and interests , The Commissioner of Police has denied the truth of allegations based on hearsay and on " affidavits " by persons released from detention , of mistreatment and third-degree methods of interrogation . W. C. NAuDE , Ambassador to the United states , Union of South Africa . Washington , Nov. 8 , 1983 . For World War I Veterans To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Bill H.R. 2332 , introduced by Congressman Winfield H. Denton of Indime , on behalf of Veterans of World War I , which would provide an increase to $100 a month for qualified vets and $75 a month for their widows , last year lacked eight signatures of a required 219 to admit it to the floor of the House . This year a discharge Petition No. 4 was submitted by Representative Denton to release this bill from the Veterans Affairs Committee of the House . As of Oct. 24 , 99 signatures were already on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I veteran is between 66 and 78 years . Administrator of Veterans Affairs John S. Gleason reports 160,000 veterans die each year . Veterans of World War I should get this increase . GEORGE W. KRUSE Staten Island , Nov. 2 , 1963.                     