@@728244

txt Top government leaders of East and West met separately this week in Moscow and The Hague to map their respective plans for Europe . Close to the center of discussion at both meetings stood the policies of the new West German Government led by Chancellor Willy Brandt . Mr. Brandt set as one of his first priorities the strengthening of the existing Common Market and its enlargement to include Britain , Norway , Denmark , and Ireland . He wants equally to broaden and diversify West German relations with Communist powers east of the Iron Curtain , beginning with the Soviet Union and Poland . First item on Bonn 's agenda with Moscow ? already agreed to in principle by the Soviets  --  are talks to conclude a Soviet-West German treaty renouncing the use of force . Separately , broad agreement has been reached on the supply of Soviet natural gas from Siberia to West Germany over a period of 20 years . The deal will mean money in the pockets of German industrialists , who will furnish the estimated 1.2 million tons of large-diameter pipe needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking expanded economic relations with West Germany , centering on technical cooperation to modernize Polish industry . Warsaw and Bonn also are expected to negotiate a bilateral treaty renouncing the use of force , similar to that proposed by Mr. Brandt 's government to Moscow . These programs , should they come to fruition , will give a green light to Hungary and the Balkan states to expand their relatively flourishing trade with West Germany . A trend now emerging in Balkan-West German trade is " third world " cooperation , whereby German and Communist enterprises share the construction of projects in underdeveloped countries . // *Bonn holds Europe key // Upset by these development is the East German Government led by Communist Party chief Walter Ulbricht , who ? has sought to harness other Communist regimes to his own policy toward Bonn . Mr. Ulbricht 's policy , in effect , rules out closer relations with West Germany Unless Bonn first accords diplomatic . recognition to East Germany . Reportedly Mr. Ulbricht arrived in Moscow well before conference time , to confer privately with Soviet leaders . Since Mr. Brandt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regimes except East Germany have reacted relatively positively to his accession to power . A double task appears to confront the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact allies in Moscow : 1 . To concert Communist policies toward Mr. Brandt 's government within a general framework sanctioned by the Soviets . 2 . To outmaneuver East Germany so that smaller Communist powers may utilize West German help to modernize their economies . Negotiations stressed East Germany itself already derives substantial aid from West Germany , through interzonal trade which outweighs trade conducted by any other Communist country with Bonn . Whatever communique the Warsaw Pact powers issue may not disclose ? indeed , may obfuscate ? conclusions reached by the Communist leaders toward West Germany . The proof of the pudding will be the progress or otherwise of bilateral West German negotiations with the Soviet Union and Poland , centering on renunciation of force and trade . Mr. Brandt returned to Bonn from the Western summit conference , declaring himself satisfied with results chalked up by Common Market leaders at The Hague . West Germany and its allies wrung a commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of June , 1970 . A thorny problem to be decided first is final agreement on financial regulations for Common Market agriculture . France stands to benefit from community farm payments and West German taxpayers stand to pay . The month ahead will be one of tough bargaining on farm problems . But the feeling here is that the faltering Common Market received a new impulse at The Hague .                     