@@724331

txt Johnson City , Tex. , Nov. 4-President Johnson said today in a telegram sent to Sen. Barry Goldwater that . the American people will appreciate " any leadership and any effort " the defeated Republican Presidential candidate makes in helping build a better nation and achieving world peace . " I thank you for all your expressed desire to cooperate in the work that faces us all in the days and weeks ahead . I hope all Americans will lay aside partisan passions and petty differences to unite in building a better and growing country and securing an honorable peace in freedom for all mankind . I will  --  and I believe all your countrymen will  --  appreciate any leadership and any effort you make in this dinetion . " Host at Barbecue The White House made public Johnson 's message shortly after he had been host at a victory barbecue on his LBJ ranch celebrating his election to the Presidency by a massive margin . Vice President-Elect Hubert H. Humphrey flew to the ranch from his home city of Minneapolis today and joined the President in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the ranch as the guests of President and Mrs. Johnson and fly to Washing tomorrow . The President 's telegram to Goldwater was essentially the appeal Johnson made after last midnight when he accepted his election . From the stage of the municipal auditorium in Austin , Texas capital , he called for binding up the wounds of the campaign and forging a united America . He said his election was a " mandate for unity , " and that " we have voted as many , but we must face the world as one . " Connallys Present President and Mrs. Johnson had about 100 guests , including newsmen who had covered the Johnson and Humphrey campaigns , at their ranch party . Gov . John B. Connally of Texas and Mrs. Connally joined the group . Connally won his own race for reelection yesterday . Rain forced the Johnson to move the barbecue from the Pedernales river , the creek flowing in front of the ranch house , indoors to the President 's airplane hangar at the rear of the house . Party decorations included bales of hay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign posters . The guests sipped beer , soft drinks , and coffee and shook hands with the Johnsons , Humphreys and Connallys . The President was in high spirits . Wears Texas Clothes The President wore the informal clothes that are usual during his stays at his ranch ? a gentleman rancher 's tan gabardine slacks and jacket , cowboy boots and broad-brimmed Texas hat . Humphrey was similarly attired in clothes lent to him by the President . Humphrey 's boots were too large . Johnson and Humphrey entertained the guests for a few minutes with an exhibition of horsemanship . The President swtmg into the saddle and galloped easily around a pasture . Humphrey , admittedly inept as a rider , urged his horse around the pasture at a slower pace and held tightly to both the reins and the saddle horn .                     