@@725890

txt The Senate ethics committee announced today that it would conduct hearings on " certain financial affairs and other activities " of Senator Thomas J. Dodd , including his use of campaign funds raised on his behalf between 1961 and 1965 . In a joint announcement the committee chairman , John Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , and the vice chairman , Wallace F. Bennett , Republican of Utah , said that preliminary investigation of the Connecticut Democrat 's financial affairs was now sufficiently complete to " provide a basis for hearings . " Mr. Dodd , who has contended that the committee lacks authority to look into his campaign finances , said in a state-ment : " I stand ready to defend myself against all the allegations that have been made against me . " Travel Payments Cited Mr. Stennis and Mr. Bennett said the hearings would also deal with payments by the Senate Disbursing Office for travel expenses of Senator Dodd . Documents available to ' the ethics committee have indicated that on several occasions Senator Dodd submitted two bills for travel expenses r ? . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in his capacity a:s chairman of the Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency or las vice chairman of the Sub= committee on Internal Security , and a second to the Senate . In his statement today , which ' he issued immediately after the committee 's announcement , Beni ator Dodd declared : " I am completely confident , as I was when I asked the Iethics committee to investigate the allegations against me , that I will be vindicated when all the facts are in . " The allegations to which Mr. Dodd referred were made by the syndicated Washington columnists Drew Pearson and Jack Anderson in a series of articles that began last February . They charged that Mr. Dodd had used his position to help Julius Klein , a Chicago public relations man , retain West German clients he was in . danger of losing after an investigation of foreign agents by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1963 . They also charged that Mr. Dodd had diverted to his own use part of the proceeds of four testimonial dinners and cocktail parties between 1961 and 1965 : Soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counteractions . First , he asked for an investigation by the ethics committee , formally called the Select Committee on Standards and Conduct . Second , he filed a $5-million libel and ' conspiracy suit against the columnists based on 14 complaints.1 Complaint Amended Later he filed an amended Suit , withdrawing the 10 complaints dealing with his financial affairs and reducing his request for , damages to $2-million . He said that he was limiting his case to what he called the " false " statements about his relations with Mr. Klein in order to " expedite " the suit . When Mr. Dodd first asked an investigation by the ethics committee , he promised his full cooperation and offered to make his files available . Later when the committee asked for records relating to his financial affairs and use of campaign contributions and proceeds from testimonial dinners , he refused to supply them . On July 20 , John F. Sonnett , the Senator 's chief counsel , said the committee had no authority , under the resolution creating it , to investigate campaign finances . Three days later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trips had been indicated , Mr. Sonnett said that " a thorough review " of the Senator 's travel expenses from May , 1961 , to Jan. 31 , 1966 , was being made . This period , he said , covered the term of employment of Michael V. O'Hare , who had had charge of accounts in Mr : Dodd 's office . ' Mr. Sonnett said he was " satisfied " the review would " show either that the allocations were proper or that , if any error was made , it was due to Senator Dodd 's misplaced confidence in Michael V. O'Hare . " Mr. Sonnett said that thereview would take several days and that he " assumed " it would be made public . The review has not been made public . Mr. Dodd 's office and Mr. Sonnett 's office have said that " the accountants are working on it . " The testimonial dinners and parties into which the committee is inquiring produced , after expenses , more than $200,000 , according to informed sources . According to a report on ? his 1964 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dodd also collected $201,149.43 in contributions . This sum did not include the proceeds from testimonial dinners . He reported to the Secretary of State expenditures of $209,376.02 . The committee Is inquiring into the use , made of , the proceeds from the testimonial dinners . It is alsb looking into the Senator 's listing of club dues in Washington , some liquor bills here ( reported as " buffet luncheons " ) and air travel to the West Coast as " campaign expenditures . " Mr. Stennis said the hearings would not , place before January . resumably the committee will hear Mr. Dodd first in closed session , as it did during the inquiry into his relations with Mr. Klein , and then hold open hearings .                     