@@725859

txt Governor Rockefeller refusea yesterday to " dignify " with an answer a charge by Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . that the Governor 's nomination in 1958 had resulted from a " deal " engineered by political bosses . But the Republican state chairman , Carl Spad , issued an unqualified denial . Six times , during a morning of campaigning , Mr. Rockefeller was asked whether there was any truth to the charge . Six times he refused to say " yes " , or " no , " sounding the " I re fuse to dignify " theme in one form or another . Mr. Roosevelt , running for Governor on the Liberal party ticket , charged Thursday night that Mr. Rockefeller 's nomination was locked up by a " deal " worked out between L. Judson Morhouse , then the Republican state chairman and John R. Crews , the Republican leader in Brooklyn . Mr. Morhouse was said to have won Mr. Crews 's support of the Rockefeller candidacy in return for a promise that he could name the next chairman of the State Liquor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spad , Mr. Rockefeller took a positive tack yesterday by making his most optimistic assessment to date of his chances for re-election . He called the campaign as " a battle that can be won , " but he made clear that he thought the decision would be terribly close . Mr. Spad , in denying the Roosevelt charge , said : " Governor Rockefeller was elected in 1958 and 1962 by the votes of more than three million New Yorkers . He did not then , and does not now , owe political debts to anyone . His public life has been a career of service and action for the people . He has neither needed , sought , nor benefited from any ' deals ' in seeking to serve the people in an office of high trust and responsibility . " Mr. Roosevelt is obviously trying to rewrite political history in digging for deals outside the fertile ground of his own party , from which he has taken a walk only because the bosses rejected his courtship and chose another . " Charged O'Connor " Deal " Mr. Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic nomination on Aug. 25 . His explanation was that the nomination had been locked up for Frank D. O'Connor by a 1965 " deal " much like the one he has now ascribed to the 1958 Rockefeller team . The specific Roosevelt charge ? that Mr. Morhouse made a deal with Mr. Crews in 1958 to allow the latter to name the next S.L.A. chairman  --  may not have been expected . But it was no surprise to politicians ? that the S.L.A. scandal in general was brought up in the campaign against Mr. Rockefeller . Mr. Crews did eventually recommend a man to become the S.L.A. chairman , and Mr. Rockefeller adopted the recommendation . The man was Martin C. Epstein . In November , 1962 , Mr. Rockefeller had to remove Mr. Epstein summarily when the latter refused to waive immunity before a grand jury that was looking into graft charges against the liquor authority . Mr. Epstein was ultimately indicted , but he is not expected to be tried because he is seriously ill . Mr. Morhouse received a two-to-three year sentence on bribery , charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stayed pending the appeal . Wo n't " Dignify Them " The first questioning of Mr. Rockefeller on the " deal " charge came at the studios of WCBS , where he went early in the day to tape a broadcast for Sunday . His immediate response was to note that there were many issues facing the voters and that he had been trying vainly to persuade his opponents to discuss them . As his questioner started to prod him for a direct reply , he said : " Frankly , I just ca n't even dignify them the charges with an answer . " He parried the issue in similar fashion one more time , then drove downtown to address a state committee on crime . Later , he went across the hall for another news conference , facing a battery of microphones planted in the middle of a large woodpaneled reception room . Te Roosevelt charge was brought up at once . He again refused to dignify it with an answer , terming it a " diversionary tactic " to avoid facing the issues . " Governor , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an answer Mr. Roosevelt 's statement that Mr. Morhouse made a deal with Mr. Crews tantamount to saying that it is not true ? " " I have just said that I will not dignify this with an answer , " Mr. Rockefeller replied . " Is it true ? " the questioner persisted . " I have just said that I am not going to dignify this with an answer , " Mr. Rockefeller replied once more . Refers to ' Tragedy ' The Governor was quite willing to discuss some aspects of the S.L.A. scandal . Referring to Mr. Morhouse and Mr. Ep ; tein , he said it was " a tragedy " hat " some people have human weaknesses . " He said that he had appointKI 10,000 people since becoming lovernor and that , of those , ' there may be about one-half Cozen who have become inrolved in questionable situaions , and I have dismissed hem immediately . " He said he had expected the ; . L.A. scandal " to be raised rom the beginning of the cammign . " But he stuck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth or falsity of the Roosevelt : barge . Mr. Roosevelt , for his part , repeated the charge in speaking to a sidewalk crowd during a walking tour at Rockefeller Center . He said the Governor had " allowed this kind of corruption to creep into the government " because he was too busy using his office as " a step . ping stone for his own ambi ? tions . " The Liberal candidate pledgee that , if he is elected , anyone having business to do with the state would be treated fairly " provided everything is on tol of the table . "                     