@@727359

txt Pittsburgh , Sept. 14 - Vice President Humphrey , continuing to hammer on the question of the fitness of Richard M. Nixon for the Presidency , today warned the American people that not only the future of the United States , but the future of the world , could be determined by how they vote in the Nov. 5 election . Humphrey concluded the first week of his campaign in Pittsburgh this afternoon with a speech in a lakeside park on the outskirts of the city . The occasion was the Allegheny county Democratic ladies annual Candidates day picnic . Flies to Washington The Vice President flew to Washington from Pittsburgh after the rally . He will be in Washington tomorrow and Monday , then spend Tuesday campaigning in New York state . He has scheduled another five-day vote-seeking swing-which includes Springfield , Ill. ? starting next Thurs .. day . " In 1968 , we have to choose ( the direction our country is going to take in the world , " Humphrey said today at the picnic . " And we have to choose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home . " I say the future of this country-and the future of the world-may well hang on how America chooses this November . That is why the Democrats must win this election . " Choice of People " The basic choice of the American people  --  and the one at the heart of my campaign ? is will America be one nation , or will it be two , three , or four Americas , a nation divided against itself , black and white , rich and poor , slum and suburb , north and south ? This is the choice in 1968 ? between the America of the old era and the America of a new day . " The Vice President 's Pittsburgh speech laid stress on subjects of special , personal interest to residents of a city with a large concentration of industrial workers and worried about the problems of slums and race tensions . Calling for the building of a " new America " In the nation 's cities , he said that under the leadership of a Democratic President , cities could be safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could continue to be the congested , decaying , crime-ridden dwelling places they are today if the voters choose a ' Republican chief executive . Build Strong Society Humphrey raised the question of whether Nixon could maintain economic prosperity hnd high employment , deal with crime in the streets , and generate " a new spirit of national unity . " Humphrey said that under his leadership in the White House , the American people could " build a society so strong , so open , so free that no one will ever be able to tear it down . " Humphrey , who arrived in Pittsburgh last night for meetings with local Democratic leaders , labor union officials , and minority group representatives , left his hotel this morning for a stroll thru streets of the business district . The candidate stopped in a small park adjacent to the hotel to shake hands with passers-by , boarded three charter busses filled with women about to start on a sightseeing tour to shake their hands and exchange greetings , then resumed his walking when he heard band music in the distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall and winter programs of a Pittsburgh television station . The Vice President joined the parade and marched briefly for a dozen blocks , waving and smiling at onlookers . At the picnic grove , Humphrey shed his stilt jacket , loosened his shirt collar and necktie and talked under a hot sun to the several hundred party faithful . Reference to Viet In his talk ? which he warmed up to with introductory folksy jokes and plugs for local candidates ? Humphrey made one of his infrequent campaign speech references to the Viet Nam war . He pledged an unrelenting effort to end the conflict if elected President . He appealed to all Democrats to unite behind him regardless of their party-splitting differences over Viet Nam , the civil rights issue , and disaffection with the Johnson-Humphrey administration . En route from the picnic to the Pittsburgh airport for his return to Washington , Humphrey 's motorcade stopped in the suburban town of Millvale which is celebrating its centennial . The candidate rode in an open car in a parade along the main street accompanied by marching bands and townspeople @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . In Washington , Humphrey headquarters , issued a statement in which the candidate reiterated his strong support of gun control legislation and challenged Nixon to speak out on the issue . Nixon " claims to have spoken out on 167 major Issues but gun control evidently Is not among them , " Humphrey said . " Is the high rate of gun murAP WIrephotol In the Huddle Vice President Humphrey has conference with Pittsburgh Mayor Joseph Barr before making speech to Democrats . ders in this country not an important issue ? " the Vice President asked .                     