@@727881

txt Thailand is casting a sharp eye at a Soviet bid to secure landing rights , for Aeroflot , the Soviet airline . With their country 's foreign policy entering a new and more flexible phase , Thais are not averse to increased contacts with the Communist world . But if they do let the Soviets fly into Bangkok , the Thais want to be sure they get something worthwhile in return . The answer might be to make the . Russians contract for more Thai exports , like lubber and jute . One thing the Thais ? fear is that if they let Soviet planes fly in and Russian ground personnel become permanently stationed in Bangkok , an increase in Communist subversion might result . The Nepalese Government has announced that its Gurkhas are not for hiring . Only two countries are now renting the fierce little warriors from Nepal  --  Britain and India . And eventually , the hired army will be phased out by both countries . Recently a request by Malaysia for Gurkhas was turned down . And last week , Nepal denied a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose growing influence in the mountain kingdom is of great concern to New Delhi , already has protested to Nepal that Gurkha troops are being used in Hong Kong along the crown colony 's border with the Chinese mainland . Nepal has assured Peking that the British policy of gradual withdrawal from east of Suez will also see the end of Gurkha troops in Hong Kong . ED American military men are not drawn to South Korean President Park Chung Hee 's proposal for the island of Cheju Do . Eager for a greater U.S. presence in his country to bolster his defenses against North Korea , President Park suggeits that the island , which lies off the southern tip of South Korea , be turned into a huge American military base to replace Okinawa , which Japan wants back . But sources in Seoul believe the proposal has several drawbacks . Cheju Do is sparsely inhabited and hardly developed . In the view of American military men , it lacks an adequate harbor , basic water and power systems . And the prevailing winds , they say , blow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... Cambodia watchers believe that Communist pressure is responsible for Prince Norodom Sihanouk 's about-face on diplomatic recognition of the United States . Throughout the latter part ? of 1968 , the Cambodian leader made . plain his desire for better relations with the Americans . When President Nixon took office , he came up with the statement on recognition of Cambodia 's borders for which the Prince had been asking . On the face of it , that seemed to set the scene for resumption of diplomatic relations . But then Prince Sihanouk balked . He said he had reservations about the Nixon border statement . There has been no movement since . Experts believe the Communists  --  either Chinese or North Vietnamese  --  talked the Prince out of patching things up with the Americans . An increase of Communist activity in his border provinces may have been delibeiately designed to underline the.point. , Perhaps nowhere else in the , yorld is Soviet-American cooperation so cordial as in Laos . The Americans are bombing . the eastern part of Laos , occupied by some 50,000 North Vietnamese troops whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Soviets and Americans in the Laotian capital of Vientiane get on splendidly . This may be due to an identity of views . Despite the war , both sides want to get Laos neutralized and out of Communist China 's sphere of influence . The Soviets appear to be throwing their weight behind a rejuvenated coalition government in Laos  --  just what the Americans are trying to do . South Vietnam 's problem of restive students was largely smothered by last year 's mobilization . Students who lobbied for peace were either clapped into jail or drafted unceremoniously . But a few student opponents of the government continue to avoid both jail and the Army and stay underground . Most of their publications demanding peace , a different government , and release of imprisoned students are mimeographed . But some are even printed  --  possibly by presses of the NLF , which would be only too happy to help out .                     