@@726076

txt Springfield , Ill. , Jan. 19-The Illinois Supreme court upheld the constitutionality of Chicago 's open occupancy ordinance today . The ordinance makes it illegal for real estate brokers to discriminate on the grounds of race , color , religion , or tional origin in the sale , rental , or financing of housing . The opinion affirmed the ruling by the Cook county Circuit court against the Chicago real estate hoard and 26 inAividual brokers who are licensed by the city . City Given Pomer The opinion was issued per curiam Iby the court as a whole ) , without identification of the author . The court held that Chicago has been delegated power to regulate real estate brokers , including authority to enact the ordinance . " The ordinance , " the opinion continued , ' ' was enacted in an effort to cope with a plethora of problems resulting from discrimination in housing . The imposition of the restrictions on real estate brokers alone was reasonably related to the objecfives of the law and was not arbitrary , in view of the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than do individual property owners . Due Process Untrammeled " Consequently , this ordinance in no way infringed the constitutional guarantees of due process and equal protection of the law . Nor does it offend any other constitutional provision . " Enforcement of the ordinance is in the hands of the City Commission on Human Relations , which can initiate and receive complaints , make investigations , conduct conciliation hearings , and recommend to the mayor the suspension or revocation of a broker 's license if the broker is found guilty of violating the ordinance . Orders of the commission are subject to review by the courts , the opinion noted . An Included Power Six other Illinois cities have adopted open occupancy ordinances . Some of these differ from the Chicago ordinance , which is aimed entirely at brokers . The opinion noted that the United States Supreme court and the courts of other states have held that municipal power to regulate a business includes the power to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of color , race or religion . " In the instant case , from the evidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing ordinance is not directed at or fails to alleviate In some mess-tire the social ills set forth in the record and recognized in the judicial decisions , " the opinion said . " In any event , there is no palpable misuse of power or of legislative discretion . The ordinance , therefore , can not be deemed a denial of property without due process of law , even tho it may Interfere with the rights of plaintiffs to contract with persons of their choice . A Uniform Practice " Further justification for designating real estate brokers as the class to whom the ordinance applies appears from the evidence in the record show ' ing the role of brokers in esItablishing and perpetuating housing discrimination in Chicago on grounds of color . " These discriminatory practices were not limited to the open avowals of discrimination by persons who have died , as plaintiffs suggest . On the contrary , the facts detailed at the outset of this opinion show that up to 1963 , when this ordinance was adopted , real estate brokers did not show listings in white neighborhoods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brokers ' management or sales contracts with owners . "                     