@@721257

txt Life insurance companies label as discriminatory a provision of a 1959 act . The law was passed to tax them on underwriting profits as well as previously taxed investment income . The Treasury has just issued a ruling to carry out the provision , and the companies are considering the possibility of suing . Tax rulings have long said that owners of municipal and state bonds , on which interest income is tax-exempt , are exempt also on any profit realized from the sale or redemption of the securities at a price higher than the purchase price , but only to the extent that the bonds were sold by the borrower at a cut-rate price . U such " municipals " originally issued at par or higher are acquired in the open market at a lower price , any profit over that discounted price is taxable as a capital gain at the time of sale or redemption . No prorated portion of the discount need be reported as income annually , in proportion as the value of the security theoretically rises toward its redemption price . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1959 law this form of treatment is usable only by corporations other than life and mutual casualty companies . The insurance concerns , says the Service , must in chide a portion of the market discount in their annual investment income subject to tax , eliminating all chance of being taxed on any profit at the lower capital gains rate . ? ? ? INSURANCE FIRMS are the target of an . other tax move . Treasury lawyers give close scrutiny to the establishment by some insurance companies of subsidiaries in certain foreign lands called " tax havens. - which impose little or no income taxes . especially on earnings outside their borders Policies written by the U.S. companies are re-insuied with the foreign subside . axles. and premiums paid for such re-insurance are claimed as a business deduction by the parents Some large companies other than insurance firms have similar ly been setting up foreign subsidiaries to insure their own risks Treasury men fear this relatively new idea may spread . They consider imposing the law 's tax withholding provision , on funds leaving the country , to these re-insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the foreign companies in the U.S. ? ? ? A STERN APPROACH on " educational " tax benefits Is taken by the I.R.S. The law provides that non-profit organizations , such as those operated solely for educational , scientific or religious purposes , owe no tax on their net receipts , while donations to them are deductible by grantors as charitable contributions . Treasury regulations provide further that this treatment may apply not only to conventional educational institutions , whose characteristics are strictly defined , but also in individual cases to more loosely-knit groups , whose activities consist of presenting panel discussions , lectures and similar programs . The Revenue Service , however . has Just ruled against allowing " educational " tax benefits in the case of a non-partisan organization set up to encourage businessmen to take a bigger part in politics and Government , by conducting seminars and workshops on college campuses . Revenuers held that the charter of the group was so broad it might be used for promoting social or civic action rather than furnishing true education . The Service suggested that the group might qualify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such organisations ' earnings are tax free , but contributions to them are not . ? ? ? HANDICAPPED CHILDREN 'S dependency . exemption rule is revised by the I R S Last year , the Service held that amounts spent by a state government at an institution for training mentally retarded youngsters were not to be counted by the parent in determining ss hether he contributed the required minimum 50K ; of a childs support to claim him as a personal exemption . Now the Service says this ruling applies only where the state home qualifies as an educational institution and the child meets the tax law 's definition of " student " ? one who attends classes regularly at least five months of a year . The amount spent by the state , the Service ruled , is technically a " scholarship " which , under the law , is not figured in the child 's support . ? ? ? INTEREST PAID by a state government is tax-free to the recipient even though the debt is evidenced by other than a conventional security , the I.R.S. ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed an agreement obligating the state to make periodic payments on priitcipal and interest for the cost of constructing an official residence on stateowned realty. a A LOBBYING DEDUCTION BAN k attacked In Tan Court . The suit hits specifically at the Revenue Service 's stand disallowing deduction from tax of the cost of witnesses testifying before Government bodies , such as committees in Congress and state legislatures . The Service contends such appearances constitute lobbying for or against legislation and so may not be claimed as business deductions . The taxpayer , in the case at point , argued the Service improperly rejected deductions he claimed for expenses incurred In urging legislation In a state to authorize the sale there of a new type of insurance contract . He contended these efforts involved the legitimate dissemin. ation of information and so should be distinguished from lobbying . A measure now before the Nouse Ways and Means Committee similarly nuns to excuse testimony outlays from the general rule barring lobbying deductions . But the proposal is not expected to get anywhere this session . ? ? ? STATE BRIEFS : Wisconsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " boom in the state 's economy cut an anticipated deficit in the state general fund for the current two-year budgetary period to an estimated $4 million from $23 million .                     