@@724390

txt At least 13 members of the crew of a Norwegian tanker were killed early yesterday when the Israeli liner Shalom , outbound for a Caribbean cruise , collided with the tanker in heavy fog off the New Jersey coast . Six other crew members were missing ; 24 were rescued . The collision occurred shortly after 2 A.M. as the Shalom , owned by the Zim Lines , plowed into the Stolt Dagali . The tanker broke in two . The stern section sank almost immediately , the bow wallowing in the rough seas . As distress signals filled the air , seven Coast Guard helicopters from the Floyd Bennett station in Brooklyn flew to the scene , about 25 miles southeast of Asbury Park . Seven Coast Guard cutters and patrol boats also raced to the area . 19 on Tanker Saved Lowering rescue baskets and " horsecollar " rings , the helicopters lifted 19 crew members from a nearly swamped lifeboat . The Shalom launched a boat that picked up five more seamen . Then , despite a 40-foot gash in her bow , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Pier 32 , at Canal Street , at 3:10 P.M. yesterday . The paths of the two ships crossed at Lat. 39 degrees , 59 minutes N. , Long . 73 degrees 40 minutes W. , according to the Coast Guard 's fix . The U0 million luxury liner , with 616 passengers and a crew of 450 , was heading south from New York for the West Indies ; the 583-foot tanker , with a crew of 43 , was heading north from Philadelphia to Newark . She carried solvents and fats . Distress Call Answered At 2:22 A.M. the Boston Coast Guard station reported receiving a distress signal from an unidentified ship . At 2:41 A.M. the station heard : " S 0 S. This is Stolt Dagali . Collided with unknown ship . Sinkingrepeat  --  sinking . " The first ship on the scene was the Grace Line 's Santa Paula , herself returning from a Caribbean cruise . Her captain , Theodore Thomson , said the first position given by the Shalom was incorrect . According to the Coast Guard this position was reported as Lat. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees , 44 minutes W. ' " That position was incorrect , " Captain Thomson said , " and we had to circle around a wide area until we saw the Shalom standing still with her lights lit . Her bow was badly damaged . Then we saw the remains of the tanker , the bow section with some sort of a light lit , and we could see 10 men aboard it , " Radar Role in Question The longitude position was not far off , the Coast Guard said , but the latitude was in error . The Shalom was actually 15 miles south of the position she had radioed , the Coast Guard reported . Fifteen minutes after the Shalom radioed her position , the Stolt Dagali sent out the correct position , according to the Coast Guard 's log . A spokesman for Zim Lines ? said last night the discrepancy could not be explained at the present . " Eventually , all the fine points will come out , " he said . " The captain has been on his feet for 36 hours , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question was why radar had not prevented and that the weather was foggy . Beyond that he would not go . At about the same time Captain Bendiksen , the tanker 's master was telling reporters in Broklyn that he , too , had been on the bridge when the crash came . He said the stern of his tanker had disappeared swiftly in the fog . He refused to discuss the radar issue . Because the collision occurred in international waters , it was outside the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard , that service said . A spokesman for Zim said the disappointed cruise passengers would have a choice of being booked aboard other cruise ships or of having their money refunded and their fares paid back to their home towns . The Shalom , a white ship with a green waterline mark , her interiors done in soft grays and blues , is the flagship.of the Zim Lines . She has been in service only seven months . Shalom means " peace " in Hebrew . The Stolt Dagali , owned by John P. Pedersen &; Sons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inc. , of 80 Broad Street . Her name means " Pride of Dagali , " a mountain in Norway . the crash , " even in heavy fog . The Coast Guard said both ships were equipped with radar , and the Shalom 's captain , Avner . Freudenberg , said yesterday afternoon his radar was operatin5. when the . collision occurred . Many of the Shalom 's passengers slept through the night unaware of the crash . Others gathered in public rooms ; orchestras were called back into service and played until 6 A.M. Meanwhile , members of the tanker 's crew waited on the ' bow and in -a water-filled life-I boat for rescue . Magnesium flares dropped by rescue aircraft revealed the 25,338-ton Shalom with a long gash in her bow , and what was left of the 19,150-ton tanker . The seas were choppy and there was a heavy swell . Fog swirled . Standing by was the Santa Paula , assisting in the rescue work by acting as a windbreak for the tanker 's bow . One of the first airmen on the scene was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lakehurst , N. J. He saw a lifeboat , awash , with nine persons aboard . " They were in all states of dress , " he said . " Some just ini their skivvies . They were elated ' when they saw us . " Lieutenant Gilpin rescued , four crewmen with a horsecol- ' lar ring , a large , padded life ring attached to a cable . Then a Coast Guard cutter put a net over its side and scooped tip the remaining five . One of them was dead . Distress Call Heard All through the night messages crackled between New York , Boston , Lakehurst and Washington . Just after the first ; distress call the Coast Guard in New York asked the Federal ' Communications Commission in Washington to get a fix on the distress ship . Then a cutter radioed : " Shalom reports five minutes ago collision , unknown vessel , thick fog . " From Boston : " Heard words , ' collide ' and ' sinking , ' sounds like Stolt Dagali other vessel . " The helicopters , Coast Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dawn broke , the Shalom , having picked up five survivors from the Stolt Dagali , reported she had watertight integrity despite the flooding of her No. 1 hold and an adjoining compartment , and was proceeding back to New York . A Norwegian seaman said he had been asleep when the crash occurred and had awakened in the cold waters of the Atlantic . Rescuers had to force his fingers from the basket that lifted him into a helicopter . One woman aboard the Shalom . Mrs. Marge Tostalisco ( if Haifa , was injured in the collision when a heavy watertight door swung open and struck her . She suffered rib bruises and was taken by helicopter to Walston Hospital at Fort Dix . Mrs. Tostalisco , who is the wife of a member of the Shalom 's crew , is also a crew member . Skipper Is Saved The captain of the Norwegian vessel , Kristian Bendiksen , was rescued , the last man to leave the broken bow of the tanker . Coast Guard cutters circled the area all day , searching for the six missing members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutter Cape Strait , continued the search last night . The tug Cynthia Moran reached the still-floating bow section of the tanker , but was unable to get a line aboard for a tow . As the Shalom steamed slowly back to New York , shepherded by a cutter , bodies of the victims of the crash were taken by cutter and helicopter to Point Pleasant Hospital in New Jersey . The survivors were taken to the Norwegian Seamen 's House in Brooklyn . The Norwegian consulate said last night it had identified the bodies of 12 crew members . It said the names were being withheld until all the families had been notified . The Shalom was berthed only 16 hours after she had left . On her stern and bow was the name Shalom in English and Hebrew , and also on the stern , Haifa , her home port . Through giant scratch marks on the bow above the stove-in section the name Shalom still showed in black against the now-discolored white hull . Passengers and crew lined the luggage-stacked decks , and there was some waving . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd at the pier , shrugged and threw her arms wide , as if to say , " What can you do ? " Captain at Conference A news conference was held in the Shalom 's theater , which is done in gay orange and yellow . Captain Freudenberg , 53 years old and 15 years a master with the Zim Lines , appeared for the conference , but he made it clear at the outset that he was not prepared for details , pending an official inquiry . Speaking English with a cultured German accent , the ship 's Master said that " for obvious reasons I will not be able to go into too many details . " Asked if his radar was operating at the time of the collision , Captain Freudenberg said curtly , " Naturally . " He said he had horn on the bridge v.itrn the crash occurred                     