@@722131

txt A recommendation that the prison term of Orville E. Hodge , former state auditor , be reduced so that he can apply for parole has been made by the state parole and pardon board , THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . The recommendation w a s sent to Gov . Kerner 's office last Thursday by the parole authorities . He announced yesterday he will make no decision in the case until next week . At the same time , it was learned that the parole board has approved a parole for Hodge 's former administrative assistant , Edward A. Epping . Both are inmates of the Menard state penitentiary in Chester , Randolph county . Makes Two Pleas The secret report containing the recommendations was drawn after Hodge petitioned the board for . a full pardon or executive elemency . In order to qualify for parole Hodge 's 12 to 15 year sentence would have to be cut to eight years . Normally , Hodge would not be eligible for parole until November , 1963 . If the parole board recommendation is approved , he will still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal sentence . Convicted in 1956 Hodge and Epping were convicted in the 11k million dollar looting of the state treasury thru a forged state warrant cashing scheme in 1956 . Hodge was sentenced to 12 to 15 years in prison for embezzlement , forgery , and confidence game . Epping received four concurrent sentences of one to 10 years for confidence game , forgery , larceny , and embezzlement . Under the law , Gov . Kerner can approve , reject , or amend the parole board recommendations on Hodge . The parole board heard Hodge 's case on Oct. 10 . Free on Probation Another . Hodge scandal figure , Edward A. Hintz , was released on probation last August after serving 2 1/2 years of a three year sentence . At the time of the scandal , Hintz was president of the Southmoor Bank and Trust company , a south side institution where the forged state warrants were cashed . The three men were convicted in one of the most bizarre cases in state history . Hodge , a former state legislator , was noted as a fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern Illinois ; Many believed him to be independently wealthy . During the investigation , however , it developed that Hodge had used state funds to finance his high living . He admitted stealing the money by cashing phony state Warrants and thru padded state expense accounts . Most of the money was recovered by the state .                     