@@727519

txt New York , Dec. 9 ? President-elect Nixon will announce to the nation at 9 p. m . Wednesday Chicago time the names of the 12 men he has selected for his administration 's cabinet . Ron Ziegler , his press secretary , said Nixon will make the tradition - breaking announcement at a press conference in the Palladium room of the Shoreham hotel in Washington . All the television and radio networks were invited to cover the event . NBC , CBS , and ABC were quick to accept the offer . Radio networks also said they would provide live coverage . 12 to Accompany Him Nixon will be accompanied by the 12 men as he goes before the cameras . Ziegler said that he may also announce other im.jor appointments . " Ziegler said Nixon had decided to make the announcement in the nation 's capital because he considered it the proper place for an " announcement of this magnitude . " Nixon also continued to round out his White House staff today with the appointment of Robert J. Brown and William Safire as special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a native of North Carolina , was assigned to develop Nixon 's " black capitalism " program . Safire , an author , was assistant to Nixon in the recent campaign . Brown is Nixon 's first Negro appointee . The President-elect will be breaking precedent in disclosing the identity of the cabinet in one statement . In the past , P r es id ents-elect have announced their selections one or two at a time over a period of days and weeks . Will Fly to Capital Nixon will fly to Washington on Wednesday evening . He will stay overnight at the Shoreham and return to New York late Thursday after conferring with his cabinet appointees . Disclosure of the Nixon plans followed rising speculation on the make-up of the incoming cabinet . Today Nixon conferred with Robert B. Anderson , secretary of the treasury in the Eisenhower administration , and William McChesney Martin , chairman of the federal reserve board . The latter has been mentioned as a possible secretary of the treasury . Asked to Stay on Martin , after seeing Nixon , told newsmen he had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had asked him to stay on in his present post until the expiration of his term . Jan. 31 , 1970 , but " I have not made a complete commitment to that . " Douglas Dillon , whose name also was mentioned in the speculation on the treasury post , said today he would not be a member of the Nixon cabinet . " I do n't expect to , " he told newsmen before attending a luncheon at Lincoln center . He said that neither he nor his intermediaries had discussed a cabinet post with Nixon . Ziegler refused to discuss reports that Nixon has chosen Rep. Melvin Laird R. , Wis. as secretary of defense . Final Decisions Made " I have no comment on any personality and will not have before Wednesday night , " Ziegler said . He said it could be " generally concluded " that final decisions have now been made on all cabinet posts . Laird 's name was the latest of those mentioned for the defense post . There had been reports that the job had been offered to Sen. Henry M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present secretary , might be asked to stay over . Laird is regarded as one of the most knowledgeable men in his party on military affairs and as a " hawk " on the Viet Nam war . This afternoon Nixon met with Mayor John V. Lindsay . It was their first meeting since the election . Tonight , at a dinner of the board of directors of the Boys Clubs of America , the President-elect said that he would remain silent on foreign policy issues until he moves into the White House Jan. 20 to insure " The United States speaks with one voice on foreign policy . "                     