@@722080

txt Foreign Minister Chen Yi has said that Communist China is willing to have talks with the United States at the foreign ministers level as a step toward easing tension between the two countries . Marshal Chen made the statement in answer to a question as to whether he saw any advantage at present or i ? ' the near future in a United States-Communist China summit meeting . The initiative for any talks must come from the United States , he ezaphasized . The Foreign Minister 's statement was made during an informal three-hour discussion with Walton A. Cole , general manager of Reuters , who visited Communist ' China during a world tour . Cites Current Talks Marshal Chen said : " In Warsaw we are already having talks on the ambassadorial level . At Geneva we are talking on the level of vice foreign ministers . If it is suggested we talk on the foreign ministers level we would have no objections , ' " As to the step of the further possibility of a summit , I have not consulted my Government and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the United States must take the initiative in any new moves because we have done all we can . If the United States wants China to take the initiative that means we must submit . We shall not . " For the last 100 years we have been submitting too often . That will not happen now as we will not submit to anyone . " Without proper preparation at the level of foreign ministers there is no point at this stage of summit meetings of two or three days which tend to be primarily for show and not for settlements . " Marshal Chen said China was aware of fears in the West , particularly in the United States , about what would happen when Communist China possessed atomic bombs . When China had atomic bombs there would be less chance of war as the danger today was that such bombs were in the hands of only a few powers , he said . The Foreign Minister said if there was fear in the United States about China having atomic bombs , surely , Americans could realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its nuclear weapons and its policy of encircling China with military bases . Marshal Chen said that unless there was a settlement in Laos and Korea there was a risk that war would spread in the area . He said the only way a solution could be found in Laos was through the formation of a neutral government headed by Prince Souvanna Phouma that would include representatives of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao movement and the withdrawal of all foreign troops . China 's territorial security was involved there , he said , because Indochina was not a peninsula like Korea , where a war could be contained . Marshal Chen added that because of China 's current agricultural and industrial difficulties there was apprehension in some quarters that it " ' night carry out some adventure in Southeast Asia . " This was groundless , he said , adding that the only way Communist China could overcome its difficulties was through its own production . Asked for details of these difficulties , Marshal Chen said that reduced agricultural production because of natural calamities ? drought , floods , typhoons and insect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living standards of the Chinese people to be " a little tight compared with 1958 , " when the country 's " great leap forward " was under way . " It is not only natural calamities that have affected us but the adjustment that is inherent in a planned economy , as it is normal for such an economy to require a period of adjustment , " he said . China is prepared to face another bad harvest next year , he said . Marshal Chen 's meeting with Mr. Cole took place Thursday in a pavilion in the Government offices . The soft-spoken , baldish Foreign Minister , who said he was now 60 , wore a light tan suit with a brown cardigan buttoned over his white shirt and a bright flowered silk tie . He smoked continuously and punctuated his conversation with sweeping gestures . During the talks , Marshal Chen , who is a poet and soldier as well as a leading member of the Communist party and Government , dwelt at length on relations between China and the United States . He catalogued actions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. S. : Chen Yi , the Foreign Minister of Communist China . Comunist China . They included continuing support for President Chiang Kai-shek of Nationalist China , United States participation in the Korean war , the stationing of United States troops on Taiwan , United States opposition to the seating of Communist China in the United Nations and its role in the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization . " We do not expect all these more outstanding questions between the United States and ourselves to be settled at once , " he said , " but the United States Must do one or two things to pave the way . " For example , we think the United States must withdraw their forces from Formosa Taiwan . What does Formosa matter ? They can put them on Okinawa , in Japan or in the Philippines or other places . We have heard the United States boast it has ballistic missiles with a range of 8,000 kilometers about 5,000 miles , so it would not hurt it to withdraw from Formosa . " United States policy , he charged , was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made some gestures toward China , " but its basic policy is to hold Formosa and overthrow the Chinese Government . " That is its dream , " he said . " Britain is in a position to tell the United States this is a dream that will never conic true . " liarshal Chen said that Com-1 munist China favored the banning of nuclear weapons , both ' their manufacture and testing. , , and that he hoped such an agreement could be reached .                     