@@725364

txt Chief of Detectives Philip J. Walsh , the city 's secondranking police officer , submitted his retirement papers yesterday after 30 years on the force . Before leaving his office at police headquarters , Chief Walsh said he had retired by his own decision and without consulting Howard R. Leary , who took over as Police Commissioner on Monday . He also said he would not comment on department policies . Chief Walsh , who is 53 years old , had commanded the department 's 3,000 detectives since May 21 , 1964 . No successor has yet been named . His retirement followed the appointment Friday by Mr. Leary of Sanford D. Garelik as his new chief inspector , who commands the entire uniformed force , and the promotion of Lloyd G. Sealy , a Negro , to an assistant chief inspector and adviser to the Commissioner on racial relations . Mr. Leary said these appointments were the first in " top-to-bottom reorganization " of the force . Mayor Lindsay said yester day that the new Police Corn2nissioner " acted on his own " 1 in Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , and I think that 's right and proper . " Asked whether Mr. Leary was seeking the Mayor 's approval in making appointments , Mr. Lindsay answered : " No , I 've told the Commissioner that he had a free hand to make any changes he wished . " Mr. Lindsay also told reporters that Mr. Leary 's " objective is to modernize the force " and that some of the things he intended to do were " consistent with my campaign suggestions On the subject . The Mayor stressed that City Hall had had " no voice in personnel changes in the department . " A police source quoted Chief Walsh as saying that his retirement had nothing to do with the death of a son last Monday . The oldest of the police officer 's eight children , Cadet Martin J. Walsh , a 20-year-old member of the graduating class at the United States Military Academy at West Point , was killed in an auto crash at Highland Falls , N. Y. Appointed by Murphy The funeral Friday was pattended by former Police Compissioner Vincent L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return briefly to New York for the services . Chief Walsh was appointed to his $21,000-a-year job by Sormer Police Commissioner Michael J. Murphy to succeed Lawrence J. . The outgoing chief of detectives began a month 's vacation immediately . It will be followed by three months ' terminal leave before his retirement becomes effective . Members of the department can retire on about half the salary of their last post after 20 years of service , and the ratio does not increase after 20 years . Persons familiar with the department said Chief Walsh , with his long service , could hardly expect significant further salary increases . Deputy Commissioner Joseph G. Martin , who is in charge of the Police Department 's community relations , declined to comment on Chief Walsh 's retirement , which , he said , " involves the derision of a highly respected member of the force . " The Mayor 's announced plan to create the civjliaaa-controlled board to review complaints against the conduct of policemen was welcomed yesterday by the Guardians Association of the Police Department , a fraternal group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of directors said in a statement that the projected board would be " a , gigantic step toward inspiring public confidence and support " for the police Garelik Has No Comment Chief Garelik said on leaving his office yesterday evening that any explanation of Chief Walsh 's decision to retire had to come from that officer . Chief Garelik refused to discuss the expected reorganization of the department , saying that policy decisions were reserved for the Commissioner . A spokesman for the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , representing the city 's 27,000 patrolmen , remarked on learning of the retirement : " Another good man goes . " John J. Cassese , the pesident of the association , expressed hope that former Chief Inspector John F. Shanley , who was replaced by Chief Garelik , would remain an active member of the department . The Police Commissioner said Friday that Chief Shanley would remain on the force and receive a still undisclosed assignment . He is at present on a 45-day vacation . Discussing the Commissioner 's first appointments , Mr. Cassese said in a telephone interview : " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he wishes . Both Mr. Garelik and Mr. Sealy have distinguished records . I wish them the best of luck in their new assignments . We shall cooperate in every possible way . " Role to Be Spelled Out Mr. Cassese suggested that Inspector Sealy would provide " liaison between the Police Department and the community . " Department sources said yesterday that Mr. Sealy 's role as consultant to the Commissioner on ethnic problems would be Spelled out in detail later . " The department certainly does need a specialist in that area , " one official remarked . James Farmer , national director of the Congress of Racial Equality , praised Inspector Sealy 's appointment yesterday . In a telephone interview Mr. Farmer said : " Mr. Sealy is a highly competent man , a good policeman . I applaud his promotion . " Support for the new Commissioner 's stand on membership of policemen in the John Birch Society came yesterday from City Council President Frank D. O'Connor . Mr. Leary said Tuesday that policemen would be permitted to be members of the right-wing group if this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Local Issue " program over WPIX-TV , Mr. O'Connor said that " although I wholeheartedly disagree with the John Birch Society , policemen have a right to belong to what they want to . " Mr. O'Connor said the John Birch Society had " apparent antiminority anti-Puerto Rican , anti-Negro , anti-Jewish attitudes . " Asked whether membership in the society would affect the punishment of . a policeman found guilty of brutality against a member of a minority group by the proposed civilian police review board , Mr. O'Connor remarked : " If he were a member of the John Birch Society , the policeman would find himself in trouble to begin with . " Former Mayor Wagner discussed the membership of policemen in the society in a taped interview on the " Ladies of the Press " program over radio station WOR last night . Asked whether he thought a policeman who believed that the civil rights movement was Communist-inspired could be unprejudiced , Mr. Wagner suggested the Police Department check " the records of the individuals to see how they have been reacting in emergencies . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the John Birch So- ciety , has asked for a nreting with Mayor Lindsay next week " to discuss the situation "  --  the membership of policemen in his group . Mr. Rousselot sent copies of his letter to the Mayor to news media here .                     