@@723523

txt By a vote of 87 to 1 , with 9 abstentions , the Special Political Committee called on South Africa today to stop trials of opponents of the Government . It also urged South Africa immediately " to grant unconditional release to , all political prisoners and to all persons prisoned , interned or subjected to other restrictions for having opposed the policy of apartheid . " The resolution is scheduled to go before the full General Assembly for a vote tomorrow . The resolution was sponsored by 55 members of the African-Asian bloc and consid ; ered by the Special Political Committee at a hurriedly called . session . The sponsors argued that United Nations action was a matter of life and death for those going on trial . After failing in an effort to . postpone the vote until tomorrow , the United States ab , stained . Francis T. P. Plimpl ton , a deputy permanent repre7 sentative , stressed the unalter-. able opposition of the United States to apartheid and reprei-. sion of political freedom but said it objected to the wording of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandonment of the trials and the unconditional release of all political prisoners and all persons imprisoned , interned or subjected to other restrictions for opposing the policies of apartheid or racial separation . It was understood that the United States delegation thought this went too far . It would have preferred the wording of a resolution approved by the Security Council in August . This simply urged the liberation of " all persons imprisoned , interned or subjected to other restrictions for having opposed the policy of apartheid . " It also was understood that some of the abstaining Western countries believed the criticism of South African judicial procedures constituted an interference in its internal affairs . They also objected to a statement that the situation in South Africa was " further disturbing international peace and security . " The only country to oppose the resolution was Portugal . Diallo Tell ! , Guinea 's permanent representative , who presented the resolution , said Portugal 's opposition confirmed his impression that there was an alliance of those who oppressed the Africans . In Pretoria , South Africa , yesterday 11 African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a revolt against the government . They will be called without a hearing for trial without a jury on Oct. 29 . In the General Assembly today , South Africa declared that it would use all available means to defend the policies and possessions of the country 's white population . Gerhard P. Jooste , the chief South African spokesman here , firmly rejected African complaints that his country was following a racist course that threatened international peace . He charged in the General Assembly that " vicious propaganda " had created a distorted image of his country . Replying for the Africans , Mr. Diallo asserted that the present Government of South Africa was totally disqualified on political and moral grounds to remain in the United Nations . Mr. Diallo said South Africa 's " criminal minority " could not United Press International REJECTS COMPLAINTS : Gerhard P. Jooste , chief South African spokesman in U. N. General Assembly . speak for the country 's African majority . He added that African and Asian countries would soon demonstrate their opposition to the policy of complete racial separation in South Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the South Africans of European origin have been forged into a single and distinctive nation . " This nation claimed the fundamental right to survive , he added , and its citizens would defend this right " by every means at their disposal . " Mr. Jooste , Secretary of Foreign Affairs in the Government of Prime Minister Hendrik F. Verwoerd , complained that his country was the victim of misunderstanding , misrepresenta- , Lion and malice . He said that , unfounded allegations and un7 bridled attacks had been aimed at South Africa . Summarizing the accusations against his country , Mr. Jooste said it was alleged that thel South Africans of European on-1 gin were temporary settlers who constituted a foreign regime that used coercion and racial hatred to perpetuate its position . This is said to represent a threat to peace , he noted . The South African spokesman told the Assembly that it was " mischievous , in the extreme " to contend that his Government posed a threat to peace . On the contrary , he continued , it was South Africa hat was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly accepted the idea that South Africa 's internal affairs could be considered a threat to international peace , Mr. Jooste continued , it would open the door to intervention in the internal affairs of other countries . He termed this dangerous .                     