@@726966

txt The impact of the whirlwind Vietcong Tet offensive can be measured in numbers  --  buildings destroyed and people killed , wounded or made homeless . But it also can be measured in terms of illusions shattered , and this damage has been heavy , too . Talks with Americans in a dozen scattered provinces reveal a growing pessimism about the course of the war . It arises not because the Tet offensive revealed the daring , tenacity and strength of the enemy , but because it cast such a glaring light on the weaknesses of the nation the U.S. is pledged to support . From the Mekong Delta to cities of the north , Americans list a catalogue of complaints : Vietnamese soldiers looting the homes of their own countrymen and exploiting refugees ; senior officers with an overriding interest in saving their own skins ; civilian authorities who seemed to vanish with the sound of gunfire or who were frozen into inaction because Saigon had n't yet told them what to do . Critics concede that perhaps they should n't have been so rudely surprised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privately about corruption in Vietnam , inferior military leadership , a tangled bureaucracy often marked by a lack of initiative at every level and political factionalism that impeded reform . But as they saw more hamlets pacified , as they saw more schools and clinics go up , as they saw a noticeable increase in prosperity in the countryside , many had begun to feel that their basic job  --  helping the Vietnamese to help themselves  --  was slowly getting done after all . Hollow Achievement The Tet offensive , and the manner in which a good many Vietnamese reacted to it , demonstrated to many Americans that they had n't accomplished all they had hoped . " Tot proved just how hollow so many of our past achievements really were , " says one U.S. Embassy official . However there are some shafts of light penetrating the post-Tet gloom . While the Vietnamese people did n't flock to help the allies during the offensive , they did n't give much aid to the enemy either  --  despite Hanoi 's call for a massive uprising . Now , in some towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning in known Vietcong agents ; such tips helped the police in Nha Trang. on the coast of central South Vietnam , make 70 arrests , apparently wrecking the Vietcong organization there for the present . Even the harsher American critics are quick to cite instances of individual courage and initiative by Vietnamese soldiers , officials and citizens . There is , for example , the schoolteacher in My Tho , 25 miles southwest of Saigon ; she organized fellow teachers and some pupils into an impromptu relief team , clothing refugees while shells were still falling in the city . There is the woman owner of a fish-sauce factory in Phan Thiet , on the coast north of Saigon ; decked in diamond earrings and displaying teeth blackened from years of betel-nut chewing , she volunteered 200 sacks of rice and $3,000 to help the homeless . And there are the armored units that rushed to Ban Me Thuot and Pleiku in the Central Highlands to secure city centers and hold the enemy at bay until reinforcements came . Cajoling Bakers Most advisers say the government 's refugee relief program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong initial direction by Vice President Nguyen Cao Ky and the quick thinking of some provincial officials like Nguyen Van Quoc , welfare director in Dinh Thong province . He launched his relief effort while there was fighting in the streets , getting Chinese merchants to release grain on credit , cajoling bakers into opening their shops and personally helping transport the loaves through sniper-ridden streets to refugee centers . The trouble , say Americans , is that there just do n't seem to be enough men like Mr. Quoc . One reason , as they see it : An administrative system that depends too heavily on direction from the top and leaves little room for lower-level initiative . At the same time , they say , the chain of command from Saigon to the provinces is so ponderous , so complex , so subject to political wheeling and dealing and graft , that generals and cabinet ministers sometimes find it nearly impossible to get an effective response to orders they do issue . The result is often inertia , critics contend . While an individual like Mr. Quoc may show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to await specific direction from above  --  direction that may be slow in coming or may not arrive at all . Flaying Checkers For example , in Ben Tre , capital of Bien Hoa province , south of Saigon , a visitor arriving shortly after the Tet attacks found members of the relief and reconstruction committee playing checkers  --  while a U.S. adviser was planning reconstruction along with Ideal churchmen . The officials explained that they had not yet received any exact instructions from Saigon . The same tangled chain of command afflicts the Vietnamese military , too , and it hindered defenses in the early stage of some Tet attacks , Americans say . The defense of Dalat , 150 miles northeast of Saigon , was disorganized for several days while four bickering senior colonels prevented the province chief , a lieutenant colonel , from taking effective action . The senior military officer present in that landlocked mountain resort was an admiral ; he was n't around for the fighting . In the Delta city of Vinh Long , four different Vietnamese army commanders succeeded one another in the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually directed the eity 's defense . In a neighboring provim e , the ranking American adviser settled one Vietnamese command dispute at gunpoint . The spectacle of Americans directly assuming command by default was repeated elsewhere . The top leadership of the Vietnamese forces - when there was leadership  --  also left something to be desired , according to U.S. officers . Some are still fuming over the " defense " thrown up by Gen. Nguyen Van Manh , corps commander in the Delta until he was sacked and replaced last week . The general 's first response to attacks in the Delta was to throw up an extensive defense perimeter around his own house in Can Tho . While he spent much of the first few days of the attack tending to it , U.S. officers were forced to pass through Vietcong-controlled areas of the city in detouring around the corps commander 's roadblocks . When Gen. Manh was at his command headquarters , he took a consuming interest in the defense of Can Tho but largely ignored fighting in a dozen other provincial capitals under his command . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recipient of a blistering letter from Maj. Gen. G. S. Eckhardt , senior U.S. adviser in the Delta . Gen. Eckhardt complained of widespread looting by troops under Gen. Manh 's command . Gen. Eckhardt specifically cited five provinces in which U.S. advisers themselves had been robbed by Vietnamese troops and asked : " If this number of thefts have occurred from American-occupied properties , how many have occurred from Vietnamese civilian property ? " Selling Water Actually , looting of Vietnamese property by Vietnamese soldiers extended throughout the country , according to Americans . That is n't all . In Pleiku , for several days American troops had to supply water to parched refugees in nearby camps before Vietnamese soldiers could take over . The Vietnamese soldiers promptly began charging their homeless countrymen up to 40 cents a gallon . The corps commander in the Central Highlands at that time was Gen. Vinh Lee , who called himself a " warlord " and was renowned for ignoring any orders from Saigon that seemed to intrude ? on his personal fiefdom . Gen. Loc , who was replaced shortly after Gen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subordinates in key jobs  --  a practice also charged to many other commanders . Many Americans here believe that there can be little improvement in the performance of the military or the civilian burdaueracy without firm and drastic action by central authorities in Saigon , backed by the active support of the general public . In the past , accord , ng to critics , both action and support have been conspicuously lacking . Instead , they say , bitter factional squabbles have occupied the politicians and the people , mmobil , zing the government and delaying much-needed programs . There are some signs now that the Tet offensive may have helped to push Saigon toward genuine reform . Americans are heartened , for example , by the replacement of Generals Loc and Manh ; the latter 's successor is General Nguyen Duc Than , ; , whom U.S. advisors consider one of the most honest , energetic and capable senior officers in the Vietnamese Army . Also , President Nguyen Van Thieu has promised to carry through a tough austerity program to battle inflation and demonstrate that the government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For a starter , he has ordered the closing of Saigon 's night clubs , dance halls and " girlie bars . " Some 30,000 Vietnamese earn livelihoods from such establishments , and top government and military men share in the profits of many . In addition , President Thieu pledged to eradicate corruption " so that we deserve the help and sacrifices of the friendly countries who have come to Vietnam to restore peace to our nation . " Many U.S. officials detect a new earnestness on the part of the government in increasing mobilization . Some reservists are being recalled now , and the draft is being expanded . Militia forces are taking shape . In Pleiku , civil servants recently spent their day off practicingmilitary drills , and 500 residents were issued carbines ; they will form a neighborhood defense force . Giggling secretaries marched , almost in step , as a unit of apprentice nurses . An organized effort to mobilize public support is being conducted by the " People 's SavetheNation Front , " a collection of supporters and opponents of the present government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program as an alternative to the National Liberation Front , the political organization of the Vietcong . A Broad-Based Alliance Members of the new group include officials from most factions of Vietnam 's many religious and political sects , making it the broadest-based alliance since the days of the Diem era . " If we can not unite to save ourselves , no one else can do it for us , " says Sen. Tran Van Don , a former general who is now chairman of the front . There is hardly an American here who does n't view all this as encouraging , but many are reserving final judgment for awhile . Promises to end corruption have been made beyond counting , they point out . A luxury tax package that they regard as an important step to true austerity remains unpassed , and the government has n't yet moved strongly toward land reform , which many consider an essential measure if Saigon is ever to gain the allegiance of the peasantry . Few believe that the government is yet truly stable or that the people are committed to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the populace is fear , not militancy . Also , say critics , the government did little to promote the success of the new " People 's Save-the-Nation Front " when it arbitrarily arrested several prominent Thieu-Ky critics . not long after the Tet offensive and put them in " protective custody . " One was the militant Buddhist monk , Thich Tri Quang , whose lieutenants promptly withdrew from the front . Nor do Americans see a quick end to factionalism . For one thing , the new front 's strength may be diluted by a rival nationalist , anti-Communist group reportedly being formed by some notables . And , say observers , the rivalry between President Thieu and Vice President Ky has n't cooled appreciably .                     