@@728299

txt Santa seized the midwest last night and captured the hearts of children with toys and presents that carried a special message . There was laughter and excitement  --  the sounds of nappy children  --  as youngsters tore thru Christmas wrappings to discover the contents of those mysterious packages . Santa had received the help of more than 2,000 persons , mainly from the midwest , who were responsible for bringing this Christmas happiness to homes where fathers are away at war or have been killed in Viet Nam . The midwesterners sent extra presents to 1,000 children thru Project Santa , a campaign sponsored by THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE and W-G-N radio . Timothy Dense , 2 , opened his Project Santa presents last night and then helped his little sister , Gwen , 7 months . Their father , army Capt . Martin Dense , 26 , is serving in Pleiku , Viet Nam . Sends Dad a Drawing Timothy sent his dad a drawing he made himself . But the boy is still too young to realize his dad is away at war . He also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gifts . " I just do n't know how to thank these wonderful people who remembered us , " said Mrs. Marl Lou Dense of Evanston . " Just to know that people care enough makes Christmas so special this year . It is a lonely time for us . " Project Santa asked midwesterners to remember the children of our fighting men in Viet Nam and the sons and daughters of those who had been killed there with extra presents . Mothers Are Remembered But many of the donors also remembered the mothers with ' ' presents . " One kind person even sent a gift for my husband , " said Mrs. Lois Benjamin , who lives on the south side , Marine 1st Sgt. Ernest Benjamin is stationed in Chu Lai during his third tour in Viet Nam , so his family has known other Christmas days without him . The three Benjamin children opened some of their Project Santa presents last night , but will save the others until today , after church services . Gifts from Santa Michael Benjamin , 6 , and his sister , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly from Santa . " He gave them to the mailman to bring to us , " La Tonya explained . But Frank , 10 , knows better . " They come from very nice people who want us to have a good Christmas , " Frank said . People " Thinking of Us " As the children played with their gifts , Mrs. Benjamin said : " I was feeling rather depressed at first . Then the gifts started coming and they really helped  --  letting us know people we do n't even know are thinking of us . " Frank . already has sent Christmas cards to the people who remembered his family and after the holiday , he will help his brother and sister write to thank them .                     