@@726622

txt Senator Clifford P. Case provoked an acerbic Senate debate on Vietnam policy today with an outspoken attack on President Johnson 's handling of the war . The New Jersey Republican , in a brief speech on the floor , accused the President of having produced a " crisis of confidence " through his " misuse " and " perversion " of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution , which Congress passed in 1964 . Mr. Johnson , he said , has acted in a " highly irresponsible " manner in using the resolution to justify the Administration 's deepening military involvement in Vietnam . In the process , he said , the President has not only " squandered his credibility " but also undermined the mutual trust and confidence that should exist between Congress and the executive branch . Senators Seem Startled The few Senators who were on the floor seemed startled by the vehemence of the speech by Senator Case , who , as one member said , is regarded as " one of the most earnest and sincere members of our body . " As word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved in force onto the Senate floor to defend Mr. Johnson and to accuse Mr. Case of giving " comfort " and " encouragement " to the enemy in Vietnam . Except for support from Senator Jacob K. Javits , Repubjicau of New York , Mr. Case found himself battling alone in defending himself against the criticism from Democrats and from the Senate Republican leader , Everett Dirksen of Illinois . Mansfield Expresses Surprise Milder criticism came from the Senate majority leader , Mike Mansfield of Montana , who expressed surprise at " the vehemence of the attack upon the President . " Like Mr. Dirksen , Mr. Mansfield argued that Congress , which had approved the Tonkin resolution with only two dissenting votes in the Senate , must share in the blame for how the resolution had been used to justify an expanding commitment in the . Vietnam war . " I am not happy about the Gulf of Tonkin resolution , " Mr. Mansfield said . " I am not happy about the Vietnam war . But it is too late now to point the finger of blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acrimonious turn as Senator John Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , standing in the back of the Senate chamber , complained that " we are doing a disservice and falling into a grievous error " by trying to " redebate " the resolution . " Unintentionally , " he said , " we give hope and comfort  --  I did n't say ' aid ' but in a way it amounts to that  --  to the enemy because I believe they are hanging on to the belief that if they punish us enough and bleed us long enough , we 'll give in . " The same theme that Mr. Case was giving " aid and comfort " to the enemy was then picked up , but in more pointed personal terms , by Senator Russell B. Long , Democrat of Louisiana , and Senator Frank J. Lausche , Democrat of Ohio . Mr. Case paced back and forth across the center aisle , pounding on desks as he rersponded to the criticism . Edmally , as the two-hour debate drew to a close he said : " If this great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a war without fearing that we are giving aid and comfort to the enemy , then we have come to a pretty pass . " In the last year , Mr. Case has become increasingly skeptical about the Administration 's The New ' York Time , Senator Clifford P. Case objectives in Vietnam and has raised critical questions about what he views as the " Americanization " of the war . The focus of his attack was the Administration 's use of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution , passed in August , 1964 , at Presidential request after United States destroyers were reported to have come under attack ' from North Vietnamese torpedo boats . The substanative part of the resolution states that " Congress approves and supports1 the determination of the Presi-1 dent , as Commander in Chief , to take all necessary measures ' to repel any armed attack against the forces of the United States and to prevent further aggression . " Mr. Case said that the resolution had been intended by Congress as a general statement of national unity in time of crisis , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of credit " to justify every action it had taken in Vietnam . The Administration 's handling of the war since 1964 , he said , " has produced a crisis of confidence . " with the " people 's anxiety " about the war springing " in greatest part from a growing conviction that the Administration is not telling them the truth . " As an " example " of the Administration 's " operation behind a false front , " he cited Mr. Johnson 's " complete distortion " of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution . Mr. Case acknowledged that " the naked words " of the resolution " could be construed to give the President almost complete sanction to involve the United States militarily in anything he considered necessary to the national interest in Southeast Asia . " That , however , he said , was not the nation 's understanding of the Administration 's intentions in Vietnam in the summer of 1964 . Nor , he said , did Congress believe that it was granting an " unlimited sanction " to American involvement in the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relied upon " the literal words " of the resolution " to justify every action he has taken in Vietnam . " At a White House news conference on Aug. 18 , he said , the President again cited the resolution and said that it " authorized the President  --  and expressed the Congress 's willingness to go along with the President  --  to do whatever was necessary to deter aggression . " The White House had no comment today except to point to the President 's statement at the news conference on Aug. 18.                     