@@723119

txt Letters to The Times GEROLD FRANK.WHITNEY M. YOUNG , Jr. , JOHN F. KELLY , PHILIF ' DUNNE.Malibu , Calif , ... Letters to The Times The Deed ' Defended Book Sought to Explore Basis for Youths ' Action , ' Author Says To THEI EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As the author of " The Deed , " I was astonished to read your May 4 editorial attacking the book as one that " glorifies " assassination . This is simply and demonstrably not true . Nowhere does " The Deed " glorify assassination . What it seeks to do is to explain what could lead two youths of otherwise exemplary character to such an act and to place it in the framework of the anguish of- the time . The book is a reporter 's attempt to describe a phenomenon which not only existed in Palestine in the early 1940 's but exists everywhere about us today  --  in Birmingham , in North Africa , in FranCe  --  shouting at us from every headline : the stark fact that young people of intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence . Surely this bears explanation today , of all times . The two boys , one 17 , the other 22 , who assassinated Lord Moyne , British Minister of State in the Middle East , to them a symbol of foreign rule over Palestine , were not , as your editorial implies , Zionists . Nor was the ideal for which they killed Zionism , as your editorial states . At their trial , which I attend ' ed and which is reported at length in " The Deed , " they specifically stated , " Our ideas are not Zionist ideas " and " Our aims are not the same as Zionist aims . " Terrorist Group The tiny dissident Stern group to which they belonged numbered some 200 , out of a Jewish population of more than half a million which looked upon terrorism as anathema . Rather than glorify assassination , the book carefully documents the horror felt at the deed by all the leaders of Palestine , beginning with Dr. Chaim Weizmann 's bitter lament - that the shock of Lord Moyne 's death was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my own son . " His son , R.A.F. Flight Lieut . Michael Weizmann , was lost in action over Germany in World War U. " The Deed " exalt murder ? This id an unforgivable distortion . Do I need your anonymous editorial writer to quote " Thou shalt not kill " to me ? He will find it on Page 10 , and again on Page 63 , and again on Page 264 and again  --  but it does not matter . It was because of this injunction , because I wanted to be certain that this story in all its drama and heartbreak could be told and not misunderstood , that 18 years had to pass before I attempted to write it . This I did.as soberly and painstakingly as I could , with all the documentation I had gathered in nearly two decades of research  --  only to have your editorial writer summarily denounce the book for something it is not , quote Scripture to me and ask , " Would n't it be more appropriate to sorrow that such deeds were necessary rather than glorify them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ironic of all . Nowhere in the book do I state or imply that such a deed was necessary . What is stated is that such a deed took place , and how it came about . Any person who has read the book must know , as reviewer after reviewer has pointed out , that " The Deed " expresses sorrow for all the tragic figures in the drama : Lord Moyne , the victim , Corporal Fuller , his driver ; and the two youths , Eliahu Hakim , dead on the gallows at 17 , and Eliahu BetZouri , dead on the gallows at 22 . I can only add my surprise that a paper I admire so much could condemn a book before reviewing it so that its readers , unless they have read reviews elsewhere , know nothing of its true contents . GEROLD FRANK . New York , May 6 , 1963 . For a Park at Breezy Point TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I should like to add my voice to the increasing number of those raised in concern at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than the provision of park and beach facilities . While I endorse the general concern for the human aspect involved , as well as the esthetic desire for a well-planned city which has been expressed by others , I would like to be more specific . Breezy Point would provide for thousands of minority and low-income citizens who live in Manhattan and Brooklyn the only outlet for their children to enjoy ocean-front beach facilities and desperately needed park and recreational resources . These families can not afford the cost or the time to travel to suburban New York where such facilities are available . Nor will they be financially able to purchase or rent in appreciable numbers . the high-cost housing now under way in this location . The failure to redevelop this area for recreational purposes can only be interpreted as blatant indifference to the welfare of these citizens . Neither of the park proposals now on . the city 's planning board would serve these people and , while I do not argue against the Queens and Flushing developments , I would strongly urge that Breezy Point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city administration would not Wily be placing human values over property values ; it would also be evidencing the fact that it cares . WHITNEY M. YOUNG . Jr .. Executive Director , National Urban League , Inc . New York , May 2 , 1963 . Shipment of Liquor Sales to Traveling Americans for Later Delivery Discussed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I would like to call your attention to some erroneous impressions given through publication on April 13 of Et letter from James A. Bough , President of the St. Thomas Chamber of Commerce , Virgin Islands . This letter took issue with the shipment of so-called " to follow " liquor to the United States from abroad after the return of an overseas traveler . I refer specifically to his statement : " At the International Airport ( Idlewild ) , New York , booths are set up and agents are busy taking orders from outgoing Americans . " The letter further states that orders are taken at these " booths , " receipts given and liquor sent to the individual 's home address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York State clamped down on the activity but lost its case on the grounds that this airport business represented foreign commerce . The letter confuses the export operations of my client , Idlewild Bon Voyage Liquor Corporation , which operates at the airport , with the - import operations of the " to follow " liquor business , none of which operations ? are conducted from premises at the airport . Idlewild Bon Voyage Liquor Corporation , operating under a lease , serves all airlines at the airport . The corporation sells liquor in United States Customs bond at substantial savings to departing passengers for delivery on the plane at their foreign destination . This liquor can not be brought back into the United States . It is this activity which has been unanimously upheld by the Federal courts as an export activity , constitutionally beyond the powers of the State of New York to terminate . JOHN F. KELLY , Counsel to Idlewild , Bon Voyage Liquor Corp . New York , April 18 , 1963 . Injunction Against S.L.A. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 13 from James A. Bough , President of the St. Thomas Chamber of Commerce in the Virgin Islands , is seeking an injunction in Federal court to compel the State Liquor Authority to comply with the laws of the United States , and to allow New York State residents returning from abroad to have one gallon of duty-free liquor sent to their homes . This ' right was given to every United States resident by Congress in 1936 ; indeed , the S.L.A. itself specifically confirmed the legality of this practice in its Bulletin No. 263 of July 20 , 1954 . Moreover , the New York State Legislature voted down in March , 1962 , a bill banning " to follow " services . Thus the S.L.A. has defied state and Federal laws , rescinded its own ruling and ignored the clear intent of the New York State Legislature . When Mr. Bough writes : " Here is one example of abuse , " he confuses the functions of outbound duty-free liquor sales operation with a company such as ours , which is an inbound home-delivery service . PAUL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jamaica , L. I. April 20 , 1963 . Views of Birchites Queried To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Senator Thomas H. Kuchel is to be congratulated for his remarks of May 2 on the John Birch Society and related groups . What puzzles many of us is how these people can live in America , be nourished by our history and enriched by our freedom , and still have so little understanding of the one and so little regard for the other . PHILIP DONNE . Malibu , Calif. , May 7 , 1963 ..                     