@@727711

txt Richard W. , the new chief of the Justice Department 's antitrust division , intends to mount a major legal campaign against reciprocal ' dealings between businesses . Reciprocal arrangements ? you do business with me and , regardless of price or quality , I 'll do business with you  --  have been " essentially neglected for too long " by the Government 's antitrust enforcement agencies , he said in an interview . In the three-quarters of a century since passage of the Sherman Act , only a handful of suits against reciprocity agreements have been brought . Thus , the systematic attack that Mr. is planning on the practice would inject the Government into an area of business practice that has gone essentially unchallenged . Most businessmen have generally regarded reciprocity as normal and inevitable . The securities industry , for example , which recently has been attacked by the Securities and Exchange Commission for some of its traditional , formalized reciprocity arrangements , has publicly defended itself , in part by arguing that reciprocity is // standard business practice . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed , can seriously impair competition even when neither side has used any coercion . " They freeze out the little guy , " he said . Mr. explained that he did not intend to attack casual types of reciprocal dealings , " where you 've bought from me in the past , and I tome to you when 1 want to buy your product just because I know you . " The antitrust division will , instead , look for coercion or for formal reciprocity programs , involving , for example , the keeping of records on how much is bought by and sold to other companies . Some companies maintain whole sections in their sales departments to solicit reciprocal business , he said , based on detailed records they keep on their own purchases . Just such practices have been alleged in a Justice Department suit pending in the lower courts against the General Tire and Rubber Company . The Government has charged that General Tire , in its trade relations department , keeps a " balance sheet , " showing its purchases from various suppliers , compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the company has a policy of suggesting reciprocal purChases by its suppliers in accordance with these records . The philosophy that reciprocal buying arrangements can injure competition was set forth in one sentence in a book Mr. edited last year , when her-was the head of the antitrust section of the American Bar Association . In the book , " Antitrust De-1 velopments , 1955-68 " , the reasoning behind the major antireciprocity case that has thus far come before the Supreme Court was set out as follows : " By unfairly diverting business from competitiors of the participants , the practice of reciprocity works a departure from the process of open competition in which each industrial purchaser theoretically seeks out that supplier who will give him the best product at the lowest cost . " The case , was Federal Trade Commission v. Consolidated Foods Corporation , which was decided by the Supreme Court in 1965 . Mr. already had indicated , in testimony before a Congressional committee last week , that he intended to base part of his planned attack on conglomerate mergers on their potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These mergers , involving companies in unrelated lines of business , can give rise to " the opportunity to engage in reciprocal . dealings  --  to favor customers with purchases , rather than to make purchasing decisions on the basis of price , quality or service , " he told the Ways and Means Committee . " As a conglomerate company expands by merger into more and more lines of business , " he said , " the possibilities for reciprocal dealing similarly increase , and the more diversified the conglomerate the greater the likelihood that threats to competition may arise . " In the interview , Mr. also said that , when he begins filing suits against conglomerates , he intends to go after them on every ground the Government can think of , not limiting himself to antitrust issues . In particular , in seeking preliminary injunctions from the courts to halt mergers until the merits of a substantive antitrust case can be tried , he will pull in objections other than antitrust where possible , he said . He cited as an example Securities and Exchange Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takeovers were fraudulent per se . Mr. also said that he would seek legislation , as his immediate Democratic predecessors had , to permit appeals from denials of such preliminary injunctions.                     