@@725730

txt Today , 17 years after seizing power , China 's Communists ' dominate Asia . Tomorrow , or possibly by the year 1985 , will Communist China dominate thel world ? This question in various forms was posed again and again in a series of interviews this correspondent conducted with diplomats , officials and high military figures during a 10-week journey around China 's 21,000-mile perimeter . From Lo Wu , on the border between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland , to the far reaches of the Amur ( Black Dragon ) River , separating Siberia and Manchuria , an effort was made to assess the tidal effects of China 's shift in the continental balance of Advances in Peking More Rapid Than Was Expected power , the most radical in a century , Everywhere there is concern and deep worry . In the hundreds of conversations , opinions differed radically . But two concerns predominated . The first is what China , already the world 's most populous country and the thirdgreatest global power , seeming- ' ly possessed , by an aggressive expansionist ideology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second is whether the United States really grasps the nature of what is happening in China and Asia and will be able to cope with the situation without setting off a nuclear war . On both counts apprehensions are grave . The first question on which disagreement is widespread is that of China 's timetable . When will she be prepared to apply her coming nuclear strength on a massive scale ? One Thai statesman sets the test 50 years in the future . A top Japanese intelligence figure puts the time span at less than 10 years . A Russian grimly says the test is already on . Not all think that China is inevitably headed toward a world nuclear holocaust . Some believe that time will mellow Peking , if the clocks run that long . But one thoughtful American who has devoted his life to China , first as the child of a missionary father , then as a businessman in China and , for the last decade , in Hong Kong , says : " I have a very simple theory about China . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the passage of time , by her inexhaustible patience and the pressure of her population . " Those who fear that the China showdown may come sooner than is generally thought base their conclusion on intelligence analyses that put China substantially further ahead in nuclear development than previous studies . These new estimates , some by Americans , some by analysts of other countries , credit the Chinese with being midway in an all-out nuclear development program that is moving them directly into the capability of delivering hydrogen bombs by , long-range missiles . These intelligence specialists are convinced that China is deliberately eschewing both the atomic bomb and the long-range strategic-bomber delivery system to leapfrog directly to the most advanced weapons . This estimate is based on close study of the three Chinese nuclear tests , the last of which was of a fission device wrapped in an enriched uranium " blanket . " It was not a complete , fusion package , but it showed that the Chinese had mastered all necessary steps for creation ) of a hydrogen bomb . Rapid Progress Seen How long will it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her hydrogen bombs ? I There is no agreement with- , in the intelligence communities along China 's periphery . " She may well surprise us all , " an American said . " Most ) of us areguessing it will take 10 years . They have Russian , surface-to-surface missiles that they acquired . before 1958 . We knowthat development is going ' ahead rapidly , probably using the Soviet missiles as proto types . " A non-American specialist estimated that it would take China 10 years to acquire a delivery , system that would . threaten the continental United States . " But she will have medium missiles before that , " he . said . " They are testing ballistics missiles right now . " An Indian military man said : " It is all right for you Americans to talk , about China 's lack of a long-range delivery system . But what about us ? We Asians are in a different situation . Right now the Chinese have the ability to drop a nuclear bomb across our frontier , using their present conventional bombers . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including Japan and Russia . Of course , they would risk global nuclear retaliation , but who knows whether that would halt them . " Prediction by Speaking to the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Paris last December , Secretary of Defense Robert S. warned that China might have an intermediate - range missile by 1967 and an intercontinental missile by 1975 . In Asia these are taken as gross underestimates . The Japanese say the Chinese tested missiles with ranges of 450 to 650 miles three years ago . They believe the Chinese are working on satellite launchers with , a 1,200-mile capability , only a step away from the interconti- ' nental missile . One excellent source reported that the Chinese had already test-fired a ballistics missile with a range of 1,000 miles . China 's nuclear capability is based on two cities , Lanchow and Paotow . Both are situated in China 's northwest , far from sea frontiers and near the heart of the Chinese land mass . Both have large electric-power resources and a developing petrochemical capacity . What is most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gaseous diffusion . In 1963 the best United States intelligence estimate was that this plans could not produce enriohed uranium before 1968 or 1969 . The Chinese beat that figure by nearly five years . Power Output Assessed Lanchow produces about one per cent of China 's 40 billion kilowatt-hours of electric power . If only 35 per cent of Lanchow 's power were used for uranium , it would yield 1,700 pounds of uranium a year , enough for about 50 bombs . Lanchow 's population is now one million to one-and-a-half millions . It boomed to three millions in the " Great Leap Forward , " the unsuccessful crash program of economic development , and then dropped back . Despite Chinese security efforts , information about Lanchow is beginning to accumulate . More than 100 foreigners now live there . Some are West German engineers assisting in setting up a petrochemical installation . Others are British and Dutch , putting in ammoniafertilizer and synthetic-fiber plants . All are severely restricted in their movements , but they do acquire hints as to what is going on . Paotow is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big regional industrial center with a. steel mill started by the Russians . That was to have reached a capacity of two to three million tons , but only one of four planned blast furnaces has been completed . . The city has a population of 500,1100 . At the time the.:Conimunist took power , It was a cattle - trading town in Inner Mongolia with unpaved streets and industry . Paotow 's reactors produced only enough fissionable material for two or three bombs a year until Lanchow 's enriched uraniiimbecame available . Now their output is far higher . The Chinese weapons-testing site is situated on Lob Nor , a desert lake in Sinkiang . Does this exhaust the nuclear-production capacity of the Chinese ? Intelligence specialists doubt it . These are key installations , but inevitably there are others , as yet undetected or merely suspected or . in the process of construction . Research Is Sophisticated A Japanese professor on a recent visit , to Shanghai 's Inorganic Chemistry Research Institute found it engaged in fluorine-resin. research . Fluorineresin filters are employed in one of the most sophisticated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , use . The key to China 's , military technological breakthrough.is to be found in eight specialized " machine-building " ministries set up over the last seven or eight years . The cover title of " Ministry of Machine-Building " appears ? . . to have been adapted from Soviet . practice . The function of these ministries has not been revealed . However , examination of the background of key officials identified with them suggests that the first concerns heavy industry , the second nuclear engineering , the third arms development , the fourth communications or electronic devices , the fifth probably missiles , the sixth naval development , the seventh aeronautics and the eighth agricultural machinery and tanks . About 50 ' per cent of China 's physicists and chemists , many of them brilliant men , trained at Cambridge , Columbia or the Massachusetts ? Institute of Technology , ? are : now working on defense technology . . China 's nuclear strength is still largely potential . Not , so her conventional forces . Every available intelligence estimate calls them a first-class fighting ' force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force that makes China the master of any ground she Chooses ' in Asia , except if interdicted by Soviet or United States military power . The People 's Liberation Army was born hi the- long years of Chinese Communist struggle for power . Its basic doctrine is that of Mao Tse-tung , - its ? creator and leader : . ! fAll power , flows from the barrel of a- gun . " The army includes about 2.500,000 men organized in 107 : Infantry divisions of the threeregiment type , 26 ? artillery divisions , tour armored divisions , three cavalry and three airborne divisions . There are also 15 divisions of border - defense troops and a militia force variously estimated at ' 1 ' to 1Z million . Intelligence agencies have evaluated the army as an extremely effective fighting force , high in morale , well-officered and well-trained , particularly in night fighting and in conducting operations with a minimum of logistic support . It is weak in tanks , motor transport , communications equipment and radar . Its artillery is largely of Soviet World War II vintage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Lin Piao , a deputy chairman of China 's Central Committee and chief CMnese military ideologist , who characterized the Chinese army as the equal of any in the world  --  within a distance of 200 yards . " Within China 's frontiers her army is very , very strong , " the Japanese said . This force is largely disposed as it has been since the end of the Korean War . Ninety-five per cent of China 's troops are east of Tibet and east of Sin- kiang . The largest concentration is still in the Peking and Manchurian area , facing North Korea and Soviet Siberia . The second large concentration is opposite Taiwan . There is no concentration to the south in the vicinity of North Vietnam . However , the Chinese Aim Force has been repositioned to meet the threat of air attacks from the south . , . The air component is relatively weak , comprising 3,500 - planes of all types , largely Soviet or Soviet prototypes . The Chinese build their own ** They have only -a handful of ** and are not believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses are not strong , but they do have an improving radar system- and , some surface-to-air missiles acquired from the Russians before the Peking - Moscow rift . As late as 1963 they had only eight air-defense missile sites . The size of the army is growing this year as a result of a decision in 1965 to increase the term of service of all conscripts by- one year . About 500,000 to 800,000 conscripts are taken in each year . The Chinese navy is minuscule , with fewer than 50 destroyers and escorts , mostly of the coastal type , 150 motor torpedo boats and 100 other miscellaneous craft . The Chinese have a landing-craft capability of not more than 75,000 lightly armed troops . They have some late-model submarines procured from the Russians . Some Japanese believe the Chinese are beginning to build Polaris-type nuclear submarines in the ' Port Arthur-Dairen area but there is no confirmation . Based on what they saw of the army in action in Korea and against India , there is not one of China 's neighbors , including the Soviet Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able land force , capable of operating under conditions of utmost rigor without mechanized transport , highly developed arms systems or air cover . Back of China 's military might stands an industrial establishment of mixed capacity . Her steel production last year was in. the range of 8.5 to 12 million tons compared with Soviet and American output of1l about 100 million tons . But 12 million tons of steel can go a long way in a still primitive , country . The Soviet Union , fought the Germans to defeat with less steel than China now makes . China 's electric power production is only 40 billion kilowatt - hours . But this is equal to that of the Soviet Union in 1949 , when the Russians exploded their first atom bomb . China 's chemical fertilizer production reached 4.5 , million tons last year , higher than that of the Soviet Union 10 years ago . Cement production is estimated at 8 to 10 million tons , crude oil at about 8 million tons and coal at 230 million tons . More significantly the Chinese are beginning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products as i techncally advanced as a 12,000-ton hydraulic press and advanced steel-processing plants . Tractor and vehicle production still lags . But this year possibly 20,000 tractors in 15-horsepower units will be made . A French firm has contracted to put up a new plant that will turn out 30,000 trucks a year . China 's growing capacity for turning out vehicles reflects increased petroleum supplies . This scarcity of motorized transport would radically weaken military maneuverability for a Western state . " It might make some difference for the Chinese in the south , " one specialist said . " When the Chinese went into Korea they had the benefit of Soviet logistics . And they were close to their own bases in Manchuria . But the basic motive power of the Chinese army is still the human being . That 's the way they are set up . In some situations it is a weakness . But in the jungles or in the mountains or wilderness , it 's strength . " The army is trained to fight and to hike . And to hike and to fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . '                     