@@727000

txt Washington , March 19-President Johnson said tonight the American people must never doubt that the communist offensive in Viet Nam is " aimed squarely " at them in an effort to crack their ' will to continue the war . He said the Reds will not achieve that goal as long as he is President . " We are aggression 's real target because of what we represent , " Johnson said in a speech at a state department conference . " The enemy seeks more than the conquest of South Viet Nam and the collapse of southeast Asia and the destruction of the Pacific dream where a new and prosperous Asia sees its hopeful future . Strikes Root of Freedom " Aggression is striking null in Viet Nam at the very tool of life , at the very idea o freedom , at the right of an ! man or nation to live without fear , to find their own free destiny . " The President said the United States can not fail the " anxious and expectant " millions of people who live in Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , nor break the commitments of their country to freedom and the future . " We have set our course , " he asserted . " We will pursue it as long as aggression threatens us . And we will prevail ! " The President made an unannounced speech to 300 delegates from national professional , civic , educational and patriotic organizations attending a foreign policy briefing sponsored by the state department . Johnson told his audience that foreign policy " is the proper concern of every American interested in his nation 's destiny . " This Is the Test The President said the Unit ed States is being tested in Viei Nam , but it is the nation 's wil and not its capacity which i : being tested . " We have the wealth , the strength , the power , " he said . " The test is , do we have the will , the spirit to succeed . History has elected to probe the depth of our commitment to freedom . " , Since World War II , he said , Americans of all parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security arrangements designed to make clear the resolve of free men to defend their freedom . This commitment , he said , is being challenged in Viet Nam and is the real target of the communist enemy . Enemy Reaches Out " The enemy has reached out to fight in the hearts and minds of Americans , " the President declared . " He has mounted a heavy and calculated attack on our character as a people , on our confidence as a nation , on the continuity of policy and principle that has so long and proudly marked America as the champion of man 's freedom . " Johnson said this generation must learn the mistakes of the past and " recognize that there is no resigning from world responsibility . . . there is no easy road to freedom and order . "                     