@@724715

txt Let 's trade ' Little Leaguers Mike and Paul Arms use a driveway in San Rafael ; Calif. , to arrange their collection of over 4,000 baseball trading cards according to teams . They anticipate a heavy trading season and possibly as many as 6,500 cards by World Series time . Baseball coverage : Page 14 . Major rookie crop again abundant . By Ed Rumill Chief sports columnist of The Christian Science Monitor One of the better stories in the baseball majors a year ago was the continued influx of fine young talent . Rookies like Oliva , Conigliaro , Allen , Hart , and Carty moved quickly into regular jobs and carried on like pros . This spring the exceptional first-year talent continues to flow , with the chance that the rookie roster will be even larger than it was in ' 64 . As the American and National League pennant races got under way , several new names were playing key roles . In the NL , Cincinnati was alternating the righthanded Tony Perez with the left-handed veteran , Gordie Coleman , at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anywhere and hit .309 at San Diego last season . The Cubs introduced Robert Pena , a shortstop with a hot bat , who was n't even on the roster at Mesa , Ariz . Milwaukee is going with Santos Alomar at second base and the Dodgers are hoping that Jim Lefebvre will fill a hole at second base . Lefebvre , who has a good bat , was on the Spokane roster at Vero Beach , Fla . The Mets , whose progress depends on the rookie crop , already have shown Ron Swoboda ( an outfielder ) as a pinch hitter , Jim Bethke out of the bullpen , and Johnny Lewis ( former Cardinal ) in right field . There will be more as time goes on . Birdie Tebbetts may have bolstered the Cleveland attack by using Ray Barker , who went to camp on the Portland roster , at first base . Minnesota may give Cesar Tovar a key post at second base . The Yankees may have their annual rookie find in Arturo Lopez , an outfielder . John Sullivan , Syracuse , is catching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sox have given their center field berth to Ken Berry , a real slick defensive player . Terry confident Mention of Tebbetts and Cleveland brings to mind a talk I had this spring at Tucson , with Ralph Terry . Terry , you know , is the young man who won 23 games for the Yankees in 1962 , but somehow lost favor in the New York clubhouse when Ralph Houk stepped down an manager and Yogi Berra moved up . A good principled boy not in the habit of " knocking " others , regardless of how he is treated , Terry talked quietly for almost an hour about his frustrations at Yankee Stadium and his hopes with the Indians . " I just know I can pitch and win , " the good-looking right-hander from Kansas said . " It 's as simple as that . I could have gone right on winning at New York if given the chance . My arm is sound and strong , and you know I 've had the experience . My control is sharp . Why should n't I win ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " I suppose you know you 've picked up something in this Terry . " The Cleveland manager squinted at me for a moment , then said : " You bet I have . I 'm not saying he could be a big man for us ; I 'm saying he WILL be a big man for us . We sort of got him when nobody was looking and we consider ourselves very fortunate . " Braves have gone There was nothing in the West Palm Beach camp of the Braves that suggested they would ever again play a ball game in Milwaukee after the 1965 National League schedule . They made no effort to hide their enthusiasm over a 1966 shift to Atlanta . Even the ballplayers were talking about it and speculating on what it might mean to them . I was reminded of this when I heard about the plans of the Milwaukee County Board to initiate Federal Court action against the Braves " and other necessary parties " to have baseball declared in violation of antitrust laws . Well , it may be that Milwaukee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might even succeed in bringing permanent legal damage to the national pastime . It has been hinted many times , by wise men , that the game could not survive such a suit . But as long as Washington was willing to let baseball operate without antitrust pressures , everyone seemed satisfied to let well enough alone . And if Milwaukee is serious about wanting another major-league franchise to replace the Braves , it had better stay out of the courts . Any effort by Milwaukee to retain or even detain the Braves is useless . They not only are going , they already have gone .                     