@@722785

txt The threat stemming from Soviet missiles in Cuba has served to improve the readiness of the nation 's nonmilitary agencies to meet any emergency , officials said today . No amount of routine training exercises could have produced comparable results , they said . Under realistic pressures , officers of government at the highest levels took hard , long looks at their preparedness plans . Words long ago put on ' paper suddenly came alive . Flaws were found and removed . The plans were tightened and modernized . The lights burned late . " We were playing for real , " said one official . Edward A. , whose Office of Emergency Planning carried the responsibility for coordinating all nonmilitary readiness , said : " I think we made more progress in preparedness in two weeks than in many months , more probably than in the two years before Oct. 23 . " That was the date that the United States put the quarantine on Cuba into effect . An Intricate Task Readiness planning is vastly more intricate than having a bag packed for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibilities of nuclear attack , limited war and post-attack rehabilitation . Transportation and other communications may be disrupted . Biological and chemical weapons could lay waste much of the food supplies . Manpower without / direction would be a waste , or worse . A loss of leadership in scattered government agencies could compound chaos . Some emergency assignments are obvious , like transportation under the Commerce Department and the Interstate Com= merce Commission and food under the Agriculture Department . Agencies that seldom cross the path of the average citizen directly have vital functions to perform in an emergency . Plans must be made accordingly . One such agency is the Federal Reserve Board , the boss of the nation 's money and credit mechanism . About 7:35 P. M. on Oct. 22 the war room at the Pentagon flashed a signal to certain agencies . It was one of three or four possible , signals . It was received at the Federal Reserve Board 's guard headquar- ters , which is attended 24 hours a day , every day . This signal went out on the day President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was relayed on a private wire to all reserve banks . Within a few hours , reports were coming back on the same Wire advising that certain prearranged actions had been taken in response to the signal . Monetary officials must consider a post-attack situation in which economic intercourse is essential . They have cached in the vaults of Reserve banks around the country a 2%-year supply of currency , most of it in denominations of $20 and smaller . It took a train to haul the packages out of Washington about a year ago . How much money the train hauled the " Fed " wo n't say . A basis for a guess is that $30 , - 000,000.000 worth of currency is now in circulation . The reserve supply was pegged at 2% years ' needs because it would take about that long to rebuild the nation 's only paper-currency manufacturing facility , the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington . The " Fed , " through member banks , is trying to emphasize to individual citizens that private hoarding of money is the worst possible course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incinerated , the Government can not help the owner . If his bank is destroyed , he has a chance to recover everything , because the Government 's policy calls for the equitable sharing of war losses . The impairment of a bank 's assets by reason of war losses will not be permitted to affect the bank 's operational solvency . Banks with preparedness plans  --  not all have heeded the Federal Reserve 's appeals have duplicate records at other places . Most nonmilitary emergency assignments are defined in nine executive orders issued by President Kennedy last February and in a tenth , issued in September , assigning the coordinating function to the Office of Emergency Planning . Without coordination there would be a risk that a single agency would disrupt civil defense by taking an external action that was premature or otherwise Undesirable .                     