@@727955

txt Two leaders of the Legislature indicated yesterday that substantial state aid would not be available to help the City University carry out its new goal of offering admission to all high school graduates here by 1970 . At the same time Mayor Lindsay said that government officials at all levels should " make every effort " to find the " resources " that would allow implementation of the ainiversky 's policy , which was announced late Wednesday . In another development , the American Jewish Congress called for the formation of " a broad coalition of civic groups to mobilize public support " for the open-admissions plan . The plan , spurred by demands of Negro and Puerto Rican students who occupied part of the City College campus last spring , advances by five years the university 's original target date for achieving open admission to the 15-unit municipal system . Brydges Unmoved But Earl W. Brydges , the Senate majority leader , said in an interview yesterday that the Legislature " is n't in any disposition to change the state 's share of funding for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senior colleges and 33.3 per cent for the community colleges . " We are n't going to change it so far as I 'm concerned , " the Niagara Falls Republican declared . He suggested the City University charge tuition or join the State University , system if it wanted consideration for extra aid . And Perry B. Duryea Jr. , a Republican from Montauk and Speaker of the Assembly , called the open- admissions plan " questionable from the standpoint of funding . " Apart from its special programs for disadvantaged youths , such as SEEK , the university now offers admission to the top half of the city 's high school graduates ? those with the highest scholastic averages . About two-thirds of those applicants actually enter the nine senior colleges or six community colleges . SEEK ( Search for Education , Elevation and Knowledge ) admits youths from minority groups whose grades do not meet the requirements of colleges in the New York City against any lowering ' of academic standards . The city supplies half the operating costs of the university  --  the university 's expense budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently argued that the city can not afford to continue paying that amount . Dr. Hollander of the City University said yesterday that the likelihood of getting the extra $50-million for the new plan from either the city or the state was " really a question or how one assesses the political situation in New York at the moment . " " A lot or sentiment has changed in the last year , " he remarked . " and there is an awful lot of public backing for open admissions . " Dr. Buell G. Gallagher , who resigned as president or City College in the controversy over student disorders on his campus , was unavailable for comment yesterday . University . The students take special courses , without academic credit , in an attempt to reach matriculation standards . About 1,300 students were in the program in the last school year . The open-admission plan would foster the enrollment of increased numbers of minoritygroup students , a major objective of the dissident students at City College . According to university sources , the size of the freshman class for September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1970 . The university , which has 70,000 full-time students now , had previously anticipated a freshman class of 26,000 in September , 1970 . T. Edward Hollander , the university 's vice chancellor for budget ? and planning , estimated that the new plan would cost $50-million above the regular operating costs for the university in 1970-71 alone . Dr. Hollander said the university would have to " rent widely "  --  and perhaps move to a trimester schedule of classes ? to accommodate any large growth in registration . Under a trimester arrangement , the year is divided into three sessions rather than two , but each student generally attends only two sessions annually . The university official asserted that long-term building needs would not pose . a significant problem , because the City University Construction Fund could float bonds outside the regular debt limit . He said that the $50-million open-enrollment figure included the cost of " remediation " for poorly prepared high school graduates . He reaffirmed a Board of Higher Education statement that the university would not tolerate a decline in its academic standards . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not by who you take in but by who you graduate . We 'll do everything to keep all the students , but those who ca n't make it will drop out . " Costs Are Critical The question of cost for the new plan is considered critical by both the university and government officials . Only several months ago the Board of Higher Education , which sets policy for the university , was locked in a battle with city and state officials over its operating budget for the coming year . Before more funds were provided , the university said that it might not be able to admit any freshmen in September , 1969 . The board has directed Albert H. Bowker , the university Chancellor , to report on the " feasibility " of its new admissions plan by Aug. 15 and to develop implementation procedures by Oct. 1 . In opposing further aid at this time for open enrollment , Senator Brydges said that it might be forthcoming were the City University to accept one or both of two proposals that have been advanced by upstate legislators for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One proposal has been that the City University , which is tuition-free for full-time undergraduates , impose what Senator Brydges termed " a modest " tuition fee  --  roughly the same as the $400 fee at the State University . The second proposal has been that the City University become a part of the State University . Assemblyman Duryea said that the Legislature would " take a rather dim view of an open-admissions policy in the City University while there is not a similar policy at the State University  --  and 1 do n't foresee that in the near future . " The State University , with more than 50 units , turns away applicants " when it has no more room , " a spokesman for the state system said yesterday . Assemblyman Milton Jonas , chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Higher Education , said that he favored the open-admissions plan in 1970 " if it can he achieved . " Mr. Jonas , a Republican from North Merrick , L. 1. , said that his committee would conduct hearings in the fall " to determine the feasibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the Governor would not comment immediately on the new openadmissions target date . Mario A. Procacclno , the City Controller and Democratic candidate for Mayor , said that all youths should have access to a " free education . " Mr. Procaccino , a graduate of City College , expressed " hopes " that the money for implementing the university 's plan could be raised . But he cautioned missing column                     