@@724076

txt The Fourth of July weekend began yesterday with one of the smoothest flows of holiday traffic in a long time . So gentle was the pace of outgoing traffic that Traffic Commissioner Henry A. Barnes was prompted to remark , " I think we should have a Fourth of July weekend every week . " He had spent an hour and a half in a Goodyear blimp studying principal roads . Mr. Barnes , accompanied by city officials and reporters , flew over the city from 4:30 to 6 P. M. to observe traffic on the George Washington Bridge , Grand Central Parkway and Long Island Expressway . Noting the free-moving traffic , the Commissioner exclaimed , " It 's beautiful . " Most Workers Off He said he believed that many holiday travelers had left the city early in the day or were already on vacation . With most workers off today to compensate for the fact that Independence Day falls on a Saturday , seashore and country , resorts were looking forward to ' lively business between now and ' Sunday night . The weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to run ' several degrees above normal during the holiday period , today was expected to be cloudy with showers . Yesterday 's temperature reached a high of 91 degrees at 12:45 P.M. But the forecast for , today is for more moderate weather , with a high in the 80 's . Pavements Buckle The heat took its toll in Westchester County , where pavements buckled and faucets went dry when pressure in mains fell for a brief period . The County Health Department reported that 90 homes at Bear Ridge had no water for several hours . The worst buckling of pavement occurred on the Hutchinson River Parkway in North Pelham . One northbound lane was closed all day . Hotels here were crowded with tourists who will be visiting the World 's Fair . The National Safety Council estimated that 450 to 550 persons would die in highway accidents in the nation between 6 P.M. last night and midnight Sunday , The record highway toll for a three-day Independence Day weekend was set when 442 persons died in 1960 . Last year , on a four-day weekend , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who has ordered special safety measures to prevent traffic casualties , noted that " holiday traffic and hot weather spell congestion and driver irritation . " They lead , in turn , to " downright discourtesy , carelessness and indifference to the rights of others , " the Commissioner said . Bus travel was expected to be more than 20 per cent higher than on the Memorial Day weekend . Aircraft is expected to carry 280,000 passengers to and Prom Kennedy , La Guardia and Newark Airports , Railroads added extra cars and trains on runs to shore and country destinations . Twenty-one trains on the New Haven Railroad were delayed up to 20 minutes from 5:35 to 7 P.M. after a stone hurled through a window in the Bronx struck a woman and knocked her unconscious . The woman , Mrs. Margaret Watley , 35 years old , of New Haven , Conn. , was removed from the train at the Tremont Avenue Station in the Bronx and taken to Fordham Hospital , where she was treated for a cut lip . Later , she was transferred to Jacobi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stores will be open today and closed tomorrow , the Commerce and Industry Association of New York said that 97 per cent of the city 's businesses and industries would give their employes today off to compensate for the holiday 's falling on a Saturday . Almost all Federal , state and city offices will be closed today through Sunday . Parking Rule Suspended Alternate side of the street parking regulations will remain in effect today , but will be suspended tomorrow . Other traffic regulations , including those on metered parking , will operate as usual . New York banks , will be open today , but New Jersy banks will be closed . Stock exchanges and commodity trading centers also will be closed today . There will be regular postal service today , but post offices will be closed and regular deliveries will be suspended tomorrow . City garbage collection also will be canceled tomorrow . The Department of Motor Vehicles , noting that many applicants had appointments for preliminary tests today , announced that its offices will be closed and that the tests will have to be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fireworks , the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness pointed out that 28 youngsters had been blinded or suffered eye , damage from fireworks during Fourth of July celebrations last year . There will be supervised fireworks displays tonight at 9 o'clock off Steeplechase Pier in Coney Island and the World 's Fair . Litterbugs can be expected to toss 13 million cubic feet of paper and rubbish on the nation 's streets and highways during the weekend , according to Keep America Beautiful , an antilitter group . The cost of cleaning up the trash was estimated at $10 million .                     