@@721553

txt United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson and Undersecretary Douglas Dillon are expected to meet resistance in their efforts to have West Germany resume payments for the upkeep of American troops stationed in this country . They flew here tonight on a dollar saving mission ordered by President Eiesenhower . Anderson and Dillon were met by Economic Minister Ludwig Erhard and Hilger Scherpenberg , deputy foreign minister . Anderson said in -a statement that the three-day economic talks of American and German authorities starting Monday will deal with the " unusual conditions prevail . ing with respect to the German and United States international payments positions . " The Bonn government has I announced that it is ready to contribute nearly a billion dollars in 1961 to ease American aid for underdeveloped countries but its reaction has been chilly to suggestions of cash payments toward main ' taining American troops . Fear Other Demands These cash payments were discontinued by general agreement in 1958 , altho the federal republic still pays for part of the allied installations and communications in West Germany . This cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exception was made for the British army of the Rhine . West Germany has paid 35 million dollars annually for the upkeep of 55,000 British troops in this country . These payments will be discontinued at the end of this year . Suggestions that the Bonn government contribute an estimated 125 million dollars toward the 700 million dollars it costs American taxpayers to maintain American garrisons in Germany , are opposed on the ground that revival of stationing costs would invite new demands from other allied countries that have troops here . Viewed as Discriminating Such a step also is regarded here as a discriminatory measure against West Germany 's partnership in the North Atlantic Treaty organization . Occupation has cost the federal republic m ore than 15 billion dollars since the war . But officials have said that Bonn was willing to contribute a " fair share " toward the maintenance of United States forces in Europe under a multilateral NATO agreement. ? This possibility is expected to be ' discussed at the NATO council- meeting ? in Paris . Besides the cost of building up its own army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13.72 per cent.of the expenditures of the NATO infra-structure , 16.1 per cent of the civil military budget , and 10.6 per cent of NATO 's scientific planning projects . 8 Billion Reserves - The booming West German economy now has a balance of payments surplus of 2 billion dollars . The country 's gold and foreign currency reserves , nil in 1949 , approach the 8 billion dollar mark . However attractive this picture seems , there are extraordinary burdens on the German budget . Billions have been spent on absorbing 13 million expellees and refugees in the federal republic and on ' various schemes to compensate victims of nazism and of World War IL Billions more are earmarked for this purpose . Going on to Paris The Bonn government annually spends 350 million dollars to support the economy of West Berlin . After four days in Bonn , Anderson and Dillon , the state department 's top economic expert , will go to Paris next Wednesday and to London on Friday for monetary talks with French and British officials . Vice President Elect Johnson and a group of Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North Atlantic Treaty organization opening in Paris Monday that will discuss joint defense and economic efforts among western nations in the cold - war with Russia .                     