@@726543

txt The President 's newly appointed task force to study communications policy has an unprecedented opportunity to break internal governmental deadlocks that stand in the way of a domestic satellite system and other needed forward steps in communications . It can do much to advance public television and to give all TV , both commercial and noncommercial , a firmer root in public service . Perhaps most important of all , it can point a path for the interconnection of international satellites so that all countries can be encouraged to see and speak to one another across the heavens . There are deep rivalries  --  national and foreign  --  at play in this field , many of which are reflected in the composition of the task force itself . To begin with , the Federal Communications Commission only last month announced that it was making a comprehensive study of the nation 's communications systems  --  from new TV uses to the possibility of banking by telephone . The F.C.C. now has what amounts to a " chairman of the board " superimposed above it  --  but the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as allies , not rivals . The mandate for the Presidential panel is so broad that it would be neglecting an opportunity if it stuck just to the mechanics of settling the sticky problem of who pushes the levers on the domestic satellite . The first impression is that Comsat , the public-private corporation , received a boost in its efforts to establish and monopolize a satellite system . The F.C.C. obviously can not rule on Comsat 's proposal until it has looked at all the angles and heeded the Presidential panel 's recommendations . But alternate systems and opportunities must be studied if the public is to come out with something worthwhile at its home end of all the electronic razzle-dazzle . The international opportunities are even more exciting . The possibility of interconnecting domestic , regional and eventually a global system of communications satellites is within reach . This is the stickiest one of all . The President has renewed an invitation to the Soviet Union and the Eastern European bloc to join Intelsat ( the International Communications Satellite Consortium of 58 nations around the world ) . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France , which has been known to pull the plug on international TV programming to assert its national manhood . If American and European and Asian satellites are ever to become compatible , an atmosphere of international electronic faith must be created . Nations should be able to speak and to see even if they disagree or actively dislike each other . In this respect it would have been better if the President had not confined himself to governmental officials , but had also included respected members of the general community . These could still be added as ex-officio advisers to underscore the aims of public education and international understanding . The major challenge for the task force is to clear channels through which revolutionary , new developments in communications can be used with maximum effectiveness for total human service and enlightenment . The last thing that should happen is for Congress to postpone action on President Johnson 's proposal for a Corporation of Public Broadcasting . Such a planning body should be in existence to move speedily on any sound recommendations the task force makes .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       