@@722242

txt The deposed provisional ruling Council of State recaptured control of the Dominican Government tonight from the junta controlled by the military strongman , Maj. Gen. Rafael Ramon Rodriguez Echavarria . General Rodriguez Echavarria , the 37-year-old Secretary of State for the Armed Forces . who threw out the Council forty-eight hours earlier , was imprisoned in a military counter-coup d'etat . Four of the junta members also were arrested . General Rodriguez Echavarria , an air force general , was reported to have been taken prisoner by a group of his own officers . Dr. Rafael Bonnelly was proclaimed the new President of the republic and head of the seven-man Council of State . In Washington , there seemed to be little doubt that if the Dominican situation were stabilized the United States would quickly reverse the steps it took to show its disapproval of Tuesday 's coup d'etat . ) Council Acts Unanimously In its first act after returning to the National Palace , the Council unanimously approved a motion by Dr. Bonnelly to accept the resignation of Dr. Joaquin Balaguer , who was President until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Dr. Bonnelly , as Vice President under President Balaguer , to take over as leader of the nation . The Santo Domingo populace was jubilant at the Council 's return to power . In a speech from the National Palace , Dr. Bonnelly , a 57-yearold lawyer , expressed his gratitude to the armed forces for having restored the Council . The Government - operated Radio Caribe said that Gen. Andres Rodriguez Mendez had been appointed new chief of the armed forces and that the Dominican Navy had declared its support for the Council of State . Gen. Rodriguez Mendez , an air force general , was commander of the Barahona base from which the November air force uprising that drove the last of the Trujillos from the country was begun . A group of air force officers who resigned in December , charging Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria with dictatorial ambitions , said Gen. Rodriguez Mendez had been the real leader of the November uprising . Against his wishes , he was sent out of the country in November to be Dominican delegate to the Inter-American Defense Board in Washington . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go on to his new post . General Is Disconsolate Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria was held tonight in a small waiting room in the National Palace . He sat disconsolately in a chair , hunched over , with his hands tightly clasped kJ ' front . His face was expressionqess as he stared at the frayed red carpet . He wore no insignia of rank on his tan uniform . Dr. Bonnelly said that the Council : members who had been held at San Isidro air base were liberated at 8 P. M. " Rodriguez Echavarria came to visit us , " he said , " and while he was there a group of officers came and asked us if we were prisoners , and when we said ' Yes ' they pointed their guns at Rodriguez Echavarria and made him prisoner . He offered no resistance . " Then we came to the palace , and that was all . " The news of the lightning ' Government turnabout touched off the wildest celebrations in the memory of old residents of this Caribbean capital . Thousands poured into the streets shouting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bells from several of the oldest churches in the hemisphere pealed forth the tidings . People jammed the National Palace gates to cheer the Council . Gunfire crackled all over the city and policemen and soldiers joined in the celebration . Santo Domingo , which lay quiet and tense a few hours before , was suddenly alive with lights and music . An air force officer said of the coup : " We all did it . There is not one hero in this . The day of personal symbolism in the republic is gone . " The first indication of the coup had come from a Dominican radio broadcast that announced that " heroic armed forces " had turned the tables . The development came after the junta lost control in its battle to restore order and win public acceptance . An almost total shutdown of shops and stores had prevailed in the capital 's business district in open defiance of the junta 's threat of fines and prison for violaters of its anti-strike order . A Supreme Court spokesman announced in the early evening that all judges had resigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their jobs . The hardest jolt to the junta appeared to have been the withdrawal of two key members , Luis Amiami Tio and Antonio Imbert , carryovers from the short-lived Council of State that collapsed Tuesday when President Joaquin Balaguer quit after a day of bloody riots . The two accepted posts in the seven-man junta formed by General Rodriguez Echavarria but quickly pulled out and were reported to have taken asylum in a foreign embassy . They are the sole survivors of the twelve men who plotted the assassination last May 30 of Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina . The rest were slain before the last of the Trujillos left the country in November . The United States technical mission , which had barely ar- , rived to help the Council of , State plan economic recovery , , left for home as Dominicans kept up anti-junta resistance . An undetermined number of persons have been killed and wounded since the Tuesday clash between demonstrators and tank troops led to the Rodriguez Echavarria takeover . The Government said four persons had been killed and nineteen wounded in the initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief opposition movement , and other reliable witnesses said eight had been killed in that clash , Unconfirmed reports from Santiago said several had been killed and wounded there . Bonnelly in Control The political switch-around in the Dominican Republic last night gave the reins of control to the man who was to have become President anyway , at least before the two-day interlude of the junta . He is Dr. Rafael Bonnelly , a lawyer , teacher and government ship of Generalissimo Trujillo . , From 1942 to 1944 , Dr. Bonnelly was the generalissimo 's Minister of the Interior and minister in the former dictatorPolice . Until the coup Tuesday , he was the First Vice President of the seven-man Council of State formed by Dr. Joaquin Balaguer , the deposed President . Before Tuesday 's coup there were riots in protest against Dr Balaguer 's continuation as President . He had promised to resign as soon as the Organization of American States lifted the diplomatic and economic sanctions that were - imposed against the Dominican Republic . The sanctions , imposed in 1960 to punish the Trujillo dictatorship for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Venezuela , were lifted Jan. 4 . U. S. Resumes Relations Two days later the United States resumed diplomatic relations . The take-over by the junta caused Washington to express grave concern . The State Department ' called the move a " step backward " toward totalitarianism after three decades of dictatorial rule . The Council of State took charge of the Dominican Republic on Jan. 1 . It was set up to guide the country until elections had put a new government in office by March of 1963 . Dr. Bonnelly was to have . assumed the executive duties when Dr. Balaguer stepped down , which he had promised to do before March 1 . Dr. Bonnelly , a gray-haired , quiet-looking man , has been in Dominican public life since 1939 . He first served four years as a national Deputy in the Dominican Assembly . In 1942 he went on to the Dominican national Senate . Two years later he was made Interior Minister and head of the police . Dr. Bonnelly returned to teaching in 1945 as a professor at the University of Santo Domingo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor and the National Economy , a post he retained for a number of years .                     