@@721251

txt As part of the vast propaganda campaign now being waged by the whole Communist bloc in an intensified cold war , the Soviets appear before the United Nations Security Council today in the strange role of accusers to charge the United States with " aggressive acts " endangering " universal peace " and to call on the Council to stop them . The " aggression " they complain of is " aggression " by camera , resulting from American reconnaissance flights over Soviet territory that ended with the U-2 incident . Considering the whole sordid Soviet record of perfidy , aggression , subjugation , subversion and world-wide espionage , this Soviet move reaches , of course , unprecedented heights of cynical hypocrisy . But it marks a continuation of the savage onslaught unleashed with such studied frenzy by Premier Khrushchev in Paris , and for the same purposes . It is to relieve him , first of all , of the onus of blowing up the summit meeting , for which action he used the U-2 incident as a pretext but admitted in Berlin that his primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated in what he termed the " sharply and arrogantly provocative " speeches of Secretary Herter , Under Secretary Dillon and Vice President Nixon . It is further designed to split the West over an admittedly delicate issue and , if possible , to divide the American people and elect a President more amenable to Soviet demands . Finally , it is intended to divert attention from the fact that the Soviets come into court with unclean hands and that they themselves have already been condemned by the United Nations for aggression in Hungary . As regards the charge of aggression , the United States should have an easy stand . First of all , the flights have been ended and , by their own thesis , the Soviets have no more reason to complain unless the flights are resumed . Furthermore , there was nothing " aggressive " about these flights . Even Premier Khrushchev admits that he does not regard them as " direct precursors of war . " But with the Soviets threatening to bomb every country resisting their world-conquering ambitions , and with the United States committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes not only an essential , if distasteful , element of our self-defense to avert an atomic Pearl Harbor but also the best safeguard of world peace . This is one instance in which , when two do the same thing , it is not the same thing ; it all depends on who does it for what purpose , and it is still a false equation to equate the policeman with the robber . This still leaves open for further consideration the political and legal aspects of military intelligence . The United States can well point out that espionage has existed for centuries and remains a fact of life in a world of potential conflict . But the American Government gave a new status to it and created a precedent when it dropped the usual evasive action and openly avowed what other nations still conceal or ignore . In this situation the United States proposes , if possible , to avoid useless bickering , and to adopt a constructive course . To that end it proposes , not as an answer to Soviet charges but on its own merits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " plan  --  namely , a United Nations air patrol of all nations . This would legalize the most essential intelligence to avert a surprise attack . The United States and most Western nations are willing to submit to it . But the Soviets continue to reject it , for their own purposes , and as long as they do so neither the free world nor they themselves can feel safe again .                     