@@726572

txt A recent survey by Opinion Research Corporation for Grade Teacher magazine helps explain the teacher shortage , a subject focused on once . again as schools reopen throughout the United States . While the survey included only 867 college seniors majoring in education , it was nationwide . The students were asked to tell which areas of the country they preferred to teach in , what size . school system was most desirable , which grades they preferred , and whether or not they wished they could have taken special courses in methods of teaching inner-city children . According to this group , the two least desirable teaching assignments are : ? Kindergarten in small towns in mountainous rural areas . ? Junior high school in a large city in the Deep South . To be specific , the areas of the country given in order of preference by the students arc : Pacific , Middle Atlantic , New England , North Central , Southeast , Mountain , and South Central . The grade levels listed in order of preference are : 1st:3d , 4th-6th , senior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The-types of community in order of prefer- ence are : a suburb , a small town , a large city , a rural area . ( Five of every 10 students indicated a desire to teach in a suburb , while less than two of each 10 said they were interested in a large city . ) Probing a bit behind an apparent lack of interest in an inner city or a portion of the country like Appalachia the survey further asked : " If you were offered a teaching position in one of the inner cities with particularly disadvantaged children , do you think you would accept ? " Only 13 percent of the students said yes , and 29 percent said they would most probably not accept . ? Asked the same question specifically about Appalachia , the respondents were even more uninterested . Only 5 percent would accept such a position , and 45 percent said they would most probably not . The key to this shrinking from such teaching assignments by prospective teachers perhaps comes out of the following question response . " Do you think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to teach in disadvantaged areas ? " Interest . expressed Ninety-one percent of the 867 students said yes . And 72 percent of these said that they would be very interested in taking such a course . In another part of the survey , " lack of experience " was given as one reason for students not choosing to teach the disadvantaged . The survey points up a great need in American education for the great colleges and universities to do their part in readying students to teach the children who need good teachers the most . In another portion of the survey , the students disclosed that neither low nor high salaries were their reasons for staying out of some school systems and for joining others . Success in teaching , voiced in various ways , ranked even higher than mate-vial gains . This study shows that one can not buy teachers for the isolated and disadvantaged . Instead , one must train them and support them .                     