@@721489

txt HAVANA , Cuba , Oct. 14  - -  The Cuban government abandoned the capitalistic system of free enterprise today by nationalizing 382 more businesses worth billions of dollars and bringing industry under state control . Twenty of the nationalized firms were owned by Americans or had American funds invested in them . In the 26 categories of businesses seized were sugar mills , shipping companies , theaters , distilleries , department stores , and textile factories .. Banks Nationalized The sweeping government decree , issued after a night long cabinet session , nationalized all Cuban and American banks and put them under operative control of the Cuban National bank . Two Canadian banks were excepted . The decree was published in morning newspapers . The firms nationalized today included the Bacardi rum distilleries and breweries as well as 13 department stores . Also 61 textile factories , 16 rice mills ; 47 grocery supply houses , 105 sugar mills , 8 canning , packing , and bottling plants , 11 movie theaters and chains , 19 construction firms , 13 maritime and docking companies , and 4 paint factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American firms , the Pittsburgh Plate Glass company , the Sherwin-Williams company , and the du Pont InterAmerican Chemical Company , Inc . The government said the abolition of private business mild be attributed to the selfish and anti-national practices of individual business men who had failed to adapt themselves " to the reality of the revolution of our fatherland . " Actually , the decree completed the task of placing the Cuban economy under state control started almost immediately by Premier Fidel Castro after the January , 1959 , triumph of the revolution . More than 10,000 businesses , many of them owned by alleged counter-revolutionaries , have been seized in the last 20 months . Previous seizures included an estimated 95 per cent of the billion dollar investment by United States business in Cuba . The 85 million dollar United States government owned Nicaro nickel mining complex was seized by workers earlier this month when it was closed for economy reasons because new taxes prevented successful operation . Few Left Alone Among the American firms affected by today 's decree were the W. R. Grace company , Colgate-Palmolive-Peet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cuba today are F. W. Woolworth , Sears Roebuck , Coca Cola , and B. F. Goodrich Rubber company . These firms were not seized because they can not be operated without imports which ' have been embargoed . However , there was some speculation that Castro  --  who is scheduled to speak to the nation on television tomorrow night ? might announce seizures of the last United States business firms here .                     