@@727208

txt Archbishop Terence J. Cooke announced yesterday that he had named the Archdiocese of New York 's first Negro pastor , at the same time appointing him as Vicariate Delegate for Harlem . The appointment , considered exceptionally important by churchmen , came amid other indications that the new Roman Catholic Archbishop intended to step up his church 's work among Negroes with a new approach to the problems of race and poverty . The 38-year-old appointee , the Rev. Harold A. Salmon , will head Harlem 's largest parish , St. Charles Borromeo 's , 213 West 141st Street . As Vicariate Delegate , he will coordinate , in the words of the Archbiship , " the over-all planning and efforts of the seven Harlem parishes so that they may better serve the total community . " Father Salmon , a lanky , athletic native New Yorker , described his future role in a news , release yesterday as that of " a black priest as pastor in a black community . " The new pastor will serve as the Archbishop 's Harlem delegate . Archbishop Cooke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while some of his auxiliary bishops coordinate church activities in Staten Island , Westchester County and the seven upstate counties of the archdiocese as episcopal vicars , or bishop 's representatives . According to church data , about 9 per cent of the 1.2 million Negroes in the city are Roman Catholics , Msgr . Thomas J. , information director of the archdiocese , said yesterday . He said he had not been able to obtain reliable data on the number of Catholics in Harlem . Private estimates placed the number of Harlem Catholics at less than 5 per cent of the Negro population there . Largest in Diocese Most of New York 's Negroes are members of Baptist and other Protestant churches . Negro Catholics include migrants from Louisiana , West Indians , French-speaking Haitians , and converts . Harlem represents the largest Negro Catholic community in the archdiocese . The BedfordStuyvesant section , the city 's second large Negro area , is in the Diocese of Brooklyn . Catholic priests , both white and Negro , said yesterday that their church 's influence in Harlem had increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be eager to enter their children in Catholic schools there . The new Negro pastor pledged the Catholic Church in Harlem yesterday would make " her facilities available to a greater number of people , nonCatholic as well as Catholic . " He also said that he saw the church 's role in Harlem as being " one of education , especially of the adults , " including leadership training for the benefit of the " total community . " Father Salmon , who until last week was teaching religion and English at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx , where he was also tennis and basketball coach and - moderator of the Afro-American Club , is the oldest of the archdiocese 's four Negro priests . The archdiocese has more than 1,100 active diocesan priests , including one who is of Cuban-Puerto Rican parentage . School Board Set Up Another Negro priest was recently named to a post involving the Harlem community . He is the Rev. Emerson J. Moore , assistant pastor at Holy Family Church , 315 East 47th Street , now director of a day camp at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 500 boys , many from Harlem , during the summer . Together with the announcement of Father Salmon 's new duties , the archdiocese dislosed yesterday that it planned to establish a measure of community control over Harlem 's seven parochial schools . A statement said that the seven schools had set up a Harlem School Board , the only such body in the archdiocese , including representatives of the clergy and the laity . " The board is now giving consideration to a plan which would strengthen the educational program of the schools " in Harlem , the statement said . It added that the archdiocese was encouraging the introduction into the curriculum of materials reflecting the contributions of Negroes and the members of other minority groups to American life . The archdiocese also announced that its instructional television facilities would present a course on Negro History in America for all students in the seventh and eighth grades , beginning in September . Project Equality Begun According to data disclosed by the archdiocese yesterday , Negro students make up 11 per cent of the total enrollment in parochial schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The total parochial school enrollment in the archdiocese is about 157,000 children in elementary schools and 27,000 in high schools . Father Salmon was present when Archbishop Cooke announced his new responsibilities at the Brotherhood-in-Action Center , Seventh Avenue and 40th Street , yesterday morning . The news conference marked the start of a new interfaith drive for fair employment , known as Project Equality .                     