@@726188

txt Listless as it is , the sea slug is crawling out of history into current events . Greatly in demand by Chinese gourmets , the slug was one cause for Britain 's colonization of the Fiji Islands . Nineteenth century British privateers braved cannibals and hidden atolls to buy up the sea worm for resale at fabulous profits at the entrepOts of the Far East . It was mainly to protect their trade that Fiji became the British colony it is today . Now Tanzania is attempting to plunge into the sea-crawler market in a big way  --  for export to China , of course . The Ministry of Agriculture , Forests , and Wildlife is trying to set up a collecting , processing , and exporting business for " jongoo bahari " ? Swahili for sea slug . Critics of the present Tanzanian Government ca n't resist poking a little fun . They quip that it just shows how deep Chinese influence goes in Tanzania . 0 Egypt 's embryo oil boom may yield valuable natural gas , too . The recent oil strike by Phillips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has also uncovered liquid and natural gas in their combined form . Laboratories in Suez and Italy are testing the gas . Their examinations will show whether it can take its place beside oil as an earner of badly needed hard currency for the United Arab Republic . Egyptian industrialists and housewives alike are already enjoying one benefit from the country 's brightening oil picture : The end of kerosene rationing . Trends ... " Africanization " is undercutting Asian and Arab businessmen and traders . First targets were Indians , Pakistanis , and other East Asians working in Africa . Now Arabs also are feeling the pinch . Some 100,000 Lebanese who live and work in Africa are under new pressures . On the Atlantic Coast , Liberia has stiffened its regulations on Lebanese and other Arabs who want to go into business there . Lebanese diplomats are busy now in Monrovia , the capital , trying to ease the restrictions . Meanwhile , on the Mediterranean several thousand Lebanese laborers in Libya 's booming oil fields and other industries also stand in need of diplomatic succor . They may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices erred in not always insuring compliance with Libya 's rigid rules about employing foreigners . Libya is so prosperous it can afford to be choosy . Thousands of foreign work applicants crowd its waiting lists . But now Africans come first . Election postponements in Africa continue unabated . Senegal is the latest country to use this political ploy . Its Constitution calls for an election this year . But the ruling Senegalese Progressive Union has delayed it until next year so it can push through some constitutional reforms . Togo , it appears , is having election problems , too . Leaders of the Jan. 13 nonviolent coup promisdd Togolese an election within three months . But since then they have banned all political parties and , " for political reasons , " postponed elections . Recently Kenya and Uganda joined postponers . Kenya amalgamated its two houses of parliament into one and shoved elections forward into 1970 . Uganda is n't even thinking about elections until it can withdraw the emergency laws it set up after ousting the Kabaka ( king ) of Buganda last year . Next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says they ca n't possibly come before 1969 . He has hinted a one-party state is in the offing . How and why ... President Nyerere of Tanzania is one of Africa 's most active idea men . Shock waves from his Arusha declaration of nationalization and self-reliance have pretty well subsided . But last week he threw a boulder in the water that should stir up African education for years to come . His radical education plan calls for an entire overhaul of the country 's educational system . The new goal of Tnjn Jwan primary education is the bolstering of the " socialist state , " rather than getting the individual child into secondary school or university . He proposes cutting the education budget 20 percent ; keeping children home from school until they are seven or eight ; and revising curriculum to stress agriculture and practical Work instead of passing advanced scholastic- exams , teproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     