@@725434

txt Letters Letters to the Editor of The Times China 's Isolation from World Socialism To the Editor : Although moderately hopeful , there is yet something ominous about the . testimonies of our Asia specialists before the Fulbright committee . With but slight differences they converge on three constants . They propose two Chinas , two Koreas , two Vietnams ; the continuation of the containment principle ; and the further prosecution of a limited war . None call for an immediate halt to the war . For this depressing assessment we have perhaps to blame . In no small measure , the inhibiting influence of the late Senator McCarthy . . In the China problem today our experts seek an explanation everywhere except where it counts most . They search for analogies in the past , in archaic institutions and ideas , and in the minutiae of fleeting psychological interpretations of passing events . Twists and turns of short-term manipulation , maneuvers of strategy and tactics , personality differences of leads era , the teachings of Confucius and Buddha ? all are assessed in the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all these . Yet it can not be too often repeated that the main point of reference for China today is not only her isolation from Washington but what is more important , her isolation from Russia and the world Socialist movement . For the decisive approach to China and a Marxist East is Marx ? the context of practice . Challenge to World China has split with Russia and world Socialism . She fought a war with India and takes aides between two underdeveloped countries within the neutral bloc . She challenges the world  --  Socialist and capitalist . China has a separate nuclear policy and is going-it-alone in economics and in foreign affairs . She is internationalist in words and nationalist in deeds . Now there is nothing esoteric , nothing " visionary " or " compensatory about this , as some of our Asia specialists would have us believe . It is schismatic Marxism ? a combination of faulty theory and left-wing infantilism , pure and simple . Yet this it seems to me is the only meaningful key by which we can intelligently measure China ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into or the duration of the war . And in this connection , our Pentagon would be well advised to take heed . For a leadership that has abandoned Marxian orthodoxy , that is independent and has run afoul of the restraints of theory and world So= cialist controls , that has substituted the tactics of " the bayonet for nuclear power " ? such a. leadership will be no " paper tiger . " JAY ROBINSON Rome , March 27 , 1966 The writer was sornierty regional specialist in the China Section , United States Information Service . ? Less U.S. Involvement - To the Editor : The current conflicts among South Vietnamese groups to whose support the United States claims to be committed offer new opportunities to President Johnson He has been following a policy that is the strategist 's equivalent of investors who throw good money after bad . Now the recipients of United States military and economic aid are demonstrating the unsoundness of our strategic investment in their cause . At the same time , they are also showing a remarkable capacity for achieving compromises in their internecine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence . None of the top contenders shas so far been injured , exiled , s.or killed , and even demonstra ? - tors and police seem to be much more restrained than on the - many past similar occasions . This can perhaps be explained as a result of a deliberate reduction in American participation in the internal affairs of south Vietnam . The United States should use - this opportunity to encourage - the extension of the on-going negotiations to include the National Liberation Front , and to reduce rather than increase the American involvement and investment . HERBERT J. SPIRO Professor of Political Science University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia , April 7 , 1966 ? To Preserve Western Unity To the Editor : No task Is more urgent today for the democracies than to stop ? the disastrous trend toward total disintegration of West European and Atlantic unity . Your " April 3 editorial- " Wilson and Europe " has brilliantly summed up how to do it . However , I can not believe that Prime Minister Wilson 's : immediate initiative to enter the Common Market , even if sueseessful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of - Western democracy , as suggested by your editorial , unless we can stop our disastrous military entanglement in Southeast Asia . . The six-point program of , our editorial is excellent . First and second , British-negotiations on Common Market entry to be followed by completion of the Kennedy Round . Third and fourth , negotiations for a European political union to be accompanied by discussions with the Soviet Union on a European settlement . Fifth and sixth , negotiations for an integrated European defense community to go hand in hand with the re= structuring of NATO into a twin-pillar . United States-European arrangement . The program Is excellent . But it can not and will not work , I am afraid , unless we can combine it with a seventh objective : immediate initiative to end the war in Vietnam . Initiative to Britain Mr. Wilson might be in the position now to wrest the initiative in Western Europe from General de Gaulle . And let 's hope that with the assistance of five of the present six members of the Common Market he will do just that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplish those tasks on the six-point program which , in addition to Western Europe , also involve the United States and Russia . And Mr. Johnson will hardly be in the position to do anything of that sort as long as the war in Vietnam saps our energies , diverts our . attention , dangerously strains our relations not merely with Russia , with whom by nuclear necessity we are fated to be partners in constructing a world of peaceful coexistence , but also with our European allies with whom we should be engaged in building a larger new home safe for the survival of Western democracy . STEPHEN BORSODY Professor of History Chatham College Pittsburgh , April 3 , 1966 ? Bar Group 's Support for Vietnam To the Editor : In his attempt letter of March 27 to defend the Amer. ican Bar Association 's hastily considered endorsement of the legality of our Government 's position in Vietnam , Benjamin Busch claims that my criticism letter March 13 was based on a failure to inquire into the circumstances . Inquiry actually revealed the misleading nature of Mr. Busch 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing hasty about consideration of the resolution by the executive council of the A.B.A. 's Section on International and Comparative Law , since the meeting of that council had . been arranged months in Advance . What he does not point out is that the Vietnam resolution was only placed on the council 's agenda on the very day of the meeting . Similarly , not only is the claim that the council debated the resolution " for a great number of hours " exaggerated ; what limited debate there was focused not upon the merits but upon the extent to which the resolution 's prefatory rhetoric should be permitted to attack Senator Wayne Morse . Absence of Debate Finally , it is erroneous to suggest that the absence of debate in the House of Delegates demonstrates the simplicity of the legal issues . The fact is that the elnergency procedure by which the resolution was brought to the floor took many delegates by surprise , that only a handful of the 250 delegates is versed in public international law , that most delegates were simply voting according to their patriotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom of the resolution felt coerced into going along , with the steam roller . The A.B.A. should have given practitioners and scholars on both sides of the question a chance to state their respective cases in a reasoned fashion . Sponsors of the proposed- resolution would then have had to face up to the difficult legal ' questions involved . Instead , the public was offered a resolution whose intellectual inadequacy makes a mockery of the A.B.A. proceedings and opinion . JisitostE A. COHEN Cambridge , Mass. , April 7 , 1966 The writer is Professor of Law at Harvard University . ? Consumption Curbs To the Editor : Certain policies now being advocated in Washington to curb inflation may have undesirable side effects . For example , cutting the ' f per cent investment credit is technically a strong ? anti-infla. tion move . But the credit was never intended to stabilize the economy ; it was to stimulate investment and growth . This goal would be sacrificed . Confining anti-inflation moves to higher personal income taxes ( but not higher corporate taxes ) , while reducing din . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income in the future . For it avoids most of the growth-depressing effects of taxes that directly discourage investment . For various reasons  --  our con. timing imbalance of payments , the wish to have both Great Society and expanded defense programs , our need to compete with forced-draft Socialist economies  --  we should try restricting current consumption rather than capital goods spending . PAUL GRAEBER Garden City , L. I. , April 5 , 1966 ? Use of Animals in Medical Research To the Editor : I write to stress the role of the medical scientist in animal experimental work , having recently attended the hearings on the subject before the subcommittee on livestock and feed grains of the House Committee on Agriculture . The interest of the scientific community in good care for animals used in research and education became apparent as scientist after scientist approved the objectives of the Poage bill , HR12488 , and proposed modifications which would enhance its humanitarian value . The interest of the vast majority of the scientific world which must utilize experimental animals to advance the fight against diseases of man and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laboratories in New York by officials of , the Department of Health in New York City as provided by the New York State Public Health Laws , Section 504 and 505 . The genuineness of this concern is also demonstrated by the agreement of most of the laboratories in New York to unannounced inspections by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . In an editorial some months ago you indicated that " British medical research has flourished for nearly ninety years under a legal code establishing rational controls over animal research . " According to the report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments on Animals , chaired by Sir Sydney Littlewood for the British Government and dated April 1965 , a surgical research scientist must have a license and four special certificates to perform survival studies on dogs , such as proved essential to development of openheart operations . Permission Required For certain types of study , special permission must not only be obtained from the Secretary of State , but 48 hours ' notice of performance of each individual experiment must be given to the appropriate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival experiments , demonstrations for the . education of medical students , use of horses , and various other procedures , a delay of over a month not infrequently occurs . The committee recommends withholding of permission to repeat experiments if they can be shown to have been done before , an unfortunate provision inasmuch as the importance of precise control observations is often not appreciated until further study . Whole concepts have changed and an entirely new approach to treatment of human or animal diseases has occurred repeatedly upon repetition in the light of better understanding . This progress could not have been accomplished with the British law as it stands . The entire report is riddled with an almost savage disregard of the humanitarian products of utilization of animals in research . Effect of Laws I am concerned that the British laws on animal research have stultified the advancement of many phases of medicine in Great Britain so desperately that we now see an increasing flow of British scientists to this country and Canada . Open-heart surgery developed here in the United States , not in Great Britain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in Great Britain . The development of pacemakers for correction of defective rhythm of the human heart occurred here and in Sweden , Modern methods of closed intestinal anastomosis were developed here . Replacements for hopelessly diseased heart valves developed here ; kidney transplantation was first developed here in the United States , not in Great Britain . CLARENCE DENNIS , M.D. Professor and Chairman Department of Surgery State University of New York Brooklyn , March 21 , 1966 ? Threat to Redwoods To the Editor : The once great redwood forest stretching 450 miles along the foggy northern California coast has vanished . This forest has never belonged to the people of this land through their system of national parks and forests . Cutting has had only token control , and the forest is gone . Editorial March 31 A few choice groves still exist precariously in state parks and one tiny national monument . But every winter these trees topple , sometimes by the hundreds , from wind and flood . The surrounding forest has been stripped right up to park borders in many cases , thus expos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one valley system where redwoods still grow in a fairly complete ecological unit . These redwoods thrive from Gold Bluffs Beach along the Pacific shore , where nearly rain-forest conditions prevail ansl elk browse among the dunes and meadows , to the hills above Redwood Creek at 2,000 feet , the limit of their growing range . This unit boasts the tallest trees in the world . They tower over 367 feet amid climax forest of pure redwood . For National Park It is in this area that the National Park Service , along with every major conservation group , has recommended a national park . Senator Metcalf of Montana and Representatives Saylor of Pennsylvania and Cohelan of California have introduced bills to acquire these redwoods in a complete unit . The Governor of California is seeking to secure the essential economic adjustments in the area . Inevitably the lumber companies are complaining . Their employes sport bumper stickers protesting the proposed park . And the counties are worrying about tax-rolls . The pressure is on . But considering that a great national treasure is about to vanish . forever , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years anyway , when these last redwoods have been cut , the proposed park is the best solution for all . We have waited too long to save the redwoods . The densest and most spectacular forest on the face of the planet is about to vanish . Hearings have not been called on these bills , and the lumbermen have moved in . We must act . This is the last chance . JOHN C. BUTTON . New York , March 30 , 1966 ? Government Frugality To the Editor : President Johnson has asked everyone from the heads of government agencies down to the American housewife to hold the line on spending and to develop thrifty spending habits . I find this approach rather ironic in the light of - seemingly daily requests from the Administration for millions of dollars to fight the sundry wars of the " Great Society . " I would like to suggest that the President begin to put into practice the frugality which he preaches . His example would produce the greatest savings of all . C. E. WARBURTON Jr . Lawrenceville , N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            