@@724915

txt Washington , July 24 - The White House today denied that a decision to raise American ground force commitments in Viet Nam had been made before current intensive conferences and preliminary factfindiros nn the subject began . The denial of widely published reports to that effect was issued by Bill D. Moyers , President Johnson 's press secretary , as Johnson went into a fourth day of consultations with key advisers , including Secretary of Defense Robert S. . The scene of the talks shifted to Camp David , the Presidential retreat in the Catoctin mountains of Maryland , when Johnson flew there last night . He took with him a number of members of his personal staff , and spent much time talking by telephone with others . Fundamental Decisions The continued talks and the attention given them by the administration 's official news sources substantiated previous indications that the decisions now brewing may be the most fundamental and far-reaching Made since the United States became involved in the Viet conflict . Among the possible courses under discussion are proposals to raise the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 175 , - 000 , and an enabling decision to buttress United States uniformed forces thru a major military reserve callup and draft increase . Today , Moyers responded to published speculation that those decisions and other related ones had been made before went to Viet Nam for a personal inspection , from which he returned Wednesday . Would Be Capricious Such reports , said Moyers , are " absolutely and categorically untrue . " I know that the President feels , as do his advisers , that for the government to make de ? cisions of the nature that are going on and then to erect a facade of post facto deliberations around them would not only be capriciousness of the worst kind , but hypocrisy , and would play havoc with the confidence people must have in their government , " Moyers continued . " No decisions have been made , " Moyers insisted . " When they are , they will be by the President , " on the basis of as complete a study of all information and insights available to Johnson thru his staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people will be informed . " Reckless Implications " It is irresponsible and reek less , as well as grossly untrue , " Moyers asserted , " for anyone inside or outside of government to imply that these decisions , v Ilatever they might be , were made before Secretary went to Saigon . " Moyers , who spends More time in conference with Johnson and has better access to his decision-making process than did his predecessor , George E. Reedy , implied that the major decisions may not be made until late next week . He said that Johnson still is seeking answers to some questions to bring " to the surface all the information necessary . " This process is expected to take until Monday or Tuesday , he said . Use of Helicopters " There will then follow further meetings as well as consultations with congressional leaders of both parties , " he said . Giving one of the sparse official Insights into the nature of the four-day discussions , Moyers said one of the topics Johnson and covered was " the use and adequacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Yesterday , he disclosed that the secretaries of the three military services had been asked to prepare for Johnson detailed assessments of manpower problems which might be involved in increasing the United States role in the war . Moyers said Johnson also was keeping in close touch with Secretary of State Dean Rusk and with Bundy , Johnson 's chief personal assistant on international security . Johnson took to Camp David with him the newly appointed United States representative to the United Nations , former Supreme Court Associate Justice Arthur J. Goldberg .                     