@@724897

txt The city will go into court today to oppose a challenge of its right to borrow $255.5 million to help finance the budget for the fiscal year that began July 1 . A. Brooklyn taxpayer 's suit charges that the borrowing would be unconstitutional . The challenge , if successful , could cripple the budget . A forced reduction of $255.8 million in the budget probably would require deep cuts in appropriations for schools and for police , fire , sanitation , library and other services . The court test , to be argued in Brooklyn Supreme Court before Justice Frank J. Pino , will seek to make permanent a temporary restraining order issued July 2 by Supreme Court Justice Mark A. Costantino prohibiting the city from borrowing the budget-balancing funds . The borrowing is being chal // lenged on the grounds that it did not receive the backing of a home-rule message of approval by the City Council ; that it would be a misuse of 1 city 's borrowing power ; and that it would exceed by $1301 million the current unreserved debt margin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request of the Citizens Tax Council , 420 Lexington Avenue , by a Brooklyn taxpayer , Charles Bugeja . Bugeja is president of the ; Brooklyn Civic League , which ! is affiliated with the Tax Coun-1 cii in its efforts to defeat proposed increases in the real es-I tate taxes . Ironically the taxpayer action ; pits two former aides of Mayor Wagner against the Mayor in : his efforts to implement the : 53.87 billion budget , largest ini the city 's history , and the last ! one to he adopted before he leaves office next Dec. 31 . The two former aides are Nelson Seitel , now executive ; ' director of the Citizens Tax Council and for many years a top Wagner adviser , and Abraham Lendenbaum , once a member of the City Planning Com-mission , The court attack . on the borrowing plan brought a wry " I told you so " yesterday from Controller Abraham D. Beanie , one of four candidates for the Democratic nomination for Mayor . Mr. Beame recalled that in an attack on the borrowing ! plan last June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in court . Mr. Beame criticized the plan as he cast the only votes against it in the Board of Estimate . Yesterday he repeated his charge of June 8 that the borrowing was " an unsound financial practice , a grave finan- , cial risk that can hurt the city 's credit standing and will cost the city millions of dollars chore each year in higher interest rates . " Such a policy , he reiterated , " will have its day of reckoning . " Mr. Seitel , a former City Labor Commossioner , was closely identified with Mr. Wagner for some years before Mr. Wagner became Mayor and through several of his years at City Hall . Mr. Lindenbaum , who is cowl : sel to the Citizens Tax Council , resigned in October , 1961 , as a member of the City , Planning ' Commission when a storm of public criticism arose over his participation in a fund-raising luncheon for Mayor Wagner and his running mates . Voted by Legislature That was during the 1961 municipal election campaign . Mr. Lindenbaum , at the luncheon at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called off the names of luncheon guests  --  largely real estate men and builders having business with the city  --  to ascertain the size of their campaign pledges . The $255.8 million b borrowino ! was authorized by the State Legislature near its June adjournment as a key measure to enable Mayor Wagner to close a gap between planned expenditures and estimated revenues and thus enable him to balance his 1965-66 budget . The borrowing was instituted as an interim device to tide the city over until it gets the authority for an increase of 20 per cent in real estate taxes . This increase requires adoption by two consecutive Legislatures  --  the first of these has approved it  --  and then approval by the voters in a referendum . James D. Carroll , acting Budget Director , said yesterday the city 's comment on the current court challenge would be withheld until the Corporation Council made his formal reply in today 's court proceedings .                     