@@721373

txt " Merit pay " is one of the most the same potential maximum - EDUCATION FOR DEVELOPMENT , Studio W. A. Shannon , of National School Boards Association . teacher salaries have been elevated to a just minimum . ( 2 ) Even then , a system of merit rating would " create rivalry , competitiveness and ' apple polishing ' among the teaching groups . " ( 3 ) No method of fair and objective judgment of a teacher 's proficiency has yet been devised . Mr. Shannon concedes , of course , that all teachers ' salaries should he improved . He would reject the attempts by some " taxpayers " to look on merit pay as a means of saving money  --  a deceptive lure of high reward for b. few at the expense of fair wages for the many . But he asks : " Is it wise to hold back compensation for excellence in teaching until the gargantuan task of elevating all salaries is accomplished ? " if ' either side yields  --  not the teachers who wo n't consider special recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the need for a geni:ral raising of teachers ' salaries -- the whole problem is stalemated . Mr. Shannon wants the phrase " merit pay " abandoned in favor of " an open ceiling . " The aim would be to attract able and ambitious students to teaching as a career that offers more than the mediocre security of pay for all . What about the question of competition and potential discord ? Mr. Shannon admits that the " open ceiling , " since it is a change from the familiar custom , would lead to uneasiness , at least in the beginning . But he refuses to concede that " a certain spirit of competitiveness , " normally considered part of our society , would necessarily hurt education . This view is supported , and pushed a step further , by Lindley J. Stiles , dean of the School of Education at the University of Wisconsin , who warns against the effects of the rigid scale on those who believe they have superior talent . " The resulting equal treatment of unequal professional performances tends to debase professional integrity and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ' organization men ' . " Judgment Question What about the question of judgment ? Should the " doctrine of individual differences which is so frequently urged for children " be abandoned when there is a discussion of teachers , asks Mr. Shannon . He says the key to Lhat question is not only in the teachers ' willingness to compete but in the teachers ' knowledge that they will share in formulating the policy of any open:Tiling plan . This is a polite way of skirting the truth of one of the supreme practical obstacles : the teachers ' frequent lack of confidence in school administrators . Important as reform of the salary concept may be , it can not be divorced from the entire way of life of the teaching profession . The teacher who does not want to be an " organization man " in terms of his paycheck , is not likely to he happy about being an " organization man " when it conies to curriculum planning . Example at Hand Part of the answer may he in the example of higher education where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other means of rewarding superior talent and performance have managed slowly but effectively to pierce the ceiling . Like most educational prob- , lens , this one is not exactly new . In 1907 E. C. Cole , then president of the National Editcation Association , told a conH vention : " Teachers should be paid on the merit plan . Salaries should be determined on merit and not by the clock . " But today the debate is revived in a different climate of urgency . The talents of the best potential teachers  --  especially in science , but increasingly also in other fields -- are in demand in industry , government and other professions as never before . It is very unlikely that a mere improvement of the traditional salary scale , important as this continues to he , will stop teaching 's loss of the best and most promising talent . Nor is there any doubt that education ever needed such talent more desperately than today . unfortunate terms to be devised by educators . It conjures up a great divide between teachers with and without merit , between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it leads to visions of all-powerful favor - dispensing administrators checking off " merits " and " demerits " to be translated into dollar bills on payday . An attempt to burst the bubble of fear and misconception was made by William A. Shannon , executive director of the National School Boards Association , at the recent Summer Conference on Merit Salary at Syracuse University . " No single issue can arouse more ire , confusion and bitter criticism than that of merit rating for teacher salaries , " he said . What , he asked , are the most . commonly cited dangers and objections ? He listed them and then knocked them down . ( 1 ) No merit pay system should be initiated until all The crisis in the Congo and the preparation for independence of other regions highlighted the need for rapid educational preparation of the under-developed countries . Based on a recent series of regional conferences , the United Nations Educational . Scientific and Cultural Organization , at its general conference in Paris next fall , will consider recommendations to speed up such programs as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outdoor literacy class in Khartoum , the Sudan .. Students in Rangoon , Burma , ( left ) are shown learning to make scientific equipment under the instruction of a UNESCO expert . The girls ( right ) behind microscopes are attending a modern school in Ghana where education for women is getting special attention .                     