@@723267

txt London It looks as if Harold Macmillan will remain Prime Minister at least till the beginning of August when the three months of parliamentary summer reress is due to begin . This was the deduction atter a weekend of intense political speechmaking and debate up and down the country . George Wigg , Labor Party member of Parliament who broke the Profumo scandal in the House of Commons , has stated in newspaper and television interviews that another major government scandal involving security risks will be exposed wtihin six months . Panic Resisted Mr. Macmillan himself made a fighting speech to his supporters at Bromley in Kent . He said , " In 40 years of political life I have tried to do my best for my party and my country . I will not make my whole life worthless or meaningless by being untrue to those convictions either through panic or obstinacy . " The Prime Minister 's close associates point out that he has already proved his resistance to panic by refusing to be stampeded into resignation when a section of his parliamentary following deserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Profumo case . The same associates insist that Mr. Macmillan will not hang on as Prime Minister if he is shown ( .1 ) that it would be in the best interests of party and country to have a new Prime Minister and ( 2 ) if the Conservative Party can resolve its differences on who should be his successor . A section of the Tory Party remains doubtful about this assurance . These Tory critics contend that Mr. Macmillan is himself convinced he should continue after August and even lead the Tories at the next election . They are busy debating among themselves what tactics to employ to secure Mr. Macmillan 's resignation in time to get his successor settled in well ahead of the election , Some of them are deeply concerned by what they regard as the maneuvers of the party managers which denied them their say in private party meetings after the Profumo debate . Election Objective The Labor opposition is preparing its own new all-out attack on the Prime Minister and his Cabinet . But the opposition objective is an autumn general election and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another it looks like an anxious and difficult period ahead for the Macmillan government , for Parliament , and for the nation as a whole . Apart from the political battle in Parliament , unsavory court cases are due to be heard and there will be a new probing of those responsible for security . The government has promised that no one who is guilty will be spared in the task of uncovering and clearing up the sordid background of the Profumo affair .                     