@@724414

txt Ever see a " fish " cornered hat ? If so it 's obviously a Yankee " fish " and probably a member of the Ichthyologists , an organization which calls itself " unique in the annals of chemical engineering . " As originally founded in 1931 the organization had no headquarters . Although there were no dues , the fiscal year began Oct. 7 , " which is Hervey Skinner 's birthday . " The purpose of this last by-law has probably been lost to history since keeping of records was forbidden . Annual Meeting There 's a " smelt " now to " keep such records as arc deemed absolutely necessary " but " fish " tend to frown on ton much work , It 's possible that most people have never seen a " fish , " but this week there are a lot of them floating around the Stotler Hilton Hotel in Boston . The " fish , " led by " kingfish " W. 13 , Parker , are hosts for the 57th Annual Meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kingfish " too long . They are elevated to the Order of Xiphias ( swordfish ) which is made up of all past " kingfish " plus Ted Weaver " who suggested the idea in 1956 . " The " mackerel " is n't allowed to stay in office either " since in general it is hoped and expected that he will have learned enough to be ' king-fish . ' " In the early nondues paying days members were either " economic royalists , forgotten men , or honorary members . " Now there are dues , and a " shark " to collect them . The members have become " active and sedentary " depending on whether the " shark " catches them . Honorary membership is and always has been reserved ( for six months only ) for those who provide refreshments for the entire membership . In addition the Order of Xiphias , " appropriate new orders may be created on the spur of the moment in recognition of outstanding achievement or especially maritorious service by chemical engineers to the profession and to the society in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Orders of the Harengus Rubrus ( red herring ) and Hippo-campus ( sea horse ) . Technical talks are forbidden at meetings of the Ichthyologists since there are ample opportunities to hear such talks elsewhere . However , when it comes to planning a convention , the " fish " are experts . In fact , the organization was founded by the group who planned the Boston meeting of the institute in 1931 . This year , whenever you have a. question to ask , just look for a three-cornered hat . What technical session is scheduled next ? . . . Oh yes , Chemical Engineering in the Fishing Industry .                     