@@723280

txt Seven persons were killed and 36 were injured at 5 P.M. today when a Mohawk Airlines twin-engined plane crashed on take-off at the Rochester-Monroe County Airport . A violent thunder and hail storm struck after the plane had cleared the runway . The Martin 404 propeller craft tipped suddenly and went down nose ' first in mud at a point where work was being done to extend a runway and relocate a road . The mud may have provided a cushion for the passenger cabin , but fire flashed in the front end . The pilot and co-pilot died , as did five passengers believed to have been seated in the forward part of the plane . The impact hurled the entities many yards from the fuselage . Some passengers scrambled out ' through a hatch near the tail and others squeezed through a gash in the cabin . Some wandered dazedly , calling for help . Firemen , sheriffs , Civil Defense force3 and all available ambulances raced to the scene . The fire was quickly extinguished with chemical foam . The victims were taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical condition . Twenty-seven others were in fair to good condition . Among the dead was Roy E. Drew of Pelham Manor , N. Y. , controller of Sylvania Electric Products , Inc. , of New York City . He was one of four top executives of the company on the flight . Gene K. Beare of Darien , // Conn. , president of Sylvania , suffered a broken leg . David K.1 Elwell of Pelham Manor , the director of new product planning , and Dr. Lee L. Davenport of Greenwich , Conn. , president of General Telephone and Electronics Laboratories , which is part of the parent company , were both seriously injured . The dead pilot was Capt . Richard M. Dennis of Fairview , N. J. , a 39-year-old father of four . He joined the airline in 1954 and had 16,000 hours of flying time . The dead co-pilot was John W. Neff , 33 , of Wilmington , Del . The stewardess , 19-year-old Marie Ann Miara of Sayreville , N. J. , was injured . Three members of the New York State Commission for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , housing director ; John B. Sullivan , education director , and Lloyd Trent , field representative . Forty passengers and a crew of three were aboard the plane . There was only one woman passenger on what was described as a " businessman 's flight . " Thirty-three of the passengers were bound for White Plains and were said to be residents of Westchester and Connecticut . The flight , No. 112 , originated here and was due at Newark at 6:35 P. M. after the stop at White Plains at 6:05 . The Civil Aeronautics Board in Washington sent a nine-man accident investigating team to the airport . The Bufaflo office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation also sent agents to the scene , as it does in every commercial airplane crash . 4 Miles From Downtown The airport is almost four miles from downtown Rochesten Runways are being extended to handle jet air traffic and the former eastern boundary of the airport , Beahan Road , is being changed . There was a good deal of construction machinery near the crash scene . Joseph Pearson of Tonawanda , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pull victims from the plane . Some had been burned and most had been injured . " We just got them clear and left them in the mud while we were trying to get more out , " he said . One survivor said that when the plane crashed , he saw the outside daylight . " I just headed for the daylight and crawled out , " he said . Another passenger wandered away from the wreckage , hailed a taxi and checked into the Mohawk Hotel . Another passenger , Richard Baldwin of Danbury , Conn. , said : " The plane went completely sideways and came down on its left side and hit the ground . I , sat on the left side and saw the wing crumble . I unsnapped my belt and crawled out . I think that most of the people escaped from the hole in the plane . " First Fatality Since 1950 Observers gave varying estimates of how high the plane had climbed . Most said less than 100 feet . An airline spokesman said that Mohawk had not had a passenger fatality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fatal accident in the line 's 18-year history under the names Robinson Airlines and Mohawk . The airline serves 54 cities in a 10-state area extending from Detroit to Boston and from New York City to Toronto . Mr. Drew was elected controller of Sylvania Electric Products , Inc. , in January . In 1962 he was controller and assistant treasurer of the Flax Corporation in Hartford , Conn . He joined Sylvania in 1942 and held several executive positions until 1962 . He was born in Easton , Mass. , and was a graduate of the Bentley College of Accounting and Finance in Boston . He and the three other executives of Sylvania and General Telephone &; Electronics , of which the former is a subsidiary , were returning to their homes after attending a meeting in Batavia , N. Y. , on new product planning .                     