@@725361

txt The Army 's ouster of President Nkrumah in Ghana fits into a political pattern that crystallized with the recent military coup in Nigeria . But in Ghana the absence of Dr. Nkrumah , who was on an official visit to Peking , has spared him the violent end of the Nigerian politicians against whom the Nigerian officers ' moves were directed . In the early hours of Thursday morning , Accra radio broadcast the following announcement in the name of Col. E. K. ' Kotoka , commander of an Army brigade that has recently been holding maneuvers in the vicinity of the Ghanaian capital : " Fellow citizens of Ghana : " I have come to inform you that the military with the cooperation of the police have taken over the government of Ghana . The myth surrounding Kwame Nkrumah has been broken . Parliament has been dissolved . Kwame Nkrumah has been dismissed from office . " All ministers have been dismissed . , The Convention People 's Party is dissolved with effect from now . It will be illegal to belong to it . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons in detention will be released in due course . " For the most part , reports indicated that the popular reaction to the coup was enthusiastic . Happy crowds were out on the streets of Accra , and people gathered hopefully outside the prison where many of Dr. Nkrumah 's political detainees have been housed . Marxist influence seen Ghana was the first black African country to become independent , in 1957 , in the movement that has led to the withdrawal since of colonial power from most of the continent . Kwame Nkrumah already had won leadership of the independence movement before departure of the British , and he had headed the Ghanaian Government ever since . To many he seemed to set the pace in trends that became common in a number of newly independent African countries . Giving himself the name Osagyefo ( Redeemer ) , he sought to establish himself as the personal embodiment of national sovereignty . Often with strong-arm methods , he gradually introduced into his land a single party , and any suspected critics or opponents got short shrift from him . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a strong Marxist influence in some of his thinking . Between the two world wars , Dr. Nkrumah had been active in the early days of Pan-Africanism , associating in London with such men as Jomo Kenyatta , George Pad-more , Paul Robeson , and W. E. B. Dubois . This early engagement in the black man 's struggle gave him the feeling that he had a special role in Africa ; but his interventions in African politics outside Ghana in recent years were often resented by other African leaders . Countrymen chafe Initially , his countrymen a acclaimed him as the father of independence . But as the years passed , more and more of them chafed under his autocratic hand . The circumstances of Thursday 's military coup suggest that it was inspired by the same motives that led last month to the overthrow of the Nigerian Government , Disillusioned by what seemed to them abuse of power and overweening personal aggrandizement , the educated Ghanaian middle class has risen to overthrow what had become to them a stifling dictatorship . As in many underdeveloped countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below the top in the army . It is in their ranks that are found the educated who , because of the terms of army service , are not corrupted either by money or power  --  and who are most sensitive to the yearning for a fairer deal under independence than most of their fellow countrymen have gotten hitherto . Accra and Jakarta dramas jar Afro . Asian world : Page 4.                     