@@721712

txt The recent arrest in Britain of five persons accused of spying for the ? Soviet : Union . is bolstering Congressional opposition to any movement toward closer cooperation with Atlantic allies in the field of nuclear weapons . With an " I told you so " air , influential members of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy are citing the British case as confirmation of their doubts about sharing nuclear secrets , even with the most trusted allies . Their privately expressed reaction , which could have widespread repercussions in the whole field of atomic cooperation , was brought into the open by Senator . Clinton P. Anderson of New Mexico , a senior Democrat on the influential committee . Chinks in the Wall In his weekly news letter to his constituents , he wrote : " Four . years ago some of us on the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy warned the Eisenhower Administration against turning over to Great Britain secret information on our first nuclear submarine , the Nautilus . We knew that the British atomic-energy security wall had some chinks and wanted them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ignored . The information was ? given . Now the British have uncovered a spy ring which had in its possession nuclear submarine details . " Is n't it better . to ? be safe than sorry ? " U. S. Assisted Project The five persons , arrested early this month in Britain were accused of having sent anti-submarine data developed at the Portland naval base to Moscow . There were also suggestions by British officials that at least one of the five had obtained details of the Dreadnought , the British nuclear submarine built with technical assistance and an atomic power plant provided by the United States . Thus far , according to Navy sources here , there is no sign that any United States submarine secrets have been transmitted to the Soviet Union . However , the United States is forced to rely on information provided by Britain and , according to officials , ; is still checking on whether there was a security breach .. Even if it develops that no United States secrets were involved , the spy case has had its impact in reinforcing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional committee has tended to guard most jealously information dealing with nuclear submarines . The committee 's bolief has been that the submarines are one military field in which the United States , has a clear lead . Cooperation with allies in the development of nuclear submarines has been a subject of controversy between the committee and the executive branch since 1956 , when the Administration secretly entered into an agreement with Britain to assist in the construction of the Dreadnought . At that time the committee wrote a unanimous letter to President Eisenhower protesting that the agreement violated the Atomic Energy Law . Bet hind this protest , as Senator Anderson . indicated , was the fear that Britain could not protect the secrets . Committee Not Informed In December , 1957 , without advance consultation with or approval from the committee , thet Administration offered to help members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization develop and build nuclear submarines . In 1958 the committee reluctantly went along with a change in the secrecy provisions of the Atomic Energy Law to permit such cooperation , as well as a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spy case , . according to committee members , are expected also to result in a more cautious approach toward giving a greater nuclear capability to NATO . The committee is taking a particularly careful look at a new b aareement permitting certain information about the size and yields of atomic weapons to be handed to Italy . The agree-1 ment was submitted to Congress ! by the Eisenhower Administration Jan. 18 over the objections , of some committee leaders . It ; automatically goes into effect in sixty days unless vetoed by a ; joint resolution of the House ' and Senate . The committee is not likely . to block the Italian agreement if it deals only with secrets that are viewed as not particularly , important . There is growing committee resistance , however , to any further agreements along , the same lines , ' though several : have already been negotiated . Also under way is a Congressional re-examination of a pro-. posal , advanced during the final ! days of the Eisenhower Admin .. ; istration , for turning over four ; Polaris nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with United States assistance . Significantly , Representative : Chet Holifield of California , the new Democratic chairman of the ' Congressional committee , called ! on President Kennedy Wednes-1 day to discuss this , proposal . On the basis of an inspection trip ; to Europe last fall , Mr. Holifield is known to have serious ' reservations about many existing security arrangements and to question the wisdom of taking ' the bigger step of turning , nuclear warheads over to a sep-1 arate force .                     