@@724400

txt Only 3 percent of the graduates from the college of agriculture at the University of Massachusetts actually go into farming nowadays . Tnougn the percentages vary , the basic story is the same all over the United States : Onetime " cow colleges " are turning out fewer and fewer farmers . The reason , of course , is that the nation needs fewer farmers each year . Great strides forward in farming methods now permit far fewer farmers to raise far more crops . An increasing number of agricultural college graduates today are entering such diverse fields as city planning , hotel management , food processing , research , banking , or forestry . There are more than 500 different farm-related jobs open to graduates of today 's agricultural colleges . All this has meant drastic changes in the curriculum of agricultural colleges . A survey by The Christian Science Monitor at agricultural colleges in every part of the United States reveals that : ? Only about 10 percent of their graduates go into farming . ? Hence , these colleges are teaching fewer how-to-do-it farming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better agricultural colleges report that up to 50 percent of their curriculum is in arts and sciences . ? Farm-related jobs " go begging " each year . The colleges can not meet the heavy demand for the nonfarming agriculturist . , ? Some universities have set up two-year vocational programs to teach farming . Others are teaching would-be farmers how to be good businessmen as well as good farmers . Deans Report Deans of five leading Mid-west agricultural colleges unanimously report a trend toward greater emphasis on the liberal arts and sciences . " Agriculture has become so complex , " asserts Dean L. B. Howard of the University of Illinois . " that there is now a great need for graduates . who understand economics , sociology , and other subjects not strictly agricultural . Our curriculum is adjusted to this demand . " This adjustment has been taking place among agricultural colleges for the past 10 years . Every college contacted reports similar changes . Names Changed . yntoone of mese changes is the fact that many colleges are changing their name to " university . " Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped the term " college " and added " university . " The change is more than name deep . Historically , these land-grant universities have taught men to farm the land . They have taught animal husbandry . They have taught agronomy , the study of soil . and horticulture , the study of plants . // Farm Colleges Broaden // Now all of these specific courses are lumped into general topics , Instead of studying so many detailed courses in production farming , a student is taking more so-called basic courses . He is taking more physics , chemistry , biology , history , mathematics , economics , literature . One dean reports his eastern university is spending more time teaching agricultural students to write and speak well . He adds , however , that this problem is not the farmers ' alone . Purdue University has increased its requirement of nine hours in English and speech to 15 hours , for instance . The University of California 's college of  --  agriculture at Davis is right now in the midst of curriculum changes . There will be fewer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on specialization . Davis will giVe wider training for more professions . ? International Slant At Texas A &M; University fewer agricultural subjects are being taken by freshmen and sophomores . One of the newest areas for some agricultural colleges has been international farming . Students can take courses now which will prepare them to teach farming abroad . Cornell University has set up a division of international agricultural development . Cornell 's College of Agriculture enrolls 1.940 undergraduate students . It and Iowa State University are the two largest colleges of agriculture in the country . " No field holds more opportunity than international agricultural development . " reports a university publication . The division is in its second year of operation . It places specific emphasis on training foreign students to farm in their particular country . It exchanges students with universities abroad . It teaches American students to teach agriculture abroad . " A tremendous challenge to United States land-grant universities is the training of foreign students in subject matter and in ways of persuading farmers to accept this new knowledge , " says the publication . Tropical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only beginning to be tapped . Many of the graduates from the University of Hawaii 's College of Tropical Agriculture are taking jobs on Pacific islands and in Asian countries . Their studies are directed particularly at tropical farming . Dr. Shosuke Goto , assistant dean of the college , reports that tropical and subtropical plants such as papaya , passion fruit , and macadamia nuts are emphasized in horticulture . Next term Cornell will offer similar tropical courses for the first time . As a result of the changing curriculums of agricultural colleges , enrollments have begun to increase . Until a few years ago practically every college was faced with decreasing or leveling-off - enrollments . Now , about 8,000 students are graduated each year from agricultural colleges . One in four graduates go on to graduate school .                     