@@725847

txt Do n't look for Wall Street to shake off its troubles too soon . True , many blue-chip stocks now are reasonably priced . And the market bounced back quickly from its 1966 lows this week . But stock-market forecasts remain on the gloomy side . The market still reflects many disconcerting features of the economic outlook . Among them higher corporate taxes , slimmer profit margins , continued inflationary pressures , Vietnam war strains . Analysts doubt that any sustained rally is on the horizon . They ' figure the market will zigzag for some months . And probably have to touch the recent lows again before bottoming out . But more good news from Washington could give the market zip . This week 's announcement that wartime controls are not contemplated by the administration triggered the biggest one-day rally in three years . It dispelled fears . What Wall Street would welcome is more positive news from policy-makers on the Potomac . Canada and the United States may be moving toward more areas of free trade . Apparently Canada is pleased with the qualified free-trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now it is discussing the possibility of widening the area of free trade to other industries . Green Giant Company , a United States firm , has bought out a Canadian food firm . It wants to ship across the border in both directions without paying tariffs . Some sections of the chemical industry have also been exploring the prospects for free trade . Meanwhile , the auto pact has had spectacular results . Canadian exports to the United States in the first half of 1966 soared to over $300 million from $58 million in the first six months of 1965 . The United States exports to Canada moved up to about $575 million  --  some $175 million more than in the same period of 1965 . One machine was saying to another , " Did you read that novel by . . ? " It has almost reached that stage . T.h , e. , , 4rst .. : . e , isctronic optical character-recognition equipment " was used commercially nearly a decade ago . But only now is industry beginning to accept the reading machine in a significant way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that reads handwritten numbers from small documents , such as retail sales slips . Industry sources say IBM will soon announce a commercial page-reading machine ? one that can read both printed letters and numerals . A reading machine is generally used to feed computers with information it has " read " from documents . This saves the usual step of an army of girls key-punching the data onto punch cards . It is when these intermediate human steps are completely eliminated that the breakthrough will occur to the next level of automation . Trends ? . ? Real-estate chiselers had better watch out . Congress is on their trail . It is after the fast-buck salesmen who unload " home sites " in Florida swamps or sell inaccessible Arizona landscape as " ideal retirement lots . " The Senate securities subcommittee has lust approved legislation designed to protect purchasers from such rigged deals . The measure would require firms or iniividuals engaged in mass sales of building ots to register extensive financial information with the Securities and Exchange - 2ommission . It would require also that buy ! rs be supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , n the rise . The Department of Justice is churned up wer the charges and their volume . Result : a tougher policy on violators . Donald Turner , antitrust chief , says cur  --  ent fines have proved ineffective . Mr. Turner says he will ask the courts for ail sentences as normal procedure ? at east in more flagrant violations . At the same time the Justice Department s pressing Congress to increase fines to 500,000-10 times the present ceiling . This hard-knuckled new attitude emerged his week . It follows hard on indictments by Pittsburgh federal grand jury against ending plumbing-fixture manufacturers . Charges of price-fixing involve more than 1 billion . If proved , they would constitute major case . Recently , a flurry of price-fixing indictnents has been returned . If they continue t present levels , the next several months ould nearly set a record for such cases . And their pace , the Justice Department yarns , may be stepped up .                     