@@728039

txt Policemen and demonstrators clashed today as several hundred Negroes , supported by , some whites , pressed their demands for jobs on construction projects . One hundred eighty persons were arrested on this second day of demonstrations . Fortyfive persons , including 12 policemen , were injured . The clash took place on the north end of the Manchester Bridge , which leads to the downtown section . Blacks earlier had assembled at the $31.9-million Three Rivers Stadium , being built near the north end of the bridge . The stadium has been the focal point of demands by the Black Construction Coalition , a loosely organized combination of Negro groups . Construction jobs , the coalition says , have been denied to Negroes because they are not admitted to membership in craft unions . The demonstrators , abiding by a court injunction , had limited pickets at the stadium this morning to 20 at two entrances . 11-nn a group of about RO demonstrators marched past the stadium to the bridge . When they reached the downtown , or south , end of the bridge they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Police Superintendent James W. Slusser said that some of the demonstrators pulled a jeep across the bridge , disrupting traffic . At that point the police tried to disperse the crowd . Policemen said that some demonstrators threw stones and aimed a chemical spray at them and that one officer was cut across the face . The police then moved into the crowd , which included some women and children , and swung billy clubs . Twelve persons were arrested in the bridge battle . The police reported confiscating five cans of chemical spray . Superintendent Slusser said that the marchers had staged Several hundred demonstraa confrontation " by placing the jeep across the bridge and that " police were attacked . " Byrd Brown , a lawyer , who is chairman of the Pittsburgh branch of the Na- , tional Association for the Advancement of Colored People . said the police started the fight . tors then regrouped and marched single file across the Sixth Street Bridge . They jammed some downtown streets , tying up trattic . Angered by a downtown traffic tie-up caused by demonstrators yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another tie-up . So when today 's tie-up occurred , the police began making mass arrests . They sealed off the marchers by posting policemen in front and back of their line of march , then brought in vans to take those arrested to hearings . The arrests , which included those of a priest and several nuns , were conducted in an orderly fashion . A Pittsburgh Press reporter , Ann Carey , and a Pittsburgh Press photographer , Tony Kaminski , were among those arrested . Miss Carey said that a tactical officer came up to her and said " You reporters are bad as the marchers , tying up the city . " Following the arrests , Mr. Brown of the N.A.A.C.P. told the demonstrators to disperse but to return to the stadium at 6 A.M. tomorrow . The injured today included 30 demonstrators and three construction workers . None of the injuries was reported serious . Twenty of those arrested were charged with violating the court limitation on picketing . Sixteen arrests were on charges of inciting to riot . The other arrests were for disorderly conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently disclosed that most building trade unions here have less than 2 per cent Negro membership . The Master Builders Association , representing contractors , reached an agreement with the Pittsburgh Building Trade Council last week for a program offering apprentice training and eventual union membership to between 90 and 100 u ask i I led individuals . But spokesmen for the Black Construction Coalition said they were not consulted and rejected the agreement , which had not been accepted by the electricians , steamfitters and asbestos workers unions . The protesters have centered their attention on the stadium  - -  which will be used by the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball club and the Pittsburgh S teeters football team  --  because it is supported by public funds . Yesterday they succeeded in halting work on the stadium and 10 other projects totaling approximately $200-million , including the 64-story United States Steel Corporation headquarters building going up in downtown Pittsburgh . Today , however , construction workers returned to their jobs .                     