@@725495

txt President Johnson asks more time before drastic action against inflation , but it 's not clear here how much longer he can wait , Difficulties are mounting . Consumer price increases have slowed slightly but keep on rising aptively . Congress is not cutting back expenditures . Organized labor rejects the voluntary federal " guideposts " proposed as a ceiling for wage increases . Capital spending plans by United States industry show a big increase , though Mr. Johnson 's appeal for a curb may cut it back some , Farm protests against federal efforts to hold back agricultural prices are worrying politicians . Antiinflation brakes put on by the Federal Reserve System have raised interest rates so high and sponged up so much credit that trade association heads call it " intolerable . " Efforts by New York Stock Exchange heads to let some of the air out of Wall Street speculation by imposing higher margin requirements produced a momentary drop in values . President Johnson , meanwhile , absorbed in Vietnam , continued his hortatory approach . He summoned members of his // *Johnson : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor-Management Policy to meet here May 4-5 . Labor Secretary W. Willard Wirtz , committee chairman , called the conference for the President . To each Mr. Johnson wrote : " Today we are facing the basic question of how to continue our unparalleled prosperity and maintain a stable and healthy economy . The first task of the committee will be to address itself to this most important question . " Ironically , the United States never has been more prosperous . This makes the problem . The administration wants to spin prosperity out so that it will continue the expansion begun five years ago . The difficulty is that wheels are beginning to spin so fast that shortages and irregularities are occurring , threatening to shake the vehicle to pieces like a vibrating airplane . Economists stirred Economists are stirred by the situation . Many feel there is still an arguable case for postponing higher taxes . Taxes would put a brake on spending and check inflation by checking the economy . Of course that would probably cut down employment , too . Politically it is about the last thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called " new economics " ( in which the government intervenes actively to stimulate or slow down the economy ) the old-fashioned forces of the market place would operate . The business cycle by now would have produced an accelerated expansion , a boom , a crisis ( as the supply of goods outran the supply of spending power ) , and probably a slump ? and then the cycle would begin all over . Harsh but workable This process produced terrible panics , like 1929 , but it had the one virtue of being self-controlled . Few businessmen or economists want to return to laissez-faire ( unregulated private initiative ) now . On the other hand , the penalty on government of taking partial responsibility for the economy is the thankless job of applying brakes now and then . So ' far Washington is applying monetary restraints ( higher interest rates and reduced credit ) but not fiscal brakes ( higher taxes ) except in a mild way . Here are latest developments : Living costs in March climbed 0.4 percent , a big jump , though not so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this to temporary food conditions . Larry Blackmon , president of the National Association of Home Builders , declares home building will near collapse if interest rates are n't reduced . Builders argue that monetary restraints unfairly penalize them . The annual authoritative McGraw-Hill survey . of plans for plant expansion and equipment spending by corporations reveals a proposed 19 percent jump over last year . The survey was made before Mr. Johnson 's plea for restraint . Even with the presidential plea it could be an explosive inflationary force . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     