@@727845

txt The chief issue in the mayoral race in this capital of Eastern liberalism is turning out to be , of all things , " law and order . " Politicians seem to sense a growing outrage among the voters over rampant crime ? not only by criminals , but by protesters ranging from minority-group extremists to dissident students in colleges and high schools . As a result , conservative candidates for mayor are running strong . And the liberal candidates are starting to talk like conservatives . Mayor John V. Lindsay , the hard-pressed incumbent , is no exception . He picked as his running mate for city council president the second highest ranking officer in the city police department , Chief Inspector Sanford D. Garelik . Hawkish ' position The first major crusade of the Mayor 's reelection campaign was to persuade the state Legislature , over the objections of the patrolmen 's union , to authorize a fourth platoon to put more city policemen on the streets during the high-crime hours of 6 p.m. to 2 a.m . He won  --  and probably won a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would run again , the first point he listed in reviewing his first-term record was that the police force had been " dramatically expanded and modernized . " The " law and order " issue looms even larger in the campaign of the Mayor 's conservative opposition in the Republican primary election June 17 . State Sen. John H. Marchi describes himself as " very hawkish on civil disobedience . State Assemblyman Vito P. Battista , who had been running for mayor , says he has put " personal ambitions aside " to run fdr comptroller on Mr. Marchi 's slate . Mr. Battista is also plugging for safer streets . The front-runner for the Democratic nomination , former Mayor Robert F. Wagner , is banking heavily on voters ' memories of his relatively tranquil three terms . At every opportunity , he contrasts those 12 years with " the agony in which my city finds itself today . " Rep. Adam Clayton Powell , who entered the race for the Democratic nomination Tuesday , said " New York needs someone to bring order out of chaos . " Mailer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx possesses impeccable liberal credentials  --  a top rating by Americans for Democratic Action ( ADA ) and first Eastern congressman to endorse Eugene J. McCarthy ( D ) of Minnesota for president last year . But few may guess it from his campaign for mayor . He has , among other things , published a book entitled " To Walk the Streets Safely , " which concerns just what the title implies . He also selected as his candidate for controller a former police commissioner , Vincent L. Broderick . Even author-activist Norman Mailer , an admitted onetime " cop hater , " warmed up to a classroom of policemen at the police academy . " A good cop , " he told them with a politician 's tact , " is a fantastically complicated guy . " The lone liberal holdout on " law and order " is Herman Badillo , borough president of the Bronx . With characteristic independence  --  he chose a woman , Mrs. Elinor C. Guggenheimer , to run on his ticket for city council president  --  he charges that his fellow contenders are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and campaign as liberals . " By a staff photographer John V. Lindsay More policemen on the streets By a staff photographer Robert F. Wagner Banking heavily on memories By a staff photographer James H. Scheuer Speaking for street safety Associated Press Norman Mailer No longer a " cop hater "                     