@@721598

txt New York , Dec. 19 ( An ? Survivors and rescuers thought fast and behaved heroically to save countless lives ' today when fire surged thru the huge aircraft carrier Constellation . Eyewitnesses told story ofafter story of men who owed their lives to other men ? fellow construction workers , firemen , and volunteers . At some points , rescuers cut thru steel to reach men banging on the walls of compartments where they were trapped . A giant crane was used to lift to safety a platform loaded with men . Rope Ladders Save Many Someone else thought to lower rope ladders that helped many men escape the blaze . Tugs and barges were pulled close to take men off . Firemen plunged into suffocating smoke to drag others to safety . Some came out choking or were carried out . One construction worker , Matthew Rizzo , 49. told how he and others were warned by their foreman to get off just after a fire alarm sounded . " We dashed for the upper deck , " Rizzo said . " I saw a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him with us . ; Then we went over the side , down lines to a barge which was moored alongside the vessel . Waited in Smokestack " The barge became overloaded until the water rose overdeck and we began to yell . . . . A navy tug drew alongside and we all climbed on board it . " A welder , who dill n't want to give his name , said : " When the alarm sounded I ran back for my buddies . We then went to the smokestack on the second deck . About 75 to 100 of us crowded in there , closed the door and stayed there for two hours until we learned it was safe to get out . " Allet . Block , 50 , a joiner , told of being caught far below decks and climbing upward into ever-thick e n i n g smoke . Saved by Flashlight " I do n't know how I got out , " he said . " It was pitch black . Then someone came up with a flashlight . It was a miracle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally reached the side and went down rope ladders , adding : " I do n't know where they came from , but they were strung all over the side of the ship . I climbed down the ladder and got into a tug that was alongside . " Block said some men jumped into the water and tugs picked them up . Mike Frazzitta , 41 , said he and about 20 others were standing on a scaffold , working inside a bomb elevator shaft , when someone yelled " fire . " Vent Leads to Safety " I looked down , " he said . " Flames were shooting up the shaft . . . . One guy spotted a vent and he jumped right thru it . We all followed . It led to a catwalk and rope ladders . . . " Lincoln Bell said he was working below decks on some catapult mechanism " when some guys yelled from above Let 's get out of here ! ' - and I did . " When I got to the flight deck I saw that the entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other men I was carried to safety on a platform lifted by a giant crane . " " Said Silly Things " A shout from someone " Leave the ship , the whole main deck 's on fire , " sent Walter Knoll , 35 , and others racing to the second deck . They were driven back by " great clouds of smoke . " They took refuge in a compartment , pulled the door tight , and stayed there an hour and a half until firemen found them . " We were pretty worried , " Knoll said . " We said silly things . " As one begrimed worker reached safety , after being led from a spot below the fire line , he was asked what he had seen of the rescue work . He summed it up this way : " Heroics are commonplace here today , and by God you can be sure that these fellows will never forget it . "                     