@@722962

txt Washington , Feb. 24 ? A bi-partisan Senate group headed by Majority Leader Mike Mansfield D. , Mont. today called for an orderly reduction in American grant-aid programs in southeast Asia . The group also warned that United States intensification of assistance to Vietnamese military forces " has carried us to the start of the road which leads to the point at which the conflict in Viet Nam could become of greater concern and greater responsibility to the United States than it is to the government and people of South Viet Nam . " Could Become Costly " In present circumstances , " the senators said in a report , " pursuit of that course could involve an expenditure of American lives and resources on a scale which would bear little relationship to the interests of the United States or , indeed , to the interests of the people of Viet Nam . . . " The report said it should be made clear to all that the responsibility lies with the Vietnamese government and its People . " What further effort may be needed for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must come from that source , " the report stated . " If it is not forthcoming , the United States can reduce its commitment or abandon it entirely , but there is no interest of the United States in Viet Nam which would justify , in present circumstances , the conversion of the war in that country primarily into an American war , to he fought primarily with American lives . " 150,000 Regular Troops The report emphasized " present circumstances " apparently to indicate that help would betgiven in the event of more massive Red Chinese participation in the area . At the present time the Vietnamese government has 150,000 regular troops ? aided by 12,000 Americans , to combat the Viet Cong guerrilla forces estimated at about 24,000 regulars and 100,000 irregulars . Since 1955 when the republic was created after the withdrawal of the French , the United States has poured about 2 billion dollars into the strategic Asian country . The French were given one billion , 200 million dollars in the earlier and losing fight against the Communists . The French continue to infest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of defense , internal stability , and economic support , the " Vietnamese government has come to depend almost wholly on the United States for outside assistance . " Not Much Improvement , While conceding the republic inherited gravel corruption , repression , and divisiveness in 1955 , and has had problems with the guerrilla forces since , the report said that present political practices in Viet Nam " do not appear to be mobilizing the potential capacities for able and self-sacrificing leadership on a substantial scale . " Yet such a mobilization is essential for the success of the new strategy , and hence , the survival of South Viet Nam and of freedom within Viet Nam . " It is most disturbing to find that after seven years of the republic , South Viet Nam appears more removed from , rather than closer to , the achievement of popularity and responsive government . " Goes to President The 22-page report , which has been given to the President , the secretary of state , and the foreign relations committee , put most emphasis on Viet Nam , altho it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Malaya , and the Philippines . The report called for an appraisal of what is essential , desirable , and what may be superfluous . " The group is inclined to believe that it is not impossible that such an assessment will show that national security needs may be met adequately without the furthe ? expansion of the United States commitment , notably aid programs and missions in the usual pattern , into any country in southeast Asia where they do not now function . " Further , the group is of the belief that an orderly curtailment of such programs and m issions in other countries where they now function need not pose a significant increase in the threat to our national security . " The group urged caution and asked Congress not to apply a " meat ax " to the southeast Asia aid program , ands warned that the Red Chinese will continue to be a long-range threat to the area . Signing with Mansfield were all the other members , Senators J. Caleb Boggs R. , Del . , Claiborne Bell D. , R. I. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who held the seat for the Kennedy family long enough to permit Sen. Edward Ted Kennedy to become of age and win the position . The group toured Asia last fall when the Chinese invaded India .                     