@@725315

txt Two new moves are afoot here to bring about a fresh Vietnam negotiation formula . They come in an atmosphere of pessimism . One involves activities of African neutrals searching for such a new formula . Another involves some tentative ideas of the French and important officials here that might supply the Africans with what they want . As soon as the Security Council went into indefinite adjournment here this week , the three Africans on the Security Council ? Nigeria , Uganda , and Mali  --  met with other Africans to search for a new approach to the Vietnam war . Nigeria 's chief delegate , S. 0 . Adebo , then met with American Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg to discuss the result . Talks run parallel The Security Council Africans next hope to consult the whole African group on whether to approach Hanoi and Washington . At any rate , the proposals being privately discussed by French and other great powers here are expected to be presented to the Africans and other nonaligned nations . The crux of these proposals is a plan for getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Liberation Front ) to the conference table . Both sides in the war now are talking in parallel about a return to the Geneva Conference of 1954 . This would bring the five great powers plus the two Vietnams and their neighbors to the table . But the two sides are 180 degrees . apart on who should be sitting behind the " South Vietnam " sign at the table . Washington and the Western powers say that only the Ky military government in Saigon should sit there , and that the Viet Cong could sit in the North Vietnamese delegation . New plan sought Moscow and the Communist powers say that only the Viet Cong leaders should occupy the south 's seat . To bring these diametrically opposed views closer together , the new plan envisions having both factions  --  and perhaps one or two other South Vietnamese groups  --  invited to the conference . In discussing this idea , some of the great powers have mentioned having South Vietnamese Buddhists or Roman Catholics represented alongside the Ky government and Viet Cong officials . The Johnson administration and Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cong . So far none of the nations that have contact with Hanoi and the Viet Cong have received any indication that they would be acceptable on that side either . So , if the Africans should become the vehicle for this idea  --  which is by no means certain  --  there would still be major obstacles to surmount.                     