@@721811

txt President Kennedy met today with his leading political and Military advisers to consider developments on two " cold war " fronts ? Southeast Asia and the stalemated talks in Geneva on a nuclear test ban . The meeting at the White House was the fifth in eleven days for the National Security Council . The Security Council session began at 4:30 P. M. and ended at 5:45 . The White House announced the President had scheduled another meeting of the group on Friday to discuss " a totally different subject . " Before this afternoon 's session , officials were heartened by reports from Laos that there had been contact ? between the Royal Laotian Government and the rebels and that a truce of at least limited character seemed to be in force . Any inclinaticns toward optimism were being held carefully in check , however . Testing Not Imminent Meanwhile , the Security Council heard a report on the Geneva talks from . Arthur H. Dean , chief United States negotiator at the conference with the Soviet Union and Britain . Mr. Dean returned a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which resumed March 21 after a threeand-one-half month recess . Sources here said no serious consideration . was being given to an immediate resumption of nuclear testing . They said Mr. Dean probably would return to Geneva within a week to- continue the talks . Mr. Dean was believed to have told the Security Council that during the last six weeks of negotiation little or no progress had been achieved . In one important respect there has been a significant backward step . This was the Soviet demand that the control over the proposed test ban be under the direction of a three-member directorate representing the Soviet bloc , the Western powers and neutral states . Moscow also insisted on unanimous decisions by the control group , a move that would give the Soviet a veto over any action by the directorate . The United States and Britain have rejected this proposal . They have made it clear they would never agree to this veto power over test ban inspections and controls . Though discouraged , officials here were reliably reported not to have abandoned hope that an agreement could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President declared this Government 's intention to press ahead with efforts to reach an accord with Moscow . Question is Defined The difficult policy decision facing the President is how long to continue talks before it can be concluded , beyond reasonable doubt , that Moscow is deliberating stalling . If the United States Government reaches that conclusion , the question then would be whether and when to resume nuclear tests for weapons development purposes . Some officials in the Administration assert that an uninspected and voluntary ban on such tests has been in existence for thirty months . There apIparently is no firm evidence that Moscow has used the interim to conduct secret tests , but it is recognized that this could have been done without detection . The National Security Council meeting was reported to have concentrated on developments in the Geneva talks and on assessments of - future prospects . In addition to the report by Mr. Dean , the Security Council also heard an analysis of nuclear test ban possibilities from the President 's special adviser on disarmament problems , John J. McCloy . Although there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , officials said the nuclear test ban problem occupied most of the session . Government specialists were going ahead with plans for the proposed fourteen-nation peace conference in Laos . Officials said the United States Government was standing firm on its insistence , however , that there be an effective end to the fighting in Laos before the conference convened . Meanwhile , the Pentagon confirmed reports from Laos that four United States Army men assigned as advisers to the Royal Laotian Army had been missing since April 22 . The missing members of the military advisory group were identified as Capt . Walter H. Moon , 38 years old , of Fort Bragg , N. C. ; Sgt. 1/C John M. Bischoff , 32 , of Fort Bragg ; Sgt. Orville R. Ballinger , 27 , of Spring Lake , N. C .. and Sgt. Gerald E. Ether , 25 , of Grand Junction , Colo.                     