@@726311

txt Details of corruption , waste , and laxity in the operations of the sanitary district are related in a special report to the state legislature , it was disclosed yesterday . The report includes recommendations f o r widespread reform and new legislation for the district . It followed nine public hearings and hundreds of hours of investigation and study , and was submitted by Rep. Alan R. Johnston R. , Kenilworth , chairman of a special joint Illinois House and Senate investigating committee . Some Evils Reduced The report termed the district " a classic study in governmental corruption " and told of the " staggering load of graft , corruption , and mismanagement which this operational structure has had to bear thru the years . " Johnston pointed out that at the time of submission of the report " these evils have been temporarily reduced to a mini : - mum " for the last six months and the district " has been freer of corruption than any time in history . " But , Johnston warned , " already there are cracks in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by law . " The report called for quick action on recommended reforms and laws to prevent a trend back to the practices of corruption . Praise Bacon Courage The report said that credit for the current progress can be attributed to the " courage and resolution of the present general superintendent , " Vinton W. Bacon . It added that Bacon " has uprooted and exposed fraud after fraud , in spite of organized opposition from m any trustees , department heads , and employes , and despite an attempt upon his life . " " A number of employes and trustees of ability , knowledge , and apparent dedication were encountered by the committee , and it is no doubt due to the devotion of such as these that the metropolitan sanitary district has been able to continue to protect , in large measure , the health of the people of Cook county and the state of Illinois despite staggering loads of graft , corruption , and mismanagement which this operational structure has had to bear thru the years , " the report . added . It was learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , principally John E. Egan , district president , who , they said , has been one of the best presidents in the history of the district . Also selected for praise was Philip . Furlong , chief of maintenance and operations . The report said some witnesses were of the opinion that Bacon had been " unreasonably unyielding in employe relations and in treatment of penalties and extra payments on contracts . " There is possibly room for creation of an appeals or arbitration procedure within the district from the final and binding rulings of the chief engineer under terms of the contracts , the report added . Urge Tact by Bacon Committee members reported that it is hoped that Bacon will be more " tractable and tactful in dealing with his subordinates and with other governmental bodies . " ' While agreeing that Bacon 's time has been devoted to the elimination of illegalities and paragraphs missing The report was written after the nine hearings and lung hours of study by each of the committee members who went thru thousands of district and other records . Robert W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours in his investigations of records and other matters . Other Recommendations Among the recommendations for new legislation the report included : 1 . Passage of a bill which provides that the general superintednent " shall manage and control the affairs and property of the district . " All department heads should be placed under his supervision and he should be given the power to appoint them , with the advice and consent of the trustees . ' Safeguards and checks and balances are provided by provision that the department heads may be removed from office only for cause after public hearings of which the board must be given notice . The bill provides both for an attorney to be appointed by the general superintendent and also for the right of the board to appoint an attorney or retain counsel to advise it , with respect to policy Conflict of Interest 3 . The present law should be amended to prohibit district employes from being simultaneously employed by persons or corporations doing busine-Ss with the district . 4 . Numerous new laws and amendments should be made to present laws covering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New laws and amendments pertaining to the civil service and personnel departments of the district are necessary . The report also called for further study of a Senate bill which provides for the reduction of the number of trustees from nine to five and another Senate bill providing for a referendum with regard to appointment of trustees by the governor with the consent of the Senate .                     