@@725064

txt Washington , Oct. 14-President Johnson is weaker and more tired than he was expected to be since his operation six days ago and is regaining strength more slowly than anticipated , the White House disclosed today . Bill D. Moyers , White House press secretary , said that from a medical standpoint , the President 's unforeseen post-operative physical condition is neither alarming nor unusual . " His recovery from his operation is coming along fine , the doctors told me this morning , " Moyers reported . Strenuous Pace Shows Up The press secretary believes the pace of the nearly two years since Johnson became President " has accumulated weariness that was not evident until the operation . " This piledup fatigue did not hit the President until major surgery to remove his gall bladder and a kidney stone taxed his strength and physical stamina , Moyers commented . Late this afternoon , the President . went outdoors for the first time since entering the hospital , spending more than an hour on a roof terrace with Mrs. Johnson . He posed for news photographers while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed reporters the bandage covering his abdominal incision . Moyers continued to insist today that the President did not over-exert himself in the first four days after the operation . In that period , Johnson made a seemingly spectacular recovery . He conducted a relatively substantial volume of White House business , had two visits from his pastor , met with news reporters , had two talks with Vice President Humphrey and another lengthy hospital room discussion with Secretary of State Dean Rusk . Since Monday , Johnson has been following doctors ' orders to spend much of the day resting or napping in bed or an easy chair . There have been no visitors except ' Airs . Johnson and the White House assistants assigned to the naval medical center here to help the President take care of a minimum amount of official business . Moyers reported today that Johnson spent a restless night and slept about two hours later than usual this morning , awakening at 9 o'clock . The press secretary volunteered the information that in this post-operative stage of the President 's recuperation . " he told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think that he is weaker than anyone thought . " Moyers explained that by " anyone " he meant Johnson himself , Mrs. Johnson and members of the White House staff  --  not the chief executive 's physicians . Moyers said the doctors do not consider the President 's restlessness at night . or his fatigue and weakness unusual or a setback in his recovery . Moyers asserted that " nothing that has happened has been out of the ordinary . " Discomfort from Gas Johnson still had discomfort from gas pains today . He is on a fairly substantial diet of solid foods . He is walking around his hospital suite , leaving his room occasionally to walk down the corridor or sit in an adjacent lounge with Mrs. Johnson . This morning , Johnson dictated a telegram to Gen. Eisenhower congratulating the fcrmer President on his 75th birthday today . Johnson told Eisenhower " It did my heart good to see you . . . so strong in spirit and body  --  as you are indeed in the hearts of all your countrymen . " Praises Expressed Views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admire on television last night . " Moyers said Johnson was referring to Eisenhower 's condemnation of youth demonstrations against United States policy in Viet Nam and the former Republican President 's urging the American people to show patriotism and pride in their country and its ideals .                     