@@723981

txt A State Supreme Court justice ruled yesterday that a divorce obtained by a New York woman in Mexico was invalid because it had been obtained by mutual agreement . He issued orders invalidating her subsequent marriage . " Collusive agreement and conduct , " Judge Henry Clay Greenberg said , " may not be the foundation for the creation of any rights . " Section 51 of the Domestic Relations Law of New York forbids any agreement between a husband and wife " to alter or dissolve a marriage . " The concept of collusion has been interpreted by legal experts as meaning that New York will not respect any divorce ; no matter where obtained , if it is proved that the couple agreed to create the basis for the divorce action . However , the United States Supreme Court has ruled that each state must give " full face and credit " to divorces granted by other states . But no such directive exists regarding a state 's respect for action by foreign courts . In such instances it is up to the individual state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which the United States recognizes- and gives effect to the laws of other countries . The Supreme Court case , in litigation for two years , - was brought by Lewis S. Rosenstiel , president and board chairman of Schenley Industries . - Mr .. Rosenstiel , who is 72 years old , had petitioned the court to annul his marriage , which took place here Nov. 30 , 1956 . He argued that his wife , Susan , had previously obtained an invalid divorce in Mexico and was , in effect , still married to her previous husband . Mrs. Rosenstiel , who is 42 , married Felix E. Kaufmann in Reno in 1945 . A few months later Mr. Kaufmann went to Ciudad Juarez , Mexico , to obtain a divorce . " Except for this one-hour presence to transact the foregoing divorce , Mr. Kaufmann had never been in Ciudad Juarez , Mexico , nor has he returned at any subsequent time , " Justice Greenberg said . Justice Greenberg 's decision was considered certain to put a damper on mutual-agreement Mexican divorces , according to lawyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " likely application of his decision to others similarly situated requires the Court to approach the disposition with caution , and yet with due regard . . . to the public policy of this state . " The 18-page decision , which followed a six-week trial , was considered to be the most extensive comment made by a state judge on the question of Mexican divorces obtained by mutual agreement . Mr. Rosenstiel was represented by Roy M. Cohn . Mrs. Rosenstiel 's lawyer was Louis Nizer. fn opposing Mr. Rosenstiel 's petition for the annulment , Mr. Nizer quoted extensively from a case involving a disputed will . Justice Greenberg said that under this case and the interpretation placed on it by the defendant , the plaintiff would be required " to prove every pOsIsible and conceivable fact imaginable , before a court of law will declare a marriage null and void . " However , the justice went on , he " was astounded to find that the case upon which so much Ireliance was placed by defendant 's counsel was reversed by Ithe Appellate Division on the point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Appeals . " Yesterday 's decision said that " the brazenness of the conception and the execution of the arrangement for the procuring of a Mexican divorce by the defendant " had been shown . The telling point in the matter of " collusion " on the part of the Kaufmanns was , according to testimony cited in the decision , that both parties were initially represented by the same lawyer , who was quoted as having said that his clients " were interested in securing a decree of divorce in Mexico . " Mr. Kaufmann , who now lives in Switzerland , was understood to have remarried twice since he obtained the Mexican divorce . Mexico has increasingly become the favorite place of New Yorkers seeking a divorce . New York is the only state that permits only one ground for divorce ? adultery . That law was enacted in 1787 . New Yorkers have obtained divorces by establishing residence in Florida ( six months ) Arkansas ( three months ) , Utah ( three months ) , Nevada ( six weeks ) , Idaho ( six weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states . Justice Greenberg directed the two lawyers to agree on a date for a future hearing on alimony . Under the state ' law : annulment of a marriage does not preclude the payment of alimony.                     