@@725512

txt Montgomery , Ala . Alabama voters nominated Mrs. George C. Wallace for governor in Tuesday 's Democratic primary by a majority unprecedented in modern times . Her husband immediately interpreted the victory as a mandate for him to continue his national crusade " to speak out against the forces that would destroy local government and private property in this country . " The incumbent Governor left little doubt that he would be running in state presidential primaries in 1968 on a much larger scale than he did in 1964 when he ran in three states . Mrs. Wallace carried roughly 55 percent of the total vote in her race against nine male opponents  --  including two former governors , the state Attorney Gener'il , and a former congressman . With 3,231 of 3,654 boxes reporting , Mrs. Wallace had 386,067 votes : Attorney General Flowers 137,898 . Mrs. Wallace won the nomination without a runoff , so huge was her vote . Even though the traditional forms of campaigning on a segregationist platform were scrapped by all candidates this year , the race consciousness of the electorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mrs. Wallace received about seven out of 10 white votes in the state while her nearest // * Mrs. Wallace wins handily in Alabama primary vote // opponent , Attorney General Flowers , polled roughly 90 percent of the Negro vote which has ballooned into one-fourth of the state 's total registration since the passage of the Voting Rights Act . To illustrate this polarization , in a middle-class , predominantly white precinct in Montgomery , Mrs. Wallace polled 3,336 votes to a total of 1,241 for her nine opponents . By contrast , in a predominantly Negro precinct , Mr. Flowers polled 2,482 votes to a combined vote of 736 for his rivals . Political figures of such prominence as former congressman Carl Elliott , former Gov . John Patterson , and former Gov . James E. Folsom managed to poll only about 15 percent of the total vote between them . Mrs. Wallace , who made it clear in her campaign that her husband would continue to make the executive decisions , still may face a Republican opponent in November . The state 's leading Republican , United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will run for governor , but speculation immediately arose that the size of the Wallace victory may force a change of Republican plans . It was suggested that perhaps now , Mr. Martin will choose to run against Sen. John J. Sparkman for a Senate seat . Sparkman victory Senator Sparkman won renomination easily Tuesday over three opponents . If Mrs. Wallace goes on to win the governorship , she would become the third woman in United States history to hold such an office . Curiously , one of her predecessors ? Mrs. Miriam Amanda Ferguson ? won the governorship of Texas under circumstances similar to the Wallace race . Mrs. Ferguson ran as a stand-in for her husband , who was disqualified from running through impeachment . Governor Wallace is ineligible to run because of a state constitution prohibition . The Alabama campaign was almost devoid of issues except for Governor Wallace 's attempt to circumvent the intent of the state constitution . All of his opponents attacked him on this score as well as his intractable stand on segregation , but Mr. Wallace ignored all attacks . Instead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travels in the nation " to stand up for Alabama , to tell the people that I come from a state where the people are just as good and refined and dedicated and righteous as the people of any state . " Much of his campaign centered on an attack on newspapers , within and without the state , and television which , he contended , " Do nothing but run down Alabama and her people . " Mrs. Wallace did little more than introduce her husband at campaign rallies , and her role was effectively obscured to leave the impression that the Governor was running for reelection . Mrs. Wallace is 39 years old and the mother of four children . She is a high-school graduate with some training in secretarial work , but she never attended college . She is an enthusiastic fisherman and has just taken up flying lessons .                     