@@721190

txt In his spirited and eloquent address to the American Society of Newspaper Editors in Washington Senator Kennedy has looked squarely at the religious issue and appealed to the American people to take it out of the Presidential campaign . Furthermore , he has criticized the press for magnifying this issue , promoting it and thereby exacerbating it , with especial reference to title recent Wisconsin and to the current . West Virginia primary . Senator Kennedy spoke with candor , and his comments demand and deserve a candid appraisal . They raise several interesting and important points . ( 1 ) We start with the premise , shared by every American who believes in the constitutional principles on which our country is founded , that religion has no proper place in American politics . Yet it has been injected into this campaign , as it was thirty-two years ago when another eminent Catholic was running for the Presidency of the United States . But the very fact that it is openly discussed now represents some advance over the situation then , when the " Catholic issue " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that contributed to the defeat of Governor Smith . ( 2 ) Senator Kennedy himself acknowledges that the press " did not create " this religious issue . But he suggests that it has overemphasized it to the exclusion of other issues more pertinent to the welfare of the United States . Senator Kennedy certainly has some justification for his complaint ; and yet the press would have utterly failed in its duty had it attempted to conceal the strong undercurrent of religious bloc voting noted by virtually every political observer in Wisconsin . It was of course impossible to prove its existence ; yet the evidence was so clear that it would have been , grossly misleading not to have described it . Whether it was overemphasized is a matter of judgment ; and it is true that there is danger that the more it is mentioned the more conscious of it the voter becomes . ( 3 ) In this respect , the one point on which Senator Kennedy was not entirely frank in his Washington speech was the degree of responsibility he himself must take for raising the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporters have weighed the potentialities of a " Catholic vote " in making and executing their political plans and in discussing them in public and in private . Whether or not such a vote exists , they and all professional politicians assume it does , and act on that assumption . ( 4 ) The basic question of what " the religious issue " is needs closer definition . Senator Kennedy put his finger on it in describing the " one legitimate ' question . underlying all the rest : Would you , as President-of the United States , be responsive in any way to ecclesiastical pressure or obligations of any kind that might in any fashion influence or interfere with your conduct of that office in the national interest ? " This really is the fundamental question as applicable to any Presidential candidate ; and Senator Kennedy , after , raising it frankly , responds to it with an unequivocal and unhesitating " no . " He underlines the point by reiterating that , " I do not speak for the Catholic Church on issues of public policy ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is , as he himself states , the only " legitimate " question affecting a candidate 's religious affiliation ; and once that has been answered , there is no possible excuse for allowing religion to have a place in a political campaign . Senator ' Kennedy has made his declaration : " complete dedication to separation of church and state . " It will be refreshing henceforth if candidates , voters and the press devote more attention to the specific issues of this campaign : foreign policy , defense , civil rights , labor , inflation , agriculture . These are real  --  not theoretical  --  problems that will face the next President ; and these are problems to which all of us ought to be devoting our attention now .                     