@@726599

txt New York , Sept. 19-Communist Cuba threw the solemn opening of the United Nations general assembly session into an uproar today by walking out in protest over the halting of 10 delegation members bearing mysterious wooden crates headed for New York City . The incident took place this morning in Nassau , the Bahamas . Nicolas Rodriguez Astiazarain , counsellor of the Cuban mission here , told the assembly the head of the delegation , Ambassador Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada , and nine other Fidel Castro representatives , were subjected to diplomatic immunity violations by t h e United States customs and immigration service . " The revolutionary government of Cuba wishes to state its protest on the part of the American imperialists ' , " said the Cuban counsellor . " It will not abide by this type of provocation by the Yankee imperialiits and will withdraw from this rust inaugural meeting of the assembly . " Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg , chief United States delegate , expressed his regret over the Cuban walkout . He asserted his government scrupulously complied with the U. N. beadquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baggage were admitted without inspection . " The facts are these , " he stated . Crates Not Opened " Ten members of the Cuban delegation arrived in Nassau this morning with 26 pieces of hand baggage , plus an undetermined number of wooden crates . Their hand baggage was readily passed . " The Cubans , however , did not claim that the crates represented diplomatic baggage . Nevertheless , they refused to submit them to orderly customs procedure . " Goldberg said his government would gladly invite the U. N. secretary general to investigate . Meanwhile , he disclosed , the United States consul general in Nassau had arranged a flight for the Cubans to New York . Altho the Bahamas is a British colony and one of the few points for travel to and from Cuba , United States immigration and customs services have offices there to facilitate clearance for travelers bound for the United States . Russian Objects Nikolai Fedorenko , soviet delegate , took the stage to record Moscow 's indignation . " The fate of any delegation of any sovereign state , a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of us , " he said . " The United States is guilty of discrimination and arbitrary action . We hope this high organ of the U. N. will duly condemn the United States . " Goldberg retorted that Fedorenko reminded him of a homily from " Alice in Wonderland " ? " Sentence first and then try the case afterwards . " The fuss over the Cuban diplomats was partially resolved late in the day . The United States mission reported that one member of the ' Cuban group officially claimed the two wooden crates as his personal property , and the diplomats then flew to New York . It appeared that the Cuban delegation would be on hand when the general assembly resumes its session tomorrow . Elect Red President After the Cuban protest , the assembly proceeded to the election of its first communist president . Foreign Minister Corneliu Manescu of Romania . On a secret ballot he received 112 votes . There were five abstentions , two invalid ballots , and two delegations absent . The United States supported Manescu . 51. a silver-h aired lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a socialist country as president for the current session is a recognition of the need for an equal participation by the various regions and systems in the work of the U. N. , " he told the delegates . Manescu touched only briefly on the middle east problem , which he said required a thoro study , and on Viet Nam . Must Be an End to War " In the interest of world peace , an end must be put to the conflict in southeast Asia , which is inflicting such suffering up the worthy and valiant Vietnamese people , ' he said . Manescu later said at a press conference ' that he had no plans for a U. N. initiative to end the 17iet Nam war . He said he believed the crisis should be solved thru the application of " established means , " that is , thru carrying out the Geneva agreements of 1954 and 1962 . These resulted in the creation of two countries . North and South Viet Nam , but tailed for free elections to unite them . The war , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. , altho every speech mentions it , and it continues to be a threat to peace . But any involvement of the U. N. would depend " principally on the stand taken by North Viet Nam , " he said . Set a Gloomy Tone Today 's Vd annual session of the general assembly moved off in a somber fashion , with the lightning Arab-Israeli war in June vivid in memory and reports of escalation in Viet Nam . Both Secretary General Thant and the retiring assembly president , Abdul Rabman Pazhwak of Afghanistan , set the gloomy tone in reports to the delegates . Thant , noting three wars during the last 20 years in the middle east , feared a new one was brewing .                     