@@726533

txt Ready or not , Chicago , today THE Picasso is officially yours . Applaud if you will , smile if you can , snicker if you must , shudder if you have to , but at 11 a. m. the 50-foot sculpture by Pablo Picasso takes its place beside the Art Institute lions , the old water tower , the round towers of Marina City , and the Union Stock Yards as a symbol of our city . Matter of Identity From this day forward , for better or for worse , Chicago and Picasso are joined together as one . . . as the Eiffel tower and Paris , as the little Mermaid and Copenhagen , as the Vatican and Rome , the Empire State building and New York , the boardwalk and Atlantic City , Red Square and Moscow . It could be worse , Chicago . It has been worse . The 162-ton sculpture Mayor Daley will unveil at ceremonies in the Civic center plaza has been identified by the experts as a woman 's head . That may satisfy some , but art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the beholder and nothing is beheld quite so every-man-forhimself as a Picasso abstract . An unscientific , last-minute , man-on-the-street survey revealed that , forget the experts , the giant work is really a child 's ski slide , a fine likeness of Oliver J. Dragon of Kukla Fran , and 011ie ) , an Afghan hound , a mixed-up heart , a rib cage and appendix , a sea horse , and " nothing , absolutely nothing . " In places where people who ' have little to say to each other like to make conversation , there was and forever more will be something to talk about besides the weather . Dawn of an Era " Future generations probably will wonder that we EVER talked about the weather , " one wag asserted . " We are now at a crossroads , a milestone , a cut-off point in convivial conversation  --  the period Before Picasso and the era After Picasso . " The A. P. era will dawn in impressive fashion . The unveil ' ing ceremonies open with a half-hour concert by the Chicago Symphony orchestra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gwendolyn Brooks , Chicago 's Pulitzer-prize-winning poet , will read a poem she wrote especially for the occasion , and civic and cultural dignitaries will speak . Art critics and authorities from far and wide will rub shoulders with just plain folk . Picasso himself will not be at the celebration . The artist many consider the greatest of this century has not , since giving the design to the city as a gift , made a public statement on the controversial sculpture . But if the sculpture could get a word in edgewise today , there would be nothing more fitting and irrevocable than : " Chicago , I am here . "                     