@@721643

txt Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell announced his candidacy today for the Republican nomination for Governor of New Jersey . He said he would seek to unite the Republican party in the state and improve the quality of state government . The 60-year-old resident of Monmouth County pledged , if nominated and elected , to use " the fullest powers of the office to achieve an accelerated rate of economic growth , industrial stability and higher standard of living " for all residents of New Jersey . Backed by Eisenhower Mr. Mitchell 's first campaign contributor was President Eisenhower , who handed him a $100 bill yesterday after being told during a Cabinet session of the decision to run . Pledges of further aid came from the other members of the Cabinet . Mr. Mitchell 's announcement assured a stiff primary battle , in which his most formidable rival will be State Senator Walter H. Jones , leader of the powerful party organization in Bergen County . Senator Jones has seemingly fast commitments from many major Republican groups ? in populous North Jersey . State Senators Wayne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cape May County have also entered the race , but the withdrawal of one or both is anticipated by some top party leaders as the campaign progresses . Commenting on Secretary Mitchell 's announcement , Senator Jones said today : " I am in no way dismayed at the apContinued pearance of Mr. Mitchell as a candidate , I intend to be on the ballot April IS . I am confident also that I will be the Republican candidate for Governor in November . " In addition ) deciding who will be the pat lty candidate for Governor is Nevember. the . April 1S primary election is ex-pected whether , Senator CiiCrord Case or leaders of the State Senate are to hold the party helm . Senator Case touched off the party power struggle on Jan. 6 when he declared in Princeton his determination to assume the leadership of his party in the state . The situation was aggravated when it became known this week that Secretary Mitchell was entering the race at the behest of the Senator and New Jersey members of the House of Representatives . Mr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New Jersey 's eight Republican Congressmen have already done so , and a number of party leaders at the county level have pledged their support to the retiring Cabinet official . Mr. Mitchell left for New Jersey tonight to confer with county party leaders . In his statement , he said : " New Jersey faces some difficult problems : the attainment of equal opportunity , the development of a sound tax policy , more classroom facilities and well-paid teaching staffs , improved housing and transportation , urban renewal , larger agricultural markets , adequate medical facilities , and an essential water supply for industrial and residential use . " I have learned from over fifteen years of experience in public office , both at the county and Federal level , that if we are to maintain the integrity and stature of our state government , we must prove that we , can , within the appropriate sphere of state action , meet the needs of our citizens . " I shall not offer any pleasantsounding cure-alls , however fashionable such panaceas have become in political campaigns . Our problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill , and hard work . " These I am prepared to of-1 fer , because I ant convinced that the best politics is to do a good job . I ask that all citizens who want New Jersey to be the best place to live , work and raise their children support me in my candidacy for Governor . " Mr. Mitchell 's decision to seek the nomination was made only after he had received assurances of major party support . Senator Case approached him in the belief that he would be the most likely candidate to win in November . Mr. gitchell is assured of strong support from South and Central Jersey . Meanwhile the Republican organization in Essex , the state 's most populous county , will decide in the next few days whom it wishes to . support . The group is expected to divide its allegiance between Mr. Mitchell and Senator Jones . Senator Jones has already been endorsed by party groups in Bergen , Hudson , Passaic , Somerset , Cumberland and Middlesex Counties . Gov . Robert B. Meyner , a Democrat , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term expires next January . Mayor John J. Grogan of Hoboken is seeking the Democratic nomination for Governor , with the support of his party 's organization in Hudson County . Meanwhile Mr. Meyner and other party leaders , who have declined . to back Mr. Grogan , are seeking to reach agreement on a candidate .                     