@@722921

txt Gunfire crackled in the streets here yesterday as Iraq 's new revolutionary regime battled its Communist opponents . The fledgling government was seeking to clean out pockets of Communist resistance that have held out since last week 's revolt against Premier Kassem , under whose rule the Reds had been gaining increasing influence in recent months . Army troops , police and student revolutionaries wearing the green arm bands of the new National Guard were taking part in the drive against the Communists . While fighting was fairly heavy yesterday , the strong government forces seem sure to retain control of the country . Even while turmoil continues here , some clues as to the character of the revolution are emerging . It 's clear that the upheaval was no mere changing of the palace guard by army leaders . It was , on the contrary , the nearest thing to a " people 's revolution " Iraq has yet seen ? certainly far more of a popular movement than the 1958 uprising in which military leaders headed by Abdul Karem Kassem assassinated King Faisal and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Student Rebel Typical of the backers of the latest revolution is Mutasim Banee , a 20-year-old student with a dark fringe of beard . Between Baghdad University economics classes , he has been politicking for some time with the Baathist Socialist Party , a group playing a key role in the revolution . When the revolt started at 9:12 a.m. last Friday , he was ready at the signal of an air bomb drop on Premier Kassem 's headquarters on the banks of the Tigris River . Along with thousands of other Baathist students and army troops , he moved in a closely disciplined maneuver which led to the toppling of the old government and the death of Premier Kassem . At this stage , the revolutionaries ' program appears to shape up like this : They are strong . ly anti-CommUnist and strongly Pan-Arabic . But while they are likely to cooperate with any moves to promote Arab unity , they are unlikely to permit Iraq to become a satellite of any other Arab country . They believe miqdle East oil is Arab oil . They are neither antiWest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a ' disciplined , authoritarian air but opposes " cults of personality . " What 4oes this mean to the U.S. ? " We probably 4vill get along better with this government than with the old one , " says one knowledgeable American source . " They wo n't lovg us , but why should we expect them to ? " Wide Repercussions ? The Iraqi revolt could well have unsettling effects elsewhere in the Middle EaSt . While the country 's new leaders do n't appear in a mood to kowtow to Egypt 's expansion-minded President Nasser , they are not expected to continue Kassem 's outright opposition to Nasser . Thus , their apparent success may encourage Arab nationalists friendly to Nasser in other countries to act . Such revolutionary elements already exist in Syria , Jordan , Iran and Saudi Arabia . These nationalist groups aim to promote unity among Arab nations and eliminate remnants of Western control in the region . Yesterday , Syrian Foreign Minister Assaad Mahassen suggested a federation between Syria and neighboring Iraq could be a " nucleus and a model for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politician who helped found the Baathist movement , which cuts across national borders , said : " The Iraqi uprising is the prelude to climactic events in the Arab world . " The Baathist movement , whose philosophy dominates the new Iraqi government , favors creation of some form of Arab federation which could develop unified foreign , defense , fiscal and economic development programs . " With a united front , Arab nationalism would have a stronger voice in world affairs , " says one Baathist official here . The movement is strongly anti-Israel . Baathists also believe in radical social reforms to break up the traditional feudalistic structure of Middle Fr  --  st society . The new Iraqi regime is young . The president , Col. Abdul Warn Alit is 43 and numerous other key figures are in their early 30s . Currently power iss centered in the National Council of the Revolution , a group of top Baathists . " Unity , freedom and socialism " is the slogan being preached by the National Council . Their brand of socialism differs markedly from the Russian variety , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Iraq Petroleum Co. , a joint venture of European and American interests which produces and markets Iraqi oil , figures it will be tolerated by the new government : the company , which Kassem had hoped to nationalize , paid $266 million in royalties to Iraq in 1961 . In a press conference , Dahl , Hussein Shabib , Iraq 's new foreign minister , declared : " We welcome investments in the country as long as control of the economy of the country remains in the hands of the people of Iraq . " Iraqi leaders appear to be seeking to soothe the Kurds , northern Iraq tribes who had been fighting Premier Kassem for 18 months . Though the Communists are trying to persuade the Kurds to join them in battling the new government , the Baathist leaders picked two Kurds to join them in the new cabinet . Because of a general Baathist policy against the use of force to achieve Arab unity , some observers here feel the Kuwait problem may recede into the background now . In 1981 the late Premier Kassem ignited a crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gulf which provides over half Great Britain 's oil needs . Britain landed an expeditionary force in Kuwait to protect its interests . This week , however , the new Iraqi government exchanged friendly messages with Kuwait . The new government believes the Kassem regime had swung too far to the left , and it aims to wipe out Communist influence at home . In recent months Kassem had given more and more power to Communists as he sought their help to retain power . Communists responded with massive military hardware shipments , which have converted the army into a Soviet-equipped force . About 1,500 Russian technicians moved into the country as army and foreign aid project advisers . Another 200 or so tech . nicians arrived from Communist satellite nations . Red aid projects , often uncoordinated , blossomed everywhere . Local Reds infiltrated government agencies . Intelligence experts report Moscow ordered Iraqi Communists to throw all their weight behind Kassem as the Reds ' best bet . As part of the current anti-Communist drive , lists of known Iraqi Communists have been prepared . With the help of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the government is hunting down and jailing the Reds on its lists . When , as happened yesterday , resistance is encountered , the National Guard calls for help from the army and police , which are overwhelmingly loyal to the new regime .                     