@@725220

txt Letters to the Editor of the Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Hiatus in Authority To the Editor : The Times , which has been deriding the public position of labor leaders in connection with the transit strike as " ritualistic , " is in danger itself of developing a ritualistic posture . It does not make sense to put the entire onus not only for the strike , but for " a system of transit labor relations built on backdoor political deals , " on " the flamboyant Mr. Quill . " It takes two to tango . The city administration , the Transit Authority , and sometimes the state administration , have been playing their parts , and not without relish , in the biennial charade . The strike is in large part the consequence of the disappearance of the tango partner and his nonreplacement . In the critical month of December , New York City , so far as the approaching transit crisis was concerned , was without a Mayor . Lack of Action Mr. Wagner might just as well have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about a settlement . And then , of course , when a cliffhanger settlement was out of the question , Mr. Wagner demonstrated that there are circumstances in which he can act decisively . During November and December the transit situation fell between two stools . Mr. Wagner treated it as if it were John Lindsay 's headache , and he , Lindsay , treated it as if it were Wagner 's . One would have thought the Mayor-elect would have fought his way into the negotiating room to keep from being stuck with a settlement he had no part in determining . Instead , Mr. Lindsay stood aloof . One may understand Mr. Lindsay 's reluctance to fall into the ritualistic Wagner role . But somebody had to be in charge , and Mr. Wagner no longer was . Whatever were Michael Quill 's motivations and compulsions , the hiatus in authority and responsibility was inexcusable . I should hope that any new contract which is signed will fix a new termination date . Jan. 1 would involve us every four years in a possible change in City Hall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city officials . It is a very bad mistake to suppose that political considerations can ever be completely absent from such negotiations . On the other hand there is no reason why the Transit Authority should not in the pre-negotiations process call attention to inequities which previous contracts did not correct . There is no reason why City Hall or the T.A . should treat the negotiating process as one whose character must be determined by Mr. Quill 's histrionic tactics . The fact is , and those who have negotiated with hint have often so testified , that there are at least two Mike Quills and one of them , out of public view , is a sober settler . The city has allowed itself to personalize the contract dispute and to treat it as if in fact it were nothing but a show put on by a showman . Though it is nonsense to speak of Mr. Quill as " simply carrying out the will of his membership " he is not and should not be treated as the whole show . There are serious problems involved in low-cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the really serious problems should have priority attention . They should not , as in the past , be filed away until the next crisis , DANIEL ALLEN New York , Jan. 7 , 1966 The writer was formerly associated with the American . Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . ? Public Employes To the Editor : The strike of public employes against the Transit Authority should , if nothing else , serve to emphasize the irresponsibility inherent in the policy of agencies of government according recognition to unions of public employes . The practice came about because of pressure directed at elected officials by leaders of organized labor and that it was accorded with misgivings is evident by the ban against the strike , which , as everyone knows , is an essential weapon in the arsenal of any union . To the Editor : It is astonishing to read in recent editions of The Times about the feeling among some Washington officials and Congressmen that the costs of the war on poverty must be kept to a minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is astonishing in light of a number of facts  --  in light of the spectacular increase in the G.N.P . this year and the continued forecasts of economic health ; in light of the original proclamations by the President that erasing poverty and youth unemployment would be a top priority and would remain so until " total victory " is achieved ; in light of the findings of the McCone Report ( and your own editorial of Dec. 8 ) after the Watts riots that nothing less than a " revolutionary attitude " with greatly expanded education , youth-training and employment programs would suffice to overcome the hopelessness that leads to such incidents . What seems evident is that the poor and the jobless young are becoming pawns in a bitter partisan struggle . To those who want to continue it , it should be remembered that not only does our nation spend a smaller percentage of its budget on health , education and welfare programs than does any other Western nation , but actually in relation to the value of the dollar we are spending only a fraction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a vict , , ry on any other front if , in the process . we undercut the hopes , potential and the economic security of millions of povertystricken Americans ? What can be the prestige of such a nation to the rest of the world ? Ask the President and Congress to keep their commitments to our own citizens and expand the war on poverty and youth unemployment as promised . ELI E. COHEN Executive Secretary National Committee on Employment of Youth MILDRED JEFFREY Director of Community Relations United Automobile Workers WHITNEY M. YOUNG , Jr . Executive Director National Urban League New York , Jan. 7 , 1966 ? Dr. Barlow 's Courage To the Editor : In John Osmundsen 's news report on a drug that treats schistosomiasis ( New York Times , Jan. 2 ) he makes mention of Dr. C. H , Barlow 's deliberate infection of himself in Cairo in 19-14 so that he might study the disease in this country . This is only part of the story . Dr. Barlow started research on schistosomiasis in a missionary hospital in Ningpo ( south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later  --  just before his furlough came due ? infected himself for the same reason as above . He needed a host for the eggs of the cercariae he wished to work on at Johns Hopkins . For courage above and beyond the call of duty I hail Dr. Barlow . L. CARRINGTON GOODRICH Dean Lung Professor Emeritus of Chinese Columbia University New York , Jan. 2 , 1966                     