@@724869

txt Police Commissioner Vincent L. Broderick declared yesterday that any police officer . who could not respect the rights of Negro and Puerto Rican. citizens should quit the force . Speaking bluntly at a promotion ceremony for 47 highranking officers at Police Headquarters , the tall , slender Commissioner repeatedly warned that he would not tolerate abuses against any citizen and that police commanders who condoned them did so at their own peril . " If you believe that a police officer is somehow superior to a citizen because the citizen is a Negro , or speaks Spanish ? get out right now , " he said . " You do n't belong in a command position , and you do n't belong in the ' Police Department . " ' Not Normal Times ' Leaning against a wooden lectern and speaking slowly and with great emphasis , Mr. Broderick told the officers and some 400 friends and relatives who attended the ceremony that " I regret speaking to you this way this morning . " " This would not normally be the time for a serious talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not normal times . " There was no visible reaction from the audience during the , Commissioner 's address . And Iany possible response at its ( conclusion was prevented by ' Mr. Broderick , who immediately called on Chief Inspector John F. Shanley to begin the promotion ceremony . Stand on Board Cited The Commissioner paused frequently to scan the two front rows of uniformed policemen before him in the fourth-floor line-up room . He observed that , in appearing before the City Council on Tuesday , he had opposed the creation of an independent civilian board to review complaints of police brutality on the ground , that the police were already under civilian control . Then turning his attention to what appeared to have been the motive for his 12-minute admonition , he informed the officers that he had received reports that some of the 5,000 off-duty patrolmen who had picketed City Hall Tuesday had // made " disparaging remarks ? racial slurs ? concerning proponents of dual civilian review . " There had been newspaper reports that several patrolmen had verbally assailed some 50 Congress of Racial Equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Send ' em to Vietnam , that 's where they belong , " and , " Wave a bar of soap at them and they 'll all run . " About half of the CORE pickets were Negroes . " The unthinking tongue , in 1965 , " Mr. Broderick observed , " can be the worst enemy which this department has ? it can undo so much we do that is constructive . There is no room for it in the department . " Sets Guidelines The Commissioner went on to tell the officers that neither he nor they were engaged in " popularity contests " and that if they tolerated any type of racism or discrimination among their men they should get out of the department . He then quickly launched into his guidelines for police behavior , declaring that he would not tolerate abuse of authority , the unnecessary use of force or verbal brutality by any policeman against any citizen . The 45-year-old Princeton graduate , who is winding up his first month as Police Commissioner , has pledged to reopen " avenues of sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . A step was taken in that direction yesterday by the promotion of a Negro , Capt . Eldridge Waith , to the rank of deputy inspector . Inspector Waith , a 47-year-old bachelor with 23 years on the force , will assume the newly formed post of community relations coordinator for the Sixth Patrol Division , which oversees the three police precincts in Central Harlem . Inspector Waith will be replaced by Capt . John C. Clancy , a white officer now commanding the Youth Investigation Bureau . His promotion makes Inspector Waith the highest-ranking Negro officer in the department and the first of his race to attain that rank since the eleva tion of the late George Redding on Oct. 16 , 1953 . He recalled yesterday that on that same date he had been promoted to sergeant . Inspector Waith had been just assigned two weeks ago to command the 32d Precinct in Harlem and yesterday 's promotion came as a surprise to both him and community leaders . It had been thought that Capt . Lloyd Sealy , appointed to command the 28th Precinct following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first . But police sources indicated yesterday that Captain Sealy was " too valuable " in that position to be transferred at this moment , Inspector Waith was also senior captain by three months . The top promotion yesterday went to Assistant Chief Inspector Joseph W. , who was appointed the new Supervising Assistant Chief Inspector , making him the fourth highest ranking member in the uniformed force . Deputy Chief Inspector Lawrence T. Flood was also moved up to the rank of Assistant Chief Inspector .                     