@@725757

txt Soviet and North Vietnamese leaders apparently met for a secret poi-1 icy conference last week at a Black Sea resort , according to I information received by West-1 ern diplomats . The meeting was considered particularly significant in the context of the rivalry between the Soviet Union and Communist China for North Vietnam 's political loyalty at a time when Moscow and Peking are adopting more openly hostile stances . North Vietnam 's hostility toward peace talks , it was suggested in Washington , may be based on fear that the Vietcong would collapse once negotiations began and that Hanoi 's position would be damaged by any retreat from its hard line . Diplomatic sources said they had obtained guarded confirmation . that North Vietnam 's Premier , Pham Van Dong , and the Defense Minister , Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap , had paid an unannounced visit to the Soviet Union . No Communique Issued Both Leonid I. Brezhnev , General Secretary of the Soviet Communist party , and Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin were reported to be on vacation at government villas on the Black Sea coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet them there without stopping in Moscow . No communiqu ? has been issued to conclude the talks , nor has the presence of the Hanoi delegates been officially acknowledged . Diplomats conceded the possibility that differences of opinion over future strategy in the Vietnamese war could have been a reason behind the secrecy of the meeting , but this view was minimized as only one line of speculation and one for which there was no real evidence . A more probable explanation offered by experienced analysts is the awkward position of the North Vietnamese amid the tensions of the Soviet-Chinese dispute . The Hanoi regime appears to be crucially dependent on Soviet aid to the Communist war effort at the same time as it tries to maintain its long-standing policy of political neutrality between the conflicting ideologies of Moscow and Peking . This policy becomes increasingly difficult as the Chinese intensify their resistance to Soviet " revisionism " and , as at this month 's plenary meeting of the Chinese Communist leadership , call on all Communists to take an unequivocal stand against the Soviet party line . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Peking on the way to meet the Soviet leaders . This is a normal transit stop for air traffic between Hanoi and the Soviet Union . Soviet Attitude Stiffer In the face of Peking 's ever shriller denunciations , the Soviet attitude appears also to have hardened , according to analysts . They noted that Soviet officials seemed more willing to talk openly with foreign visitors about Chinese hostility . Until recently questions on this subject were brushed aside or answered with denials that there were any difficulties . The recent political turmoil in China has brought a new view ' of Peking 's Communism to the Soviet public . The official press has ended its silence on Chinese affairs and has started reporting in ironical detail about the adulation of Mao Tse-tung and China 's " great proletarian cultural revolution . " Lengthy articles appeared today in Pravda , the Communist party newspaper , and Izvestia , organ of the Government , and were summarized ' for international transmission by Tass , the official press agency , describing frenzied campaigns of Chinese students , the so-called Red Guards . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the impression they give of Chinese attitudes is sometimes ridiculous , sometimes frightening . " This sounds almost like Nazi Germany in the nineteenthirities , " said one Russian after reading the press accounts . Specifically cited in the Soviet reports are descriptions of the Red Guards " breaking windows , participating in beating people up and making them bow their heads or otherwise hniniliate themselves . " Chinese Call Acts Lawful Then Izvestia quotes the Chinese Communist newspaper JenmM Jih Pao as calling these actions " lawful and revolutionary . " Sarcasm and irony permeate the Soviet articles . ' ( These are unusual days in Peking , " Pravda ? begins under a three-column headline . Izvestia describes " thousands of ' extraordinary proclamations , statements , instructions , announcements , orders , titan warnings and ultimatums " plastered on the walls of houses . " Transform ' the human soul and root out revisionism , " says one slogan , according to Izvestia " Bus drivers are required-to hang Mao Tse-tung 's portrait in their buses within two days , " Pravda says . " Those . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Izvestia described the Chinese party 's ruling on traffic lights . Since red is the color of . the revolution and green is traditionally associated in Chinese minds ? with poison , the article Said , from now on motor traffic will-have to stop at green lights and go ? on red . In a way these articles reveal as much about the Soviet Union today as about China . Their appearance is leading the Soviet public into a third phase of the Soviet-Chinese dispute . Until 1964 , just before the downfall of Premier Nikita , S. Khrushehev , the Soviet papers were . full ' of rude and vehement polemics about ideogical differences . This gave way to silence on the subject under the postKhrushchev leadership . For more than a year . Peking 's denunciations of Moscow went unreported , here and seldom was there a line of news about  --  events in China .. , Starting this summer , the Soviet press has again been reporting at length from Peking , seldom with any commentaries but allowing the choice of facts or quotations to give impressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  