@@727434

txt Charleston , S. C. , Oct. 19 LT -- Hurricane G l a d y s , growing meaner over the open sea . aimed winds in excess of 100 miles an hour toward the Carolinas coast today after leaving three dead and a multimillion dollar trail of damage in Florida . Stronger than ever , Gladys sped up the South Carolina coast on a course that forecasters said would take her inland near Cape Hatteras , N. C. by tomorrow morning . As the storm approached , emergency hurricane warnings were posted from the Charleston area northward to Cape Hatteras . Traveling north at a rate of 20 m. p. h. , Gladys was hurling winds in excess of hurricane force 50 miles from the canter in all directions . Estimate of Damage In the aftermath of the storm , Don Genung , Pinellas county sheriff , and his deputies toured the beaches off St. Petersburg and estimated damage between 2 and 3 million dollars to homes and businesses in Pinellas county alone . Storm tides knocked oceanfront homes and some business buildings off their foundations , Roofs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walls of one commercial building under construction were flattened . Destroy Mobile Homes Northward in Pasco county , a tornado snaking out of the front edge of the hurricane destroyed or damaged dozens of house trailers in the mobile home subdivision of Signal cove at Hudson . ' ' Trailers were split open and scattered like spaghetti . " said one eyewitness . " Some people coming back this morning Pm storm shelters could n't identify their own homes from the pieces . " As Margaret Barron , 80 , was being led out of her trailer , the wind shattered it . She was hurt seriously by flying debris . Her daughter , Mrs. Mary Alberta , said , " Two or three trailers just disappeared . " Curious Clog Roads Hordes of sightseers clogged roads to the area this afternoon . Driving in the storm during the night one motorist drowned in Sarasota when his car plunged into a flooded creek . Another succumbed to a heart attack at the wheel of his car in Pasco county . The excitement of a mass beach evacuation was too much for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county . $250,000 in Damage All across the state , from the landfall north of Tampa to the Atlantic beach near St. Augustine , the hurricane left a trail of uprooted trees , fallen power lines , unroofed homes , and flooded streets and highways . Thirty miles inland from the Gulf coast , the city of Ocala suffered an estimated $250,000 in insured losses , mainly from wind-damaged roofs , according to adjustors . Florida Citrus Mutual , a large cooperative of fruit growers , said first reports . indicated little damage was done to orange and grapefruit crops . Gusts of 65 to 70 m. p. h. struck the Jacksonville beaches ion the Atlantic coast , but did no more than $35,000 in damage , insurance companies reported . A full assessment of the damage was delayed by a blackout of communications all along the hurricane 's path . Floodwaters blocked many roads into hard-hit communities .                     