@@728241

txt The House approved today by a 333-to-55 vote an Administration-supported resolution endorsing President Nixon 's efforts to negotiate a " just peace " in Vietnam . Whether the resolution also constituted an endorsement of Administration policies in Vietnam was the subject of considerable debate and conflicting interpretations in two days of House debate . Speaker John W. McCormack , Massachusetts Democrat who was instrumental in pushing the resolution to a floor vote , took the position , when questioned by reporters , that the resolution was " confined " to an endorsement of the principle - of free elections in Vietnam . Nixon Sees Backing But the House Republican leader , Gerald R. Ford of Michigan , in an interview , interpreted the resolution as- " an endorsement of the efforts of the Administration . " The Ford Interpretation obviously was one concurred in by the White House . In a speech before the House on Nov. 10 , President Nixon embraced the resolution as being " along the lines of the proposal I made in a speech on Nov. 3 . " The resolution makes no mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed in the President 's Nov. 3 Vietnam speech . Rather , the resolution was limited to a statement of support of the President 's " efforts to negotiate a just peace , " endorsement of the principles enunciated by the President that the people of Vietnam were entitled to choose their Government by free , supervised elections open to all South Vietnamese and an appeal to North Vietnam to honor the results of such elections . What started off as an apparentlyy noncontroversial resolution became caught up in a cross-tide of political currents that in the end produced as much dissension as unity in House and left the meaning of the resolution unclear . Democrats Give Support The House Democratic leadership , fearful that the White House might make political capital out of Democratic dissent ; on the Vietnam issue , decided to support the resolution . The House Republican leadership , ' meanwhile , was exercising tight ' party control to obtain passage . In. the process Democratic and Republican doves found themselves placed on the spot by a resolution that originated with a Texas Democrat  --  Representative James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and White House support ' before it was introduced in the I House the day after the President 's Vietnam speech . As doves were repeatedly reminded during the debate , to vote against the resolution could be interpreted - as voting against a " just peace " in Vietnam . But the doves were also fearful , particularly in view of the President 's Nov. 10 speech before the House , that the White House would interpret the resolution as an endorsement of its Vietnam policies , past and future . Representative Allard K. Lowenstein , Democrat of Nassau , one of the leaders of the Democratic doves , summed up their predicament at one point by observing that they had to " vote for it or be damned for supporting Hanoi " and " blocking national unity . " Clarification by Doves With many doves feeling constrained to vote for the resolution , they sought to clarify their position in an open letter signed by 82 members ? 80 Democrats and two Republicans , Rerpesentatives Paul N. McCloskey Jr . of California ane Ogden R. Reid of Westchester . Noting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the resolution , the letter emphasized that the signers , no matter how they finally voted , were in agreement that " we do not endorse everything said by the President in his statement of Nov. 3 , " and " we specifically do not give advance approval of future decisions on Vietnam . " The Republican leadership compounded the predicament of the doves by making a lastminute move to add a provision calling upon North Vietnam to observe the 1949 Geneva Convention on treatment of prisoners of war . The provision dealing with prisoners of war was offered in a recommittal motion ? a parliamentary device normally used to attempt to kill a piece of legislation by sending it back to committee . But in this case , by adding the prisoner of war provision , the Republican leadership used the recommittal procedure as a method of rallying support for the resolution , even from the doves . In announcing the recommittal move , Representative Ford described the addition of the prisoner of war provision as " a helpful , beneficial change " that strengthened the resolution . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the doves , commented : " Now let 's see them vote against that . " The political tactic of the Republican leadership achieved its purpose . The House voted unanimously ? 392 to 0 ? to recommit the resolution with instructions that the prisoner of war provision be added immediately by the House Foreign Affairs Committee . As was illustrated by the final vote of 333 to 55 , many doves voted for the recommittal motion who were opposed to the resolution . TEXT OF RESOLUTION Resolved , that the House of Representatives affirms its support for the President in his efforts to negotiate a just peace in Vietnam , expresses the earnest hope of the people of the United States for voch a peace , calls attention to the numerous peaceful overtures which the United States has made in good faith toward the Government of North Vietnam , requests the President to continue to press the Government of North Vietnam to abide by the Geneva Convention of 1949 in the treatment of prisoners of war , approves and supports the principles enunciated by the President that the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of free elections open to all South Vietnamese and supervised by an impartial international body , and that the United States is willing to abide by the results of such elections , and supports the President in his call upon the Government of North Vietnam to announce its willingness to honor such elections and to abide by such results and to allow the issues in controversy to be peacefully resolved in order that the war may be ended and peace may be restored at last in Southeast Asia .                     