@@726267

txt District Attorney Frank S. Hogan 's office was reported yesterday to have obtained " solid information , " through the use of electronic eavesdropping equipment , against a number of milk companies accused of rigging bids and fixing prices . As a result , an authoritative source said , Mr. Hogan may change his approach in the investigation . It was reported that in the face of mass reflisqls by milk company officials to sign waivers of immunity against selfincrimination , the prosecutor might grant immunity to some of the officials before the grand jury . They would then have to choose between cooperating with the investigation or facing contempt charges if they refused to answer questions before the jury . Questions Listed Paul Corash , executive director of the Metropolitan Dairy Institute , Inc. , representing 50 local milk companies , said : " If it is true that there has been bugging , this is just another example of the harassment to which this industry has been subjected and the questionable practices of the District Attorney 's office which we have already vehemently protested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persecuted and for our reluctance to cooperate with what we regard as defamation by headline . " The investigation , which has been going on for more than a year , seeks to determine whether the milk distributors have engaged in a conspiracy to fix milk prices , rig bids on city contracts , sell old milk to city agencies and postdate milk sold to stores , and whether they have agreed to prevent stores from changing dealers . Two Win Adjournment Two officials of a milk company scheduled to appear before the grand jury won an adjournment yesterday . The prosecutor 's office refused to identify the company or the officials , but it was learned that the company was Eastern Farm Products , Inc . It was reported that the company 's officials will soon raise in the State Supreme Court the issue of whether they have to appear before the grand jury . Thus far 16 dealers have declined to waive immunity , but several witnesses testified before the jurors yesterday . They were described by one source as union employes . J. Edward Lumbard , chief judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District , appointed a threejudge court to hear arguments on whether the constitutional rights of the milk companies had been violated . The court will consist of Judge Leonard P. Moore a the United : States Court ' of Appeals and Judges William B. - Herlands and Sylvester J. Ryan of Iithe Federal District Court .. The hearing is scheduled to start 1May 4 . Appeals from such 1 courts go directly to the SuIpreme Court in Washington . The milk companies went into , Federal court to restrain ' DisI trict Attorney Hogan from:asking that waivers of immunity be signed and to restrain the city arid . ? state from blacklisting companies whose officials refused to sign . By statute , companies whose oficers refuse to waive immunity are barred from doing business with city and state agencies for five years . Union officials also were scheduled to testify before the grand jury yesterday , but were not called . Other labor officials earlier had declined to sign waivers of immunity . As part of its inquiry , the jury is looking into reports that payoffs have been made to : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being part of tire alleged conspiracy . The grand jury conducting the inquiry , which is- under the direction of Assistant District Attorney Joseph A. Phillips , has had its term extended to June 28 . It is scheduled to sit regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays . Mr. Corash of the dairy institute said recently that the companies were not waiving immunity because the industry was tired " of being a " whipping , boy " . and . had : . been the subject of numerous investigations over the ' years . He said that " in no case yet has anything been proved of what has been alleged . " According to Mr. Corash , the city ' is currently buying $10-Million worth of milk a year for schools , hospitals and other city agencies , and he warned that as competitive bidding was " narrowed " the city would have to pay higher prices .                     