@@724847

txt WASHINGTON , June 18 ? Daniel P. Moynihan , an Assistant Secretary of Labor in the , Johnson Administration , is be , ling discussed in high DemO7 Icraiic circles as a possible candidate for Mayor of New York . The name of the 38-year-old political scientist and Government official has been advanced in recent days with increasing enthusiam by a group that inchides a number of Washington holdovers from the Kennedy Administration . The White House has strenuously denied any participation by President Johnson in the choosing of a Democrat to succeed Mayor Wagner . However , several key White House aides have expressed personal enthusiasm for running Mr. Moynihan against Representative John . V. Lindsay , the Republican candidate for Mayor . Appointed by Kennedy Mr. Moynihan , who has spent most of his life in New York City , was an acting secretary to Gov . W. Averell Harriman . He came to Washington in 1961 ' as special assistant to the Secretary of Labor , Arthur J. Goldberg , and two years later was named an Assistant Secretary by President Kennedy . Reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attending a UNESCO conference , Mr. Moynihan said he had been approached as a possible candidate , but had not taken the idea seriously . Asked whether he would enjoy running against Mr. Lindsay , he answered : " Good God , yes . Any decent man would oppose a candidate who knows little and cares less about New York . " Not Widely Known The chief initial liability under which Mr. Moynihan 's candidacy would suffer is the fact that he is little known outside Democratic and Government circles . An intensive campaign would be necessary to convert him into a recognizable public figure . On the other hand , backers point out , he has a good many assets that would be particularly valuable in counteracting those of Representative Lindsay . Like the Republican , Mr. Moynihan is a young , tall , goodlooking , articulate intellectual with a solid background in both politics and government . At the same time , he is an Irish Catholic in a city where the massive population of minority group members tends sometimes to avoid white Anglo - Saxon Protestant candidates like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-author of a book on the ethnic blend in New York City . In New York , Liberal party officials expressed respect for Mr. Moynihan as a mayoral candidate , citing his five years of Washington service and four years ! rt the New York administration of Governor Harriman . Heretofore Liberal leaders have not been conspiculously eager to endorse any of the existing or potential Democratic candidates : Representative William F. Ryan , City Council President Paul It . Screvane ; City Councilman Paul O'Dwyer , Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , Controller Abraham D. Beame and District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor of Queens . If the Liberals , who have polled 500,000 votes , should endorse Mr. Lindsay , the Republican might receive enough additional votes on that line to mean the difference between ) victory and defeat . Primary Is a Question A major question discussed by Moynihan supporters here is wheither their candidate could survive what now appears likely to be a four- or five-man Democratic primary contest with better-known politicians . Allied is the question of what role strong Washington sponsorship might play in opening the path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backers fear they could not bring enough influence to bear in a complicated competitive situation to put him over . Mr. Moynihan was born in Tulsa , Okla. , in 1927 , but has spent most of his life in New York City , where his father was a Third Avenue tavernkeeper . He is a graduate of Benjamin Franklin High School and Tufts University , where he also received a master 's and doctor 's degree from the Fletcher School of International Law and Diplomacy . In 1950 he was a Fulbright fellow at the London School of Economics . He was active in the Democratic campaign that elected Mr. Harriman in 1954 and served on the Governor 's staff for four years . In addition to his Labor Department duties , he has also been active in negotiating bargaining rights for Federal employes ; planning the physical rehabilitation of Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House , and drafting President Johnson 's antipoverty program . Besides his book , " Beyond the Melting Pot , " in which he joined with Nathan Glazer , Mr. Moynihan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commentary , and Commonweal . Ile is married to the former Elizabeth Brennan , who was -a secretary on the Harriman staff when he met her . They live with their three children in the converted stable of an old Washington estate .                     