@@727753

txt Buddhists in South Vietnam currently hold weekly prayer and discussion meetings to protest the 10-year prison sentence of Thich Thien Minh , seen here immediately after his trial in Saigon last month . Thich Ho Giac , Commissioner General of the United Buddhist Congregation , stood at the microphone in his saffron robe and exhorted the crowd , gesturing at key points with his bare shouldered arm . The five-colored Buddhist banners flapped in the wind . There were roses from Dalat on the front table where other Buddhist leaders presided . The audience of perhaps 600 inside the hall laughed and applauded the speaker 's jests . Women with the thick Northern Vietnamese bands resting halolike on their heads and women with the winged headdress of the South enjoyed themselves spontaneously . Men who could not get into the hall crowded around the windows or sat on the mound of rubble and bed frames left from the Tet fighting of last year . The aroma of incense ebbed and flowed . The occasion was one of the weekly prayer and discussion meetings sponsored by the An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thien Minh , convicted in mid-March of harboring a Communist agent in his Buddhist youth center . The An Quang Buddhists ? primarily the central Vietnamese Buddhists from the Hue area  --  contend that Buddhism now finds itself again in a period of danger reminiscent of repression under former President Ngo Dinh . The government did not establish proof , they say , that Thich Thien Minh , in fact , // " Buddhists in Saigon protest cautiously // knew that the student was working for the Communists and could be held legally responsible for him . They want the youth center , closed since its ? director 's arrest , returned to the Buddhists . They object to newspaper censorship over the trial and to the suspension of the Saigon Buddhist paper . Furthermore , they hold the Americans responsible for all these actions . Suspect by government The Thich Thien Minh case is the latest in a series of disputes that have kept the Buddhists and the Roman Catholic Thieu regime in a state of constant hostility since 1965/66 ? disputes that both sides have deliberately fanned . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have held consistently that the Thieu government is not legitimate and does not express the will of the people . For its ? part , the government . has been suspicious of the Buddhists as the one large group which has opposed it in this period . The government asserts there are Buddhist links with the NLF and that the An Quang Pagoda was the Viet Cong command post in Saigon during the Tet offensive of 1968 . In the battle in that section South Vietnamese planes fired on and destroyed the printing shop of the pagoda . A month later the government held several bonzes ( Buddhist monks ) in custody during the period of time in which the NLFsponsored Vietnam Alliance of National Democratic and Peace Forces was being set up . Only one important bonze  --  Thich Don Hau of Hue  --  joined the alliance , so far as is known . Shift in position seen In 1968 agitation for the release of the bonzes being held became the main issue until the leading ones were released . Then in October the recurrent issue of peace again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Saigon Government was resisting joining the Paris peace talks . The An Quang Buddhists argued that South Vietnam needed to get another government , one that would be capable of going through with negotiations . In 1969 , still continuing with the peace theme , some An Quang Buddhists began talking of a " gray " rather than a " black and white " situation . They became less specific in calling for a new government and went even further than they had before in the view of some observers , in denouncing by implication the NFL as well as the government . This shift did not mean any reconciliation , however , and the government arrest of Thich Thien Minh followed . The public does not appear to give much credence to the accusation that the An Quang Pagoda was a Viet Cong command post and appears to consider the sentence given Thich Thien Minh unduly harsh . On the other hand , the weary populace is little inclined ? except for the faithful minority ? to follow actively the political leadings of the An Quang Pagoda . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buddhists in 1967 ? the issue of the official Buddhistcharter being granted to the Ky-aligned northern Buddhists ? failed to elicit wide support and ended without the government having to yield at all . The only incipient demonstration in recent months ? led by young bonzes on Christmas eve ? was toned down by some of the older An Quang bonzes themselves . Failure to unite noted Pagoda spokesmen explain that in this period of threat from the Communists they do not want to do anything that could cause disruption and serve the Communist cause . From the government point of view the lack of demonstrations proves weakness in the Buddhist ranks ? and success in government maneuvers to keep them weak . Certainly the significant thing in the government view is that Thich Thien Minh has not turned into a martyr capable of rallying the Buddhists at large . A major reason for this is that despite their numbers-80 percent of the South Vietnamese population is nominally Buddhist  --  the Buddhists lack unity . There are the standing splits between the northern Buddhists  --  now effectively neutralized politically for having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the traditionally individualistic and disorganized southern Buddhists . In addition , some jostling for position has been reported even among the An Quang leaders themselves , including Thich Thien Minh . The hassling continues , and the government moves to weaken the Buddhists when it feels it can do so without giving them enough of an issue to unite them . The Buddhists challenge the government at their prayer and protest meetings but do not take to the streets in a move which would invite a government crackdown .                     