@@726659

txt More than 100 New Yorkers , ranging from nationally prominent business and labor leaders to local figures best known in the slums where they live and work , were organized yesterday into the New York Coalition to combat slum problems . Christian A. Herter Jr. , a vice president of the Mobil Oil Corporation , was named chairman . The purpose of this coalition ? one of 50 local leadership coalitions being set up across the country ? " is to enlist the energies , skills and resources of the private sector to improve the quality of life in New York , " Mr. Herter said . He said that the group , which had not met yet , would concentrate first on jobs and job training for the unemployed in the city 's underprivileged minority communities . " But perhaps most important , " he added , " we hope to be a communications bridge between the private sector and the communities themselves . " A Diverse Group The project will bring together such diverse people as David Rockefeller , president of the Chase Manhattan Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Action ; Jacob S. Potofsky , president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America , and Virgil Hodges , executive director of the Coney Island Community Family Center . : Mr. Herter , the 48-year-old son of the late Secretary of State , spoke at a Gracie Mansion news conference with Mayor Lindsay and Andrew Heiskell , chairman of Time Inc. and co-chairman of the steering committee of the nationwide Urban Coalition , formed in Washington two months ago . . The Mayor , a founder of the national coalition , said : - " We can not expect sweeping changes overnight , but this coalition , drawing as it does on the talents of so many important institutions and extremely able men , will focus unmatched energy and intellect on the problems . " The New York group 's membership , 105 now and a few more , to be added , is entirely from the private  --  that is , nongovernment  --  sector . All of its members serve on a voluntary basis . Mr. Herter is staying with his company but plans to spend most of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as do several other members . The time that the majority will devote to the coalition will vary with the individual . There will be a small paid staff of two or three persons to start with , in offices yet to be arranged . The New York Coalition and similar groups that are being set up elsewhere are off-shoots of the Urban Coalition , a national grouping of national figures and eight big city mayors . The movement began as the idea of the late Stephen Currier , a young philanthropist particularly concerned with urban problems . The spark that brought it into being was last summer 's rioting . . Mr. Currier and his wife disappeared last Jan. 18 while on a flight from Puerto Rico to St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands . In 1958 the couple formed the Taconic Foundation to channel funds to groups fighting for civil rights , improved race relations , child welfare and mental health . A Lobby for Cities The national coalition is headed by Mr. Heiskell and A. Philip Randolph , president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobby  --  for the cities , aiming to put pressure on ' government , on the public generally . The New York Coalition , on the other hand , is applying to the Internal Revenue Service for tax-exempt status , and thus will engage in no governmental lobbying . The New York group will eventually seek funds from foundations and corporations to finance some of its programs , yet to be formulated . One example of what the coalition might try to do would be to keep summer youth programs going year-round . Another possibility would be to persuade New York companies to put a small but specific por , tion of their funds into slumarea banks for use in mortgage financing . Mr. Herter said that the first meeting of the group would be called later this month . Given its large size , the group will be subdivided into smaller units to work on various aspects of the coalition 's three targets  --  jobs , housing and education . Many Elements Included The over-all group was made large to include as many elements of city life as possible ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the most localized neighborhoods , such as Central Har-lem , East Harlem , Coney Island , Bedford-Stuyvesant , South Bronx , and others . j The New York group is the 1 third to be formed . The first ' were the New Detroit Committee , formed after the riots there , and a statewide coalition in Minnesota . National coalition leaders will meet in Chicago next Tuesday with representatives of some 50 local groups that are preparing to organize .                     