@@725405

txt Platoons of government officials are holding meetings here and swarming into the Delta area of Mississippi these days , seeking remedies for the most acute unemployment and racial situation in the nation . Mississippi on the whole has an unemployment figure as low as the national average . But no one knows the exact dimensions of the problem in the Delta , a 50- to 100-milewide strip paralleling the Mississippi River from the Tennessee line to Vicksburg . A special Labor Department survey is being made now to determine accurate figures . Rough estimates are that out of 168,000 people in a total possible work force , some 90,000 are either unemployed or underemployed ( work less than 26 weeks a year ) . And 80 to 90 percent of these unemployed and underemployed are Negro . Many , for reasons of lack of skill , poor health , discouragement , or other factors , are not actually looking for work . Some are hungry , some homeless and living in tents . Perpetual debt For the most part , they are cotton-field workers or sharecroppers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in debt to the plantation owner for advances and loans he has made to them . When they do work , the wages are low , usually around $3 a day . Increased farm mechanization and the use of chemicals to control weeds have drastically curtailed farm employment . Machines will pick 95 percent of this year 's Delta cotton crop . Many farmers are reducing their acreage from 12.5 to 35 percent to take advantage of federal subsidies . Some farms have been consolidated to make better use of mechanization . Led by civil-rights militants of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee ( SNCC ) and the Delta Ministry of the National Council of Churches , farm workers staged a strike for higher wages at one plantation . Most of the strikers were forced to leave their rented farm homes , and are in tents now . At the deactivated Greenville Air Force Base , a sit-in last month brought national attention to the area . Vote move resisted Efforts to register and vote and to integrate the schools , have met with resistance from the white power structure . Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities for antipoverty and other assistance programs . The Department of Justice , which had been trying to defuse some of the racial tensions , was instrumental in finally getting White House attention for the problem . Although the President has not publicly acknowledged the situation , the word has gone out that something must be done . Washington is taking a three-part approach : to give immediate help With food , temporary lodging and other emergency measures for those in dire need ; to provide basic education and job training ; and - to open new job opportunities . The obstacles are Immense . Some observers believe the situation has already deterio rated so far that it will be impossible to bring in new industry , even if the people are trained . Certainly a solution to the civil-rights struggle is basic to any long-range improvement . , - Among the federal agencies coordinating efforts are the Departments of Labor , Agriculture , Justice , and Health , Education , and Welfare , the Office of Economic Opportunity ( OEO ) , the Small Business Administration , and the Economic Development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large group of state employment personnel for a series of " human resources " surveys . Starting in three of the hardest-hit counties , a person-to-person approach is being made at every shack , tent , or house . The unemployed and underemployed are being interviewed to find their employment abilities and education levels , plus data on medical needg and other problems . Findings from this survey will be made the basis for planning of training , education , and other programs . Home loans projected Projects being undertaken or planned include : Operation Help : After much delay in getting an integrated advisory board to supervise the operation , an office of Economic Opportunity financed program to supply surplus foods to more than 50,000 people ( and eventually feed 500,000 throughout the state ) is under way now . Five hundred people are being hired from the ranks of the poor to work in the distribution program . Forty percent of the first 260 hired by the state welfare service for these jobs were Negroes . This is considered an enormous breakthrough . Operation Star : A joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six months of basic education to those with less than sixth grade level . Fifteen education centers have already been started . The target of the two-year statewide program is to help 100,000 poor . Stipends are being paid to those taking part in the education programs . Head Start : Again after long delays , several Head Start programs are under way , One program is helping 9,100 preschool children in 28 counties , and employing 1,100 professionals and 2,300 nonprofessionals . Opportunity Homestead : Several agencies are trying to piece together a system of grants , loans , and training for the homeless or shack-dwelling Delta people to build their own homes . Small grants and small federally backed long-term loans ( probably totaling about $5,000 ) would be made available to individuals who ordinarily could not get them . They would be able to purchase about an acre ( big enough to have their own vegetable garden ) near a city and to buy building materials for minimum housing . Through manpower training or work-experience programs , these individuals would be taught the skills needed to build the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ construction jobs so they could repay the loans . New vocations sought The Agriculture Department , through its Agriculture Extension Service and Rural Community Development Service is helping to direct these farm-oriented people into new vocations . Temporary jobs will be developed such as work in national forests and working on public drainage ditches . The Labor Department is shifting manpower development and training funds for more than $2 million to provide skill programs for those coming out of the basic education courses and for others . Subsistence allowance will be paid to those undergoing training . On-the-job training programs are being expanded . Some of the training will be oriented toward jobs adapted to increased mechanization , such as mechanics , farm-machinery operators , and welders . Move to jobs planned Other Labor Department officials are working with business firms in Plans for Progress programs , cooperating on a job-expansion program , seeking to bring new industries into the area . Job-mobility-program funds will be used to retrain and transfer some workers and their families to the Gulf coast where shipping-construction jobs are open . Neighborhood Youth Groups programs will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              