@@723139

txt London Having failed to solve the problems of unity , Western Europe is having to come to grins with those of division . In Brussels , as the ministers of the European Economic Community meet , the seriousness of the challenge they face is underlined , ( 1 ) , by a split between the two " special allies " among the Six , West Germany and France , over priorities for further progress in unification and , ( 2 ) , by Netherlands and Belgian distrust of that special relationship should the split be mended . " I foresee dangers ahead for the small states , " Belgian Foreign Minister Paul - Henri Spaak is quoted as saying on the eve of the meeting . In Lisbon where the European Free Trade Association , the " shadow Common Market , " meets , progress seems to hinge largely on removing at least for Denmark the protection that Commonwealth countries enjoy for their butter in Britain . Promotion Planned In London , meanwhile , Commonwealth officials began meeting Thursday to prepare for a Commonwealth ministers ' trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a concession before it could in fact be made . At the same time the Royal Commonwealth Society and the Federation of Commonwealth Chambers of Commerce announced joint plans to raise Europe Hurdles an extra ? 100,000 ( S280,000 ) a year to promote new intraCommonwealth trade . Meanwhile a strong group of Conservative members of Parliament introduced a motion urging the government to insist on the amendment of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade so that additional mutual concessions can be given between Commonwealth countries . If all three sets of difficulties were " successfully " resolved , in EFTA , EEC , and Commonwealth . independent of each other , it is clear that three new large inward-looking areas of increased discrimination would thereby be confirmed . This , at a time when GATT is assembling to discuss what everyone has seen in the past as a bold and sweeping effort to free ' trade and abolish discrimination , could have extremely serious reprccussions . For Britain , of course , the most perplexing question is that of the role of the Commonwealth in expanded trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " there is no question of a choice between Europe and the Commonwealth . " But while that is so ill one sense it certainly is not so in another . No ' Quid Pro Quo ' Yet Britain could simultaneously expand European and Commonwealth trade . But if it did it would be faced with still another choice , this time between GATT and the Commonwealth ( which in effect means between the United States and the Commonwealth ) . For preferences are of diminishing importance and what puts the brake on Commonwealth trade now for Britain is that Britain gives trade privileges to Commonwealth countries that they do not return . As economist A , R. Conan points out in an article in the Westminster Bank Review published Thursday , Australia gets a guaranteed market in Britain for wheat , but no British industry has a guaranteed market in Australia and many are excluded by prohibitive tariffs . Quotas for butter imports are imposed as well as tariffs to safeguard the trade of Britain 's traditional suppliers like New Zealand ; no British trade is thus safeguarded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market in Britain for textiles ; Britain has no guarantees in India . Many more examples could be quoted .                     