@@727135

txt Columbia University disclosed yesterday that it expected within a few days to name a new dean of Columbia College who would be the first such official selected in modern times primarily by the undergraduate unit 's faculty members . The method of selection was widely interpreted as a conciliatory gesture by the university ' , toward both troubled faculty members and protesting students . The university ? did not reveal the name of the proposed dean of the key 2,700-student men 's college , but sources close to Columbia 's administration identified him . as Dr. Carl F. Hovde , an associate professor of English . ' Vote Scheduled Dr. ' Grayson Kirk , the president of Columbia , was expected to submit Dr. Hovde 's name to the 21-member board of trustees , ? of Columbia for approval soon . ; Dr. Hovde 's name also was scheduled to be put to a formal vote of the 207-member Columbia College faculty at a meeting this afternoon . Dr. Hovde was proposed for the deanship a few days ago in a letter sent to Dr. Kirk by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six faculty members and three administrators . The committee recommended Dr. Hovde for the post , which has been formally vacant since last July , after canvassing the entire Columbia College faculty . Meeting Planned " The president plans to meet as soon as possible with this member of the college faculty and anticipates that as a consequence of that meeting he will want to submit that nomination to the trustees for their approval at an early meeting of the board , " a university spokesman said . : It was understood that an arrangement was worked out between Dr. Kirk and the Columbia College Committee on Instruction last week that the nominee of the college faculty for the deanship would be approved by the administration . Part of the thrust of student // Columbia , Departing From Tradition , Accepts Faculty 's Choice for Dean ; Hovde Is Likely to Be Named Cobtinued From Page 1 , Col. 1 protests that have crippled Columbia since April 23 has been toward gaining greater faculty and student voice in the decision-making processes of he university . A committee of s. " trustees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working on proposals for restructuring the university in thiS direction . In a statement last night , the Student Strike Coordinating Cotnmittee warned that thousands of students , " whether President Kirk is at graduation it ) speak or not . . . will make known their dissatisfaction . " Dr. Hovde 's appointment by the trustees on the recommendation of the college faculty would constitute , according to some observers , a significant if as .. yet unformallzed step in the same direction . Xt was also felt that Dr. Hovde 's appointment would be *ell received by student groups urging the restructuring of Columbia . This , it was said , was partly because of the way in which he was nominated and partly because he has no previous association with the present university administration . Heretofore , deans of Columbia College and other units of the university , which has a total enrollment of 17,500 students , were appointed by the president , often after informal discussions with faculty members . University sources said they could not recall a Columbia College dean 's having been appointed after nomination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hovde , who Is 41 years old , was born in Meadville , Pa . His father , Bryn J. Hovde , who died in 1954 , was the president of the New School for Social Research on West 12th Street from 1945 to 1950 . Dr. Hovde received his A.B . degree from Columbia College In 1950 , an M.A. from Princeton in 1954 and a Ph.D . from Princeton in 1956 . He joined the Columbia College faculty in 1960 . Dr. Hovde , a specialist in American literature , is married to the former Jane Norris and they have two daughters , one 6 and the other 3 . Early in the disturbances that have wracked Columbia , Dr. Hovde was a member of a three-man faculty committee that created a joint disciplinary committee composed of seven students , seven teachers And three administrators . The committee subsequently drew disciplinary guidelines that are being followed in taking action against students involved in the current uprisings . Dr. Hovde was reportedly offered the deanship twice before the uprisings began and rejected it each time . But a university spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The university said he had originally been proposed for the deanship " on the basis of a canvass of the college faculty by the administration . " Dr. Hovde would succeed Henry S. Coleman , who has been acting dean of the college since Dr. David B. Truman , the former dean , became vice president and provost of the university last July . Dean Coleman is expected to become dean of freshmen , a new post , when Dr. Hovde becomes dean of the college on July 1 . Dr. Hovde declined to comment last night on the impending appointment . Trustees who were reached also declined to comment . The university , meanwhile , revealed that parents and guests attending the June 4 commencement exercises would not be seated in the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine , where the ceremonies are scheduled to be held . A Columbia spokesman said the parents and guests would be seated in Riverside Church , the Horace Mann School auditorium , the University Hall gymnasium on the campus and Theater , which is also on the campus . They will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Space Cited The spokesman sand the plan did not result from threats by leftist student protesters to disrupt the graduation exercises . " There 's just no one place that they can put all the parents and guests , " the spokesman said . The Columbia graduation normally is held on Low Plaza on the campus . The ceremonies are conducted in St. John the Divine , which is at 112th Street and Amsterdam Avenue , only when it rains . Students strikers , led by the radical Students for a Democratic Society , met yesterday afternoon in Earl Hall to discuss their responses to letters summoning them to deans ' offices for disciplinary discussions . Twelve students have been suspended for failing to appear as summoned . But 33 seniors in Columbia College were given reprieves when the dean 's office sent out telegrams Friday extending the deadlines indefinitely for their appearances and asking them to attend a meeting today to clarify the disciplinary , situation . Bernardine DAIL a spokesman for the National Lawyers Guild , which is representing many of the striking students , said a motion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an injunction that would halt all disciplinary action against student activists pending resolution of criminal trespass charges against them . The injunction would Also seek reinstatement of the 12 suspended students , including Mark Rudd , the 20-year-old Maplewood , N. 1 ? junior who is the campus leader of the S.D.S. About 1,000 people  --  not all of them students  --  have been arrested since the uprising began . Thus far , about 100 students have rectived letters charging them with participation in the uprising and asking them to appear at their dean 's office or face suspension . In all , about 500 such letters are expected to be sent to student protesters if the disciplinary process runs its present course . ' ' The protesters have demanded from the beginning that the university grant them amnesty for their participation in the demonstrations . The student rebellion started as an attempt by radical students to end Columbia 's ties with ' the Institute for Defense Analyses , a consortium that does research .. for ' the Government , and halt Columbia 's conIstruction of a controversial gymnasium in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 26 and the trustees of Columbia said they would not resume it without consulting with neighborhood residents .                     