@@727232

txt Telltale signs are emerging that North Vietnam may be facing serious new economic problems . In Hanoi the Council of Ministers has just ended a special session to discuss the economy . It was presided over by Premier Pham Van Dong , who earlier this year faulted industrial and construction workers for less-than-adequate performance . The communiqu ? issued after the Council of Ministers meeting said tersely that the Communist leaders " decided on measures to step up activities " and to " improve and strengthen " the economy . Cold wave reported All this follows close on an admission by the Hanoi regime that North Vietnam 's winter-spring rice crop has suffered badly as a result of unfavorable weather and American air raids . A ( North ) Vietnam News Agency dispatch says the crop " from sowing time experienced adverse climatic conditions , including an unusually long cold wave , with even snow // Shoot me with a smile Vietnamese boys who have known only the face of war since they were born can still laugh and clown before a camera . They encountered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to take their picture  --  but not a serious one . *North Vietnam hints lag in production // falling in some parts of this tropical country . " These hints of gathering trouble at home coincide with a tour of European Communist countries by a high-powered North Vietnamese delegation seeking new and substantial aid , both military and economic . The delegation , led by Vice  --  Premier Le Thanh Nghi , has negotiated new aid agreements for North Vietnam in Czechoslovakia , East Germany , and the Soviet Union . Production encouraged Meanwhile , there are reports that a larger number of foreign ships than previously has been flowing to North Vietnam 's principal port of Haiphong . If correct , this could mean that North Vietnam is striving to make up with imports shipped in by sea both what it is not producing itself , as well as the shortfall in goods from Comunist China as a result of China 's dislocated transport system . For some time there have been indications that Hanoi has been most anxious to boost industrial output at home . Throughout the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigns " to mark such occasions as President Ho Chi Minh 's birthday , in which workers have been spurred to greater effort . Earlier this year the party theoretical journal Hoc Tap quoted Premier Pham Van Dong . Warning that North Vietnam faced " extremely crucial tasks " in 1968 the Premier said : " The communications and transportation branch has made unique innovations concerning technical equipment and technical improvements , proving that despite the war this work can be carried out . Why are the other branches not working like the communications and transportation branch ? Why are heavy industry , light industry , construction , forestry , marine products , and so forth not able to do this ? We must make the utmost effort to carry out this work . Small technical improvements , small steps forward in technical equipment when added together produce large results , and from small undertakings we will move forward to larger tasks every day . "                     