@@727071

txt Communist China 's vast and powerful propaganda apparatus now is being mobilized on behalf of the American Negro . With all the fanfare which marks the launching of a major campaign , Peking has set out to exploit racial unrest in the United States . Visitors to the southern Chinese city of Canton reported by telephone to Hong Kong Thursday that huge demonstrations were under way in the city in support of the American Negro . The city is currently the scene of China 's spring trade fair . Favored foreign businessmen have been invited ' there to place orders for Chinese exports on display . Marchers jam streets The Canton demonstrations followed mass rallies in Peking , Shanghai , and a string of other Chinese cities . The demonstrations were touched off by a personal statement from Mao Tse-tung on the murder of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . Such a personal statement from the Chi . nese leader is rare . It was his second dec- Mao Tse-tung Chinese leader espouses Negro cause laration on the American racial situation , the first being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of champion of the ' anti-racist cause . But it made the Communist point that the " struggle of the exploited black people " is but part of the wider struggle against " monopoly government " and American " imperialism . " The official New China News Agency reports that hundreds of thousands of Chinese poured into the streets following Chairman Mao 's announcement to " show their resolute support for the just struggle of the black people in the United States . " The statement was splashed across the front pages of all Chinese newspapers . The Chinese Communist news agency says that columns of demonstrators marched through the streets of Peking , bringing traffic to a standstill . Convenient target seen Red Guards , carrying red flags , took part in the rallies chanting : " Revolutions and revolutionary wars are inevitable in a class society . We must never show any mercy to United States imperialism , Soviet revisionism , and all reaction . " The campaign , which clearly was organized at the highest levels in Peking , seems intended to press home the attack on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Chinese Communists on account of possible peace talks . The Chinese are strongly opposed to such talks . Chinese Communist sources in Hong Kong have contemptuously dismissed attempts by European contacts to gain China 's cooperation in getting talks started . One such West European contact was // *Red propaganda shifts to riots // chided for his " humanitarianism " and told that China demanded the total military defeat of the Americans in South Vietnam . However , some observers are not overlooking the fact that the new pro-Negro campaign comes conveniently at a time when tension is building anew within China , and may prove a useful distraction from problems at home . The New China News Agency said that people in Shanghai , China 's biggest city , braved heavy rain to demonstrate in the streets in support of Chairman Mao 's statement . In its own commentary on the shooting of Dr. King , the Communist news agency says that through each " massive violent struggle " in the last five years American Negroes have " steeled themselves to fight more militantly than ever before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the black masses even broke open ? rifle shops or arsenals to seize weapons to arm themselves . In Detroit at the end of last year , the black Americans for the first time used machine guns in support of their sniper fire , throwing the armed troops and police into utter disarray . " The tidal waves of the Afro-American struggle against racial oppression are violently shaking the United States imperialist rule and pounding ever more vigorously at United States imperialism which is beset with difficulties both at home and abroad . "                     