@@724049

txt Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge has asked to be relieved of his post in South Vietnam within 30 days . Mr. Lodge told President Johnson that the resignation was prompted by reasons of health , which he did not specify . The timing of the request , dated yesterday , will assure his return home no later than one day before the start of the Republican convention in San Francisco on July 13 . George E. Reedy , White - House press secretary , said Sunday President Johnson - " has received no such comm. nication , " The Associated ' Press reported . . Mr. Lodge 's move will free him of the restraints of the Foreign Service and enable him to participate in efforts to deny the Republican Presidential nomination to Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona . Had Denied Rumors The Ambassador himself was a prominent candidate for the nomination after his victory by write-in ballots in the New Hampshire primary last March 10 . He now seems to have urged his supporters to rally behind Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania . Rumors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , but he went out lof his way to deny them publicly two weeks ago during the Administration 's strategy conference on Southeast Asia in Honolulu . Mr. Lodge , who will be 62 years old next month , appeared then to be at least 10 years younger and in fine condition . A former Senator , chief representative at the United Nations and Republican candidate for Vice President in 1960 , Mr. Lodge accepted the Vietnam assignment from President Kennedy last fall . He arrived ' in Saigon just before the Nov. 2 overthrow of President Ngo Dinh Diem . The United States-supported war against Communist guerrillas deteriorated thereafter in a period of weak leadership that was followed by another coup in February . Since then , it is thought here , the Ambassador has served with distinction , supporting South Vietnam 's new leader , , Gen. Nguyen Khanh , and vir- , tually personifying the United States commitment to the war effort . The Ambassador 's presence in Saigon has also served to keep the Vietnam issue out of partisan politics so far . President Johnson has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration 's acceptance of most of his proposals and offered to keep him there as long as he wished . Mr. Lodge was said to have felt duty bound to remain at his post for at least the early months of the Khanh regime . After the New Hampshire primary , he resisted pressure from his supporters to enter the campaign and indicated that he would probably not return before the Republican convention . Rivals accused him of hiding behind his diplomatic status and of deliberately avoiding commitment on public issues . Contrary to most predictions , Mr. Lodge ran second to Governor Rockefeller of New York in the Oregon primary on May IL . This deflated his supporters ' campaign for the Presidency and they - tried to swing their votes to Mr. Rockefeller and against Mr. Goldwater in the California primary June 2 . Mr. Lodge was said to have been shocked and dismayed by the Goldwater victory in California . A desire to help other moderate Republicans stop the Arizona Senator probably explains at least the timing of his resignation .. Several- persons ' had been informally discussecC.in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would soon claim him . More recently . however , the subject has not been discussed widely and no new ambassador has yet been selected .                     