@@726094

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Unique Service These loans were authorized by the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 , and amounts up to $25,000 were to be available on a long-term , little-or-no-collateral basis where the individual had the ability to carry out a project with reasonable assurance of success . We believe this program has worked very well . While loans have been touted as the main attraction of these centers , their real contribution has been-in giving low-income persons a chance to acquire practical business know-how and develop the techniques with which to enter the mainstream of small-business life . There are very few , if any , such persons who have any other agency to turn to for assistance . This is a program that , to the best of our knowledge , does not duplicate the work of other groups . These purely locally staffed centers have developed much volunteer participation . Ours , like others in the country , has obtained the services of a number of retired businessmen , and local commercial banks have participated in the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the cost of creating a new job with this program is from one-half to one-third the cost mentioned in your editorial ? namely , $10,000 , through private investment . We have noted many benefits to the community and the Government through increased business activity and interest and taxes paid . A significant increase in owners ' earnings has been found to result . Yet the Office of Economic Opportunity has announced it will cease funding these centers at the end of June . Loans will still be available upon direct application to the Small Business Administration 's regional offices , but we all fear , from our experience , that the little person Will find it difficult to secure the same educational benefits , encouragement and supervision that these local centers are now providing . In cases where the S.B.A. regional office is some distance away , it may be a hardship for many persons to conduct the necessary negotiations to obtain a loan . Self-Sufficiency Aim It is indeed puzzling that for so small an investment , with such potential for return , this working program should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for more emphasis on such training and economic development . The original intent of the Congress in such a program was , of course , providing the means whereby individuals could move into a self-sufficient status and become taxpayers . Surely this investment should not be withdrawn without further public examination . RICHARD A. PUNE Director , Onboard Metropolitan Small Business Center Inc . New Bedford , Mass. , Feb. 6 , 1967 ? Reception Accorded Negro Servicemen To the Editor : The denial of shore leave to the sea-weary crewmen of the carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt during its ill-advised stop at Capetown , does at least dramatize America 's official stand on apartheid . We are against it , at least in South Africa ; we do n't want our Negro servicemen to suffer the humiliation of discrimination there . I ca n't help wonder what sort of reception this racially integrated crew will receive when the ship returns to the United States . I speak from bitter and sobering experience , During World War U I served as executive officer on a fleet tanker which was selected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its first timid experimentation with fully integrated crews . By the end of the war , some 40 per cent of our entire complement were Negroes . Lack of Bias Abroad At sea it worked out splendidly , and after the first few months nobody ever gave a thought to the color of a man 's skin . The same mixed groupings which worked together tended to enjoy their off-watch leisure time together . Moreover , these same informal groups of friends usually stuck together on shore leave parties . In the foreign ports we visited ? Capetown was not among them  --  there was never any problem . Our Negro crewmen were especially impressed with the total lack of discrimination they experienced in our English ports of call . Alas , in our American ports It was quite a different story . As an example , when we put in at a town in Texas for a load of fuel oil , I received a call from a Navy League Mother , who informed me that her group had arranged a dance for our crew and had bused In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that our crew contained a large complement of Negroes , her face fell about three decks ; she said what fine sailors the Negroes were , and their blood is just as red as anybody 's , and it was n't anything she herself felt , but of course she was responsible to all those girls , and to their mothers , etc. , etc . In short , it was simply impossible in that part of America . I probably should have canceled the liberty party for everybody , but the girls were already there , and we had been at sea many weeks . So in the end the white boys went to the dance , and I cooked up a soft-ball ' game for the Negro sailors with the Negro workers at the refinery . It took at least three days of fresh sea air to restore the morale and integrated equilibrium of the ship . This sort of thing happened to us over and over again whenever we returned to the country these men were all fighting for , and it happened nowhere else . I would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quaint footnote on the pre-civil-rights era . Will the Negroes on the Franklin D. Roosevelt be glad to be back , or will they too wish they were out at sea again ? EDWARD C. DEVEREUX Jr . Ithaca , N. Y. , Feb. 6 , 1967 ? Wiretap Ban Opposed To the Editor : The President 's announcement of a $350 million increase toward law enforcement was good news to all of us . I find it hard , however , to comprehend a decision such as this being combined with the announcement that wiretapping and other types of electronic bugging would be prohibited in all cases but that of national peril . The subject of judge-approved wiretapping and bugging when organized criminal activities are suspected has split the public into two camps . I wonder if those zealots who consider such ? activity a violation of a person 's privacy have ever stopped to consider the sacrifice which the public must make to insure absolute privacy , even to a lawbreaker . The take by organized crime ( tax-free ) has been estimated to be a net of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not include the billions spent by them to debase our law-enforcement agencies in order that they can carry on their piracy . I believe it as preposterous to prohibit judge-approved wiretapping and bugging as it would be to forbid police the . use of automobiles and aircraft to pursue fleeing wrongdoers . CARL LOEB Jr . New York , Feb. 7 , 1967 ? Bonn-Bucharest . Tie To the Editor : I disagree with the view of your . Bonn correspondent ( Times , Feb. 1 ) when he says that the Communist-ruled countries of Eastern Europe agreed by " the Bucharest declaration last year " to demand conditions " such as recognition of East Germany and the OderNeisse boundary between Germany and Poland before establishing diplomatic ties with West Germany . " His reference is obviously to the declaration on European security issued on July 8 , 1966 , at the conclusion of the meeting of the Political Consultative , Committee of the Warsaw Treaty organization . This declaration advocates " normal relations " between all European states " inclusive of the establishment of normal relations with both German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the actually existing frontiers . between European states . . . inclusive of the Polish frontier on the Oder-Neisse and of the frontier between the two German states . " But these propositions are put forward as elements of a European settlement aimed at excluding the United States from the affairs of Europe , and not as preconditions to diplomatic relations with the Federal Republic of Germany . As it is formulated , the declaration endorses rather than subjects to conditions the establishment of diplomatic relations " with both German states . " In the ' view of this writer it is misleading to construe , as your Feb. 2 editorial seems to be doing , the Bonn-Bucharest diplomatic tie as another " defiant " move on the part of the Rumanian regime , and as a further confirmation of the myth of the disintegrating Soviet bloc . Bucharest and the other East European capitals have been seeking such ties " unconditionally though unsuccessfully since 1954 . Only recently , when German reorientation toward " peaceful engagement " became obvious , did Warsaw set a price for diplomatic relations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rapallo You seem to regard the alarm of the Ulbricht regime as proof that in establishing diplomatic ties with several satellite regimes Germany is scoring heavily for the West . Yet , you indicate that if would be wiser to view , it as a manifestation of Ulbricht 's fear that the new diplomatic ties are steps toward a new Rapallo in which the German Democratic Republic would be unceremoniously scuttled . The Warsaw . Pact " Declaration on European ' security ( full text in The Times of July 9 , 1966 ) , incidentally , makes instructive reading at this juncture . Writers and students of European affairs would be welladvised to take another hard look at this enlightening outline of current Communist strat ' egy in Europe . It may induce second thoughts on the smugly advanced theory that the Soviets have not and can not have designs on Western Europe because " the unity of the Soviet bloc is a matter of the past . " It may even prompt some to wonder who , NATO or the SoViet bloc , is really coming apart . BRUTtls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fa'cility to Promote Tourism To the Editor : Regarding your informative Feb. 5 ' news ' article " The Tourism Gap : ? U.S. on Short End , " more affluent foreign visitors and conventioneers would come to the . United States if , among other advantages , more bilingual and trilingual translators , interpreters and guides were available to them . Visitors to other countries are accustomed to being welcomed and aided in their own language . Why not here ? It is high time that our colleges trained more students in foreign languages and area studies . Eventually , the whole nation will benefit from it , not only in prestige but in . dollars . H. M. DE THIERRY Professor of Languages Marymount Manhattan College New York , Feb. 5 , 1967 ? Letters to the Editor of The Times Treaty as ' Aid ' to Spies To the Editor : The contention of the American Legion ( and other opponents of the Russian consular treaty ) that ratification would be tantamount to granting " a license to spy , " is febrile in itself ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would make . No one seems to have pointed out that even if the treaty enabled the Soviet Union to double or triple its espionage agents in the United States it would have little practical effect . Soviet espionage is , like our own , all-pervasive and irritating ; but it seems unlikely that ' all the secret activities of all the intricate " intelligence communities " can have much effect on the destinies of nations in times of peace . J. Edgar Hoover reminds me of the man who , having spent twenty years of his life in learning to read the Chinese classics in the originals , could not admit that they were perhips not worth reading to begin with . Mr. Hoover , having spent his career in combating Communist espionage , can not admit that Communist espionage is a matter of very minor importance in the contemporary international world . I doubt that the treaty will actually be of much assistance to Russian espionage . But I am sure that , if it is , it will make very little practical difference . WALTER MILLIS Glen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark Kerr 's Career To the Editor : Among all the words , pro and con , about Clark Kerr 's performance as President of the University of California , not enough has been said about the high distinction of his appointments both academic and administrative . Outstanding among these appointments are the two chancellors he recruited for Los Angeles and Berkeley . If I were asked today ( as I have been many times in the past ) to recommend a man capable of filling the presidency of a major university , my top choices without reservation would be Franklin D. Murphy and Roger W. Heyns . Nothing is more important than picking the right men for key positions . Hence the admiration of seasoned university administrators for Clark Kerr is based upon respect for his sagacity in selecting these men and upon his powers of persuasion in convincing them to join his staff . I do not share the view that there will be an exodus of professors from the Berkeley campus . Quite the reverse . That distinguished faculty is fully aware of the role circumstances have called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions would esteem it an honor to be on a faculty so chosen to be the ex : positor and the champion of . the modern university . PAUL BUCK Sometime Provost Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Feb. 2 , 1967 ? ' Federal Program to Aid Small Business To the Editor : Your Feb. 5 editorial " To Rescue the Cities " points out a curious problem ? several good Federal programs have been initiated to assist communities with business and economic development . But lack of funds ? and shortsighted planning seem to have stalled off the full impact of the program . For example , forty-four areas presently face the loss of their Small Business Development Centers , organized less than two years ago to provide business training and counseling to low . income persons wanting to start or improve small businesses . In ? many cases these individuals were assisted in obtaining Economic Opportunity loans through the Small Business Administration . Yardley In The Baltimore Sun " This time Pm appealing to your better nature . " ? Limits on Earnings To the Editor : I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' in his letter to you published Jan. 29 . In his third paragraph he suggests raising , the limit of earnings to $10,000 without loss of Social Security benefits . So far so good . But then he slips in the idea that the same limit be placed on unearned income to eliminate what he calls " the shameful subsidy of the affluent who have unearned incomes of more than $10,000 a year . " Mr. Williams then suggests the socialistic idea of using the amount of Social Security thus withheld to offset payments to persons with less than $10,000 of productive earnings . In the ? first place , security benefits have been obtained by each individual from the date of his , initial employment to the date of his retirement by regular payments to Social Security based on his earnings . And in the second place there should be no stigma attached to a person who , during his lifetime , has been able to build up a capital sufficient to insure an income of $10,000 annually . Few if any can live decently on Social Security alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well be applied to insurance annuities . Let us assume that a person has paid in to an insurance company during his productive years . At age 65 , let us say , he is due to begin to collect his monthly annuity . Consider the gross injustice that would result should the insurance company withhold the annuity because the beneficiary already had unearned income of $10,000 or more , It would take more than a stroke of the pen to legalize this sort of chicanery . ERLING B. STOCKMANN Port Washington , L. I. Feb. 2 , 1967                     