@@725423

txt Hong Kong Although nothing in Indonesia is ever certain , it looks very much as though the new leadership is taking hold . Lt. Gen. Suharto and his supporters apparently have broken the power of former Foreign Minister Subandrio . They have installed their own nominees in key positions in government . These officials now are flushing out lesser officials in their various ministries who are considered hostile or undesirable . And General Suharto actually appears to have outmaneuvered that wily old expert of political maneuver , President Sukarno . That such a dramatic overturning should all have come about free of major bloodshed is remarkable . Yet , though the new regime is making considerable progress on the political front , it is face to face with a legacy of somber and unpalatable facts about the Indonesian economy which can not be denied . Resources untapped Though Indonesia is a land of major resources and great potential , these for the moment remain untapped . Instead the economy is stagnating at home , hampered by wild inflation , rocketing prices , and increasing shortages . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The situation is such that economic wizards of neither capitalist , Communist , nor socialist persuasion could expect to work any miracles with it overnight . Says one Western expert gloomily : " The country 's just about flat broke . There 's going to be economic chaos for a while whoever tries to sort it out . " But the new regime can not , of course , a fiord chaos . When Indonesia 's students poured by the protesting thousands into the streets in recent weeks , they were demanding economic as well as political reforms . Rice , the Indonesian staple , has gone soaring in price so much so that it is almost beyond the reach of any ordinary man who does not get it issued as rations or part of his wages . And Indonesia still can not itself grow all the rice it needs . It has to use precious foreign exchange to import it from Thailand and other Asian countries . Obvious answer The new administration is acutely aware that it somehow must produce quickly on the economic front if it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must come down . The economy must be cranked up . Vital imports must somehow be brought in and paid for . Exports must be boosted to earn foreign exchange that is at present almost exhausted . In the short term there is one obvious answer to Indonesia 's problem  --  a massive injection of foreign aid . But from where can this come ? Communist China , with which President Sukarno formed a cordial liaison , has been cool to Indonesia since the events of last Sept. 30 . And cooler still since General Suharto assumed power . Trade with Communist China has been drastically cut , a big whispered Chinese loan from the Sukarno era has obviously not now matured . Chinese diplomats and personnel are leaving the country . Clearly there can be little future in looking to Peking . Meanwhile , Moscow has been burned once in Indonesia , having received scant political support after shipping in massive arms supplies . But presumably Moscow might be interested in fishing again in Indonesian waters from which the Chinese Communists now have been banished . Japan might be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Japan 's Asahi group of papers says the Suharto regime has put through some feelers to Tokyo . And that initial responses there , though cautious , were favorable . Complications attached Then of course there is the West , and specifically the United States . Perhaps the American gesture most acceptable to both Washington and Jakarta might be emergency shipments of food on humanitarian grounds . However , there are legal complications attached to any new American aid shipments while the threat of nationalization hangs over American oil-company installations in Indonesia . In any event , aid from the West is something on which the new Indonesian regime would have to move with extreme delicacy . Indeed , for political reasons it is almost out of the question . The new leaders in Indonesia can not afford their critics the slightest grounds for proof that the Indonesian revolution is being swung radically from left to right . But without emergency aid , the economic problem is one to challenge all the new leadership 's ingenuity . Indonesia now is in default on foreign debts amounting to more than $150 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Experts see little prospect of these debts being paid for several years . Meanwhile , earnings from present exports such as rubber , copra , tea , and spices just about cover the cost of essential imports such as various chemicals needed for processing the rubber crop before export .                     