@@722128

txt MOSCOW , Nov. ** Soviet Union informally has proposed to the western nations a new compromise solution of the Berlin dispuite . The plan suggested by Moscow appears to involve a retreat from Russia 's previous stand which had been rejected by the west . New Berlin Pact It can be authoritatively stated that it has been indicated to the western nations that the Soviet Union is prepared to negotiate a Berlin settlement on the basis of these three points : 1 . There shall be an agreement among the Soviet Union , the United States , France , and Britain on a new statute for West Berlin which would guarantee the freedom of its inhabitants and the freedom of access to a free city of West Berlin . 2 . An agreement shall be concluded between the Soviet Union and East Germany under which East Germany would undertake to respect the new statute for West Berlin and accept t h e guarantees agreed upon by the Soviet Union and the western nations . 3 . The western nations shall conclude an agreement , with the participation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . Seek More Details The west is understood to be seeking an elaboration of the proposals received only in general terms . ( In Washington , high American officials said there was nothing radically new in the reported Russian offer . However , Moscow 's plan seems to remove the chief obstacle to the opening of fournation negotiations for a settlement of Berlin and related German issues . Russia previously had insisted that any such formal talks ' be committed in advance to conclusion of a German peace treaty that would recognize the division of Germany and terminate allied occupation of West Berlin . The western nations , which have stood by their pledge to seek German reunification thru free elections , declined to make any such prior commitment . Delay Peace Treaty Moscow apparently is prepared to leave the question of signing a peace treaty to a later date . It was understood , however , that the soviet government continued to insist that a peace treaty , , eventually shall be signed that will end the allied occupation of West Berlin . On Oct. 17 Premier Nikita Khrushchcv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded this year if the western nations displayed readiness to negotiate . By skirting the peace treaty issue for the time bbing , the latest Russian proposals seem to reduce the possibility of an east-west military collision on the approaches to West , Berlin , which is 110 miles inside East Germany . Earlier Khrushchev had threatened to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany by the end of the year if the West refised to join in a treaty on his terms . Under a separate treaty , Khrushchev had said he . would transfer to the East Germans control over allied supply routes to West Berlin . Moscow repeatedly had warned that it was ready to use force to back East Germany if the western nations remained adamant in their refusal to accept East German controls . The new Russian plan also seems to evade the question of direct western recognition of East Germany . In its previous stand , Moscow had told the western nations that they would be compelled to negotiate ' with the East German regime their right of transit to West Berlin . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent an act of recognition . Under the revised plan , the western nations would receive their transit guarantee from the Soviet Union . Moscow , as intermediary , would sign an agreement with East Germany . Bonn Opposes Division It was not clear what the Soviet Union envisioned under point 3 of its plan which calls for an agreement among the western nations to respect the sovereignty of East Germ any . Presumably this would entail implicit recognition of a divided Germany . The western nations , and especially the Bonn government , have opposed any formal acceptance of the existence of two Germanys . There have been western hints , however , that this issue was subject to negotiation . West Germany has trade and communications agreements with East Germany . American Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson and his western colleagues here were expected to press Andrei A. Gromyko , the Russian foreign minister , for clarification of the soviet plan .                     