@@721647

txt President-elect John F. - Kennedy agreed today to make Puerto Rico " a meeting place and workshop " for the United States and its Latin-American neighbors for solving mutual problems and planning " great achievements . " This was a result of a flying visit to New York . There , Mr. Kennedy saw Gov . Luis Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico , lunched with former Gov . W. Averell Harriman and Hugh Gaitskell , leader of - the British Labor party , and saw his tailor and his dentist . Mr. Kennedy , who flew to New York late last night , came back to Washington in the afternoon . Pierre Salinger , his press secretary , said that Mr. Kennedy had issued orders for all members of his White House staff to be on the job and ready to work at 9 o'clock Saturday morning , After the talks with Mr Muiioz Marin , Mr. Kennedy issued a statement saying the two were in agreement there was a need for clearer recognition that the United States understands Latin America 's needs . It said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States deeply understands the hemisphere 's need for a fundamental effort , a revolutionary effort in the best sense , to satisfy the desire of the Latin-American peoples for a civilization that shall be great materially , as it already is spiritually . " The President-elect said that Puerto Rico had been a laboratory that has enabled thousands of Latin-American public officials , intellectuals and students to " observe the remarkable development of . democracy and economic growth by a people who have freely chosen to work out their destiny in close association with the United States . " " Governor Munoz and I , " he continued , " have agreed to take measures to expand the availability of Puerto Rico 's facilities for a meeting place and workshop where we in the United States and our neighbors in Latin America may learn more about our mutual problems and the possibilities for the great achievements that we can attain by working together . " Mr , Kennedy asked Mr. Munoz Marin to maintain close communications with him and Dean Rusk , who will be Secretary of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he went through final fittings for his inauguration wardrobe , which includes morning coat , white tie and silk topper . Mr. Kennedy returned to Washington in time to attend a reception honoring the Vice President - elect , Lyndon B. Johnson . This marked the end of a prolonged period during which he has absented himself from . Washington to avoid too close an association with the progress of Government during the transition period . Sees Eisenhower Today Starting with a meeting with President Eisenhower at 9 A. M. tomorrow at the White House , the President-elect will begin two days of ceremonial appearances , private conferences and social events as gruelling as anything undertaken in his campaign . This will include a joint White House conference tomorrow with the outgoing Secretaries of State , Defense and Treasury and Mr. Kennedy 's Secretariesdesignate for these offices . Later tomorrow he will meet with Arthur J. Goldberg , the incoming Secretary of Labor , then meet with a group of labor leaders at the SheratonCarlton Hotel . Organized labor has reportedly been angered by the refusal of Robert S. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a vice president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower . Mr. Salinger announced four appointments during today 's visit to New York . They were : 91William H. Orrick Jr. , of San ; Francisco , to be Assistant At-1 torney General for the civil division . Mr. Orrick , 35 years old , is a partner in the San Francisco law firm of Orrick , Dahlquist , Herrington and Sutcliffe and a . graduate of the University of California Law School . Richard N. Goodwin , 29 , former law clerk to Justice Felix Frankfurter and campaign aide to Mr. Kennedy , to be a special asistant to the President . 9Brig . Gen. Chester V. Clifton to be military aide to the President . General Clifton is now deputy in the Army 's Office of Chief of Information . qCol . Godfrey , to be the President 's Air Force aide . Colonel is assigned to the Air Force 's plans division as deputy chief of the long-range objectives group . Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brief pause in Washington on his way north from Palm Beach , Fla . In his suite at the Carlyle Hotel this morning he spent forty minutes with Governor Munoz . Mr- Salinger issued a mimeographed statement stating the sense of their discussion . After fittings in his suite with his tailor , he went to Mr , Harriman 's house at 16 East Eighty-first Street for lunch . Leaving there , Mr. Kennedy stopped for forty minutes at the office of his dentist then drove to LaGuardia Airport for the flight to Washington . Mr. Orrick , a Democratic leader , is the brother of Andrew D. Orrick , who served as acting chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Eisenhower Administration . He was a leader in Adlai E. Stevenson 's campaign for the Presidency in 1956 . In 1958 , Mr. Orrick was northern California co-chairman for Edmund G. Brown 's victorious campaign for Governor .                     