@@724193

txt Atlantic City The Democratic platform , as hammered together at Atlantic City , confirms that this year there is a startlingly wide divergence in policy and philosophy between the Republican and Democratic positions . On almost every issue  --  whether it be the nation 's prosperity , the use of nuclear weapons , the value of governmental action in domestic problems , or Washington 's attitude toward the Soviet Union ? there exists a clear choice . Goldwater Republicans and Kennedy-Johnson Democrats stand at opposite poles . In the opening paragraphs of the platform at San Francisco the Republicans accused the Democrats of four years of inept administration . Now the Democrats lay claim to four years of unremitting peace , prosperity , and general progress . These basic differences might be considered " politics as usual . " But the differences in platforms only begin there . In contrast with Sen. Barry Goldwater 's proposal to lodge some control over tactical nuclear weapons in the hands of NATO 's supreme commander , the Democrats say flatly " control of the use of nuclear weapons must remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of the United States . " Prosperity Issue Significant are the differences on prosperity , which the Democrats insist will be one of the big issues of the campaign . The Democrats say that in January , 1961 , the nation was at the bottom of its fourth postwar recession . By contrast , they say , today " we are in the midst of the longest peacetime expansion in our history ... 42 months of unbroken economic expansion . " The Democratic platform points to the creation of nearly 4 Million new jobs since 1960 , to the rise in gross national product by $100 billion in four years , to a boost in average worker 's wages from $89 a week to nearly $103 , and to business profits rising by 62 percent . Failure Charged But the Republican platform challenges all this , saying that the Democrats failed to reduce unemployment to 4 percent , allowed a " disheartening increase in long-term and youth employment , " and failed to honor the pledges for a rapidly growing economy for all the people . The reason given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal responsibility " theme . President Johnson has been trying to capture this issue from the Republicans . Under this heading , the Democratic platform states that the Defense Department has saved $2.5 billion in the last fiscal year by efficiency and good management . Other savings are stressed . The Republican platform , conversely , accuses the Democratic administration of misleading the people " by manipulating budget figures and using bookkeeping devices to make expenditures seem smaller than they actually are . " Budgets Challenged The Democrats are accused of burdening the country with four unbalanced budgets in a row . The difference over the civil-rights planks were not as striking , at first reading . By Sunday night the platform committee had hammered out a civil-rights plank that pledges " fair and effective enforcement " of the Civil Rights Law , though it does not urge additional legislation . The wording was designed to take care of some Southern objections . It said : " The Civil Rights Act of 1964 deserves and requires full observance by every American and fair , effective enforcement if there is any default @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that lawless disregard for the rights of others is wrong  --  whether used to deny equal rights or to obtain equal rights , " We can not and will not tolerate lawlessness ; we can and will seek to eliminate or correct its causes . " // Platforms Offer Choice // Where the Republican platform did not name the John Birch Society among organizations it eschewed , the Democratic platform on ' Extremism " said : " We condemn extremism , whether of the right or left , including the extremist tactics of such organizations as the Communist Party , Ku Klux Klan , and the John Birch Society . " The Republican platform urged " full implementation and faithful execution of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and all other civil-rights statutes to assure equal rights and opportunities guaranteed by the Constitution to every citizen . " The Republicans urged " improvements of civil-rights statutes adequate to changing needs of our times . . . . " Republican liberals had argued for a stronger civil-rights plank . Apportionment of state legislatures apparently is not dealt with in the Democratic platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the latter issue called for a constitutional amendment to permit voluntary religious observances in public places , provided that no governmental body prescribed the exercises and no one was coerced . In the foreign policy arena , the Democratic platform recounts the firm response of the United States in the Cuban missile confrontation , remarks that since then Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has backed down on his Berlin threats , and points out that the United States responded with vigorous action to the North Vietnam PT boat attacks in the Tonkin Gulf . Simultaneously , it adds , the United States has sought to break the East-West deadlock on arms control , and the nuclear test-ban treaty was achieved , plus a cutback in nuclear materials production by both Moscow and Washington . In contrast to any - such efforts toward accommodation , the Republican platform flatly states : " We reject the notion that Communism has abandoned its goal of world domination . .. . The administration has sought accommodation with communism without adequate safeguards and compensation gains for freedom . . . . Republicans will labor tirelessly with free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communism and victory for freedom . " The Democratic platform takes issue with the Republican charges of " weakness before communism , " stating that " responsible leadership . - . . has turned the tide , " and " international communism has lost its unity and momentum , " Strength Asserted The Republican and Democratic platforms differ vigorously on American prepared ness . President Johnson 's platform drafters , for instance , relying heavily on Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara 's figures , assert a 150 percent increase in the number of nuclear warheads and a 200 percent increase in total mega-tonnage available in the Strategic Alert Forces since January . 1961 . The Democrats also state that tactical nuclear strength in Europe has been boosted 60 percent , that combat-ready Army divisions have been increased by 45 percent , and that there has been an 800 percent increase in the special forces trained to deal with insurgency or guerrilla threats . Simultaneously , the Polaris and ICBM missiles have grown from under 100 to over 1,000 . Half a hundred bombers are now on the 15-minute alert . Research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rivals Disagree The Republicans disagree with these Statistics say in their platform that " this administration has delayed research and development in advanced weapons systems and thus confronted the American people with a fearsome pbssibility that Soviet advances , in the decade of the 1970's. may surpass America 's present lead . " In the great controversy over the domestic role of government . the Republican platform declares " we shall vigorously protect the dynamo of economic growth ? free , competitive enterprise  --  that has made America the envy of the world . " It goes on to pledge an end to " power-grabbing regulatory actions " by federal commissions , a drastic reduction to federal regulations in general , a continual reexamination and reduction of government competition with private business , and " maximum reliance " upon lower and local levels of government rather than federal agencies . The Democratic answer to this is a platform presentation of " accomplishments " during the 1960 's which , . it is said , have widely strengthened the nation . These include such federal statutes as the Housing Act of 1961 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Redevelopment Act of 1961 , the Manpower Development and Training Act of 1961 , the higher-education enactments of 1963 , . the Mass Transit Act of 1964 , and the two biggest measures ? civil rights ( 1964 ) and trade expansion ( 1962 ) . Most of these programs expanded federal activity in some area of national life . The rival platforms have set the stage for a rigorous debate in the autumn of ' 1064.                     