@@721829

txt The North Atlantic Council resolved today to counter the global as well as European challenge of tile Soviet-Chinese bloc . This extension of the alliance 's interests from Europe to the " ever-increasing area " of Communist pressure was affirmed in a communique issued by the Council at the end of its spring meeting . The foreign ministers of the fifteen-nation alliance accepted the United States ' contention that there were no longer any peripheral issues in the world contest with the Soviet Union and Communist China . The United States delegation conceded that there were some differences in national involvement . Rusk Confident of Support 1 But Secretary of State Dean ! Rusk was confident as he departed for Geneva , where he will attend the international conferonce on Laos , that the United ' States ' allies now understood that Communist pressures in Cuba , Laos , South Vietnam and the Congo were of vital importance to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . West Berlin , Europe 's most delicate and explosive problem , received attention in a firm statement that the conclusion of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not relieve the Soviet Union of its legal obligations regarding the occupied city . The fifteen powers reasserted their determination to maintain the freedom of West Berlin and its people . Backed on Arms Talks The Council , at the close of its three-day conference , also made these points : CR supported United States efforts to achieve procedures for disarmament discussions with the Soviet Union as long as the United States position was developed in " close consultation " with the treaty allies . CIt regretted thal. the Soviet Government had raised new difficulties to the conclusion of an agreement with Britain and the United States banning nuclear testing and urged the Russians to accept the West 's " comprehensive draft treaty " as a first and significant step toward disarmament . CIt accepted the Communist challenge in helping under-developed areas , noted that Western aid to poorer nations dwarfed that of the Soviet-Chinese bloc and reaffirmed its determination to increase such aid . CIL supported efforts now being made in the treaty organi- zation 's permanent council to increase conventional and deterrent military strength and accepted the importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western unity . CR considered ways of assisting the economic development of Greece and Turkey and improving standards of living for the peoples of the two countries . The principal theme of the ministerial Council was what the new Secretary General , Dr. Dirk U. Stikker ' of the Netherlands , described as " general awareness of the global character " of the Communist threat . This " menace , " the communiqu ? noted , " has world-wide political , economic , scientific and psychological aspects . " The ministers approved efforts to increase the alliance 's conventional military strength to the planned goals of twentyseven to thirty ground divisions in Europe . They heard Secretary Rusk restate for the United States an offer of five sub : . marines armed with Polaris nuclear missiles for disposal by the permanent North Atlantic Council . But the emphasis throughout was on the wider , nonmilitary tasks of the alliance , and discussion in this field led , the United States delegation thought , to increased rapport and understanding among the allies . The council 's statement on West Berlin repeated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This said that " the denunciation by the Soviet Union of the inter-Allied agreement on Berlin can in no way deprive the other , parties of their rights or relieve the Soviet Union of its obligations . " This reflected the urgings of Heinrich von Brentano , West Germany 's Foreign Minister . During the meeting he told the ministers that in the event of a Soviet blow at West Berlin , the West must be " willing to engage our shield forces " and " not hesitate to use atomic weapons in order to stop aggression against Berlin . " The firmness on Berlin reflected the United States view that new Soviet pressure on the Western sector of the city is likely to develop in the next few months .                     