@@727026

txt Captured Communist documents in Vietnam suggest Hanoi is ready for months of grueling bargaining and much more costly fighting before peace becomes a reality . In one such document a top North Vietnamese functionary describes negotiating while continuing to fight as " opening another front " designed to further " disintegrate and isolate " the enemy . He even ponders the prospect of resumed warfare after an agreement has been signed . " Whether or not the war will resume after the conclusion of agreements , " he says , " depends upon the comparative balance of forces . If we are capable of dominating the adversary , the war will not break out again , and conversely . " Though North Vietnam undoubtedly has been taking punishment under American air strikes , many observers believe the North Vietnamese see themselves agreeing to talks from a position of strength , rather than weakness . Concession won Though costly to the Communists , their lunar new year offensive in South Vietnam caught allied forces off balance and swept thousand of American and South Vietnamese troops out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Vietnamese senator is quoted this week as telling the upper house of Parliament in Saigon that the timing of peace negotiations is unfavorable at the present time because the government controls only one-third of South Vietnam . Thus indications are that the Communists see any upcoming talks not as the prelude to a reasonable compromise , but as political instruments for consolidating Communist victory . The thesis advanced in the captured documents is that the Americans can be outmaneuvered by a combination of Oriental skill at the negotiating table and continuing viciousness on the battlefield . There are a few indications that President Johnson , no mean bargainer himself , has anticipated some of the Communist tactics . A lesson from Korea It is noted with interest , for example , that Mr. Johnson has committed the North Vietnamese to at least some kind of talk without ordering a complete American bombing halt of the North . It is this total cessation of air strikes which Hanoi has consistently demanded in the past . Yet Mr. Johnson has retained the option of bombing certain parts of North Vietnam and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parallel continued Wednesday following Hanoi 's statement of willingness to talk . Mr. Johnson thus has in hand a concession to make when the North Vietnamese start bargaining . This presumes that President Johnson was reasonably confident Hanoi would react positively to his Sunday evening television speech . This confidence could have been based either on superb American intelligence work , or on some private gesture or signal flashed by President Ho before President Johnson went on the air . Even as Mr. Johnson made his address , strong American forces in South Vietnam were sweeping toward the beleaguered Marine base of Khe Sanh . The implication is that the United States is heeding the lesson of the Korean war , and recognizes that military operations probably will continue apace throughout any talks . For their part the Viet Cong Thursday // Ready but waiting President Johnson briefed diplomats W. Averell Harriman ( left ) and Llewellyn E. Thompson at the White House this week . Messrs . Harriman and Thompson , veterans of negotiations with Communists , were named by Mr. Johnson as his personal representatives at any talks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on various American installations in South Vietnam . The talks to which Hanoi has agreed are of course only talks about an unconditional bombing halt . Talks about peace , let alone negotiations about peace , are far from scheduled . Whenever the Communists do get to the negotiating table , their position is fairly predictable . Hanoi 's four points Presumably the North Vietnamese will demand American acceptance of the standard four points they have held to since these points were first enunciated by Premier Pham Van Dong on April 8 , 1965 . The points are : " Recognition of the basic national rights of the Vietnamese people : peace , independence , sovereignty . Unity and territorial integrity . According to the Geneva agreements , the United States Government must withdraw from South Vietnam all United States troops , military personnel , and weapons of all kinds , dismantle all United States bases there , cancel its military alliance with South Vietnam . It must end its policy of intervention and aggression in South Vietnam . According to the Geneva agreement , the United States Government must stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all encroachments on the territory and sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam . Self-determination accented " 2 . Pending the peaceful reunification of Vietnam , while Vietnam is still temporarily divided into two zones the military provisions of the 1954 Geneva agreements on Vietnam must be strictly respected : The two zones must refrain from joining any military alliance with foreign countries , there must be no foreign military bases , troops , or military personnel in their respective territory . " 3 . The internal affairs of South Vietnam must be settled by the South Vietnamese people themselves , in accordance with the program of the South Vietnam National Front for Liberation , without any foreign interference . " 4 . The peaceful reunification of Viet- nam is to be settled by the Vietnamese people in both zones , without any foreign interference . " Negotiations a tactic ? Hanoi also has from time to time demanded American acceptance of five negotiation points advanced by the liberation front , the political arm of the Viet Cong . But Hanoi has made less mention of these lately . And this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnam has been taking over the Communist direction of the war . In their entirety , demanding complete American military withdrawal from South Vietnam , and a solution " in accordance with the program of the liberation front , " the North Vietnamese demands seem clearly unacceptable to the United States . But the documents captured in Vietnam indicate that this negotiating platform is purely a political tactic designed to weaken the allies while the Communists pursue a policy of " fighting while negotiating . " A letter from Le Duan , for instance , declared that " negotiation must serve in a practical manner our concrete political aims . " Le Duan is the first secretary of North Vietnam 's Lao Dong ( Communist ) Party . An earlier passage quoted in this dispatch was from a summary of a speech by Gen. Nguyen Van Vinh , chairman of the Communist Party 's important reunification department .                     