@@726330

txt Not long after having given Congress a military commander 's assessment of the Vietnam war , Gen. William C. Westmoreland has been placed in charge of American efforts in pacifying the Vietnamese countryside . Washington sources say the real reason for the move is to make the American military command directly responsible for the success or failure of the pacification program . Washington assessment : Page 3 The United States is fighting to win the allegiance of the South Vietnamese with significantly new tactics . The real reason for putting the vital village pacification program under Gen. William C. Westmoreland , it has been learned here , is to make the American military command responsible for the program success . No longer will American commanders be rated only on how many enemy they kill or how much ground they take . Rather , they will have to show how much influence they are winning  --  and helping South Vietnamese leaders win  --  in the villages . This , officials say , is a revolutionary turning point in the American concept of " the other war . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involves an unprecedented mingling of military and civilian control in a single chain of command . New chain of authority Starting at the bottom of the line , local American civilian advisers will report to a newly appointed chief provincial representative , who will be either a civilian or a military man , depending on the circumstances of the area . ( Currently , each province has a civilian " prov. rep. " and military sector adviser , working in informal cooperation . ) In turn , the new chief provincial representative will be under a civilian , a deputy regional chief in each of the four corps areas . These deputies will report to the military commanders of the corps area , who will , for their part , report to Robert Komer , the energetic former White House aide who is to become ( civilian ) chief of all revolutionary development activities . The real impact of the announcement came in the news that Mr. Komer will re port to the American military commander in the South , General Westmoreland . Officials here point out that General Westmoreland himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker , who announced the new chain . As soon as the news became known here , fears and doubts were expressed . Can the military really work closely with the civilians ? Has President Johnson merely opened the way for a less sensitive , less skillful handling of the pacification effort ? The President and Mr. Bunker believe that the new chain will do much to ease the friction between American civilian and military men , friction that has seriously hampered American influence on the South Vietnamese . Until now , the military has had no direct responsibilty for pacification by civilian officials . Civilians , working for Washington agencies such as the Agency for International Development ( AID ) , reported to former Deputy Ambassador William Porter , who was under former Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge . Yet the military structure was constantly involved , in an informal way . When civilians wanted transport , or security from terrorist attack , they had to cooperate with the military . " Now we 're changing cooperation to integration , " an authoritative source told this newspaper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It 's never been done before because we 've never had a war like this . " Now military commanders will be held accountable for the pacification program , which has been going very badly . The commanders will have the task of seeing that two sets of South Vietnamese are " correctly " advised : the 500 59-man pacification teams , now in about one-ninth of all villages , and the South Vietnamese Army ( ARVN ) . Careless troops Some 30,000 members of the pacification teams have been trained at Vung Tau . Some 20,000 more will be added this year . Thirty . three men in each team are armed , to pre ? vent sudden terrorist attack . The team project is the latest in a series of Washington-Saigon efforts to come to grips with winning over the peasants . Special American attention from now on , however , will be paid to the ARVN . Military advisers will have to warn South Vietnamese troops not to spoil the work of the pacification teams , and of local village elections , in polishing Saigon 's image @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( in stealing chickens , for example ) , and indiscriminate in its use of mortars and other weapons , it is said here . It has failed to in-. still the villagers with a sense of its own ability to defeat the enemy . Now it is the task of American military advisers to hammer home to the ARVNthat it will have to be more careful . Some critics here feel that Mr. Komer , ' expected by officials to be a driving force. behind the new effort , will find himself buried in the bureaucracy in Saigon . " One of the reasons it 's so hard to do things is because the Saigon operation is so huge , " commented a source . " It 's like a little Washington . " Nonetheless , both White House and State Department officials are hoping for the best . Ambassador Bunker , it is noted , made some encouragingly thoughtful remarks in his first memorandum to his staff in Saigon . He called for more deliberation , and the willingness to adopt new methods . But there 's a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably wo n't be won this year , or next , or the next . Asked . for progress report on pacification , officials sigh . They reel off a list of roads open , villages pacified ( about half by the end of this year ) , local elections held ( in half the villages so far ) , and good things to come ( the national elections in September ) . But they admit that local military security  --  the sine qua non of the effort  --  is still too poor . - About 400 of the pacification teams have been killed or wounded by terrorist attacks this yea.r . The Viet Cong have singled out the teams for assassination . " Without local security  --  making the villagers feel safe  --  we can do very little , " said one official . " We hope that all our efforts are going to catch fire with a momentum of their own . We hope . "                     