@@724634

txt Selma , Ala. , March 15 Monday Special ? The Rev. C. T. Vivian , an aid to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , said early today that the memorial service for the Rev. James J. Reeb will not be held in the Selma municipal stadium , but that civil rights leaders were grateful to Mayor Joseph T. Smitherman for making the offer . The Rev. Mr. Reeb was the Boston Unitarian m inister whose civil rights mission to Selma ended in death after he was beaten by a gang of white segregationists . The Rev. Mr. Vivian , who serves as director of affiliates for Dr. King 's Southern Christian Leaders conference , said the service will be held at 2 p.m. today in Brown 's Chapel A.M.E. church here . He said he would inform Selma Public Safety Director Wilson Baker of the decision . Asked Stadium Use Civil rights leaders had asked Mayor Smitherman for use of the stadium for the service . The Rev. Mr. Vivian said there were three reasons why , the stadium would not be an appropriate place to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thursday , two days after being beaten . They are : 1 . The Rev. Mr. Reeb was a clergyman and " it is fitting that a service in his memory be held in a church . " 2 . Brown 's chapel is in a Negro neighborhood and is the headquarters of the Ne g r o movement " to gain voting rights and full justice under the law . " a . The church is within the confines of the police barricade and in an area where " the symbols of degredation and oppression are still present . " Thousands Are Expected The seating capacity in the church is several hundred and far below that of the stadium . Thousands are expected to attend the services for the Rev. Mr. Reeb . " We are aware of this , " Dr. King 's aid said . " Nevertheless we feel it is far more appropriate , under the circumstances , to hold the service in the church . " Mayor Smitherman had announced at a press conference that Memorial stadium would be available for the service . His action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sheriff James G. Clark that a policy of arresting demonstrators would start today . The mayor would not elaborate on the earlier statement . At his press conference on the steps of City hall , Smitherman had said people would be allowed to go to the stadium for the service " in any lawful manner . " He also said that he and Clark would sanction " any legal movement toward the courthouse for voter registration . " But Smitherman indicated no marching would be permitted . He said this requires a permit from the city council . " No request has been made and no permit has been granted , " he said . The mayor said Negroes would be allowed to go to the courthouse in small groups . Clark said they could form a line there . Ban on Distrubances The n e w policy on demonstrations was announced jointly by Smitherman and Clark . When the voter drive began , Clark had made mass arrests of marchers . But recently , county and state officers have broken up the marches without making arrests . State troopers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks a week ago when they tried to march . " Local government must not prostitute itself before the mob , " said the SmithermanClark statement . " We will not tolerate any further violence or unlawful public disturbance . . . Each and every violation of our laws will be met with prompt arrest . " The city 's public safety director , Wilson Baker , did not sign the statement . He told the Associated Press he had not seen the statement and knew nothing about it . When offered a copy , he said , " I have n't got time to read it . " Bake r , appointed by the mayor , has avoided arrests generally . He has enforced an ordinance requiring a parade permit for marches , but until last week he had allowed small groups of demonstrators to walk to the courthouse . The courthouse will be open today for voter registration . Civil rights leaders held a church rally after the statement was issued yesterday morning by the mayor and the sheriff . " After the President tells us that Negroes ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are going to keep our movement going , " shouted the Rev. James Bevel . Bevel called for at least 3,000 demonstrators to fill the street in front of the Browns Chapel A. M E. church today . " Bring in old folks , babies , and children , " he told the crowd in the church . " We are going to close up Selma tomorrow . " Let 's take the whole town to jail tomorrow , " he said .                     