@@726886

txt Peking 's Bank of China has become one of the biggest buyers of gold on the London and Switzerland markets . On Jan. 7 a Boeing 707 flew two large truckloads of gold to the bank 's Hong Kong branch . Its value : around $50 million . These gold purchases by the Communists have been going on since the beginning of the year . They are made in the open through a holding company whose representative sits in a hotel room in Geneva 's Hotel du Rhone . Besides this , about 200 million American dollars reach China every month , drained from the $2 billion a month the United States spends in Vietnam . Additional dollar revenues accrue to Communist China through the sale of opium for dollars from Yunnan Province to Laos and Thailand . As a result of these various transactions , China 's gold holdings now are estimated at $2 billion  --  almost $1 billion more than the Central Intelligence Agency 's estimate of the Soviet Union 's gold holdings . American business wants to export more farm products to Japan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest rebuff to United States agriculture , the Japanese Government has scaled down the amount of products which may be brought in for the United States Food Fair , scheduled for Tokyo in April . The Americans requested permission to take into Japan $1 million worth of farming and forestry products for spot sales at the fair . According to a Japanese press report , the government will allow in only a little more than one-third that total . Two reasons are cited for the cutback : one , the show is said to be too large as compared with the previous American show . Two  --  and more significantly  --  the fair might have an adverse effect on Japan 's domestic industries . Trends .. . Indonesia is making sturdy efforts to revive its transport links with the outside world . It has just concluded an air contract with the United States which probably will spur stepped-up services between the two countries . Under the agreement , Indonesian aircraft =which currently fly throughout the Far East and to Europe  --  could make landings in the United States . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indonesia after an interruption of almost three years . Sailings will be monthly between San Francisco and Jakarta . Recently the Indonesian Government authorized direct flights for the first time between Hong Kong and Bali  --  which will likely give Bali 's tourist trade a fillip . The Revolutionary Committee formed in Communist China 's Hupeh Province last weekend is the 11th so far . " Revolutionary Committee " means an administration loyal to Mao Tse-tung . The Maoists are eager to prove they are consolidating their grasp on the country . Hupeh is significant because Wuhan , capital of the province , was the scene of an Army rebellion against Chairman Mao last July . Nevertheless there are persistent reports of clashes elsewhere in China , and it seems clear that Chairman Mao is still beset by serious troubles . How and why ... Local Communists in the British colony of Hong Kong are attempting to do with smiles and sweet water what they have failed to achieve with violence . Last year bombs and acid bottles were the Communists ' weapons . Many innocent people died in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and set the Communist organizers on the defensive . Now the Communists are turning on the charm . They are smilingly " assisting " Chinese workers with wage and other demands . And they are offering sweet water from barrels set up in the streets . This is a crack at the high salt content of Hong Kong 's public water supply at present , follnwing months of drought . The Soviets gave big publicity last March to their opening of the northern sea route ( for a fee ) to foreign ships  --  particularly Japanese . But not a single foreign vessel has used this route around Siberia between the Pacific and the Atlantic . Instead the Japanese are using the Trans-Siberian Railroad for shipping motor cars and other freight across Siberia to the Middle East . They find it is quicker and cheaper than by sea .                     