@@727637

txt President Mohammad Ayub Khan acceded today to two of the three demands of the opposition as violence erupted against his 10-year-old regime throughout much of Pakistan . The President freed a number of political detainees , including his former Foreign Minister and main opponent , Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , and announced that the state of , emergency imposed in 1965 during the India-Pakistani war would be lifted Monday . A coalition of opposition parties that called a general strike today will meet tomorrow to consider whether they should now sit down with the President for a round-table conference . The third condition they set for such a meeting was the restoration of civil liberties . Many Are Injured At least three persons were killed and many were injured in clashes in West Pakistani cities between rival groups supporting and opposing the strike and between demonstrators and the police . Troops were called out to support the police . Economic life came to a virtual standstill throughout much of the country as factories , offices and shops closed . There was no public transportation in the major cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Airlines were canceled , as was all train service . In Karachi , one person was killed and 12 were injured by shots in a clash between supporters and ? opponents of the strike . The local administration announced later that any assembly of five or more persons would be prohibited for a month . Fatality in Lahore In Lahore , one person was shot dead , but officials said that the fatality was not caused by police firing . Troops were called out after violent clashes between demonstrators and policemen . The police , who used tear gas on demonstrators , struck women marches who carried placards demanding the revival of civil liberties , repeal of all " black laws , " the end of " police atrocities , high prices and corruption , " and " stepping aside " of President Ayub . In Lyallpur , 80 miles from Lahore , a youth was killed by a stone hurled at him in a melee that followed attempts by supporters of the ? trike to shut down a watch repairer 's shop . Before the announcement of his release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the coming presidential election , said that he would continue a " fast to the death , " begun earlier today , until the emergency had been lifted . Later , he said at his home in Larkana , 300 miles northwest of here , that he would have to consider whether to continue his fast , because the announcement might be " just a trick . " Associated Press Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , a key political opponent of President Mohammad Ayub Khan , was reportedly released from house arrest . He added : " The Government does not stick to its words . and I have had experience of such things while I was a Minister . " The committee of eight opposition parties , known as the Democratic Action Committee , will meet tomorrow in Lahore to decide whether to accept President Ayub 's offer to seek a solution to " political problems agitating the people 's mind . " More than 50 people have been killed in anti-Government agitation in the last three months . ' If the committee decides to accept the President 's offer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal capital , on Monday . Since November , opposition to the military-minded Ayub regime has become increasingly persistent . Student protests have increased in intensity , and the army has been called out frequently to deal with demonstrators . Until now , the regime has resisted the growing demands for reform . In recent weeks , the mounting frustration of the opposition has brought about same of the worst rioting in the history of Pakistn.                     