@@725638

txt England 's venerable Oxford University is to get a new college  --  Wolfson , It will stress science and technology in an effort to broaden Oxford 's scope from a school primarily for the arts and humanities . It springs from the combined effort of a British and an American foundation . The Ford Foundation is giving $4.5 million as an endowment , and Britain 's Wolfson Foundation is putting up ? 1.5 million ( $4.2 million ) for the building and equipment . It is the largest single benefaction ever given Oxford . Wolfson will accommodate from 300 to 400 fellows , graduate students , postdoctoral researchers and distinguished visiting professors . From 10 to 15 percent of the graduate students are expected to be from the Commonwealth , Europe , or the United States . Master of the new college : Sir Isaiah Berlin . To the educators and natural scientists of 1966 , our technical society must seem like a squirrel cage . No sooner does the public get used to one new invention than the scientists spin off another . The American Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . To a group of distinguished educators , scientists , and sociologists the association is posing the following problem : How do you repair the widening split in our technical society between those who carry out innovations and those who experience their con-sequences ? push for teaching more science to the general public will probably be the answer . Not just formal schooling in a classroom . But through every available medium from short subjects at the movies to posters in bus stations . Hopefully , the general public will start catching up with those scientists who seem to get further out every day . 9 The race issue has apparently been erased from professional teaching organizations . At the National Education Association meeting in Miami Beach the association voted unanimously to merge with the American Teachers Association ( Negro ) . The latter group had dissolved a few days earlier to make the action possible . The National Education Association plans to seek sanctions against any of its state affiliates which fail to concur . Any Americans interested in a job abroad combining educational activities and foreign affairs ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you write ? The State Department needs you for its newly created posts of educational attaches . The new attaches would relieve the regular cultural attaches of part of their duties . And Washington would have a better chance of keeping up with current trends and needs in education around the world . Trends 0 ? 0 Americans may be interested in both education and foreign affairs but just not have that second language . Theirs may be the last American monolingual generation . Foreign-language study in the United States is booming . Between 1949 and 1961 the number of seventh and eighth graders taking a foreign language increased by 700 percent . Also there is a much wider variety of languages taken . Top language : Spanish , taught to more students than the next two contenders , French and Latin . German has slipped badly since World War I. In 1915 , a quarter of all students in Grades 9 to 12 took German . Today only 3 percent do . How and why ? ? ? Federal education officials are so concerned about textbook quality that they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office of Education is worried about " the lack of pertinency " of most of the present textbooks as far as disadvantaged children are concerned . As one official put it : " We hope to change the attitude that it is up to the kids to learn to adapt themselves to the regular material , rather than to learn on their own Lerms . " A hopeful Washington is seeking to work with the textbook industry and educational . esearchers in developing special materials or the disadvantaged . This means a policy ; hilt . Previously the Office of Education was illowed to deal only with nonprofit pubishers . But , reflecting the official concern , the Iew elementary school bill now allows the ) ffice of Education to contract with cornnercial textbook publishers . Private entern'ise now will help in making textbooks re-feet the needs of today 's schools .                     