@@723391

txt Washington Because underground nuclear-weapons testing will move ahead , the military is going along with the test-ban treaty . This means that the Capitol hearings lack suspense , Senate approval being all but assured . But into this atmosphere of poised deliberation , Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , has at least brought out in the open the government 's underground testing plans which apparently have satisfied the Dr. Seaborg unveiled the full array of underground test- ing possibilities , despite the ban on tests in other environ-ments : ? Testing up to several hundred kilotons , and with experience , at even higher levels of detonation . This means a wide range of development , including " proof testing of warheads for battlefield , air defense , antimissile , and antisubmarine use . " ? Reduction of fallout caused by battlefield nuclear weapons . ? Further work on a hydrogen bomb ( fusion ) that will not need a fission explosion to trigger it off . ? Progress on " larger weapons for strategic purposes , " in- cluding some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warheads and other components can be studied . Senators who tend to be the most skeptical about the treaty center their criticism on the question of whether the treaty will hinder development of high-yield bombs and slow building of an antimissile missile . Sacrifice Admitted Sen. Richard B. Russell ( D ) . of Georgia , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , got into the question of the antimissile missile , and Dr. Seaborg replied that sizable progress can be made without atmospheric tests . He said that the warheads now on hand can be used in this work , or they can be improved , or that the underground testing can develop a completely new warhead if necessary . In the Pentagon it now is agreed among the military chiefs that underground testing will permit them to learn about 80 percent of what they would like to know on the frontier of nuclear weapons development . In the administration it has always been argued that to get a politically desirable limitedtest-ban treaty , some military sacrifice would be necessary . Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , chairman of the Joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , while the JCS concluded in a comprehensive review that the treaty has certain " disadvantages , " they " are not so serious as to render it unacceptable . " In his testimony , some of which was released , he backed up the administration position almost totally . He said that antimissile missile " development . does not depend on atmospheric testing . " Personnel Question Apart from high-yield bombs and the antimissile missile , the senatorial preoccupation in the hearing Wednesday was with scientific personnel . Both Senators Russell and John 0 . Pastore ( D ) . of Rhode Island asked Dr , Seaborg if by cutting back the testing program in the atmosphere scientists would be lost to the military and weaken American defenses . Dr. Seaborg said he was " confident " these men can be kept in the weapons laboratories because of the underground testing and the work involved in keeping ready to test if the Soviet Union should abrogate the treaty . Dr. Seaborg devoted about half of his prepared statement to the Ploughshare program for peaceful uses of nuclear power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " modify " the treaty for aboveground peaceful uses , for such work as excavation .                     