@@722542

txt Hyannis Port , Mass : , July 14 Anthony J. Celebrezze , 51 , Cleveland 's five - term Democratic mayor , was chosen by President Kennedy today as the new secretary of health , education , and welfare . Celebrezze is a Roman Catholic born in Italy of parents who were then naturalized American citizens . He would succeed Abraham A. Ribicoff , who resigned the $25,000 a year cabinet post Thursday to run for the United States Senate in Connecticut . Subject to Confirmation The Celebrezze appointment , subject to expected Senate confirmation , will make 2 Catholics in the 10 man cabinet of President Kennedy , who is also a Catholic . The other Catholic cabinet member is the President 's younger brother , Robert , the attorney general . The departed welfare chief Ribicoff is Jewish . Celebrezze has been an ardent backer , of Kennedy for national office since the 1956 Democratic convention when the mayor supported Sen. Kennedy 's drive for the Vice Presidential nomination . Celebrezze , with the rest of the Ohio delegation , supported the Kennedy bid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 Presidential election to former Vice President Nixon . However , Kennedy carried Cuyahoga county , Democratic stronghold which includes Cleveland , by ? a wide margin with strong help from the Celebrezze machine . A Surprise Move The President 's choice of Celebrezze to head the sprawling and fast growing health , education , and welfare department was a surprise , in spite of the Cleveland mayor 's spotless record of political loyalty to Kennedy . Administration sources had hinted earlier this week that the President was seeking a professional educator or welfare administrator , rather than a career politician , for the post . The welfare department has 70,000 employes and an annual budget of about 4.5 billion dollars a year . It is the youngest cabinet department , raised to that rank in 1953 , first year of the Eisenhower administration . Celebrezze is the first Kennedy cabinet replacement since the New Frontier took the reins 18 months ago . Wealth of Experience The President , in a statement at his Cape Cod week-end re-treat announcing selection of the . Cleveland mayor , said : " Mayor Celebreeze @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having worked thru the years with the problems of people , particularly those in the areas of health education , and welfare . He therefore brings to this great department an intimate knowledge which will prove invaluable in making the department an effective instrument for the general welfare . " I have known him for a number of years and have the highest regard for his ability , integrity , and dedication to public service . " Observers speculating on officially unspoken reasons for choosing Celebrezze cited his Italian lineage as a likely favorable factor in the mind of politically sensitive President Kennedy . Celebrezze is one of the few , if not the only ItalianAmerican ever to be tapped for the cabinet . Eye to November Political experts suggested the President chose Celebrezze with an eye on the Italian-American vote in next November 's congressional and state elections and the 1964 Presidential election . Some observers winked that one who might benefit at the polls from the Celebrezze appointment is the President 's youngest brother , Edward Teddy Kennedy . Teddy is running this fall for the United States Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andrew Hatcher , assistant White House press secretary , said Celebrezze plans to confer with Kennedy Tuesday . Kennedy today also chose John H. Ferguson , 47 , a career official , as ambassador to Morocco in place of Philip W. Bonsai , resigned . The President announced the resignation of Walter N. Walmsley , career diplomat as ambassador to Tunisia . More Arms Talks The President , in a statement keyed to resumption of eastwest disarmament talks Monday in Geneva , Switzerland , said he hopes Russia " will respond constructively " to the west 's proposals and join " in a creative search for ways to end the arms race . " Disarmament talks have been stalemated for years by Russia 's refusal to accept inspection and controls the west deems essential to prevent cheating . The President , in a letter to Rep. Chet Holifield ED. , Cal. , chairman of the joint atomic energy committee , hailed an agreement between the government and utility systems in Washington state to convert by-. product steam from a Hanford , Wash. , atomic reactor into electric power . Kennedy said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal funds . It would aid resource development and defense aims , he said . The President spent a couple of hours today on and in the water , enjoying an outing on Lewis bay for his second Cape Cod week-end this seas6n . His father , Jo seph P. Kennedy , former ambassador to Great Britain , was along , as he was last week-end , with two nurses accompanying the party .                     