@@773553

txt I00 THE FAMILY shown to conflict with Ego 's duties to the descendant generation . There is therefore another confusion ? that between the ranking of obligations and their degree of stringency ' , if stringency ' means their importance and the degree to which they are sanctioned ' . Parsons is not so much wrong as conceptually confused . Tidied up a bit , what he says is that in industrial societies the kinship system makes no provision for the formation of kin groups wider than the nuclear family and that obligations between members of the nuclear family take precedence over those to kin outside it . Let us now turn to the characteristics of the economic system which according to Parsons necessitates this type of family . The simplest one to deal with may be described as occupationally induced geographic mobility ' . This is assumed by Parsons to be a characteristic of industrial societies . He confines his discussion to pointing out that any kin group wider than the nuclear family would inhibit geographic mobility of individuals and that the nuclear family is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family ' , group ' , unit ' , as referring to a household or residential group . This as we have seen simply does not exhaust the possible types of kin group and the argument simply does not therefore stand up . If it can be shown that an industrialized economy can only function if there is a considerable movement of people between jobs and that such movement must involve frequent geographical mobility , and that the age at marriage is such , and the age of retirement such , that fathers and married sons are working at the same time , then it follows that even extended stem-family households will be impossible in a large number of cases . It would be very difficult to show that all these conditions must be fulfilled under any industrial system . It may be accepted however that a high degree of geographical mobility must disperse the sibling group . There is evidence however that restricted ' family types are more frequently found in hunting and gathering societies than in societies which are non-mobile . Mobility seems to be an intervening variable here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is closely related to the type of organization of economic production . ' Industrial society is characterized by the existence of specific institutions set up to perform economic activities . From this it follows that in such societies the family can not in the majority of cases be a productive economic unit . This point , which Parsons makes repeatedly , is a reference to the characteristic difference between THE FAMILY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY Iot industrial and pre-industrial societies . It is of the first importance to note that the use of kin groups to co-ordinate economic activity distinguishes the latter type of society . With regard to the problem of fit it is uninteresting , since it merely points out that two different social instutitions can not both have the monopoly of the same activity . " Parsons ' main arguments however do not depend upon inconsistencies between rules governing the activities of economic and kinship institutions . Rather they centre on the conflicts of value which arise because of the difference in type of the much more general ideas upon which each institution depends , and which govern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Parsons sees the growth of successful industrial activity as associated with the adoption of values which he calls universalism ' and achievement ' . We have noticed that social relationships involve categorizing people and that kinship categories were categories of a special sort , ' relational ' categories . That is to say one does not behave in the same way to all the people who are fathers , but distinguishes between fathers according to the relationship they have with particular other people . It is the relationship to the particular person that determines the behaviour rather than the membership of the category alone . Our old friends the bus conductors are treated universally in the same way irrespective of differences in their relations to particular other people . We would think it shocking if bus conductors distinguished between different sorts of passenger in the fares they charged ? if for example a conductor let all his first degree kin travel free but charged double to the man he 'd had a row with in the pub on Saturday night . We would think it equally shocking however if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did to anybody else 's mother . The belief that it is wrong to differentiate between people in the same category on the grounds of their relation to you is what Parsons means by universalism ' . The belief that we ought to differentiate between people in this way is its opposite , particularism ' . It is obvious that the family constitutes a set of particularistic relationships , while the economic institutions reflect universalistic values . By achievement ' Parsons means the belief in the rightness of varying one 's behaviour towards other people on other grounds than their IO2 THE FAMILY possession of inherent qualities , which he calls in contrast ' ascription ' . The landlady who says , I 'm sorry , I do n't care if you are the Secretary General of the United Nations and Louis Armstrong 's brother ; I wo n't have no coloureds here , ' is behaving universalistically ? she refuses to be influenced by the relationship of the man at the door to a particular person . Nevertheless she is also behaving ascriptively ' because the way she chooses to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he has achieved . Kin relationships depend on categorization on the basis of inherent qualities ( being born of . . . ) , and not upon achieved qualities . They are governed not by achievement values but by ascriptive values . We have already shown that they are also governed by particularistic values . Modern industrial enterprizes are governed by universalistic and achievement values . As a result individuals who are both members of families and workers in industrial enterprises will be required to hold two contradictory sets of values at the same time . If they act in accordance with those values , further sets of problems arise . From time to time they will be confronted with difficulties in the economic sphere when a relative asks for help in getting a job , or comes in to the shop where they work and asks for special treatment . Within the family they may find that they have to suspend judgements on their kinsfolk which depend on the values which govern their behaviour at work . For example sons may be more successful than fathers , or one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress the approval of one brother have to be put in cold storage and kinship values relied upon when the brothers meet . Parsons wishes to argue that this makes life extremely difficult , but that if you restrict the family group to the nuclear family you do not get these difficulties within the family group because the children are immature and the wife busy raising them . As a result there is only one occupation-holder in the family and all the members share the same amount of prestige and economic power ? that which derives from his position . If the most stringent family ties are those between members of the nuclear family , no two persons playing roles opposite one another in the same economic institution will be connected by such ties . Major conflict is therefore avoided by two types of segregation . The nuclear family is cut off from wider kin in the sense that the most stringent ties are confined within it , and because its members do not perform economic roles opposite one another it is also segregated from the economic system except for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sphere of work is avoided and work values do not disrupt the solidarity of the family . // Parsons ' argument has two parts . First it argues that the two sets of values which he specifies are inconsistent , and that the two sets of values are held respectively by the two institutions concerned . Parsons is on fairly firm ground here . He is not saying that in industry no one is ever refused a job because of his colour or given one because of his particular relation to the foreman . He is drawing our attention rather to the fact that such behaviour is not justified in terms of dislike of the blacks ' or the rightness of looking after one 's own . It is justified rather , by saying he was n't up to the job ' or he 's the best man I could get ' . This is precisely why it is so difficult to establish how much discrimination and nepotism there is. ' 1 The second part of his argument also has two parts . First it could be argued that strain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the different sets of values are segregated , that is to say if the occasions on which they apply are quite clearly demarcated . Parsons stifles this objection at birth by saying that the values of the economic institutions are the dominant values in industrial society . This point of view , while attractive , is not supportable a priori . It is rather a hypothesis which demands investigation of the extent to which different groups and categories carry over the values which characterize the economic sphere into other spheres of activity . It seems likely that such an investigation could throw considerable light on the empirical variation in the types of family found in different sectors of industrial society . Secondly Parsons not only assumes that the values he specified characterize the economic sphere , he also assumes that people actually act upon them ; in other words he assumes that extended kin are differentiated from one another in occupational terms , and that people in industry act universalistically and promote and recruit on an achievement basis sufficiently often to make that differentiation a reality . The American studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children are , as Pitts has pointed out , ' 2 in no way inconsistent with Parsons ' hypotheses , provided such aid does not intrude into the occupational sphere . Such aid is not inconsistent with the elementary family structure since it flows from the senior to the junior generation , and is merely a continuation of a pattern I04 THE FAMILY established in the nuclear family . Pitts points out however that the aid is very often designed to further the more speedy establishment of the independent nuclear family . It is still structurally isolated in the sense that care is taken not to diminish its autonomy and subsume it into a wider kinship group . Financial aid in particular is not dependent on proximity , and in the middle classes , where this kind of aid is common , it has the effect of evening out ' over time the incomes of families whose earnings increase progressively over the life cycle by transferring wealth from the rich ' oldsters to the poor ' youngsters.13 On the other hand the widely reported reluctance of many working class families to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is evidence of the way in which ascriptive ties to neighbours and kin create problems in the economic sphere and is at the same time consistent with the evidence of the importance of the exchange of domestic services among working class families . Parsons ' theory may then be criticized less because it assumes a single pattern of behaviour which has been shown to be false , than because it states merely that there must , in industrial societies , be an absence of rules determining extended family groupings and ties and hence gives us no means of explaining the wide variations in actual family groupings which are found . Before we leave Parsons ' theory , for the present , it is necessary to note one other major element in it . A central place in Parsons ' general sociological theory is occupied by the idea of socialization , and this process , in which the family plays such an important part , is discussed at length in a collection of essays edited by Parsons.14 In his introductory discussion , Parsons stresses the importance of the family not being completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a family member should occupy a position and play roles in the economic sphere , if there is to be an economic sphere outside the family . Such an overlap is also necessary , Parsons argues , because it makes it possible for a child within the family to learn and make part of himself ( internalize ) the values which govern activity in the economic sphere . In a society where most activities are ordered with reference to values different from those of the family , the family has the job of transmitting the opposite values to those on which it itself is based , and it can only do this if at least some of its members take part in those activities . // This is not to say that the family is exclusively charged with the internalization of such values , but it constitutes a major sphere of social life in which this takes place . For Parsons , therefore , the family must not be completely segregated from other social institutions because , if it were , new members of the society would not be socialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterize other social institutions . LITWAK 'S THEORY : PRIMARY GROUPS , BUREAUCRACY AND SHARED FUNCTIONS ' Before considering another theory of fit ' , we must pause to note briefly another sense in which the family in industrial society may be said to be isolated . In primitive societies it is frequently the case that the majority of roles and group memberships are allocated on the basis of kinship , and every type of co-operative activity undertaken by kin groups . Hence at one time ( particularly in the nineteen thirties ) sociologists were very fond of describing the family in industrial societies as having lost its functions.15 Here function ' is used loosely to mean activities ' though some of the lost activities are social functions in the strict sense . There are many splendid different lists to choose from but there is general agreement that kin groups have lost religious , political , economic and educational activities to specialized institutional groups called churches , political parties , businesses and schools . We have already noted however that these institutions are dependent on the family and that Davis 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either in whole or part . Litwak's1G argument runs as follows : there is no reason to suppose that there is a residual set of functions which only the family can perform , neither is it correct to assume that the family has lost in entirety its other functions . In support of the first proposition he can cite the development of new social institutions such as day nurseries , and child welfare clinics who perform part of the activities of maintenance and socialization and the development of psychiatric agencies to take over the activity of tension management ' which Parsons sees as a Io6 THE FAMILY characteristic activity of the family . He can also point to the fact that placement is , in an achievement ' society , no longer entirely determined by birth . In support of the second proposition he can point to evidence which shows that without family support throughout the educational process , the child is likely to drop out ' ; that family type is an important factor affecting religious activity ; that motivation to work is partly determined by family background and so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in industrial societies is characterized less by a loss of functions than by a sharing of functions . The key process in whose terms this sharing by the family of the functions of other groups may be explained is , one might add , socialization . Who is doing the sharing ? Litwak 's answer is important because it makes clear what both he and Parsons regard as the distinguishing feature of industrial societies , an important point on which we have so far remained ( deliberately ) unclear . The sharing , says Litwak , is being done by the primary group on the one hand and by various types of bureaucratic institutions on the other . The term primary groups means groups characterized by intimate face to face association and co-operation ' which are fundamental in forming the social nature and ideas of the individual ' . " The term bureaucracy is used in the sense that Max Weber defined it . That definition can not be dealt with here . It involves however an organization composed of a number of social positions ( offices ' ) hierarchically arranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of their technical qualifications , who are promoted according to achievement , in which everyone is subjected to the same treatment , social relationships are impersonal ? without affection or enthusiasm , and in which the official 's sphere of competence is strictly defined.1 ' It is an institution governed therefore by values of universalism , achievement , specificity and affective neutrality in Parsons ' terms ; the polar opposites of the values governing family relationships . Stripped of its theoretical language , what Litwak says is that the family is a basic social institution upon whose activities all other social institutions depend , that all activities which go on in a society can not be provided for by bureaucratic institutional groups and must therefore be performed by non-bureaucratic groups and that the THE FAMILY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY IOC distinction between what the former can do and what the latter can do does not depend on the type of activity ( political , religious , economic , etc. ) but upon the extent to which the activity is sufficiently patterned , repetititive and predictable in its occurrence , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizable . Shared functions ' then are really shared activities ' . If the family was isolated or segregated from other institutions in society as Parsons has said it must be , Litwak goes on to argue , then neither type of institutional group would be able to perform its activities effectively and such segregation depends on each type of institution having entirely separate activities . This would seem to be a gross misreading of Parsons . Parsons we have seen is concerned with the maintenance of the solidarity of the family group by the elimination of economic differentiation , and the segregation of particularistic and ascriptive behaviour within the family . On the first count , the performance by the family of activities which contribute to the successful performance of activities by other institutions is quite different from the performance of roles in those institutions , that is the membership of such groups.19 On the second count , Litwak 's whole argument depends on the greater efficiency of the family in situations when a particularistic orientation is required . It is precisely because the family has a monopoly of particularistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ways of behaving governed by universalistic values are inadequate . The segregation of the family to which Parsons refers does not involve a complete loss of activities to other institutions , as Litwak rightly points out . What it refers to is the confinement of particularistic and ascriptive ways of behaving to persons playing kin roles to one another , the belief that it is wrong to give primacy to ties of kinship when playing any other institutionalized role , and the ensuring that no two people in the same nuclear family play roles in bureaucratic institutions opposite one another , thus preventing them Io8 THE FAMILY ever having to choose between loyalty to closest kin and the irnpersonal standards demanded by their occupation . What the family has lost is not religious and economic activities . It has lost the control and co-ordination of such activities . That is to say that these activities are no longer performed by family members as a group . Litwak has performed a valuable service in pointing out that the development of specialized bureaucratic institutionalized groups ( which perform the activities which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucratic groups have a monopoly of their characteristic activities , and that therefore the range of activities which family groups in such societies perform may still be very wide . But Litwak 's confusion of function ' and activity ' , and activity ' with group membership ' 20 leads him to reject some of Parsons arguments on which his own theory in fact depends . At the same time he fails to distinguish the sharing of an activity and the effect that the performance of that activity has on the activities of other institutions in society , a mistake which derives from the loose use of the term function ' with which he begins his argument . The unwillingness of bureaucratic institutions to accept in practice that they do share functions ' with the family and that untrained and non specialized individuals acting particularistically and ascriptively can be of assistance to them in the successful performance of their activities may be seen to be one of the sources of the belief that the family has lost its functions . The prevalence of such unwillingness would seem strongly to support Parsons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to combine , and the loss of functions ' theory may be seen to have the effect of making their non-combination legitimate . GOODE 'S THEORY : POWER , AUTHORITY AND LEGITIMATION Goode's21 approach to the problem of fit between the family and other social institutions characteristic of industrial society involves an examination of the effects of industrialization upon different economic categories ranked in order of their command over economic resources . // Goode argues that the new economic institutions in an industrializing society will be in the hands of those who control property and wealth in the society before industrialization . As a consequence the upper economic categories will be able to control their children because the children 's membership of upper categories will depend on their inheriting property or jobs in the new economic institutions . At the bottom of the economic scale however the fact that the parents have nothing to offer their children will mean that the basis of the parents ' power over the child , which previously depended on control of jobs and what property there was , will be gone . Because parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advantages of maintaining kin connections will be small and in consequence it will be lower strata families that first begin to move towards the conjugal ' family form.22 Goode 's emphasis , because he is concerned with change and its sources , is on the degree of fit ' between the needs of the individual members of society , and the extent to which they satisfy them under any given system . The question he wishes to ask is How far and in what way does any given family system satisfy the needs of individuals ? ' and he seeks to explain change in terms of the value to individuals of different family systems ? or of the same system among different categories ? in maximizing the satisfaction of their needs . Now Goode is very well aware that though we may specify certain basic human needs ' , the way in which the satisfaction of these needs is to be achieved and the levels of achievement which are considered satisfactory will vary with the society or group within it , according to the beliefs , values and ideas that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because no system is entirely satisfactory , and all systems require sacrifices of individual interest to that of the group , certain ideas such as equality and individualism have an almost universally popular appeal . Such ideas once evolved or introduced tend to favour both a family form where the subordination of the I IO THE FAMILY individual to the family group is reduced to a minimum and the development of other social institutions which promote free enquiry and freedom of economic activity on which the rapid changes involved in any industrial system depend . Although Goode is too shrewd to take an extreme theoretical position on this issue , he seems to go some way towards a position which would hold that the conjugal ' 22 family and the industrial system of production fit each other not directly but through the ideas and values built in to both systems and in addition that the development of such ideas are a necessary or even sufficient condition of the development of both types of system . It must be stressed however that he explicitly lists the arguments that we have considered so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch with kin ; occupational mobility leads to a differentiation of kin groups wider than the nuclear family ; and the loss of control of important activities by kin groups diminishes the importance of such groups to their members . He also adds a new and important consideration . Industrialization creates a large number of different jobs and occupationally differentiates kin . Hence the chance of any individual being able to assist a kinsman is diminished , because in most cases they will be in different occupations . Goode 's theoretical approach may be explicitly linked with our discussion of different types of fit ( p. 97 ) by focusing on the notion of power . If we define power as the ability to affect the behaviour of another even against their will ' and we define authority as power which is made legitimate in terms of beliefs and values held by the people concerned ' , then we may see the role of ideas which Goode stresses as affecting the basis of legitimation of family authority and the effects of changes in other institutions as attacking the bases of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over children and men over women ) which characterizes most non-conjugal family systems . To give a concrete example : when the children believe that each individual has a right to act in furtherance of his own happiness they will no longer accept that their parents have a right to determine whom they shall marry . This may cause difficulties at home but the THE FAMILY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY I I I victory for the children will become complete when they can earn a perfectly satisfactory living , even if their parents cut them off with a shilling , because they can both work in a factory . Whether beliefs as to the rightness of parental authority will hold an extended family group together , even though the children have the power to be independent , depends on how dissatisfied the children are , which in turn depends partly on their economic position and partly on the values they have . The values get in in two ways therefore : they not only legitimize authority ; they partly determine the level of dissatisfaction of those under authority . Since values which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prerequisite of industrialization itself , dissatisfaction , the acquisition of economic power and the withdrawing of legitimation from parental authority all go together . The redistribution of economic power within the family is the result of changes in the material conditions of action of the children and hence Goode shows how both the types of fit between conditions of action and between ideas ? both operate together and interaffect one another . It is important to recognize that the process which Goode describes , attacks both the existence of groupings wider than the nuclear family in systems where the rules governing the family process require their formation and the existence of certain types of extended family in bilateral systems where such groupings are permitted . The existence of the first is undermined because the sources of legitimation of the rules are undermined as well as the conditions of the groups carrying out their activities changed . The existence of extended families under the authority of a single head are undermined in bilateral systems not by withdrawing legitimation from the system of rules governing the family process as a whole but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupying certain positions within it depend , as well as changing the material conditions of action . DISCUSSION If we may venture to criticize Goode 's approach , which is elaborated here to a greater extent than he himself has attempted , it would be that like most students of the family he pays too little attention to the process of industrialization itself . The factors which are implicitly assumed in the above discussions of the relationship between industrialization and the family but are never explicitly mentioned , are the degree of job differentation and the increase in the level of skill . The more that jobs are differentiated ( that is to say the more I I2 THE FAMILY different types of job there are ) and the higher the level of skill required , the less substitutable one worker will be for another . When substitutability is low , it will be difficult to fat ' men to jobs . The more difficult it is , the more necessary it will be to appoint them purely on merit and the more moving of people around will be involved . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial society depends . Now it is perfectly possible to conceive of a society in which a large number of the work force were engaged in non-agricultural occupations where the ratio of skilled to unskilled workers was very low , and where the managerial skills required were of a rudimentary nature . In such a society , except in the case of the skilled tradesmen , members of the managerial classes and members of the working classes would be interchangeable within their class , and , assuming a minimum level of education , even between classes . In such a society it would be by no means necessary for the majority of the population to be mobile between jobs , nor would individuals in different jobs be very significantly differentiated in terms of economic power except across class ( property owning ) lines . It would therefore be perfectly possible to transmit property and jobs on the basis of kinship ( ascription ) 24 and for kin groups to form common households or residential groups of other kinds . The vast mass of the population , unable to amass enough wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immobile and hence tend to disvalue achievement and to value ascriptive solidarity with kin , neighbourhood and ethnic groups.2 ' The necessities of manufacturing would not require the performance of universalistically oriented roles . It may be argued that the existence of primarily economic relationships between individuals and groups which would characterize such a society implies a universalistic categorization . On the contrary , while it can not be denied that people would be categorized in terms of ability to pay or deliver the goods , this does not mean to say that distinctions would not be made within categories ( particularism ) on the basis of kinship , friendship , membership of peer groups and so on . ( In fact except perhaps in the very large companies , one would // be hard put to it to think of a non-particularistic field of business activity. ) 22 It may be suggested that Britain about 185027 bore a marked resemblance to this type of society , and that our present day society at the very least bears strong signs of continuity with such a society . If this assertion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make explicit what elements in industrialism affect the family . The empirical evidence about the continued existence of extended kin relationships and groups in industrial societies may point less to the inadequacies of our theories of the family than to suppressed and erroneous theories of industrialization . It is true that industrial societies are characterized by the growth of bureaucracies but it is not true that all or even most of the enterprises in such societies are bureaucracies and , as Weber himself was at pains to stress , even those that exist are far from pure and likely to slip over into other types of organization . Let us very briefly try another approach . The basic requirements of industrialization , it would be generally agreed , are a surplus of capital , the requisite financial institutions , willingness to employ capital in productive uses on the basis of maximizing its return , enough people and/or good enough communications to constitute a mass market and provide a labour force , an educated elite capable of technological innovation , a set of ideas which will legitimize the activities of control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural produce . Successful industrialization would not appear to require in all its stages that people act universalistically and that roles are allocated in all cases on the basis of achievement rather than ascription . If universalistic and achievement values seem to be associated with industrialization , then this is because of their effect in the initial stages of serving to legitimize the authority of the industrializing elite . It does not necessarily follow that people begin acting in the way approved by such an ideology . The first problem is to win the acceptance of the new ideology , but if this policy is successful sooner or later the people at the bottom begin to notice that this is not the way society is run at all.2s II4 THE FAMILY At that point , which America has now reached , you have trouble . Now one of the reasons that they are now having trouble is that in order to keep the profits rolling in ( in a competitive economy ) you have to improve your technology . This leads to an increasingly differentiated job structure and an increasingly high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you have to start acting universalistically and recruiting on the basis of achievement rather than ascription . This threatens those areas of the society where power is based on ascribed rather than achieved characteristics , and makes it difficult to maintain certain exceptions to the universalistic principle at the bottom . It may therefore be that we have yet to see the full effect of industrialization on the family . The first stage of the industrialization process requires primarily a concentration of capital , and the development of an ideology to justify those who now control it . This is the process with which Goode , in his penetrating and detailed study , is chiefly concerned . It destroys the economic base of the authority structure of the family while the new ideologies , which justify the concentration of capital and its control , remove its legitimation . It may therefore be seen to be destructive of the traditional kinship systems of descent group societies.29 In some cases the ideological changes and in others the economic changes precede industrialization itself . Indeed they may be a precondition of autonomous industrial growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrialization . Where industrialization is induced from outside , then the importation of foreign capital may result in the short term coexistence of large kin groups with industrial production , since the basis of their economic power ( their property ) will not have been removed to provide capital for industrialization . Those actually working in industry may very well establish extended family groupings in the towns created to provide labour for the new industries ( where job differentiation and level of skill are not too high ) after the first disruption of kin ties created by the initial ruralurban migration has been overcome . The next stage30 of industrialization demanding a more exact fit // between work skills and job demands will result in the need to act in accordance with the values of universalism and achievement . Even in this case there will still be large areas of industrial society ( mainly service industries ) where both level of skill and job differentiation are low , and the adoption of such values may not be required . Whichever phase of industrialization the society is in therefore , we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the degree of skill required and in the extent of job differentiation . Correspondingly we should expect to find wide differences in family form between different occupational categories . In the first phase we should also expect to find wide differences between types of industry in the extent to which achievement , etc. , values are adopted and even wider differences in the extent to which they are acted upon . At the same time we should expect to find considerable variation in the extent to which different groups within societies are proletarianized by the concentration of capital and variations between societies in the degree of concentration of capital related to the degree and mode of industrialization . As a consequence the sociologist may be faced with a baffling number of family types all associated with industrial production ' if that term is widely defined . The Parsonian characterization of industrial society may be regarded therefore as an analysis of an extreme type of society to which actual societies will approximate more and more as industrialization progresses , but perhaps never reach . Similarly the type of family which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found throughout a completely industrialized society . Even this type of family , it will be recalled , does not involve isolation from all kin in the simple-minded sense that Parsons ' vulgarizers have assumed . The identification of the key characteristics of industrial society , which demand the values Parsons defines and have the disruptive effects which he predicts , would enable us to place both societies and groups within societies on a continuum with regard to those characteristics , and hence explain variations in family structure which are found between and within societies . The key characteristics put forward here are hypothetical , and a great deal of research into both historical and contemporary materials would be required to provide adequate opportunities for the falsification of hypotheses concerning their importance . The level of skill required and the degree of job differentiation are ways of referring indirectly to the conditions of action of men in societies with advanced technologies . Where the technology is advanced , production through I16 THE FAMILY the utilization of that technology can only be achieved by creating a large number of different jobs each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology requires a differentiated job structure which constitutes the social conditions of action of the men in the society . In order to fill the jobs they have to adopt universalistic and achievement oriented values , and move men about to get not the best but the minimum adequate fit between jobs and men . This will involve a high degree of occupational differentiation among kin and a high degree of both intergenerational and geographical mobility . These characteristics require both the adoption of the values specified by Parsons and create the same conditions of action for people in their kin roles that he specifies . They thus involve both the types of lack of fit between family system and industrial institutions that we began by considering : inconsistency between ideas reflected in the two types of institution and inconsistency between the conditions required for each to carry out its characteristic activities . THE CONJUGAL FAMILY : CAUSE OR EFFECT ? Those readers who recall the admonition at the beginning of this chapter to consider the effect of the family on other institutions as well as their effect on the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been discussing fit ' we have been discussing the fit of the family to society and not the other way round . It is a curious fact that family sociologists seem to have a tendency to see the family as a dependent variable . In contrast , economic historians who are not interested in the family per se tend , on the other hand , to see it as an independent variable . The reason for this difference is clear : in order to evaluate the effect of one institution on another you have to specify the conditions under which the activity governed by the second institution can take place . Now we have already elaborated the conditions which are necessary for autonomous industrialization to occur ( see above p. 113 ) . A little thought shows that the family , because of the functions it has , must be of considerable importance in creating those conditions . In the first place there must be a surplus of capital , which can be employed in industrial uses . Whatever the family form , it is likely that such capital will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies and organizations , since prior to industrialization the need for control of the productive processes by such means will not exist . Hence the extent to which such capital is dispersed among a large number of individuals as opposed to being // relatively concentrated will depend to a great extent on the system of inheritance that prevails . Where the patrimony is divided among all the children or among all the sons , the system will favour a more equal distribution of wealth than where only one child can inherit . Since the economy must by definition be primarily agricultural , most property will be in land . In a money economy the effect of a single heir system will be to concentrate the profits in the hands of the single heir or , if dispersed through dowry or in gifts to non-inheriting sons , to make it available in liquid form for investment either in an enterprise owned by the inheritor or , through a money market " of some kind , in enterprises owned by others . The type of inheritance system does not of course determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the society as a whole and the less developed are financial institutions , the greater its influence will be in making available relatively large sums for investment . In the second place the family as a socializing agency will have a vital role to play in influencing the beliefs and attitudes of individuals which will determine the propensity to save and to invest and the willingness to innovate and take risks . Thirdly the family as a reproductive agency will affect the size of the population and hence the size of the labour surplus which can be utilized for non-agricultural production . Fourthly the family has an important role to play in determining the reaction to the new systems of production involved in industrialization and in their legitimation . The problem of the effect of systems of inheritance on population growth is an interesting one . The more children one has under a system of equal division , the more one 's property will be divided at one 's death . Hence it has been argued that there is a strong incentive under this system to keep the size of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued that under such a system the children could at least all marry , while under the single inheritance system many of the non-inheriting children would have to remain celibate . If you think about it it will appear that both views are correct . Under the equal system there will be more marriages but fewer children per marriage ; under the single system there will be fewer marriages but more children per marriage . Of course where division proceeds too far so that the portions can not support a family it may prevent marriage . It is impossible to balance these factors out and I18 THE FAMILY draw any firm conclusion . It is quite clear however that a single system will force the non-inheriting children to travel ' . If there is population growth relative to the land available this will produce a landless labour force , whereas under the same conditions the equal system of inheritance will produce a subdivision of holdings . Given population growth therefore , a single system is likely both to provide a labour force and prevent the dispersion of property , while an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prevent the accumulation of large sums for investment in default of any financial institutions capable of capitalizing peasant hoardings . Professor Habbakuk has pointed to an association between single inheritance systems and early industrialization ( England and Germany ) and between equal inheritance systems and late industrialization ( France and Russia ) ; and between single inheritance systems and migration ( Eastern Czechoslovakia ) and between equal systems and domestic manufacture ( Western Czechoslovakia and mediaeval East Anglia ) . " It may seem surprising that the family should , on account of its socializing function , be considered important . Surely the family is simply an agent which transmits whatever ideas go to make up the culture of society ? On the contrary it seems possible that the family form , particularly the system of inheritance , can vitally affect those ideas . Family structure can of course affect the efficiency of socialization . It seems likely that the extent to which a child shows evidence of a concern with achievement is related to the size of the family , but only within the same social class . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America there is some evidence that achievement values are more associated with the middle than the working classes . The smaller the middle class family however , the more achievement-oriented the child is . This fact is quite easily explicable ? the smaller the family the more time each child spends with his parents and the more intense the ties with them and hence the better the transmission of whatever they are transmitting ? in this case achievement values.33 How can the family determine what is transmitted ? In order to understand this we have to look again at systems of inheritance . Where a child knows from birth that all he has to do is to sit back and wait to inherit , his whole activities and those of his parents are i // going to be directed towards fitting him for his role as inheritor ? whatever that may involve . Where however a child knows from the earliest age that he is not going to inherit but has to go out into the cold wide world and fend for himself , both he and his parents will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his own achievements . The value of achievement will therefore be systematically stressed . Inheritance systems which determine the inheriting child by sex and birth order make possible the ANTICIPATORY SOCIALIZATION34 of the other children to fit them to the achievement-oriented roles which they will have to adopt . Inheritance systems which do not do this , either because the inheriting child is chosen on the death or retirement of the father or because all inherit and it only becomes apparent later that their portion will be too small and they will have to find other means of support , will preclude satisfactory anticipatory socialization.35 Hence it would appear that the single inheritance system not only provides a mobile labour force , keeps capital in large lumps , but also imbues this labour force with the values of achievement necessary for entrepreneurial activity . While it would be mistaken to regard this as established beyond doubt , it does provide an hypothesis supported by some evidence which shows that there is an intimate relation with the structure of the family of the content of socialization . It also suggests ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it points out that an ascriptive particularistic society can produce achievement-oriented universalistic individuals . Lastly we turn to the effect of the family upon the activities of specialized institutions of economic production . It has been argued that one of the advantages of the conjugal family is that it contains only one worker and therefore is mobile , both occupationally and geographically . We have argued that such mobility is not necessarily required by industrialization . If we look at Britain , the only pure case of autonomous industrialization there is , we find that although the first fifty years of industrialization showed an enormous population redistribution , it also showed an enormous population growth . The rate of growth of the population of the towns was far greater than that of the rural areas3E and hence much of the redistribu- I20 THE FAMILY tion ' was the result of differential growth rates rather than mass migration . Much of the migration that did occur would seem to be the result of relatively small movements in a uniform direction rather than movements over vast distances . This is not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able very swiftly to export manufactured goods in exchange for imported food , most of the rural population will have to stay put on the land in order to feed themselves and the non-food producers in the towns . Since the need to inherit is likely to retard the age at marriage in conjugal family systems this entails that the age at marriage will drop among the landless town labourers and hence a large part of the population increase will come from the rural surplus already engaged in industrial production in the towns . Hence this stage of industrialization does not require massive rural-urban migration . Since the level of skill required in the first stage is likely to be low , there will be no great need for occupational mobility either . In fact we find that in Britain , so far from destroying the family , industrial enterprises used it . The family had already been used by merchants as a productive unit to whom they put out raw materials for manufacture . The use of machines driven by mechanical power involved simply the gathering of family units under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups were extensively used as subcontracting teams . Among entrepreneurs the family was extensively used since , in the absence of an adequate capital market and of any law of limited liability and given the scarcity of capital , the family was the obvious institution to use for forming partnerships and raising capital . So far from the family being inconsistent with economic institutions , the latter depended heavily on the former . It is of course true that the development of the early enterprises into industrial bureaucracies resulted in the destruction of the family as a work group ; men , women and children being employed instead as individuals , and that this pattern rapidly became widespread . It should be remembered however that the large factory was not the characteristic mode of production in the nineteenth century , which was rather the small workshop , and that kinship probably remained of considerable importance to both workers and employers in their economic activities until well into the twentieth century . In view of these facts it would seem hard to argue that a conjugal family form is for these reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary prerequisite of industrialization . With regard to the legitimation of authority , the creation of the new industrial enterprises involved the creation of social positions and classes whose authority could not be derived from any traditional THE FAMILY AND INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY 12I source , but this would have been the case whatever family system existed prior to industrialization . While the family form which pre-exists industrialization may very well be one of its determinants , 37 it would not seem that this is because some forms prevent mobility . It is probably due more to the family 's basic functions ? reproduction and socialization ? and the way it discharges its pre-industrial economic function , the type of inheritance system being of particular importance , than because of direct inconsistencies between the values built into the roles of industrial economic institutions and the family or because of the former 's demand for geographical and occupational mobility . We may conclude this discussion by referring to a point that was made in the previous chapter which is of crucial importance here . When the lack of fit of the extended family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made clear whether what is being referred to is the extended family which is permitted by the rules governing the family process or the extended family which occurs because such rules require its existence . If the family process is governed by a rigid set of rules which determine the membership and activities of groups wider than the nuclear family , such groups will be unable to meet the varying demands made upon them at different stages in the industrialization process . If however , as is usually the case in a bilateral system , family groups are formed not as a result of the rules governing the family process alone but as a result also of the activities of the family members , then as the economic institutions in society change this produces a change in the activities of family members and also of the composition of groups wider than the elementary family . The importance of the existence of bilateral systems as a precondition of industrialization lies therefore in the fact that they permit individuals to form different types of group performing different types of activity at different stages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation of the nuclear family in such systems implies that extended family group do not exist . 5 Family , Mobility , Community IT will be our business in the course of this chapter to consider further some of the problems touched on in our discussion of the family in industrial society . In particular we shall consider different kinds of mobility and the way they affect the solidarity of the family and of other ascriptive groups within the society and the way in which such groups interaffect one another . DIFFERENTIAL MOBILITY IN THE NUCLEAR FAMILY We have already noted that Parsons has argued that in industrial society the unit of social mobility is the nuclear family . That is to say it is the nuclear family which moves up or down between strata and not isolated individuals . We can now see a little more clearly why this must be . The members of the nuclear family in any society are spouses and immature children . The children have neither power , authority nor prestige in the society as a whole apart from their parents . Their position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Secondly , the family is a unit of residence and consumption . Young children can have no style of life independently of their parents . Where prestige is attributed on the basis of style of life , therefore the child 's prestige will be the same as the parents ' . Changes in the parents ' style of life and in their degree of power and prestige will mean changes of the same order for the children . As the parents move , whether it be geographically or socially , so must the children . In societies where the kin group is wider than the nuclear family and is a unit both of ownership and production , the individual 's ranked position in the society will be determined by his group membership and he will be able to affect it only by affecting the position of the group to which he belongs . In societies where property and economic activities are not shared by members of // corporate kin groups but belong to individuals , it will be logically possible for the membership of kin groups to be internally differentiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nuclear family is structurally isolated in Parsons ' sense , the differentiation of individuals recognizing ties of kinship to one another will have consequences for the formation , through the family process , of groups wider than the nuclear family . Within the nuclear family it will be logically possible for husband and wife to occupy different positions within the stratification system . Whether it is in fact possible will depend on a variety of factors , of which two of the most important are the rights accorded to women in the society concerned and the rights given to married women . Before we go any further it must be made clear that we are not referring to the power or authority or prestige of the wife within the family . We are referring to the rights which determine whether a wife can hold positions outside the family which confer authority , or can exercise power in the society as a whole ? not just within the family . Of course the class of rights we are considering affect very considerably the position of the wife within the family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family need to be sharply distinguished . It might be thought that in an omnilineal system , women must be able to hold property . It must be remembered however that lineality is a principle of transmission not a principle which determines control . In a system where/the men are dominant , the property may be transmitted through the women without their ever getting their hands on it , though they may indirectly enjoy benefits that it brings . In nineteenth-century Britain , for example , property which belonged to a woman was normally controlled by her father until her marriage , upon which it became the property of her husband . In this case a woman was not legally debarred from controlling property . It was rather that , since women were considered by virtue of the disabilities imposed by their sex to be incapable of managing wealth , inheritance by women was normally made conditional on male control until marriage . Legally , disabilities were imposed upon married women who were debarred from holding property . They could still inherit property however , and as a result the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widows . Hence the importance of rich widows to poor young adventurers . Now , in most industrial societies , any formal disabilities placed upon women as regards possession or control of property or the occupancy of jobs have been removed . At the same time it is still true that the proportion of women who hold jobs is small compared I24 THE FAMILY with men and the proportion of working women that hold jobs ranked high in terms of power and authority is also small . ' As Bernard Shaw once put it : the women said we will not be dictated to ? and went out and became stenographers. ' 2 Two things therefore need to be explained : why industrialization is accompanied by the emancipation ' of women and why , once emancipated , women do not more often succeed in utilizing the opportunities thus made available to them . With regard to the first it could be argued that industrialization creates non-domestic jobs which women can do , and that in the early stages of industrialization women are more amenable to the authority of new employers than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sound principle that human behaviour is never determined by the conditions of action alone , that there have been many occasions in human history where women have been employable and labour short and women have still not been employed and that therefore beliefs and attitudes must constitute an additional factor . He draws attention to the changes in ideas which are a necessary condition of industrialization and argues that the growth of individualistic ideas is responsible for the removal of disabilities placed on women . While we may see such notions at work in the reformist movements in the nineteenth century , it is absurd to explain the employment of female labour in mines and factories in terms of ideas about the individual rights of the women ; such employment needs to be explained in terms of notions concerning the rights of employers and the destruction of old ideas governing the relationship of master and servant . We may accept the importance of the spread of individualistic ideas in destroying the old relationships within the family which militated against the employment of married women , but their acquisition of rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectivist rather than individualistic notions . Granted the emancipation of women , why are the opportunities provided not more used ? The answer to this question takes us back to the family . In the first place there are obvious advantages in a sexual division of labour within the family : that is to say in one // partner specializing in child-rearing and household management and the other in providing the material means of support . Except where the earnings of the husband are high or the wife 's potential earnings through employment outside the family are high , it will not be possible to employ someone to take over the child-rearing and household management tasks . Since the wife must be periodically absent from employment through child-bearing she is the obvious candidate for the family-oriented role . This argument , while incontrovertible , needs to be treated with caution . It does not apply with equal force at all stages of the family cycle . The wife can work in the early stages of marriage if childbearing is postponed . The availability of the means of contraception and the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sects mean that in Western societies it increasingly is postponed . One of the results of this postponement is that it makes possible earlier marriage and reduces the necessity of parental support and hence consent . Nor does it apply during any time that may be left after the last child has been born and reared . If the age at marriage is low and the family size small ( i.e. four or under ) and the expectation of life is long ( i.e. sixty or over at the age of marriage ) then there will be a substantial period towards the end of the marriage when the wife 's presence at home is not demanded by the cares of the nuclear family household and an even longer period where the wife 's presence is not demanded by care for pre-school children . In industrial societies the age at marriage is low , the family size is relatively small , the expectation of life long and there are schools . The wife therefore , even if she plays the family-oriented role will be able to work for a large part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by child-bearing and this interruption will affect the chances of reaching a high position in her profession when she resumes work . The activities which characterize the nuclear family may be seen therefore to favour a sexual division of labour and to favour the adoption by the woman of the family-oriented role , and the performance of this role would seem to militate against continued employment and to diminish a woman 's career prospects . Moreover , where the woman 's and the man 's skill are both high , then his mobility to obtain employment may result in residence which prevents the pursuit of her career . As a result of all these factors women have I26 THE FAMILY lower activity rates ' than men and fewer reach the higher level job . This is n't the end of the story however . Even if the woman works , the role which is most visible will be her domestic role . As a result the expectations which the children will acquire through being socialized in such a family will be that the family role of the wife is the dominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an optional extra ' for women rather than as an integral part of a woman 's adult status . ' In the economic sphere the identification of the woman with the domestic role and men with the occupational role will favour the recruitment of women to jobs which are related to the domestic in some way ? jobs which are connected with taking care of people , rather than involving the efficient manipulation of people and things . At the same time the periodic absence from work involved in accidental pregnancies or domestic crises may give substance to beliefs as to the unreliability and expensiveness of female labour , while women 's association with particular types of jobs tends to give rise to beliefs about their having specialized aptitudes and abilities.8 If we now add to these considerations the fact that all known industrial societies have developed from societies where economic activity was controlled by men , women being confined very largely to the domestic sphere and where the superiority of men was taken for granted , we have a perfectly adequate explanation of the low female activity rates and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How much of it can be attributed to the persistence of earlier notions ( feminists would say male prejudice ? but it is really female prejudice as well ) and how much to the incompatibility of the conditions for the successful performance of family activities and for the successful performance of career activities it is impossible to say . It seems reasonable to suppose however that it can not be explained entirely in terms of beliefs and values and that , even if there were no prejudice ' on the part of either sex against the employment of women , they still would have a smaller proportion in the top jobs and have lower activity rates . Two further points must be noted however . First , provision of communal care for children ( i.e. day nurseries ) or the substitution of . // communal for family care ( as in the kibbutzim ) are the pre-condition of women working on the same terms as men . Provided the numbers employed caring for the children are smaller than the numbers thereby released for other work , such care will result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are prepared to go out to work . Feminists tend to suppose that women must want to escape from the home into the outside world and that if they do not use the opportunities this must be through prejudice or ignorance . Goode once again has pointed out that the satisfaction obtained from work by the poorly educated and low skilled is small . In such cases the rewards from work are extrinsic rather than intrinsic , i.e. they work for the money.9 If they did not need the money they would not work . If they do not need the money they very often do not work , as the absenteeism rates show . In this situation why should a married woman consider the opportunity to work an inestimable boon ? At the beginning of industrialization women and children were forced into the factories because a low wages policy meant that if they all did not work they all would starve.10 It is not unreasonable to assume that the crucial factor determining whether married women work is the degree to which their household 's income provides what they consider a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suppose , because middle-class women obtain satisfaction from their jobs apart from the financial rewards , that this is true of everyone else . " The second point that must be considered is whether or not the activities of child care can be undertaken by people outside the nuclear family or by an extended family . This depends of course on a large number of factors . In the first place proximity of residence is required . This opportunity is only available to those whose level of skill and that of their husbands is not so great as to require mobility which would prevent the provision of such services . Secondly it will depend on the shape of the family cycle . Where the parent is so old as to be retired when a woman 's children are young , then her mother or mother-in-law may be able to provide help with the . I28 THE FAMILY children and the house . In a society where married women work , if her parent is under retiring age , this may not be possible because she may also be at work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the woman 's and her parent 's generation , then if the mother postpones her return to work in order to care for her daughter 's children while the daughter works there will of course be no net gain in female employment as a result . Such services may however be of advantage to the family concerned . We have already noted that the middle class family can even out ' its income over time by transferring income from rich oldsters to poor youngsters.12 The working class family does not enjoy a rise in real income over the life cycle and can not provide help to young married children of a financial kind . It can however provide domestic services . When the children have married the income may be the same but the expenditure has diminished . Help can be provided to the young family either by the mother returning to work and giving part of her married earnings to the married child or domestic services can be provided which enable the young couple to go out to work . Since financial aid would be a denial of the autonomy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a popular choice . If the parent is , however , still raising children of her own , it will be the only possible choice . Hence we would expect to find working class mothers going out to work while their children are young more frequently than middle class mothers , where near kin are not too dispersed to help.13 In industrial society therefore though married women may work and frequently do work at different stages of the family cycle , few married women follow careers . It is highly unlikely that the woman is going to be occupationally mobile through employment outside the family . Where she does not work her rank position will be the same as that of her husband . Where she does work , she is accorded the same position as her husband if that position is lower than his . This is possible because , since her main adult role is a family one , her occupational role is considered unimportant . If however it is higher than her husband 's it can no longer be pretended that she is n't really trying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he is . This creates a situation in which it is difficult to place the children // and most important of all threatens the equality of the husband . ( In fact it upsets beliefs about male authority and superiority as well , but there are problems enough without bringing in this factor . ) It has to be recognized that the sexual division of labour14 has a very important side effect on the marital relationship . Where there is a complete division the relationship can never be competitive . Each spouse has a clearly defined sphere of competence . Secondly it is a relationship of exchange and cornplementarity . Obviously in the sexual sphere there is an exchange . But in the domestic sphere there is equally an exchange relationship , in which each partner gratifies the other 's needs . Where the wife successfully pursues a career , this interdependence is greatly diminished . A marriage may be seen as being held together by both what the spouses have in common and by an exchange based on difference . Differential occupational mobility of the spouses therefore introduces an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more on sexual exchange and shared values . However if there is differential mobility in the full sense of the term , this will involve the mobile spouse in accepting the values and styles of life of a different occupational group . Hence differential mobility may be seen to destroy the social basis of the marriage since it socially differentiates the spouses ( destroys what they share ) and it destroys the basis of the exchange relationship . This means that the couple must rely chiefly on sexual differences and personality similarities . This is not to say that it makes the marriage impossible , but it does place it under severe strain . It must be made quite clear that what is being asserted here is not that if women go out to work they will destroy their marriage . What is being asserted is that , if there is considerable differential occupational mobility after marriage , then this will produce grave strains in the marital relationship by diminishing the range of shared values and patterns of behaviour on which the marriage was founded . DIFFERENTIAL MOBILITY IN THE ELEMENTARY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wife 's mobility gives her a higher position than the husband . Where however the husband 's mobility after marriage is so great as to involve his membership of a different status group to that to which husband and wife originally belonged then , although this neither destroys of the complementarity of the relationship nor introduces an element of // competition into the relationship , it still destroys the shared values with which the marriage began unless the wife can change her style of life along with her husband . This , while not easy , is not as difficult as when both are working , since the unemployed wife does not occupy a position in a group whose status is different from that of her husband . She does not have to perform two different and inconsistent roles at the same time , which would be the case where husband and wife both had different occupational statuses ( e.g. female company lawyer and butcher 's wife ) . The reader will be doubtless quick to spot the fact that the wife does belong to a group which is different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage . She belongs to her kin group and at very least that means her elementary family of origin . We have here a nice example of Parsonian strain ' between the occupational system ( demanding the husband 's social mobility ) and the family . Now with a bit of luck the parents of both wife and husband may be dead before the mobility is great enough to matter . If not , all is not lost . The ties of the nuclear family are the most stringent ' . Achievement is laudable . Your first duty is to your husband and children . ' We do n't want to stand in your way ' and ( to the son-in-law ) we 're real proud of you son . I never thought I 'd live to see the day when a daughter of mine . . . ' etc. , is what the parents are supposed to say . That is they are supposed to renounce all rights that might interfere with the mobility of the children , thus according primacy to ties within the nuclear family . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notably Litwak , have argued that differential mobility within the elementary family , though inconsistent with the classical extended family ( whose formation is required by the rules governing the family process and where the individual is subordinated to the authority of the group ) , 15 is not inconsistent with some types of extended family formation ( in bilateral systems ) which have an egalitarian internal structure . These he calls the modified extended family ' . Litwak asserts that arguments that kin groupings wider than the nuclear family are inconsistent with elementary family differential mobility , depend on two assumptions . ' " The first of these is that . // status is achieved by associating with those of equal or greater occupational status ' . Against this Litwak wishes to assert that status is ( also ) achieved by being deferentially treated by others ' . Now status here means either a social position which confers prestige on its occupant or simply social prestige . Prestige means the ability to evoke deferential behaviour from others . One does not achieve prestige by evoking deferential behaviour from others : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige by association with others on terms of equality : this is a sign that one has the prestige which is such as to evoke egalitarian behaviour from the people concerned . Both statements therefore confuse the sign with the thing signified.17 There is more to the first statement than this however . Social mobility ' implies three things : movement from one power/authority category to another , from one style of life category to another and from one social group to another . Occupational mobility therefore is only a part of social mobility . Mobility is only complete when the mobile ' has acquired the style of life associated with the higher occupational group to which he has moved and been accepted as a member of the group in all respects . The first statement is therefore to be rephrased more precisely . Social mobility is only complete when the mobile ' is able to associate on equal terms with members of the occupational group to which he has moved in all respects . It does not of course matter that he associates with inferiors on terms of superiority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the disruptive effect on extended family relationships must therefore have something to do with the special characteristics of the family . Either there must be something about the family which makes the superior-subordinate relationship impossible or , if such relationships can be found between family members , then for some reason these must be different from other relationships of the same kind outside the family in their effect on prestige . The reader will not be surprised to learn that Parsons ' argument centres on these points . In view of the large number of misinterpretations18 of Parsons it is important to note that his concern with // universalistic ? achievement societies stems from the fact that he sees society as being rooted in the particularistic and ascriptive solidarities of kinship , local community , ethnic group and social class . It is the inconsistency between institutions utilizing ascriptive bases of solidarity and the **26;289;TOOLONG oriented institutions of industrial society that constitutes his focus of interest . With regard to the family what Parsons says is this : The solidarity of the kinship unit is of such a character that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they will have to be shared ' with other members . In other words the two basic components of the reward system of the society , occupational approval . . . and . . . love and response in the kinship unit must go the same way . ' 10 Parsons is arguing therefore that the prestige of family members is pooled , so that Ego 's mobility in prestige terms increases that of his parents while his parents ' stability diminishes the amount of mobility that would have been achieved through occupational ascent had Ego not had such parents . Hence there can not be superordinatesubordinate relationships between kin based on prestige differences . Litwak deals with this point , 20 arguing that parents laud the success of the mobile son , who gains the satisfaction of being deferred to by his kin on account of his mobility . This is to make a very elementary confusion between the way a role is performed and its occupancy.21 Of course parents may be proud of a mobile son ? precisely because his prestige increases theirs . Of course the parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is such a good ' son . Being mobile , in a society that values mobility , is a way of performing the role of son well . The esteem which derives from good performance of an existing role ( son ) Litwak confuses with the deference accorded because of the occupancy of a new role ( the occupational one ) . Litwak should try treating his father like he treats the janitor of his apartment and see what sort of reception he gets . If prestige of family members is pooled , the low prestige of the father diminishes that of the son . One of the functions of the family is supposed to be placement . A ' places B ' in terms either of his kin relationship to another known person , or in terms of his ascriptive category membership ? nigger , Welshman , son of managing director or whatever . We can see now why Parsons regards a social class as // having an ascriptive membership . Class membership is kin determined twice over . First the family into which one is born affects one 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc. , because of the control over resources commanded by the family and wider kin . Secondly , because family members share prestige , a social relationship with a member of a family group involves an obligation to treat the other members of the group in the same way . If the elementary family is differentiated through differential occupational mobility , members of the occupational category into which a high-mobile family member has moved will be unwilling to treat him as an equal because so to do might involve treating his kin as equals which , in view of the kin 's style of life and lower occupational prestige , they will be unwilling to do . Therefore they must keep their social distance from him , or not permit the approval they accord him because of his job to spill over into diffuse esteem in which members of a ranked social category are held . If however the occupational position of the mobile 's ' kin are unknown , or the chances of any contact being had are remote because of the distance between them and the mobile ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ideology of the group concerned does not involve justifying their superior position in terms of superior birth . Litwak is therefore correct to point out that the anonymity of a large city may make it possible for the mobile ' to segregate kin and his new peers , and that geographical mobility may have the same effect . We are now ready to turn to the second assumption which Litwak alleges underlies the argument that kin groups wider than the elementary family are disrupted by social mobility . This is that there are extreme differences in socialization among the various occupational strata ' . By this Litwak means that there are differences in what is transmitted . ( It is both the differences in life style between strata and their invidious ranking that create the problem . These two aspects need to be kept distinct . The difference in style of life produced by differential socialization is characteristic of all ascriptive groups . Their social ranking is peculiar to styles of life associated with social strata . ) Litwak implies that he accepts that the resocialization of individual members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extended family communication . He argues as a matter of fact , first that style of life differences are small and narrowing in contemporary American society , and secondly that the degree of occupational mobility found is insufficient to involve crossing status category lines . These views can be questioned both on // empirical and theoretical grounds , but to do so here would take us too far out of our way . We may note that he never mentions education in this respect , which would seem to be of some importance , and that he confines his attention to the white Americanized groups so as not to confuse ethnic differences with class differences . In a society where ethnic differences play an important part in determining class position this is an odd line of argument . His last point however takes us back to ground covered in the previous chapter , namely the frequency with which a high degree of mobility is required by an industrial economy . Here the Parsonian argument may not hold for all stages of industrialization . Our concern here however is not with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrupt the elementary family if it occurs . It would appear that some types of mobility are possible without disrupting family relationships . Occupational mobility by itself need not be disruptive where it does not lead to social mobility . Where the approval which is accorded to an individual is prevented from spilling over into diffuse esteem , either because of the refusal of the occupational category concerned to accord esteem , or because the job concerned has no clear implications for style of life or group membership , or because the mobile individual refuses to22 associate with members of the category to which his occupational mobility gives him access ( except in the occupational sphere ) , a disruption of family relationships will not occur . The mobile individual will receive the praises of his family and they will enjoy enhanced prestige within their own category . Where however the mobility is significant in so far as it involves movement between groups based on different styles of life and/or different economic or political interests , then it is likely to have a disruptive effect . If however the categories concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political terms but in terms of standard of living , then there is no reason why mobility should weaken the solidarity of the family group . In such a case the only meaning attached to the term social mobility will be occupational and income mobility , since the society or the area of the stratification system concerned will not be made up of groups or categories but of positions ranked on an income and jobprestige scale . Where social mobility in terms of group membership is possible however it still may not disrupt family relationships if they can be // segregated from other relationships , provided the groups between which the mobile moves are not differentiated in terms of style of life rather than standard of living . We may accept therefore that industrial society requires occupational mobility , and that where such mobility leads to social mobility in the full sense of the word it will be disruptive of extended family groupings based on solidary ties between members of the elementary family . If different studies appear to provide different conclusions on this point it is because they attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rosser and Harris have put it the discrepancy between occupational achievement and social acceptance by another social group , by slowing down the rate of social mobility of individuals , enables the extended family to accommodate large changes in the occupational status on the part of its members because the consequent changes in social status are much smaller ' .24 Changes in social status are disruptive because of the way in which , as Parsons penetratingly shows , the ascriptive solidarities of kinship and of social classes and status groups intermesh . Parsons also points out , however , that both are articulated also with the local community since the family is a unit of residence as well as a unit of stratification . It is to a discussion of this relation which we now turn . THE FAMILY AND GEOGRAPHICAL MOBILITY Parsons stresses that the family is not only a unit of social mobility but also of geographical mobility because it is not only the basic unit of stratification but also the basic unit of residence . As a consequence family membership determines the membership of territorial groups . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ household 's necessary membership is restricted to the nuclear family and no requirement concerning the co-residence of kin is made , the fact that the nuclear family is a household will nevertheless affect the formation of groups wider than the nuclear family since the children will all start off from the same geographical point . r // In societies with advanced transport technologies the individual , once adult , can of course move literally anywhere . Nevertheless it would still be surprising if there was not some relationship between the geographical distribution of the overlapping elementary families , created by the family process , and the point of origin of such a cluster of families . For example one would not expect that , at any given moment , the families of origin of an Aberdonian and his wife , and the families of procreation of their sibs , children and grandchildren , would be no closer to Aberdeen than the same cluster of families of a man who was born at the same time in Penzance . Of course one 's expectations might not be fulfilled in any given case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different points of origin having the same geographical distribution relative to one another 's points of origin would certainly be smaller than evens , even though the effect of family ties in restricting mobility was not taken into account . In other words , just because you have a high transport technology and an absence of rules or residence , it still does not follow that the distribution of family clusters is going to be random . As a result , the individuals who inhabit a given geographical area are likely to be more connected by ties of kinship to other people within the area than they are to people outside it . Where transport is poor or the settlement relatively isolated from other settlements this clustering of kin relationships is likely to be marked . This is of course true not only of kinship relationships but of other kinds of relationships as well . There is therefore , in every type of society , a tendency to the geographical clustering of relationships whatever the transport is like and whatever the settlement pattern . The transport , the settlement pattern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the areas within which any given degree of clustering takes place , but can never eliminate it . The degree of clustering and the area over which it occurs will determine whether different types of activities involving the individuals in the area can take place . That is to say , it will determine whether the relationships within the area can be used to form groups through which the people concerned can co-operate to carry out different types of activities . That is to say , the degree of clustering will constitute one of the necessary conditions of certain types of group formation . What groups are actually formed will of course depend on the beliefs and attitudes of the people and on the extent to which they vary among them . All activities however are not dependent upon proximity for their performance . Nevertheless , it is , as we have noted , difficult for group // members to act together where they are widely separated . As a consequence , it is unlikely that widely separated individuals will form groups for the performance of activities , as opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membership of dispersed groups whose solidarity does not depend on the performance of such activities . If the members of a locality or an elementary family group are dispersed they may still be members of the territorial or elementary family group but they will not be able to participate in group activities . Nor will members of an elementary family be able to form groups wider than the elementary family for the purpose of carrying out group activities . Members of dispersed groups may however be able to maintain interactive relationships with individuals . Where one member of the group only is physically separated from the rest he may be able to act in concert with the rest of the group . As the proximate group members already act in concert , he has only to co-ordinate his activities with any one of them for the whole group to act together . Hence , if only one of the members of the group is dispersed , this will not prevent the co-action of the whole group unless that particular activity requires proximity . Now if we keep the preceding argument clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of geographical mobility on kin groups disappear . Litwak25 has argued that modified extended families aid geographical mobility , and that extended family identification is retained in spite of breaks in face to face contact . He substantiates these propositions beyond the possibility of doubt as far as the population he studied is concerned . He is able to show in addition that the extended family oriented are more likely to live further away from kin in the early stages of their career and less likely to be geographically separated from kin towards the end of their career and that the difference between the beginning and end of the career is greater among the higher than among the lower occupational groups . This he explains in terms of the greater requirement of mobility among those in higher status bureaucratic occupations . Mobility is necessary to achieve success , hence when success is achieved it is possible for Ego to move nearer relatives . What Litwak is saying then is that contact between relatives can be maintained in spite of geographical distance . The existence of an extended family can aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its mobile members . There is now ample // evidence to support the contention that help is exchanged and relationships recognized between widely separated kin who are not members of the same nuclear family . Indeed it is odd that it was ever questioned . The question we have to ask is what Litwak means by an extended family ? He offers no evidence of the formation of extended family groups made up of dispersed kin and indeed no evidence of any sort as to what categories of kin his subjects were in touch with . We may assume that the relatives ' with whom his sample were in touch and who aided mobility were in fact parents . To say that people retain the membership of dispersed elementary family groups and maintain relationships with individuals is not to say that they form extended families in our sense or in Parsons ' sense or indeed in any sense which uses the term family ' to mean group ' . Once this is understood , Litwak 's work loses most of its theoretical importance and becomes instead a straightforward research report of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with two hypotheses put forward in this book , namely that the degree of mobility required by the industrial society is related to the level of skill , and that relationships outside the nuclear family are of continued importance in assisting individuals to fulfil the demands made upon them by industrial society . We may sum up Litwak 's contribution to the study of the family as follows . Litwak has not , as he thinks , in any way undermined Parsons ' theory . Whereas Parsons ' contribution has been to argue that the maintenance of extended family groups is inconsistent with the requirements of social and geographical mobility likely to be made in advanced industrial societies , Litwak has shown that the existence of extra-nuclear family relationships can in fact be important in aiding this mobility . It may be argued however that even the existence of extended family groups may be of assistance in providing some types of mobility . One of the reasons why it was at one time thought that urban society was characterized by the existence of nuclear families geographically isolated from all kin was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say when people were leaving the countryside for the towns , the towns must be full of nuclear families who had left their wider kin behind . We may note that this does not mean that URBAN SOCIETY must necessarily be characterized by such a family type unless towns are only maintained in being by migration to them of a rural surplus population in each generation . Even in the stage of urbanization it does not follow however that urban nuclear families are necessarily isolated from wider kin . Both common sense and later research suggests that kin ties may play an // important part in determining the patterns of migration . For example , Brown26 has shown in a fascinating article the way in which the migrants from a poor rural area in the Appalachian mountains tend to cluster in certain urban neighbourhoods . The inhabitants from this area , Beech Creek , live in families of a conjugal type but use the family process to form extended family groups . These family groups are ranked into strata and are endogamous within the strata , and hence tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascriptive solidarities of class ' , locality and kinship overlap , though there are breaks in the local network of relationships at the boundaries of each stratum . This pattern is reflected in their migration pattern , members of both family groups and strata tending to cluster in the same urban area . Brown then relates this pattern to the notion of the stem family ' of Le Play . According to Le Play the advantage of the stem family is that it permits the migration of non-inheriting children without depriving them of the support of parents and sibs in times of difficulty . The maintenance of links with parents and sibs through parents , however tenuous they may appear at the moment at which they are observed , are important because they make possible the retention of a place of safety , as one of Brown 's informants put it , should things get rough out there ' . To Le Play 's characterization Brown wishes to add that sibling ties between the non-inheriting children aid migration by facilitating the adjustment of the migrant to the urban community and provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The existence in modern industrial society of unemployment relief and other bureaucratic forms of aid precluded the necessity of actually returning to the area of the stem family when things get rough , but the knowledge that one has a place to go to and an ascriptive identity independent of that provided by one 's achieved status is of considerable significance to the migrant . Schwarzweller27 has followed up this notion with a study of migrants and non migrants in the urban area to which the Beech Creekers move . He is concerned to examine the other side of Brown 's argument . If migrants retain an identification with their family of origin , and hence their place of origin , while this may be important in supporting immigrants in the initial phase of their I40 THE FAMILY residence in the city , it is likely to preclude their developing a sense of belonging to the locality to which they move because a large and important number of their ascriptive relationships will not cluster within their new locality . In other words the retention of family ties with another locality will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the group to which they have moved or of the values and attitudes of urban industrial society . He finds no evidence that the maintenance of ties with the folks back home ' militates against the establishment of non-kin relationships in the new locality or retards upward occupational mobility but finds that the feeling of residential stability is inversely related to frequency of interaction with the parental family . He is unable to say whether the people , who are dissatisfied with their urban situation and want to move , associate more with their stem family because they are dissatisfied , or are dissatisfied because they associate with their stem family . Our chief concern here is less with the effect of the family on mobility than on the effect of mobility on the family . Brown and Schwarzweller 's data seem to indicate that , by aiding migration , the maintenance of extended kin relationships remains of significance to migrants despite geographical separation , and Brown suggests that the process of migration may lead to the establishment of extended family groupings in the urban environment . Although we have so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important to recognize that they are usually explicitly related . The Beech Creek migrants are at least economically as well as geographically mobile . If the migrant belongs to a family group back home ' then , since the family group tends to pool its possessions whether of prestige or of economic resources , the migrant will feel it incumbent upon him to share his new prosperity with family members . There are two ways in which this can be done : either he can send money home or he can save to bring the other members of the family over to him . The existence of strong extended family groups in the migrants ' area of origin may therefore stimulate rather than retard migration . That is not to say that it will facilitate individual mobility , economic or geographical . Thus we find , among the migrant populations of urban America and increasingly in Britain , that strong extended family ties tend to facilitate migration and lead to the formation of ethnic communities in the host country whose strong ascriptive ties of kinship and locality in their country of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are then added the other ascriptive ties of ethnic and class ' membership , thus creating highly solidary communities which prevent // assimilation into the host society.2 &; The way in which extended family ties facilitate migration is vividly illustrated by the way in which attempts by the British government to control immigration have run into difficulty over the attempt to restrict entry to the dependents of existing immigrants . To the British , dependents ' mean nuclear family members but , to migrants from solidary local communities made up of clusters of extended families , patterns of dependency and economic obligation are infinitely more complex than anything ever dreamed of by either the British legislature or the average immigration officer . It would appear therefore that the existence of extended family groups affects individual mobility , but individual mobility must adversely affect the assimilation of immigrants . We still have no really adequate data on whether the existence of extended family groups affects individual mobility but individual mobility must destroy such groups where their existence depends on the performance of an activity which depends on co-residence . The maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a distance ? money , information , advice ? while high levels of mobility may produce a geographically dispersed extended kin network which may be supportive of the person who is highly mobile by providing instant ' relationships in the various places where he spends his short periods of residence.2 ? THE FAMILY AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY In our discussion of the Beech Creek migrants we noted that they retained a feeling of identity not only with their family but also with their locality of origin . It is not the place here to engage in a discussion of the different meanings that have been attached to the term community.30 It will be sufficient for our purposes to note that the idea of community involves the notion of a plurality of people who hold certain things in common , which things distinguish them from // other people . People who live in an area , conceived by them and by other people to be an entity , may be said to live in the same place and therefore to constitute a community of residence ; that is to say they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have to answer is this : what determines which particular cluster of spatial points is conceived of as a whole ? as a distinct locality ? It may be suggested that there are three broad types of answer to this question . First a locality may be defined as such because it is constituted by a relatively bounded settlement ; secondly because it is inhabited by persons belonging to a distinctive social category ; and thirdly because the area concerned is populated by people whose social relationships cluster within it.31 In the first case nothing else follows from the settlement characteristic : that is to say there is no reason why the inhabitants of a particular settlement should share anything but residence in the same locality . If however the settlement is relatively isolated , relationships are likely to cluster within it ? if the population is stable enough for such relationships to be formed . The formation of such relationships will obviously be facilitated the more homogeneous the settlement is , that is to say where the inhabitants conceive of themselves as being the same in some way other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second case nothing necessarily follows from homogeneity except that it will facilitate the establishment of relationships , provided that people seek the formation of relationships within the locality which they will have to do if the locality is a settlement and relatively isolated . The third case may be seen to be the result of past conditions favouring the establishment of intra-locality relationships , but is independent of those conditions in the sense that such clustering may persist after the conditions which gave rise to it have disappeared and may constitute a condition of future clustering of the same kind . Now whether or not the population of a locality may be said to form a group , the more relationships an individual has with other people in the locality and the greater the proportion of his relationships which cluster within it , the more likely he is to identify himself with the locality . Similarly the greater the extent to which he regards the other inhabitants as the same as himself the more he will identify with the locality . However all relationships are not of the same kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the ascriptive relationships of kinship , class and ethnic group . i , . // That is to say that the greater is the extent to which the inhabitants are linked by ties of kinship and the same class and ethnic group memberships , the more solidary the locality will be and the more distinctive it will be vis a vis other localities . Mobility will affect this situation in six ways . First the more mobile the population is the shorter time they will have to establish relationships and the less likely it will be that a large proportion of their relationships will cluster within the locality . Secondly the more mobile the people are the less chance there will be of their being connected by a network of kin ties . Thirdly , the more they are mobile the less will be the likelihood of an individual 's identifying his family of origin with a locality . Fourthly the more mobile they are the less possible will it be for claims to prestige and social position to be made on particularistic grounds since the particular people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will not be known to the other inhabitants , and class categorization will therefore be made on the basis of placement in universalitic categories on the grounds of achievement . Fifth , high mobility will mean that the locality will be made up of nuclear families , whether or not they retain ties with extended kin , who retain elementary and extended family memberships . Lastly , a highly mobile population will have a very loosely interconnected locality network and in consequence communication between inhabitants will be poor and dependent on formal means . Mobility therefore will vitally effect both the family and the locality , and the locality through the family . It should not be assumed however that any of the ascriptive solidarities we have mentioned necessarily enhance locality solidarity . To categorize people as the same is to imply the categorization of others as different . To distinguish a category to whom one has obligations is at the same time to distinguish a residual category to whom one has no obligations . What has been pointed out so far is that , where locality membership and membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these different types of ascriptive solidarities re-enforce one another . The locality may however be characterized by the existence of different categories within it , non-recognition of relationship between whom can be destructive of the solidarity of the locality . In such a case the greater the stress on solidarity within categories the weaker may be the solidarity between them . This may best be illustrated by a vivid anthropological anecdote told by Freeman.R2 A man recounts how he has just seen a woman // with a child on her back swimming in a river he has just crossed , and remarks that she is sure to drown . When asked why he did not help her he replies : She was not of my kindred . ' Particularistic solidarities can be as divisive as universalistic ones , and it is fundamentally mistaken to suppose that conflict is characteristic of cold impersonal universalistic societies and not of nice warm friendly particularistic societies and groups . Campbe1133 for example describes how , among the Sarakatsani shepherds of northern Greece , hostility exists between unrelated families . This hostility exists because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pasture , and in consequence believe that what is to the advantage of one must be to the disadvantage of another . At the same time however the hostility between unrelated families is intimately related to the rights and obligations inside the elementary family , to the members of which a man owns supreme loyalty . This fact , and the fact that there is no social group within the community that can commit a man to any duty towards persons with whom he is not related by kinship , mean that any relationship with an unrelated person is regarded as a betrayal . Perhaps the most celebrated , recent description of the divisive effect of kin loyalties in European society is Edward Banfield 's study of a town in southern Italy.34 This society , which is characterized by poverty and apathy towards any communal activity , is also characterized by what Banfield calls amoral familism ' . By this Banfield means that loyalty to kin , combined with a belief that life is unpredictable and dangerous , leads the inhabitants to recognize obligations to kin only and to justify any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence extrafamilial relations are amoral ' and not governed by notions of rightness and duty , which notions apply exclusively to members of the family . Using almost the same words as Campbell he writes : In the Montegrano mind any advantage that may be given to another is necessarily at the expense of one 's own family ... all those outside the family are at least potential competitors and therefore also potential enemies . . . one can not afford the luxury of charity or even of justice . ' 3 ' The Montegrano family is nuclear in form , and even relations between mature members of the // elementary family are characterized by conflict since they already see each other as rivals . The consequence of this divisive and over-riding loyalty to the nuclear family is that any community life is almost impossible . The inhabitants do not see themselves as sharing any common interests and the behaviour of individuals who occupy official positions is interpreted solely in terms of the advantage to their nuclear families . Since furtherance of nuclear family interests is the overriding duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get his hands on an official position should not use it for his own advantage . Hence no community activity is possible since support would mean support of the interests of the organizers . Banfield seeks the origin of these notions first in the conditions of action . The poor material conditions under which the inhabitants live make life precarious and create a conflict of interests between families . However , the family type means that the individual can not count on support from kin outside the elementary family which makes the struggle the more desperate . In what terms can the family type be explained ? Banfield once again turns to the material conditions . Because of the increasing division of land due to population growth , few holdings can support more than a nuclear family . Secondly he refers to the permissive manner of child training , which does not make any attempt to instill moral notions into the child . Banfield 's account is highly deficient in that it does not make clear how land is transmitted and what effects this has on the aggregation of holdings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the ideas which underlie it . His account does clearly show the way in which family loyalty may be antagonistic to community loyalties when the interests of the families are conceptualized as conflicting . We may note here that interests are likely to be so seen when the success or failure of groups is clearly related to access to scarce resources . In the case of the Sarakatsani the scarce resource is pasture , and , in the case of Montegranesi , land . In industrial societies where the scarce resource is jobs and the total pool of jobs is not clearly recognized , scarcity of employment does not so frequently lead to conflict because loss of employment is often seen in purely individual terms . It appears that in both the cases we have considered there was one sense in which the inhabitants of the locality were a community ? they recognized that the inhabitants of a locality shared access to                     