@@774128

txt  | producing toxins , but it was not know whether they were able to cause gastrointestinal disturbances in man . Hall and Angelotti ( 1965 ) studied the incidence of Clostridium perfringens in meat and meat products in the Cincinnati area . Some of the items studied were raw , some partially cooked , and some fully processed , requiring no cooking ( Table 13 ) . The organism was isolated from 43.1% of 262 specimens , the highest percentage of contamination being found in veal cuts ( Table 14 ) , and the lowest in sandwich cuts and spreads . Only 2 of the 113 isolates produced heat-resistant spores . SYMPTOMS The symptoms begin between and 8 and 22 , usually 8-15 , hours after the ingestion of the contaminated food and may continue for 6 ? 12 hours . They are somewhat similar to those of staphylococcal intoxication , but are milder . Symptoms include nausea , sometimes  | accompanied by vomiting , intestinal cramps , and diarrhea . Fever , chills , and headache are rarely experienced . The illness , with one exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , the incidence of this foodborne illness is relatively low ( Table 5 ) . Many states have never reported an outbreak . From England , a fairly high rate of incidents has been reported for a number of years . Reports have also been made from Canada , Europe , and Asia . FOODS IMPLICATED In connection with gastrointestinal episodes believed to be caused by Clostridium perfringens were listed meats , items in which meat served as an ingredient , and gravy . The organisms may be carried into the kitchen on the hands of the food handlers as well as on many food stuffs . It has also been isolated from other uncooked and cooked food products , such as vegetables , dairy products , eggs , and condiments such as pepper . An outbreak was reported in 1960 which originated from a turkey dinner served on a train . Approximately one-half of 450 passengers became ill ( Hart et al . 1960 ) . In 1962 , a large outbreak in which creamed turkey was implicated occurred in a mental institution in California . The circumstances have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a recent outbreak in a high school cafeteria , roast beef was the incriminated menu item ( Morbidity and Mortality , 1965 ) . Contamination of food with the pathogen is common , but the counts have , in general , been shown to be low and the spores largely  | species suspected of causing foodborne gastroenteritis were P. vulgaris and P. mirabilis . ESCHERICHIA COLI Escherichia coli , a common inhabitant of the intestinal tract of man and warm-blooded animals , is usually regarded as a harmless saprophyte . Specific strains , however , have been associated with infant diarrhea ( Riley , 1964 ) . Work with human volunteers has indicated the possible pathogenicity of large numbers of cells ingested ( June et al. , 1953 ) . The number of outbreaks possibly caused by E. coli is unknown , but it may be large . For example , it has been stated ( Food Protection Committee , National Academy of Sciences , 1964 ) that in Illinois during 1962 one small hospital of fewer than 300 beds reported 25% of all outbreaks were caused by enteropathogenic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gastroenteritis occurred at a hospital in Yokohama , Japan . The persons who became ill had eaten salted cucumbers . Unfamiliar bacteria were recovered at a high ratio on media containing 5% sodium chloride . It was demonstrated that these bacteria produced the typical symptoms in human volunteers . In 1959 , another episode was caused by similar organisms , but this time the food implicated was raw fish . At a later date some cooked food items caused outbreaks . The exact identity and the pathogenicity of the organisms are still obscure . Fungi Fungal toxins causing mycotoxicoses may affect both animals and humans . Mycotoxicoses are poisonings caused by fungus contaminated feed or food that manifest themselves in various types in the hosts . A summary of information pertaining to the problem of mycotoxins in foodstuffs was made available recently ( Wogan , 1965 ) . Some of these toxins have carcinogenic properties . The poisoning follows ingestion of moldy substrate ; actually , the intoxication does not manifest itself in the form of acute intestinal gastroenteritis and therefore does not meet all qualifications of " food poisoning . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to warn that , at present , molds are no longer regarded as a harmless group of microorganisms . The acute form of mycotoxicosis is characterized by hemorrhages in many tissues . The chronic form also includes changes in the blood and bone marrow , and damage to liver and kidneys is frequent . The  | molds capable of forming toxins and causing mycotoxicosis in man and animals are distributed over the world . They grow , produce toxins , and multiply on a wide variety of foods over side ranges of temperature and humidity . Aspergillus flavus Aspergillus flavus is a mold which is able to produce a group of toxins which have been named aflatoxins , the potential hazard of which is only now beginning to be recognized . Aflatoxins are metabolic products of certain strains of this organism . They represent a group of structurally related derivatives of coumarin . The toxins affect the liver . The initial problem showed up in England where these toxins were identified as causing a disease in turkeys , ducks , and pheasants that had been fed peanut meal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , most domestic animal species ? are susceptible to the toxins to some extent . It has been feared that potential danger from aflatoxins to humans could exist when moldy peanuts were consumed . In the United States careful handling of the peanut crop makes this danger seem remote . However , in countries of humid and warm climates a potential hazard exists when the harvesting and subsequent handling of peanuts is not carried out in a way to preclude conditions favoring the growth of molds . Research is now underway to clarify the role of these and other mycotoxins , from a public health point of view . In this country , the Pure Food and Drug law has made moldy foods illegal in interstate commerce since 1906 . At present , they fall in the category of adulterated foods , since they contain a filthy , putrid , or decomposed substance , or are otherwise unfit for food . Since the FDA can prove unfitness by demonstrating the presence of mycotoxins in significant concentrations , research on mycotoxins is being pushed ahead . Other research involves tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molds , and developing effective fungicides . Also , attention is being given to the improvement of harvesting methods , storage , processing , and plant sanitation . The food industry is cooperating with government agencies to safeguard the country 's food supply against toxins from molds ; similar efforts are being made abroad . Reporting and Investigation of Outbreaks Gastroenteric outbreaks caused by food have been reported , on a small scale at first , for over 40 years . The reports were in the begin- ping limited to milk and were summarized by the Public Health Service . In 1938 , waterborne and foodborne outbreaks were added . The decision to expand the reports grew out of concern over outbreaks of typhoid fever and infant diarrhea . Since 1951 , notices of outbreaks traced to milk , food , and water by various states have been collected and published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports , which since 1961 have been handled by the Communicable Disease Center , Atlanta , Georgia . Although in some states reporting of incidents of foodborne illness is now compulsory , this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requiring such reporting , the local authorities attend to the investigation , although some of the laboratory work may be performed in special centers within or even outside the state . Reports Family-limited gastrointestinal episodes are frequently unreported , an exception being suspected or confirmed cases of botulism . For many upsets , a physician is not called in . However , when meals which are served to the public cause illness , the impact may be very dramatic and the authorities are informed . The initial report may be made through various channels of communication . Some of the basic data asked for are : date , time , and place of the suspected meal ; names , addresses , and telephone numbers of at least some of the victims ; symptoms of the victims ; and the name of the person making the report . If the onset of the symptoms is slow , as is true for infection-type outbreaks , it may be difficult to even pinpoint the food service establishment where the illnessproducing food was consumed , let alone the meal or particular item . Some patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms is brief , however , as in Staphylococcus food poisoning , the victims may be still present in the building or compound , such as in a school or industrial park . The principal or management would be the person reporting to the local authorities . For success in followup and eventual control , reporting to the health authority should be as prompt as possible . The unsatisfactory outcome of many investigations is caused by a delay in reporting which makes it impossible for the epidemiologist or sanitarian to get all the facts he needs to pinpoint the case . A full knowledge of all pertinent facts is immediately helpful in limiting the spread of the outbreak and in treating the victims . In addition , it serves to deepen the understanding of cause and effect which are at play in food borne outbreaks . At the time of an outbreak food service personnel and the  | public are probably most receptive to information on the subject of sanitary handling of foods . Investigations Many outbreaks require the knowledgable services of an entire team : the physician , the epidemiologist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the laboratory personnel ( McCutchen , 1963 ) . After the initial report has been received , immediate action is paramount to success . The objects of the investigation of foodborne illness are to : ( 1 ) determine the responsible meal ; ( 2 ) determine the responsible item within the meal ; ( 3 ) determine the nature and source of the contaminants ; ( 4 ) determine the circumstances leading to contamination of and growth in the food ; and ( 5 ) establish , in case of infections , proof that the pathogen has infected the patient . The actual steps to take are : interview the victims , locate and visit the food service establishment suspected of having served the illness-producing food , impound the suspect food , take samples , and determine the causative agent . Persons who ate the suspected meal , both ill and healthy , are interviewed as to what they ate . Also interviewed are physicians and nurses in care of the ill victims and the food managers and/or employees of the suspected establishment . Samples of suspect food items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The food establishment is scrutinized for detailed information on the source of the suspect food , storage condition , length of storage , preparation , holding , and other pertinent information in connection with the history of the suspect meal and its components . The health of the employees and the sanitary conditions of the premises , including washroom facilities , are also surveyed . The cooperation of the food service staff , dietitian , manager , and other employees , is extremely important if the survey is to be successful . All this information is entered on the appropriate forms . The detailed food report usually includes : a copy of the suspected menu and a list of the ingredients used ; preparation and holding conditions ; brand and manufacturer and/or packer of ingredients ; method of and circumstances pertaining to transportation , especially time ; time of arrival and history after arrival ; place , conditions , and length of storage ; holding time and method of holding between preparation and service ; and other information of importance in specific cases . In the laboratory the food samples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report is made on those findings . Specimens may also be obtained from patients and food handlers . The leader of the investigation team , an epidemiologist or sanitarian , interprets the information gained from interviews and laboratory tests as to the cause and source of the agent causing the outbreak . Present Status The current status of food poisoning has been reviewed by Dack ( 1960 ) . The deficiencies and difficulties of reporting have been evaluated and possibilities for improvement have been suggested by the Food Protection Committee of the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Sciences , National Research Council ( 1964 ) . They point out that the well-known deficiencies of morbidity reporting place great limitations on much interesting information furnished by local and state health departments ; that reports give no indication of a significant decline of foodborne illnesses ; and that , at the same time , improvement in food sanitation has prevented a marked increase in incidents , in spite of the steady increase in population . According to this Committee it is not possible to assess the relative frequency of commercially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that improvement is needed regarding identification of causative agents approximately one-half of the outbreaks being now in the " etiology unknown " class . Reporting of foodborne illnesses is poor indeed ; two-fifths of the states do not report , another two-fifths report one or two per year , and only one-fifth report properly . The suggestions for improvement given by the above-mentioned Committee include that the reasons for nonreporting be identified and overcome through leadership education . For effective investigation , improvement and evaluation of laboratory methodology are needed as it pertains to fast and accurate determination of types and levels of bacterial food contaminants important to public health . Many of the methods now used are not specifically adapted to foods and not always best suited to the wide variety of products for which they are used . In summary these conclusions were drawn by the Committee ( 1964 ) : 1 ) There is renewed interest in the microbiological contaminants of food that adversely affect public health , but current efforts are inadequate to cope with the problems arising from rapid changes and new developments in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitted by the states to the Public Health Service represent only a few of the many outbreaks actually occurring in the United States . 3 ) More thorough investigation and consistent reporting of foodborne illnesses are needed for the guidance of industry and government in their efforts to protect the public health . 4 ) Additional technical intelligence about microbial contaminants in foods can be obtained from laboratory examination of products available to the public , as demonstrated by recent surveys indicating the prevalence of foodpoisoning organisms in several widely used items . 5 ) Improved methods for the quantitative detection and rapid identification of microorganisms in foods are needed as a basis for the development of standard procedures . 6 ) Continuing evaluation of food protection programs and practices is necessary to keep them abreast of technological changes . 7 ) A broadened national program of research and education is essential to generate the specialized knowledge , skills , and public understanding needed to achieve control of foodborne illnesses .  | RESERVOIRS OF MICROORGANISMS CAUSING FOODBORNE GASTROENTERIC OUTBREAKS : MAN , ANIMALS , ENVIRONMENT Many reservoirs of the bacteria which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones are man and the animals he keeps , sewage , manure , soil , water , air , rodents , insects , and the food supply . Water and soil frequently acquire pathogens from sewage ( human source ) and manure ( animal source ) ; in turn , the food supply may acquire pathogens from all the abovenamed sources . Thus , man and animals emerge as the fundamental sources of the organisms which are responsible for foodborne gastrointestinal illnesses . Man Of special interest to the food service manager is the inherent danger from the bacterial flora of the healthy person and carrier . Persons suffering from obvious communicable diseases are not as likely to prepare food for the public as is the carrier . A carrier is a person who harbors and disseminates the disease-producing microbes without having the symptoms of the disease . He may have recovered from the disease or he may never have been ill at all . He is immune to the organisms which he harbors in his system . Skin The human skin is never free of bacteria ; even clean skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an impressive number  | and variety of microorganisms are present , including bacteria , molds , yeasts , and protozoa . Since man uses his hands for many different purposes he touches a great many things , acquiring the microbial population from almost everything he contacts . This population of microorganisms is apt to include pathogens capable of causing various foodborne gastroenteritis . The bacteria clinging to the skin may multiply there , especially near the sebacious glands . Although thorough washing removes many bacteria from the skin , some microorganisms are apt to remain . The common flora of the human skin includes representatives of the genus Staphylococcus , one being the nonpathogenic S. epidermidis . S. aureus , however , includes strains that are able to multiply in food and form toxins which , when such food is ingested , causes the dreaded intoxications or food poisonings . It has been estimated that at least one-half of the normal , healthy population harbors virulent , or potentially virulent , staphylococci . Staphylococci are generally found in connection with pimples , acne , skin wounds , and other inflamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause skin infections of various kinds . The resistance of the body to staphylococci varies with the virulence of the organisms and the resistance of the invaded tissues . Furunculosis is a type of infection that follows a cut or simple abrasion . Carbuncles are a more severe skin disorder which follows the invasion of the staphylococci into the deeper tissues . While the furuncle is characterized by a single superficial abscess , the carbuncle involves a large area of deeper tissues characterized by the formation of several " heads " containing pus and staphylococci . Impetigo contagiosa is a contagious skin infection characterized by small pustules which occur on the face but may also spread to other parts of the body . Paronychia is an infection of the nail bed of either fingers or toes . Scratching of infected skin transfers the staphylococci to the hands , especially the nails . From the foregoing discussion it is obvious that in food service , the person afflicted with pyogenic infections of the skin is a menace ; unfortunately , the person who is so afflicted is usually not ill enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are largely localized on the exposed body parts , the fingers , hands , arms , and face , an infected food handler is in a particularly excellent position to spread these organisms around , contaminating the food and equipment he touches and sowing the seeds of food poisoning in the food preparation area .  | Mouth , Nose , Throat , Eyes , and Ears The areas of the mouth , nose , and throat of a healthy human abound with microorganisms of various kinds . The environment is moist and warm , and acceptable nutrients are available to the bacteria in the form of remnants from food consumed by the human . Among the numerous kinds of microorganisms represented , one is of outstanding significance here , namely Staphylococcus aureus , which lodges in the respiratory passages of many healthy individuals . Virulent strains of the organism are associated with ailments such as sinusitis and the common cold . Persons recovering from these ailments may remain carriers for extended periods . S. aureus is also frequently associated with infections of the eyes and ears . Persons suffering from infections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or who are carriers while or after recovering from these diseases , must be suspected of being a rich source of virulent staphylococci and should be prevented from handling food . Intestinal Tract The composition of the intestinal flora of the healthy human body may vary with certain external factors . The first part of the small intestine has , like the stomach , no natural microbial flora . In the jejunum and ileum , microorganisms begin to appear . It is in the lower end of the small intestine that a variety of bacteria are found in large numbers . The major representatives are the coliforms , Escherichia coli and Aerobacter aerogenes . Bacteria important in connection with foodborne illnesses are Clostridium perfringens , fecal streptococci ( enterococci ) , salmonellae , and occasionally staphylococci . The salmonellae are particularly plentiful in the intestinal tracts of persons recovering from salmonelloses . It is important for food service management to realize that some of the pathogens for which food is a vehicle of transmission may remain in the human carrier for prolonged periods of time , as in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hepatitis . In typhoid fever , convalescent carriers usually discharge the bacteria for 8 ? 10 weeks following recovery , but some patients become chronic or permanent carriers for the rest of their lives . Following salmonellosis victims may remain carriers for several weeks ; S. derby has been found to persist for months in the victims ' intestinal system ( Sanders and Friedman , 1965 ) . Patients who have recovered from bacillary dysentery or shigellosis are carriers for a while , but no chronic carriers result from this  | infection . Patients who have recovered from amoebic dysentery may become chronic carriers for the rest of their lives . The hepatitis virus has been found to remain with patients from one to five years . It is readily understandable that the principles of control include these important items : ( 1 ) Exclusion of carriers from the area of food preparation and service ; ( 2 ) education of food service workers in the importance of sanitary habits ; and ( 3 ) unrelenting supervision . Animals Livestock Staphylococcus aureus is an inhabitant of the nose , mouth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrison et al . ( 1961 ) , who reviewed the literature on the subject and studied the incidence of staphylococci in cattle and horses , concluded that the majority of the forms are coagulase-negative and therefore not likely to be potentially virulent . Fecal streptococci , Clostridium perfringens , and coliforms are natural inhabitants of the intestinal tract of livestock . Salmonellae have been shown to be frequent inhabitants of farm animals , including horses , cattle , and hogs ( Moran , 1961 ; Galton , 1963 ) . These animals may become carriers . The increase in salmonellosis was discussed by Galton ( 1963 ) , who stated that during the 14 years 1934-1947 , only 0.7% of the cultures isolated from livestock were from cattle whereas during the years 1957-1961 , the percentage had risen to 7 . During this same period an increase was noted in cultures from fowl . According to a report by Galton ( 1963 ) of a survey made in Florida , hogs harbor salmonellae very frequently . It has been shown that the organisms spread when the animals are crowded together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Crowding during shipment to the abattoirs and in the corrals near abattoirs has shown to increase salmonellae incidence up to tenfold what it is in farm animals . Galton and Hardy ( 1953 ) found in a study made in Florida that the relative prevalence of most common Salmonella types isolated from man , swine , and dogs was similar . This seems to indicate that infections were either spread from one host to the other , or that these salmonellae came originally from the same source . Poultry Poultry may become an important reservoir of Staphylococcus aureus when the skin of the live bird has been injured and the bruises  | have become infected with staphylococci . Hamdy and Barton ( 1965 ) demonstrated that multiplication of S. aureus is related to the severity of the bruise . Poultry is the greatest single animal reservoir of Salmonella , including strains pathogenic to man . A high proportion , approximately one-half , of the Salmonella-caused gastroenteric outbreaks in man are traced to poultry and poultry products . It seems that poultry has an unusual susceptibility to salmonellae . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and poults , causing many fatalities . The organism invades practically all of the internal organs . In the United States the poultry-raising industry has made a supreme effort to eradicate S. pullorum from flocks and has been quite successful by testing birds for carriers , eliminating carriers , hatching eggs from sources known to be free of the disease , and maintaining high sanitary standards in the plants . S. pullorum does not seem to be pathogenic to man . However , it has been demonstrated in some instances that the ingestion of massive doses of the organism caused gastrointestinal disorders in the volunteers participating in the experiments . Other species and strains of Salmonella harbored by poultry , among these S. typhimurium , are quite pathogenic to man . Poultry , especially turkeys , are known to become carriers of these organisms . The adult carriers usually look healthy and escape culling for disease . Therefore , they represent a constant source of infection to other birds and a source of contamination to eggs ( Quist , 1963 ) . When the birds are processed into meat , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intestinal tract . The shells of eggs become a source of Salmonella and may contaminate the contents when the shell and membranes are injured , or when the shell is deliberately opened in the egg-processing plant . Control measures include , for all livestock and poultry , the elimination of carriers of Salmonella , high sanitary standards in the care of farm animals and poultry flocks , and the use of feedstuffs known to be free from Salmonella ( Morehouse and Wedman , 1961 ) . Pets Morrison et al . ( 1961 ) studied Staphylococcus aureus in dogs and cats . They found that carrier rates of coagulase-positive , antibioticresistant staphylococci on the skin and nose were high in the canine and feline species . The authors concluded that domestic animals may serve as sources of pathogenic staphylococci . These companions of man are known to harbor many serotypes of  | Salmonella ( Mackel et al. , 1952 ) . In one study involving greyhounds in Florida , Stucker et al . ( 1952 ) were able to relate the extent of incidences to the sanitation in the kennels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infected with salmonellae . Salmonella incidences in dogs have been related to intake of Salmonella-contaminated , underprocessed dog food ( Galton et al. , 1955 ) . Salmonella from turtles has also been reported to cause foodborne gastroenteric outbreaks ( Morbidity and Mortality , 1964 ) . Case histories showed that the contaminated agent was the turtles ' water , which was discarded into the kitchen sink . Although the chances are remote that food prepared in public eating places becomes contaminated from such a source , opportunities might be afforded when food is prepared in the family kitchen for community meal service , or when children handling pets are taking part in meal preparation , as may happen in a camp situation . Pets do not belong in an area where food is prepared , served , and stored . Persons who have handled pets should change clothing and wash up thoroughly before handling food . Although these hygienic practices are obligatory for personnel employed by food service establishments , they are not always enforced and they are not likely to be always followed when food is prepared in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in pet food is another means of reducing the incidence of salmonelloses in pets and indirectly in man . Rodents Rats and mice may contaminate food during harvest , in transport , in storage , and in the food preparation area . These animals carry disease-producing organisms on their feet and/or in their intestinal tracts . Rats , in particular have a habit of feeding in places of filth , like garbage dumps and sewers . These rodents are known to harbor salmonellae of serotypes frequently associated with foodborne infections in man , such as Salmonella typhimurium , enteritidis , and new port . Poultry men in this country are plagued by rats and suffer great losses from their activity caused not only by loss of feed eaten by the rats , but also by the disease which rats pass on to poultry . Rats infect , by their droppings , poultry feed and eggs with Salmonella . Rats are largely nocturnal animals and are among the most prolific of mammals . Their appetite for food is tremendous . The control of rats is most essential but , unfortunately , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very suspicious animals and evade trapping .  | Rats and mice must be kept out of places where food animals , feed , and food are housed . They should be exterminated from appropriate access places where they like to feed , like garbage cans ; these places should be protected . Rodents must be kept out of the areas where food is stored , prepared , and served . Insects FLIES The fly most frequently associated with man is the housefly , Musa domestica . This species is the predominant one found in food establishments . During warm weather , two or more housefly generations per month may be produced . The female lays large numbers of eggs each time and populations increase at a tremendous rate . In the winter the housefly seeks protected areas . In temperate climatic zones , the fly passes the winter months by a combination of adult hibernation and semicontinuous breeding . Animal manure , human feces , sewage , and garbage are favored breeding places of flies . Open garbage cans and dumps are , therefore , a menace to sanitation . Flies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tract , and on their leg hairs and feet . Since flies feed on feces , animal manure , and human filth , all of which may contain intestinal pathogens of human and animal origin , they are an important reservoir of microorganisms causing many foodborne illnesses ; among these are the salmonelloses , typhoid and paratyphoid fevers , and dysenteries . Flies are attracted to many foods . Carbohydrates are needed as well as proteins , the latter being required for production of eggs . Flies are constantly moving about , taking nourishment here and there . Since they are attracted to feces as well as to food , they are a menace to food sanitation : as the fly feeds on the materials on which it alights , it periodically regurgitates liquid from the crop . ' Phis liquid may contain pathogens picked up from fecal material on which the animal fed previously . Therefore , it is extremely important that the food supply be protected from flies at all times . COCKROACHES Cockroaches are one of the most common and troublesome pests in food establishments . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Oriental being the most frequent ones . Cockroaches are nocturnal in habit and scurry away to hide when disturbed . They may leave a musty odor on objects on which they  | rest for a while ; another sign of their presence is a stain which they leave with their rather liquid feces . When dry , droppings resemble mouse pellets , but they are distinguished by lengthwise ridges . Cockroaches are able to contaminate more food than they are able to eat . They are particularly fond of starchy foods , cheese , and beer ; but they will also feed on dead animals , leather , wallpaper , and the like . They contaminate food , equipment , and utensils by carrying ' filthy material that may contain pathogens on their legs and bodies . Also , while feeding on food , cockroaches may regurgitate filthy material previously eaten which may be laden with bacteria capable of causing foodborne illnesses . ANTS AND SILVERFISH Ants are frequent pests in some food establishments , including camps . Ants may carry disease organisms around and thus may contaminate the food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pupae , and adults . Silverfish are related to the centipedes . They like warmth and are often found to infest warm places , such as in the neighborhood of bakery ovens where they feed on crumbs . Silverfish like starchy foods . In summary , foods must be protected from insects at all times . To achieve this , basic sanitation must be constantly applied because it deprives the insects of food and shelter . For chemical control , the services of professional exterminators should be sought . However , only permanent methods such as pestproofing and sanitation can achieve long-time control ( Johnson , 1960 ) . Environment Sewage COMPOSITION Sewage consists of fecal matter of human origin , much diluted with water , and other wastes such as laundry water , bathwater , and residues resulting from comminuted household garbage , mostly vegetable matter and similar wastes . Sewage is approximately 99% water and has pH near neutral . FLORA The flora of sewage includes aerobes , strict anaerobes , and facultative anaerobes . The bacteria include forms that stem from soil and the intestinal tract of humans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Salmonella , Shigella , micrococci ,  | Pseudomonadaceae , and Lactobacillaceae . Also present may be viruses , yeasts , molds , algalike forms , and slime-forming organisms often called " sewage fungi . " These organisms aid in one way or another to decompose the organic matter in sewage . Sewage is thus a potential source of human pathogens , especially those of intestinal origin . Sewage plays a most important role in the contamination of water and food . CONTAMINATION OF WATER AND FOOD The chances for contamination are manifold . Excellent opportunity is afforded when sewage is used to fertilize fields in which vegetable crops are raised . In this country , the use of raw sewage for the purpose of fertilization of truck crops is not practiced . When sewage is allowed to flow into rivers , lakes , and seas , it contributes its flora , including pathogens , to the fish , shellfish , and other potential foods native to these waters . Sewage also creates a nuisance : when raw domestic sewage is not properly treated by oxidation and is allowed to flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and streams , the microorganisms furnished by the raw sewage soon deplete these waters of oxygen and other hydrogen acceptors . In consequence , anaerobic processes develop , creating foul-smelling products and making conditions for natural biologic life of these waters very unfavorable . A most undesirable situation is thus created . Besides these waters not being usable for drinking or recreational purposes , they have spoiled much of the surrounding areas because of their distasteful odor . Drinking water may become contaminated with sewage in various ways . In some rural and suburban areas the water supply is not as strictly and permanently controlled as in most cities . Also , in dwellings that have their own water source as well as sewage disposal tanks , cross-connection sometimes occurs . TREATMENT In most communities , raw sewage is rendered safer by these steps : ( 1 ) collection in septic tanks or central sewage disposal plants ; ( 2 ) separation of the organic materials by gravity as the sewage is held for several hours ; ( 3 ) digestion of the sludge through mostly anaerobic microorganisms ; ( 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a fertilizer ; ( 5 ) treating the supernatant fluid part by aeration and oxidation with the aid of aerobic bacteria ; ( 6 ) filtering the residual oxidized fluid ; and ( 7 ) , as a possible final step , chlorina- tion of the fluid . The major steps in sewage treatment have been illustrated by Pelczar and Reid ( 1965 ) . Control measures should be directed at preventing the contact of sewage with food and water . Perfectly pure and wholesome food and water may be recontaminated on the premises of a food service establishment through faulty plumbing and leaky sewer connections . Soil The soil abounds with microorganisms , abundant in kind as well as in number . The microorganisms from soil affect the microbial flora of air , water , plants , and animals . In turn , soil may become contaminated by sewage and manure . All microorganisms of importance in connection with foodborne illness may come from soil . Of bacteria causing foodborne illnesses , Clostridium botulinum and perfringens are natural inhabitants of soil and may survive there for very long periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparation and storage in many ways : with the food and its wrappings , on the employees ' shoes , and in the air . Most " dust " is actually soil . Water In the United States sanitation of drinking water is well controlled , in general , by agencies concerned with public health . In fact , the present generation must find it rather difficult to visualize the seriousness of a situation when a public water supply becomes contaminated . Waterborne outbreaks of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers have almost disappeared from the records . FLORA Water found in nature is seldom sterile . Water coming down as rain or snow picks up contaminants from the air , and as it contacts the ground picks up contaminants from the soil and other surfaces . Thus , surface waters of streams , lakes , and seas contain these microorganisms also . As water penetrates the ground the soil has a filtering effect , and many of the contaminants which move downward with the water are removed . The deeper the water goes , the cleaner it becomes , although seldom is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters usually contain more organic matter than deep waters and thus support microbial life better . Near cities , surface  | waters are frequently contaminated with sewage , and in the country with sewage as well as manure . Most microorganisms including the pathogens do not multiply profusely in pure water . They may sustain life for a while there , then die . Spores , however , may survive for months or years in water . Although natural waters have a capacity to assimilate as well as transport waste , increase in wastes from the population and industrial plants is making it increasingly important that ways other than simple dilution be found to dispose of these wastes . The water of some streams and rivers is already now being used over several times , especially at periods of low flow . Man should not rely upon self-purification of streams for pure supply of water . The popular belief that streams clarify themselves within a distance of 20 miles from the source of pollution has numerous loopholes . Purification is strongly affected by rate of flow ; in fast-flowing streams the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient than in slow-flowing ones . In ponds and reservoirs , water becomes purified by sedimentation . It has been stated that up to 90% of the bacteria can be removed in this manner . Although industrial wastes seriously reduce the quality of our water supply , the main source of pollution of public health significance is sewage . Fecal coliforms , fecal staphylococci , enterococci , salmonellae , and clostridia are even discharged from healthy persons , and , of course , from carriers , and are transferred with sewage into the water . As was pointed out above , persons who suffer from acute cases of intestinal diseases contribute tremendous numbers of virulent pathogens into sewage . Serious and widespread epidemics of communicable diseases have resulted from fouled water supplies . Today , waterborne epidemics of typhoid and dysentery are rare in the United States but are still found in other parts of the world . Pathogenic bacteria and viruses do not multiply in water . To be a hazard , a water supply must be either freshly contaminated or possess a continuous source of contaminants . TREATMENT To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sewage be strictly controlled . Improper disposal of sewage is , in particular , a menace to private water supply systems which may escape the constant scrutiny to which the public water supply is subjected . The treatment of sewage was discussed above . In the United States the water supply is generally of excellent quality , thanks to strict sanitary supervision and treatment .  | Requirements for a public water supply are listed by Weiser ( 1962 ) as the following : ( 1 ) that it shall contain no organisms which cause disease ( 2 ) that it be sparkling clear and colorless ( 3 ) that it be good tasting , free from odors and preferably cool ( 4 ) that it be neither scale-forming nor corrosive ( 5 ) that it be reasonably soft ( 6 ) that it be free from objectionable gas , such as hydrogen sulfide , and objectionable minerals , such as iron and manganese ( 7 ) that it be plentiful and low in cost . The test for freedom from pathogens is the presumptive test for coliform bacteria which comprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former is an intestinal organism , the latter is found more frequently in soils and on plant surfaces . In the test for presence of these indicators , dilutions of the water are cultured in fermentation tubes of lactose broth at a temperature of 98.6 ? F. If acid and gas are produced , it is assumed that coliforms are present , and more detailed tests are performed . Almost all our drinking water undergoes treatment before it is released to the public . Although water may purify itself under certain conditions , this purification is rather inefficient and can not be relied on for a supply of safe water . In the United States , aeration , coagulation , filtration , and chemical treatment are used . Aeration helps to purify the water from dissolved gases and to oxidize iron as well as organic material ; coagulation is induced by the addition of coagulants such as aluminum sulfate resulting in precipitation of organic material and bacteria , and settling and subsequent removal of the larger clumps . The process of filtration removes approximately 99% of the bacteria and other microorganisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rapid sand filter are two types of filters used in this procedure . The slow filter has an approximate yield of 3 million gallons of filtered water per acre per day . The fast yields approximately 130 million gallons per acre per day . The chemical treatments serve to adjust the hardness of the water and to control the bacterial population . Chlorine has characteristics which make it desirable as a chemical agent in the treatment of water ; it is highly bactericidal and not expensive . Viruses and the protozoa Entamoeba histolytica resist chlorination . Failure to chlorinate water recently led to a serious and extensive outbreak of gastroenteritis caused by Salmonella typhimurium in  | Riverside , California ( Morbidity and Mortality , 1965 ) . The community water supply consisted of deep wells inside and outside the city . The water had always been pure and had never been chlorinated . Regular testing for the presence of Escherichia coli did not reveal high counts , even during the time of the Salmonella outbreak . Water used in the processing and preparation of food should be of drinking quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a cleaning agent for ingredients and equipment . Water must , therefore , be free from pathogens . When a food establishment does not receive a piped-in supply of pure water , it may have to transport water from an approved outside supply in approved containers . In an emergency , boiling may be used to destroy pathogens present in water . Certain chemicals of bactericidal effect may be used for small quantities of water , if the directions are followed meticulously . Treatment of large amounts is to be entrusted to a trained person . Ice manufactured from contaminated water , and ice manufactured , stored , or shipped under unsanitary conditions , may contaminate food and drink in which it is used . Air Air does not contain a natural flora of microorganisms , but dust particles or moisture droplets present in air may pick up microorganisms . Therefore , air may serve as a reservoir of contaminants . If forced air is used on foods , contamination of food from air is greater than in still air . The kinds and numbers of microorganisms present in air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this book . The numbers and kinds of microorganisms depend on many factors , among them location and season . Rain and snow remove organisms from the air . On mountain tops the air is generally low in microbial counts . AIR IN FOOD PREPARATION AREA The kinds of microorganisms found in the air in a given area depend on many factors . Droplets of moisture from persons talking , coughing , and sneezing may contribute microorganisms to the air . Soil clinging to shoes and other clothing and soil adhering to materials brought into a room are examples of the sources of microorganisms that may be transmitted through air . Diseases which are typically transmitted through air are the common cold and some other respiratory illnesses spread by droplets discharged by the affected person .  | It is known that bacteria may be spread through coughs and sneezes to considerable distances , up to 15 feet . The number of microorganisms present in a given air space depends on many factors , among them presence of dust and droplets of moisture and air movement brought about by ventilation breezes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be diluted by simply opening a window and letting in fresh air . However , admitting dusty air would not achieve much or may make matters worse . Air conditioning can be used to control the bacteriological quality of air in a food service establishment . Removal of microorganisms from air can be achieved by methods such as filtration , heat , electrostatic precipitation , and treatment by chemicals . Filtration involves the passing of air through filters , such as asbestos , activated carbon , fiber glass , and cotton . Chemicals used for reducing the microbial load of air include di- or triethylene glycol , propylene glycol , formaldehyde , o-p-benzyl phenols , and hypochlorites . Ultraviolet rays are also used to reduce the bacterial load of air . Rays of wavelengths 136 ? 3900 angstroms are germicidal , those between 2500 and 2800 being particularly effective . Each kind of microorganism has a specific resistance to these rays . It may take several times as much exposure to kill vegetative cells of one kind of bacteria as of another . Spores are more resistant to the killing effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in food service but are employed to some extent in the food-processing industry . Examples of successful uses are listed by Frazier ( 1958 ) as : treatment of water for beverages ; aging of meat ; treatment of knives for slicing bread ; treatment of bread and cakes ; sanitizing of eating utensils ; storage and packaging of cheese ; and treatment of air for or in storage and processing rooms .  | RESERVOIRS OF MICROORGANISMS CAUSING FOODBORNE GASTROENTERIC OUTBREAKS : FOOD SUPPLY PART I. FOOD SUPPLY OF ANIMAL ORIGIN Included in this group are milk and other dairy products , meats , poultry , eggs , fish , and shellfish . Milk and Other Dairy Products Fluid Milk and Cream These foods are highly perishable , yet in United States milk and cream are seldom associated with foodborne illnesses under the present conditions of milk production . The market milk produced in this country is , generally , of excellent quality . This is due to elimination of disease from dairy herds , sanitary milk production , pasteurization , and care in transportation and delivery to the consumer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CONTAMINANTS At the time milk leaves the udder of the healthy cow it contains few bacteria ; these stem from milk ducts and cistern . During the milking process bacteria are usually added from various sources . In hand milking the sources are air , the hair of the animal , manure , the milker , equipment such as pails , flies , feed , and many others . When milking is performed by machine , most of these environmental factors are of less importance . However , the milking equipment may serve as an important source of contamination if it is not  | carefully cleaned and sanitized . Water has been known to have been a source of contamination of milk , and so has the person handling the cows , the milking equipment , or the milk . Among the contaminants which come from the intestinal origin of the cow are the salmonellae and the fecal streptococci ( enterococci ) . Staphylococci may be contributed from the udder , skin , and respiratory tract . Contaminants known to have come from the handler include many forms , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including representatives of Salmonella . The contaminants originating from flies and barn dust are varied . Among the contaminants from equipment are staphylococci , micrococci , and other heat-resistant organisms which tend to build up on dairy equipment ( Sharpe et al. , 1962 ) . When milk cows suffer from certain diseases , microorganisms injurious to public health may be released into the milk . Mastitis is a common disorder of the udder . Microorganisms associated with this disease include S. aureus , micrococci , and streptococci . After the milk has been drawn it is rapidly cooled to below 50 ? F to prevent contaminants from multiplying . Further processing is given the milk at the creamery . PASTEURIZATION To eliminate pathogens from milk and cream , the process of pasteurization is applied . This involves application of heat below the boiling point , since the physical and culinary quality of these important foods must be kept intact . Pasteurization procedures have been devised to eliminate , before all , important pathogens and at the same time to kill the majority of other microorganisms in the raw milk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an extended period of time or at a higher temperature for a brief period . The slow , or holding , treatment is a process of heating every particle of milk , or milk products , to at least 145 ? F , * and holding at such temperature continuously for at least 30 minutes . The short-time high-temperature , or flash , method , requires that the product be heated to at least 161 ? F and held at that temperature continuously for at least 15 seconds . Nowadays , a terminal temperature of 170 ? F is commonly used . Approved  | and properly operated equipment is required for both methods . After heating , the products are quickly cooled to 50 ? F or lower . Some important pathogens which should be destroyed by pasteurization include Mycobacterium tuberculosis causing tuberculosis ; Brucella species causing brucellosis ; and Streptococcus species and Micrococcus pyogenes , which are involved in causing chronic mastitis , as well as other organisms associated with acute mastitis including Staphylococcus aureus , Clostridium perfringens , and Streptococcus pyogenes . Pasteurization also kills yeasts , molds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , pasteurized milk should keep well under refrigeration and usually does . The number of bacteria remaining in pasteurized milk varies mostly with the number of heat-resistant bacteria present . The percentage of survivors varies from 1 to 10% . The kinds of bacteria likely to survive are the " thermodurics " which include spore formers , lactobacilli , S. thermophilus , and S. faecalis , micrococci , heatresistant strains of Escherichia coli , and a variety of thermophilic bacteria . The presence of thermophiles , heat-loving forms whose optimum growth temperatures are above 113 ? F , reflects poor sanitation in the processing plant . However , some thermophiles are difficult to eliminate ; some forms are even capable of multiplication at the temperatures applied in the holding method of pasteurization . In the properly pasteurized product , the heat-resistant survivors do not exceed small numbers . Cream for butter-making and ice cream mixes is given a more severe heat treatment than milk , and cream to be used as coffee cream , whipped cream , and the like . Cream is more protective to microorganisms than milk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foltz et al . ( 1960 ) studied the incidence of potentially pathogenic staphylococci in fluid milk and other fluid dairy products such as coffee cream , whipping cream , half and half , buttermilk , and chocolate milk for retail outlets throughout Kansas . Potentially virulent coagulase-positive strains of staphylococci were isolated from 3.4% of the samples ( Table 15 ) . A test for presence of toxins was not made . The authors suggest that dairy plant workers might have been the reservoir of the contaminants . It should be remembered that the pasteurized product devoid of its natural flora is a more agreeable medium to S. aureus than the raw product because of the antagonistic effects which the natural flora exerts . An interesting example of antagonistic contaminants interfering with growth of S. aureus was given by Post et al . ( 1961 ) ,  | who studied growth of this organism in cream and cream products . The authors sought an explanation for the fact that although these potentially perishable products were carried for hours in warm trucks in Southern California , they were not known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endeavored to prevent the dissemination of pathogens through milk and to make safety of the milk supply a prime consideration ( Smith , 1961 ) . The health of dairy herds is generally good and elimination of pathogens by pasteurization is compulsory in most localities . Efforts are made to prevent contamination of pasteurized milk from the human reservoir by eliminating as far as possible direct contact between the employee of the dairy plant and the pasteurized product , to control flies and rodents , to maintain the equipment in sanitary condition , and to keep sanitary standards high at all times . In spite of precautions and generally high standards of sanitation found in the United States , some outbreaks of foodborne gastroenteritis are occasionally caused by milk and other dairy products . The incidence is very low . Causative organisms have included Staphylococcus aureus , salmonellae , enterococci , and Clostridium perfringens . ANTIBIOTICS AND RADIONUCLIDES Contamination of milk with antibiotics may occur when milk cows are treated for an udder disease such as mastitis . In 1954 the Food and Drug Administration initiated surveys to determine the level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these surveys have shown the importance of this problem , especially in regard to penicillin . Penicillin is not only the antibiotic most widely used , it is also one to which man can build up an allergy . As a consequence of these surveys , dairy farmers have been alerted to the problems and warned to discard milk produced within 72 hours following treatment with antibiotics . Also , testing methods for the presence of antibiotics are constantly improved . Milk is easily contaminated with radionuclides from atomic fallout ( Campbell et al. , 1961 ) . Methods are under investigation for the elimination of radionuclides from milk ( Murthy et al. , 1961 ) . STORAGE Properly pasteurized milk which has not been recontaminated and is held at appropriate temperatures will not readily spoil and will keep up to two weeks or more . A bacteriological problem in the storage  | of pasteurized milk is caused by the psychrotropic and psychrophilic forms ( Thomas and Druce , 1963 ) ; the coliforms are also known to cause spoilage of cold-stored milk . In general , the dairy industry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high degree of efficacy , and quality standards have been furthered on local , state , and federal levels . At the local level , the county or municipality entrusts the health departments with this responsibility . On the state level , the departments of health or agriculture are entrusted . On interstate carriers , the supervision of the milk supply is under the U. S. Public Health Service Ordinance and Code published in 1924 , amplified in 1927 , and constantly revised to keep up with current developments . The code has been adopted widely by cities and counties and serves as a guide for the milk laws of many states . The code is concerned with all the aspects of safe production , processing , transporting , and handling of milk . Evaporated Milk This canned product is prepared from milk which conforms to established high standards . Before condensing , the milk is pasteurized usually at temperatures near boiling for a short time . The milk is then subjected to evaporation , homogenization , and cooling processes , and is eventually canned at temperatures designed to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bacteriological defects of evaporated milk occur occasionally , the main reason being leaky cans . A variety of contaminants may enter a leaky can and quickly spoil the contents ; if the entering contaminants are pathogens , the consequences may be serious . Another reason for spoilage is insufficient heat treatment during the canning process , thermophilic and thermoduric organisms being associated with these defects . Sometimes underprocessed milk has a coagulated appearance , several spore formers being associated such as Bacillus subtilis , B. coagulans , and B. cereus . If leaky and bulging cans are discarded , the storage time is brief , and opened cans are kept under sanitary conditions and refrigerated , no trouble should result from evaporated milk . Condensed Milk If sugar is added to evaporated milk , which is usually done at the end of the condensing process , and the mixture is cooled , condensed milk results . The average amount of sugar in the finished product is 40 ? 45% ; sucrose or a combination of sucrose with some dextrose is  | used . Packaging is done in hermetically sealed cans using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is applied . Bacteriological defects depend a great deal on plant sanitation . In spite of extensive precautions , microorganisms such as yeasts , molds , micrococci , coliforms , and spore-forming aerobes can become contaminants of condensed milk . The yeasts which are quite tolerant of sugar may cause gas which leads to bursting of the cans ' seams . No organisms of public health significance are associated with these bacteriological defects . Dried Milk MANUFACTURE Whole milk and skim milk are dried , the latter being of greater importance in quantity food service . Other milk products which are dried include cream , buttermilk , whey , malted milk , and ice cream mixes ( Coulter et al. , 1951 ) . To prepare dried skim milk ( nonfat milk solids , or NFMS ) either the spray or the roller process can be used . In connection with the bacteriological quality of the powders , the temperatures used in the drying process are of interest . The clarified homogenized liquid is preheated , the terminal temperatures ranging from 145 to 200 ? F ; the length of exposure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this treatment . The temperatures during the drying process vary with the method . In the spray process the milk is briefly subjected to dry air at temperatures ranging from 250 to 400 ? F. In the roller process , without vacuum , temperatures up to 270 ? F are employed for a short period of time ; under vacuum , lower temperatures up to 170 ? F can be used . During the concentration of the milk to a high solid content , surviving thermodurics , especially the streptococci , may multiply if the temperature remains at 100 ? 120 ? F for a sufficiently long time . This has been found to occur in exceptional cases . CONTAMINANTS Among the factors affecting the bacterial flora of the finished powder are : kind and number of bacteria originally present in the raw milk ; plant sanitation ; preheating temperatures ; and the drying process used . It is difficult for a plant practicing poor sanitation to obtain a low-count powder , because of heat-resistant bacteria which build up in the plant . The flora of dried milk may include : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dairy supplies and equipment ; ( 2 )  | thermoduric streptococci , mainly strains of S. thermophilus , faecalis , bovis , faecalis var. liquefaciens , and durans , proliferation of which is favored by sanitary conditions in the plant ; ( 3 ) thermoduric species of Corynebacteria which stem from the milk ; ( 4 ) bacterial spores , mostly the aerobic kinds such as Bacillus subtilis ; and ( 5 ) miscellaneous contaminants , among which Escherichia coli is the most important , since it indicates poor sanitation , and contaminants from the human reservoir ? the employee in the processing plant . Laboratory studies on milk powders have shown that although drying destroys the majority of organisms , some nonthermoduric types survive unless very high heat is used . Thus , drying can not be relied upon to destroy all bacteria under all conditions . Recontamination of the finished product is also possible . These facts are important to remember when dried milk is reconstituted because it is at that time that moisture will be restored and the powder again becomes a highly perishable item . McDivitt et @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of nonfat dry milk in two plants . Similar equipment was used in these plants , but modifications in processing procedures were possible in that the operation varied regarding temperatures used and regarding the coordination of the steps used in processing . The raw milk supply varied in quality and volume . The main difference in the plants was the handling of the concentrated product previous to the actual drying . The results from analyses made at different stages of processing led the authors to the conclusion that efficient equipment and well-controlled practices are prerequisites to a safe quality product , and that low bacterial counts of a milk powder could be misleading as a sole indicator of safety . It might be appropriate to mention at this point that dangers from toxins exist when staphylococci are allowed to build up to high numbers before the milk is subjected to the drying process . Since heat-stable toxins will resist inactivation by heat , the dried product may contain these toxins . This has been dramatically demonstrated by a series of food-poisoning outbreaks in Puerto Rico in 1956 ( Armijo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported in the United States . Sixteen schools were involved ; 775 of 4094 children became violently ill but recovered within 24 hours . Through the cooperation of human volunteers the toxic batches were identified and were traced to certain manufacturing plants ( in the continental U.S. ) where sanitary standards were found to be low . The bacterial population of milk powder declines gradually during storage , but spores will survive for long periods of time . In general ,  | dried milk has an excellent record for freedom from pathogenic bacteria . RECONSTITUTED MILK When powder has been reconstituted with water and become a fluid , it has all the prerequisites of a highly perishable food item and must be handled accordingly . Milk reconstituted from powder will contain the bacterial population of the powder plus the contaminants added by handling . In general , good quality powder reconstituted with potable water , using clean equipment , by a food handler employing high standards of hygiene , should be a satisfactory product . Reconstituted milk should be kept under refrigeration unless used immediately following reconstitution . It is important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this item . Ice Cream Ice cream mixes are given more rigorous heat treatments than those used for milk . Pasteurization temperatures are 155 ? F for 30 minutes or 175 ? F for 25 seconds . With a well-controlled sanitation program , counts should be low . The types of organisms that have been found in ice cream are of a wide variety , and include streptococci , micrococci , spore formers , coliforms , and Pseudomonas . Other sources of these contaminants can be cream and other milk derivatives . Sugar , stabilizers , flavoring , and coloring are unimportant sources . One important reservoir of contaminants is the employee in the ice cream plant since he may contribute bacteria of public health significance . The list of pathogens which have been isolated from ice cream includes salmonellae and staphylococci . Mycobacterium and Brucella have been recovered occasionally . These pathogenic contaminants have been seen to survive for considerable periods of time . Control measures include the use of high quality supplies , excellent sanitation during preparation of the product , and protection from recontamination . High sanitary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrusted with food protection are powerful tools in making ice cream produced in the United States the safe and delightful dessert it is . Butter In general , the conditions prevailing in butter are not conducive to bacterial growth , although molds may grow on butter . The  | moisture content of butter is low and is restricted to droplets . Since most butter is salted , the water present in butter is apt to be of high salt concentration . Survival of bacteria has been observed occasionally in butter , however . The organisms studied varied regarding length of survival time from a few weeks to several months . The source of contaminants is usually the cream . Staphylococcus aureus and salmonellae have been found to survive in butter , but in practice butter has never been indicated in food poisoning outbreaks . Cheese There are many different kinds of cheeses and the reader is referred to books on dairy microbiology for information on the bacterial flora of cheeses . Bacteria of importance to public health have been found in cheese ; and cheeses have occasionally been indicted in outbreaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pasteurized milk have been two of the reasons for the presence of pathogens in cheese . Another cause has been direct contamination of the finished product . Because of the long holding periods which many cheeses undergo and because of wide shipping distances , the original source of the pathogens is usually difficult to determine . Among the contaminants of public health significance reported are coagulase-positive staphylococci . Donnelly et al . ( 1962 ) investigated the occurrence of these organisms in cheddar cheese . Samples from several lots of cheese incriminated in foodborne gastroenteritis , and 343 samples of cheese procured over a period of 3 years in retail markets , were analyzed for the presence of these bacteria . Of the 13 food-poisoning samples , 11 contained coagulase-positive staphylococci ; the contamination ranged from low to very high . The market cheeses labeled " pasteurized " were contaminated 20% of the time , some bacteria being capable of causing food poisoning . Of the cheeses which were not labeled " pasteurized , " a similar percentage was contaminated with Staphylococcus aureus . The incidence of potentially pathogenic staphylococci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1961 ) . Thatcher et al . ( 1956 ) , studying the incidence of coagulase-positive staphylococci in cheeses in Canada , obtained such organisms from 45% of 106 samples of cheese made with unpasteurized milk , and from 13% of 83 samples labeled as processed from pasteurized milk . The presence of these contaminants in the cheeses made from  | unpasteurized milk is not surprising in view of the fact that Staphylococcus aureus is among the causative organisms of mastitis so prevalent in milk cows . But their presence in the cheeses made from pasteurized milk is baffling , since the organisms should be eliminated in common pasteurization treatment . Insufficient pasteurization may be one explanation , and recontamination from various sources may be another . Laboratory studies by Takahashi and Johns ( 1959 ) showed that S. aureus grew poorly in cheddar cheese during the cheese-making process , most of the cells being concentrated in the curd . Survival of pathogens in cheese may last for a long time ( Nevot et al. , 1963 ) . Survival of Salmonella typhosa in cheese has been shown to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by refrigerator temperatures . This organism , as well as Mycobacterium tuberculosis and S. aureus , may remain viable in cheddar cheese for several months . Either pasteurization or curing may be prescribed by law . For example , in the state of New York the following regulation is in effect : No person manufacturing cheese or cheese curd or handling cheese or cheese curd as a wholesaler , assembler or broker in the state of New York and no person obtaining cheese from outside the state shall release any cheese or cheese curd to the retail trade or to consumers unless such cheese or cheese curd has been pasteurized or has been made from whole milk , skim milk , or cream which has been pasteurized in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner after inquiry and public hearing ; except that cheese cured for sixty days or longer after manufacture may be made from unpasteurized milk . State of New York , Department of Agriculture and Markets , ? 67b Meat and Meat Products Animals on farms are , as a rule , healthier than when crowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to markets and in the pens . Cross infection may take place from diseased animals or carriers to the healthy specimens during this period . By direct contact or through manure the bacteria become disseminated . For example , fecal specimens taken from animals at the farm showed that a small percentage of the animals harbored salmonellae . Specimens taken from animals penned at the packing plant indicated that the incidence had increased tenfold . Infection of meat animals prior to slaughter may even cause certain bacteria to penetrate into the muscle fiber although the tissues of normal and healthy meat animals do not harbor them . This may be true for salmonellae , streptococci , Brucella , and Mycobacterium tuberculosis .  | Thanks to a very effective inspection service in the United States , diseased animals are excluded from processing for human consumption ; 83% of the meat animals slaughtered commercially are government inspected . The flesh of healthy living meat animals is practically sterile . Microorganisms have been isolated occasionally from flesh and more readily from lymph nodes and bone marrow ( Lepovetsky et al. , 1953 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other mucose tissues lose resistance to bacterial penetration ; intestinal bacteria are known to have contaminated sterile tissues by this way of penetration . The main and massive contamination of meats occurs , however , after the animal carcass has been opened . The sources of the contaminants of public health significance are the animal itself , the handler , the abattoir , and the surroundings . The following factors are known to affect the chance for , and degree of , contamination of the carcass : ( 1 ) Bacterial flora of the animal , including the bacterial load in the gut ( 2 ) State of fatigue and excitement ( 3 ) Method of slaughter and degree of bleeding ( 4 ) Injury during dehairing ( 5 ) Rate of cooling the carcass ( 6 ) Degree of sanitation in operations during killing and opening of carcass , contact of meat with fecal matter , hide , hoofs , hair ; sanitation of knives ; sanitation of scalding and skinning operations ( 7 ) Sanitation in operations during cutting of meat , possible contacts with diseased meats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant as a whole ; freedom from rodents and insects ; effectiveness of cleaning operations ( 9 ) Health , working habits , and personal hygiene of workers ( 10 ) Competency of supervision . The bacterial flora of the animal gut may affect the flora of the meat in that when the animal is killed and the intestinal walls lose their resistance , the pathogens may penetrate the walls and may be subsequently carried around through blood and lymph vessels and connective tissue interspaces . The excited or fatigued condition of the animal prevents the pH of the tissues to go down as it should ; the glycogen being used up in fatigue . With a smaller  | glycogen reserve , less lactic acid is produced in the tissues . Normally the pH would fall from near neutral to approximately pH 5.7 . Failure of drop in pH will also result when incomplete bleeding is practiced . Injury during dehairing may carry microorganisms into the flesh of the animal . The hide of the animal is apt to be contaminated with many species of bacteria , among them Staphylococcus aureus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rate of cooling the carcass has an effect also . When the animal is cooled rapidly the rate at which the microorganisms invade the tissue is reduced . The effect of sanitary operations during the entire process is so obvious that a detailed discussion would seem unnecessary , if it were not for the fact that surveys of bacterial contamination of market meat have shown a great need of improvement of sanitation in the packing plants , involving every step of the operation . CONTAMINANTS Although the organisms causing foodborne disease are of greatest interest here , it should be pointed out that there are many kinds of microorganisms found on meat . These include molds , yeasts , and bacteria of the genera Achromobacter , Clostridium , Escherichia , Flavobacterium , Pseudomonas , Micrococcus , Salmonella , Sarcina , Staphylococcus , Streptococcus , Lactobacillus , Streptomyces , Leuconostoc , and Proteus . The contaminants which are potential hazards in connection with foodborne gastroenteric episodes are of greatest concern to those entrusted with quantity food production and service . Many studies have been made of total counts of bacteria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large supermarkets and small neighborhood stores . In general , the smaller the stores , the higher the counts . Meat that has been federally inspected and passed tends to have lower counts than non-inspected meats . Very high counts are invariably found in hamburger . Even if " scraps , " a rich source of contaminants , are excluded and pure meat is ground , the large surface and available air in ground meats favor bacterial growth . Total bacterial counts reported in the literature vary so much that no attempt is made here to present the voluminous literature on the subject . Bacterial counts of meats other than ground meats may vary from 100 per gram to 1 million per gram and of ground meat up to 100 million per gram . High total counts do not prove the presence of pathogens , but they indicate that the meat was either  | of poor sanitary quality to begin with or has been exposed to conditions favoring bacterial proliferation . STAPHYLOCOCCUS AUREUS The incidence of this organism in market meats has been studied by Jay ( 1961a , b ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are commonly cooked to uncertain and varying degrees of doneness such as hamburger , beef steaks , and liver . The investigations were concerned with the number of coagulase-positive S. aureus in various meat cuts . The meat markets were located in the Baton Rouge , Louisiana area . Twenty-eight stores and markets , representing 10% of all such stores in that area , were sampled . Of these 28 outlets , 16 yielded coagulase-positive strains of S. aureus in hamburger , 11 on round steak , 15 on beef liver , and 14 on pork chops . Prepackaged meat obtained from large chain stores contained relatively fewer coagulase-positive organisms ; the author suggests that this may be due to several reasons which could involve the prepackaging per se as well as the fact that the chain stores kept available fresher meats . The same author , surveying retail grocery stores and markets , found that 38.7% of 174 samples obtained from 27 stores yielded coagulase-positive S. aureus . The meats from which this contaminant was recovered most frequently were , in order of frequency : chicken , pork , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hamburger , beef liver , pork chops , veal steak , and lamb chops . Contamination of the meat from human sources is a great problem in meat-packing plants and retail stores , and so is the reverse situation : contamination of humans with staphylococci originating from the animal source . A very interesting study by Ravenholt et al . ( 1961 ) , involving meat workers in the Seattle , Washington area , has pointed to the importance of this type of cross-contamination . SALMONELLAE The results of several studies have shed light on the incidence of Salmonella in market meats . In general , pork cuts and products made from pork have shown the highest incidence . According to Felsenfeld et al . ( 1950 ) , the incidence of Salmonella in uninspected pork was higher ( 27% ) than in inspected pork ( 14% ) . These figures are somewhat higher than recoveries reported elsewhere . Cherry et al . ( 1943 ) found an incidence of 6% and Wilson et al . ( 1961 ) reported 4% . However , some very high recovery rates were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh pork sausage ; these rates  | averaged from 8% in samples from national distributors to as high as 58% from local sources ( Table 16 ) . The same authors reported that up to 37% of fresh pork sausage sampled from retail markets in Florida was contaminated with Salmonella.  | Wilson et al . ( 1961 ) found that the types of pork products from which salmonellae were most frequently isolated were , besides sausage , the assorted cheap parts such as feet , tails , neckbones , chitterlings , and stomach ( Table 17 ) . Regarding salmonellae in beef cuts , Wilson et al . ( 1961 ) found incidences highest in ground beef . They observed little seasonal variation in the recovery of salmonellae , and in their samples , which were purchased from 96 retail markets in Cincinnati ; no difference seemed to exist regarding the incidence of salmonellae between meats supplied from local and regional meat processors . CLOSTRIDIUM PERFRINGENS ( WELCHII ) C. perfringens , an extremely ubiquitous organism , is a common contaminant of meat , especially so in Britain , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 1963 ) analyzed American foods for the presence of this organism in Wisconsin and included various meats in their study . Samples positive for this organism were found on most meats . Of 26 beef cuts 2 were contaminated ; of 23 pork cuts , 1 ; of 5 lamb cuts , 2 ; of 3 veal cuts , 0 ; of 28 spiced meats , 5 ; of 14 organ meats , 6 ; and of 9 ground meats , 4 . Canada and Strong ( 1964 ) reported that 26% of 100 bovine liver samples purchased from retail markets within the Madison , Wisconsin area were positive for C. perfringens Type A. An examination of liver and bile samples from newly slaughtered cattle revealed the presence of the organism in 12% of the livers , but in none of the bile samples .  | Hall and Angelotti ( 1965 ) studied the incidence of Clostridium perfringens in meats and meat products in the Cincinnati area and found that a high proportion ( 43.1% ) of raw and processed meats were contaminated with the organism ( see Table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the lowest ( 4.7% ) in processed sandwich meat and spreads . Of the 101 processed meats and meat products , 19.8% were contaminated with C. perfringens ( Tables 13 and 18 ) . They found that pork sausage and mettwurst were most frequently contaminated ( 47.6% ) and that contamination was infrequent in ham and bacon ( 11.1% ) . In general , in the meat items that require warming , or are usually lightly cooked , contamination was found to below . FECAL STREPTOCOCCI The fecal streptococci , or enterococci , are also common contaminants of meats . They are a special problem in pasteurized hams , and will therefore be discussed under " Heat-Processed Meats . " Heat-Processed Meats CANNED MEATS Included in this category are the canned products which have had rigorous heat treatment and are considered sterile for all intents and purposes , since pathogens are eliminated . This category contains the smaller hams . Today large hams are usually pasteurized to avoid overcooking . Canning of meat is difficult because of poor heat penetration . Temperatures and times sufficient to kill Clostridium botulinum  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some thermophilic organisms may escape death . Canned meats , like other canned goods , must be stored at cool temperatures . At temperatures over 113 ? F danger of deterioration from thermophilic bacteria arises . Frequent turnover and cool storage of canned meats is indicated in a food service operation . Canned meat shipped interstate must be inspected and passed by the Federal government . The packing and processing of canned meat has to be inspected for required sanitary standards . CURED AND SMOKED MEATS The curing process is applied to much pork and some beef . Although years ago the curing process was designed to preserve meats with salt , or salt and sugar , without refrigeration , this is no longer the process . At present , most cured meats are also smoked . The curing agents permitted include salt ( NaCl ) , sugar , vinegar , sodium nitrite , and sodium nitrate . The reader is referred to books on food preservation for detail information on curing . The curing brines are not devoid of halophilic contaminants , the micrococci being frequently among these . Staphylococcus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to survive curing of meats . Eddy and Ingram ( 1962 ) studied the occurrence and growth of staphylococci on bacon . These workers reported that Staphylococcus aureus could survive in curing brine , although only small numbers were found in " normal " or in vacuum-packed bacon . The organisms grew well on bacon stored anaerobically at 77 ? F. There was little growth below 50 ? F. Another organism of public health significance which is quite salt tolerant is Streptococcus faecalis . Resistance to both salt and heat enables this organism to be among the flora of cured and smoked meat products . At present , many cured meats are smoked and thus dried to some extent . In present-day methods of smoking , the heat treatment is light . The combined effects of curing , heating , and drying , as well as the action of chemicals from the smoke aid in preservation . Research results have shown that these treatments do not guarantee complete sterilization and that microorganisms capable of spoilage as well as pathogens may remain viable . This is also true for products which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sources of contaminants of public health significance have been shown to be the meat itself ; spices ; personnel ; and contaminated , poorly maintained processing equipment .  | Mildly cured and smoked meats and meat products must be kept under refrigeration at all times . PASTEURIZED HAMS Since these meats have received a mild heat treatment , they are not sterile . Large ( over 2 lb ) pieces , picnic hams , or regular hams , are frequently packaged in cans and so marketed . These hams are , unfortunately , sometimes treated like the canned and sterilized product and held at room temperature . This mishandling has caused serious trouble . Packaged cooked hams are identified by varying terminology . According to the USDA Manual of Meat Inspection Procedures ( 1965 ) , Use of the terms " Cooked , " " Fully Cooked , " " Thoroughly Cooked , " " Readyto-Eat , " or " Ready-to-Serve " on heated and smoked pork product is acceptable only when the processing results in the product exhibiting the usual characteristics of a fully cooked article , such as partial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tissues , and a cooked color , flavor , and texture throughout the product . This usually requires a minimum internal temperature of 148 ? F. Proposals for the use of these terms should be accompanied with the full description of the process and internal temperature attained when the marking material is submitted for approval . Packaged hams which are given a relatively light heat treatment are of interest in connection with possible survival of pathogens . Hams processed as nonsterile and labeled " perishable , keep under refrigeration " are known to contain spores and heat-resistant cocci . The fate of Staphylococcus aureus during the processing of hams was studied by Silliker et al . ( 1962 ) . Twenty-two of 53 strains of the organism were killed , in excess of 99% kill of cells , after a 10-minute exposure to 137 ? F. Thirty-one strains were more resistant and were destroyed after 1 hour exposure to 137 ? F. The bacterial flora of packaged perishable hams before and after heating to 150 ? F was studied by Brown et al . ( 1960 ) . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of meat was reduced to 451 per gram by the heat treatment given the hams . Survivors were cocci , bacilli , and clostridia . The heat-resistant cocci were able to multiply slowly at refrigerator temperatures . The authors also studied the heat resistance of some of the surviving cocci , comparing them with fecal streptococci , among them Streptococcus faecium and durans . One of the surviving cocci was comparable in resistance to the heat-resistant streptococci . Thermal death studies ( unpublished data ) were made by Angelotti et al . ( 1962 ) , who found that Streptococcus faecalis became inactivated  | when exposed to 150 ? F for 40 minutes , 155 ? F for 14 minutes , or 160 ? F for 5 minutes . It may therefore be concluded that , although Angelotti 's studies were not made on canned hams , the possibility of streptococcal survival is not precluded when hams are heated up to 150 ? F without additional holding at that temperature . There is no doubt that fecal streptococci are extremely important contaminants of pasteurized meat products . They are heat resistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pH under 5 , are salt tolerant , and are able to multiply at very low and very high temperatures . To check multiplication of survivors , canned hams that are labeled " keep under refrigeration " must be kept cold at all times . Frozen Meats Freezing is frequently used to safeguard the keeping quality of meat during transit . The freezing process may kill approximately one-half of the contaminants . Further decrease in bacterial numbers may be expected during subsequent freezer storage . Bacteria subjected to freezing in or on meat seem to be more resistant to salt and heat than cells not so treated . Frozen meat is not sterile . Precautions Boned meat and other products which have been handled a great deal have been shown to contain microorganisms capable of causing foodborne illness , such as Staphylococcus aureus , the salmonellae , and Clostridium perfringens . Particularly high Salmonella counts have been found in frozen comminuted or minced meat . The underlying reasons seem to be that , first , scraps and trimmings are often used in these products , and second , the process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and provides surfaces and oxygen . The quality of market meat is regulated under the Meat Inspection Act . This act applies only to meat shipped in interstate commerce . Many states have passed similar laws and at present approximately 80% of the meat consumed is federally inspected . Curing and smoking should conform with government meat inspection regulations and thus meet the requirements for the quality and safety of these products . Poultry and Poultry Products Poultry is very high on the list as an offender in food-poisoning outbreaks . There is general agreement among the authorities that  | poultry is an important reservoir of organisms causing foodborne disease , especially salmonellae . Poultry meat is ideally suited as a culture medium for bacteria , including those causing foodborne illnesses . It is rich in nitrogenous substances , carbohydrates , and other growth factors . It is high in moisture and the pH is favorable to bacterial multiplication . The pH of the white meat is somewhat lower than that of the dark . The skin of poultry abounds with bacteria . To the natural flora are added contaminants from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with bacteria from manure , especially when the poultry are kept in dusty and unsanitary quarters . Bruises in poultry are condemned by federal meat and poultry inspectors . A microbiological examination of poultry bruises conducted by McCarthy et al . ( 1963 ) revealed that 61 ? 74% of the tissues harbored aerobic as well as anaerobic bacteria . Age of bruise , sanitation of batteries , temperature , moisture , and severity of the bruise were all factors affecting the microbial content and the growth of the microbes in the bruises . Among the organisms recovered from experimentally inflicted bruises staphylococci were prominent . Approximately one-half of these were Staphylococcus aureus and epidermidis . It was shown that fecal matter and poultry feed were important sources of the predominant contaminants of the bruises . Hamdy et al . ( 1964 ) reported that the source of the staphylococci was often normal tissue , air sac , and skin ; also feed , gut , and droppings . They found that the extent of staphylococcal multiplication was related to the severity of the bruise . The intestinal tract of healthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species of Salmonella , Staphylococcus , and fecal streptococci with Clostridium perfringens being found in smaller numbers . Some members of the Salmonella group which are at home in the intestinal tract of poultry are capable of causing infections in man too , provided the number of cells ingested is sufficiently large . Processing of Fresh Poultry For a sizable poultry processing plant to operate efficiently a great number of live animals must be housed prior to killing and processing . This increases the likelihood of spreading pathogens such as salmonellae among them , unless great care is taken to exercise meticulous sanitation of the batteries . Government inspection is carried out by the Poultry Products Inspection Division , Agricultural Marketing Service , USDA to eliminate obviously sick birds , but carriers remain a problem .  | The steps in processing will be briefly discussed since they are important for an understanding of contamination of poultry meat . Step 1 : Killing and bleeding . The methods used affect quality and flavor of the meat . Step 2 : Plucking . Dry-plucking is more apt to leave the skin intact than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause decomposition . However , in this method pin feathers are apt to remain . The method used most frequently at present is a semiscald method which consists of immersion or spraying of the carcasses at 128 ? 132 ? F for 30 seconds . If the water is replenished frequently , it is not an important source of spreading contaminants . If precautions are taken to maintain the required temperatures , a mild pasteurization effect is achieved without adding microorganisms . Bacterial counts have been shown to average 250,000 cells per gram of skin and to be very low under the skin . Step 3 : Removal of pin feathers , if necessary . Final finishing requires human hands to pick out pin feathers . Rough picking will break the skin . Step 4 : Singeing is performed to remove fine feathers . Some bacteria may possibly be killed then and there . Step 5 : Washing is a very important step . This process serves to remove dirt , debris , and surface bacteria . Actual scrubbing is done with some machines . Scrubbing removes bacteria more efficiently than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived at the " New York dressed " state . They may now be treated in one of several ways : ( a ) sold as is ; or ( b ) frozen , then sold ; or ( c ) eviscerated at once ; or ( d ) frozen , then eviscerated at special plants . Step 6 : Evisceration . Birds may be eviscerated warm , an easy procedure ; or cooled before evisceration , either chilled on racks to get rid of animal heat ( this is a slow cooling process ) ; or chilled on slush ice ( this is a poor sanitary procedure whereby contacts can be made from contaminated to clean birds ) . Step 7 : Washing following evisceration . These washing operations , usually by spray , are very important since by now the intestinal tract has been handled and bacteria have been released . Step 8 : Inspection for blemishes . CONTAMINANTS Gunderson et al . ( 1954 ) have made a careful study of poultry flora during the processing operations from freshly killed warmeviscerated birds and found the average counts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed , chilled , iced , cold-eviscerated  | birds the average counts were 60,625 per square centimeter of skin and from frozen , defrosted , or cold-eviscerated birds , the average counts were 37,233 . The reason for the high counts was that the bacteria spread from heavily contaminated birds to clean ones . Total viable bacterial counts of birds arriving at evisceration line averaged over 26,000 per square centimeter of skin . The authors reported that the washing , and to a slight extent the singeing , resulted in marked reduction in bacterial numbers of all types on the skin and the cavity surfaces of the carcasses passing through evisceration . All other procedures , particularly those involving handling or damage to intestines , resulted in additions . A total of over 2000 cultures were studied . Numerous strains of Salmonella were isolated from the evisceration line and associated procedures ; other contaminants were Klebsiella , Vibrio , Alcaligenes , Proteus , and coliforms . Staphylococcus aureus was evidently contributed by the human source , since strains of this organism were isolated , at the end of the line , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the role of the plant worker and the equipment . It was demonstrated that the workers ' hands passed the contaminants from bird to bird . This was true in spite of the fact that they frequently rinsed hands in fresh running water , because there simply was no time available for a thorough washing with soap . Equipment was found to be contaminated with representatives of the intestinal flora of the chickens . Sadler et al . ( 1961 ) made a survey over 20 months , inspecting eight large processing plants in California . Random sampling was employed ; Salmonella was usually associated with diseased birds . Species of Salmonella were isolated from the intestinal tracts of infected birds on 43% of the sampling days for turkeys ; 19% for chicken fryers ; and 12% for hens . It was found that 22% of the chicken flocks sampled carried infected birds , 37% of the turkey flocks , 18% of the fryer flocks , and 3% of the chicken-hen flocks . In cases of the fryer chickens , the presence of Salmonella was usually associated with disease processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since they appeared healthy ; they were carriers . Felsenfeld et al . ( 1950 ) found that of 372 U.S. inspected and passed poultry and 748 uninspected specimens , 0.9% and 10.8% respectively , yielded Salmonella . Galton et al . ( 1955 ) found 2 ? 3% were positive for Salmonella . Wilson et al . ( 1961 ) found Salmonella in approximately one-sixth of 525 raw poultry specimens . These authors reported that poultry specimens taken in the Cincinnati area from locally processed plants  | had a Salmonella incidence twice as high as specimens from regional sources . The incidence from regional sources was 13% and from local sources 24% . The parts having the highest ratio of Salmonella-positive to total specimens were the so-called inexpensive cuts , the giblets and wings . The prevalence of salmonellae in the various poultry parts is shown in Table 19 . Tailyour and Avery ( 1960 ) reported on the result of a survey of turkey viscera for salmonellae which was conducted in British Columbia . One per cent of the birds processed over a 3-week period at one killing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than 1% were found to harbor Salmonella . Thatcher et al . ( 1961 ) , also in Canada , isolated salmonellae from 15% of chicken samples collected in the retail market . Coagulase-positive staphylococci were also present , but in low numbers . Most of the bacteria were found to lodge on the surfaces of the skin , the body cavity , and on cut surfaces of the flesh . Wilson et al . ( 1961 ) obtained turkey specimens from 77 households during the Thanksgiving ? Christmas holiday seasons of 1958 and 1959 . Portions of raw meat were removed from 90 turkeys ; 8% of these yielded salmonellae . Several workers have reported the presence of Clostridium perfringens from market poultry in the United States and Great Britain . Strong et al . ( 1963 ) analyzed a variety of foods available to the consumer . The highest recovery rate ( 16.4% ) was from meat , poultry , and fish . Hall and Angelotti ( 1965 ) reported that 58% of poultry samples collected from markets in the Cincinnati area were positive for C. perfringens.  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourage bacterial growth . The allowed level in the flesh is 7 ppm . To achieve this level , 10 ppm is added to the chilling water following evisceration . A patented term for this treatment is " acronization . " Thatcher and Loit ( 1961 ) found that the ratio of Salmonella strains recovered from retail chickens treated with CTC to untreated chickens was 1:14 . The effect of antibiotics varies with the strain of the organism . The bacteria may develop strains resistant to the antibiotics . Spoilage bacteria resistant to the antibiotic , especially Pseudomonas , may build up in great numbers in the processing plant and on the poultry . Therefore , the use of antibiotics has its serious limitations . Refrigerated Poultry When poultry is refrigerated , psychrophilic bacteria will gradually crowd out other bacteria . Nagel and Simpson ( 1960 ) determined the types of bacteria associated with the spoilage of chilled poultry . Cultures were isolated from chilled , cut-up fryers which had been allowed to remain chilled at 40 ? F for 7 days . One hundred and three cultures were isolated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next in line of frequency were Achromobacter and Alcaligenes . These psychrophilic bacteria are apt to outnumber others in prolonged cold storage . Walker and Ayres ( 1956 ) reported that storage of poultry at 4.4 ? C ( 39.2 ? F ) in polyethylene bags generally resulted in spoilage in 4 ? 6 days . The spoilage was associated with organisms with characteristics of the **25;184;TOOLONG group . Frozen Poultry Much poultry is merchandized in the frozen state because of the keeping quality of the frozen item . Frozen poultry is not sterile and may contain microorganisms capable of causing foodborne illnesses . The staphylococci and fecal streptococci especially are quite resistant to freezing and freezer storage , but even the salmonellae have been shown to survive freezing preservation for over a year . Frozen poultry , after it has become warmed up to an extent making bacterial multiplication possible is as perishable as the fresh product . Inspection for wholesomeness by Federal inspectors is required  | of all poultry shipped in interstate commerce . It is important for the food service manager to be well acquainted with local regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poultry for his establishment . Eggs Shell Eggs The majority of the hens ' eggs are sterile inside . If the ovary is infected with bacterial pathogens , the egg may become infected before it is laid . An example of such a pathogen is Salmonella pullorum , which used to be a common inhabitant of chicken flocks but has now been largely eradicated . The organism is not pathogenic to man unless massive doses are ingested . Another Salmonella which has been associated with hens ' eggs is S. gallinarum , which has not been proven to be pathogenic to man either . The egg is formed as follows : the yolk is developed in the ovary ; it passes through the oviduct , and albumen or egg white is added ; when the egg arrives in the uterus the final shell is added . Following this , the egg is moved toward the cloaca . Before it is passed out , the shell is coated with a waxlike substance , the cuticle or so-called " bloom . " The shell represents the container , so to speak , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the shell is a membrane consisting of two layers , the outer and inner membranes . The egg white is composed of several layers , thin , thick , and again thin . The yolk is separated from the whites by the viteline membrane . CONTAMINANTS Outside , eggs are not sterile . When the egg passes through the cloaca of the hen , it may become contaminated immediately . Since poultry frequently carry salmonellae in their intestines , these contaminants may , and usually do , become part of the bacterial flora of the egg shell . Other sources of contamination include the nest , the hens ' feathers and feet , the hands of the person handling the eggs , and previously used , soiled containers . The fecal matter of the hen is a very important source of Salmonella enteritidis and typhimurium and other enteric organisms including fecal streptococci . Poultry are very resistant to the salmonellae and may carry them in their intestinal tracts without showing signs of illness . Research has shown that chicken feed , especially fish meal , may be heavily contaminated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost impossible to eliminate Salmonella from poultry and the eggs they produce .  | Rats and mice , which are common pests in poultry plants , are also important sources of salmonellae , and if present , contribute to the contamination of the hens ' living quarters , the feed , nests , and eggs . Contaminants are constantly added as the eggs are handled for marketing . Washing water has been indicted as an important source of contamination . Bacteria that have been associated with eggs are , besides salmonellae and fecal streptococci : Achromobacter , Alcaligenes , Flavobacterium , Serratia , Bacillus , Proteus , Pseudomonas , Micrococcus and Escherichia . Lifshitz et al . ( 1965 ) made a study to determine whether or not the exterior structures , namely , cuticle , shell , and membranes , are able to support the growth of two common egg-spoiling bacteria species and of a pathogen , Salmonella paratyphi . They reported that these structures supported extensive growth of the three species tested . PENETRATION The shell and the outer and inner membranes aid in resisting bacterial penetration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pseudomonas fluorescens into the egg . Three sets of egg shell models were used to measure the resistance time of penetration . Of three exterior structures resisting penetration ? shell , outer membrane , and inner membrane the inner membrane ranked first , the shell second , and the outer membrane third . In a subsequent study ( 1965 ) these authors investigated penetration through the shell by three organisms : Pseudomonas fluorescens , Alcaligenes bookeri , and Salmonella paratyphi . Ps. fluorescens was the first organism recovered from inside the model , after 5 days of incubation . It was found that A. bookeri required 17 days to penetrate 4 of 6 models , and S. paraty phi required 23 days . Bacterial spores were not able to penetrate . Stokes et al . ( 1956 ) also demonstrated that Salmonellae are able to penetrate the shell . Certain environmental conditions may affect ease of penetration . When moisture is present and when the temperature is favorably high , penetration may occur . Under commercial egg production an effort is made to strictly control these conditions as much as feasible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been penetrated , the two membranes which separate the shell from the egg white form barriers , the inner membrane being very effective . This membrane is rich in lysozyme which is inhibitory to gram-negative bacteria . However , penetration of  | the membranes may eventually take place . At refrigeration temperatures , penetration is retarded . Duck eggs are usually produced under " natural " conditions . Being water birds , ducks are prone to lay eggs in wet places which may be heavily contaminated . When the eggs are gathered and handled the moisture aids in the bacterial penetration . Duck eggs contaminated with Salmonella have been frequently indicted as a cause of salmonellosis in man . TREATMENT Various methods are constantly explored , and some are commercially used , to remove the contamination from the shell of the egg or to discourage bacterial penetration . Among these are sandblasting , washing with water , washing with solutions of various sanitizers , use of heat , and use of cold . A combination of some methods of cleaning and disinfecting the shell , followed by storage at low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of freshly laid eggs . To make the washing process effective , a sanitizer should be present . The research result of Lifshitz et al . ( 1965 ) imply that eradication of the bacteria , not of dirt alone , is essential , since bacteria may in the absence of dirt use the components of the shell as nourishment and multiply . When washing eggs , the wash water must be kept within a temperature range of 120-130 ? F. If the wash water is cooler than the egg , the bacteria will be drawn into the egg ; water over 130 ? F may partially coagulate the egg white . The sanitizer-detergent should be left on the shells to protect against growth of bacteria . The eggs must be dried immediately after washing . An additional precaution sometimes used to keep the shell surface dry is coating the eggs to be stored with a mineral oil which is colorless and odorless . This treatment is also an aid in retaining other quality characteristics of the egg such as preserving the natural moisture content and slowing down physical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little , if any , effect on the activity of microorganisms already present in the egg before it is treated . MULTIPLICATION The albumen is not a favorable medium for bacterial multiplication . This is partly due to its alkaline pH and also to inhibiting substances , a powerful inhibitor being lysozyme . Conalbumin is also  | inhibitory , and so is avidin . The microorganisms which succeed in penetrating into the yolk , however , find a medium extremely favorable for their multiplication . In summary , freshly laid intact eggs coming from healthy flocks free from Salmonella pullorum and produced under sanitary conditions may well be considered as sterile inside . However , the possibility exists that bacteria , among these salmonellae pathogenic to man , may be present if bacterial penetration through the shell has taken place . Ample opportunity is afforded when the shell is cracked and the membranes injured . For example , shell eggs have been indicted by circumstantial evidence to have caused gastroenteritis in hospital patients as was described in a report on a series of incidences traced to S. derby by Sanders et @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originating from cracked specimens were implicated as the common source vehicle of infection which involved many hospitals in 13 states ; extensive secondary spread followed . A discussion of the various aspects of this somewhat controversial topic is presented in the Proceedings ( 1965 ) of the National Conference on Salmonellosis held in 1964 at the Communicable Disease Center , Atlanta , Georgia . STORAGE Only specimens free from visible internal defects are stored . Selection is made by the method of " candling , " a process by which the egg is subjected to light and examined . For best results , storage conditions are carefully controlled regarding temperature and relative humidity . For commercial storage , 6 months or more , temperatures of 29 ? 31 ? F and a relative humidity of 80 ? 85% are recommended . The air is constantly moved to avoid possible condensation of moisture on the shells which would favor the penetration of microorganisms . Gas storage involves the use of carbon dioxide . Recommendations for concentrations vary widely . Concentrations sufficiently high to delay microbial activity are apt to unfavorably affect some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used for gas storage of eggs . Thermostabilization of eggs involves heating them in the shell ; either hot water or hot oil is used . Temperatures are just sufficient to pasteurize the shell . Immersion of eggs in a hot detergent-sanitizer solution is another method . A new approach to prolonging the keeping quality of eggs was taken recently . Kosikowsky and dePaolis ( 1964 ) experimented with treating packaged eggs under high ( 750 mm ) vacuum . The packaging  | material was cellophane-polyethylene film . The eggs were stored at 5 ? C ( 41 ? F ) at relative humidity of 85 ? 90% and at room temperature 16 ? 30 ? C ( 61 ? 86 ? F ) at relative humidity ranging from 65 to 80% . Microbial analysis of the egg contents revealed that the eggs stored for 120 days at 5 ? C ( 41 ? F ) were of excellent quality . Control eggs , stored unpackaged , were spoiled , and so were controls sealed under atmospheric conditions in film pouches of low oxygen permeability . No mold or yeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were low . Frozen and Dried Eggs At present , approximately 7% of the total egg production in the United States goes into either frozen or dried eggs ; three times as many eggs are frozen as are dried . Frozen and dried eggs are available as whole eggs , whites , and yolks . High quality processed eggs of low bacterial count are available on specification for preparing lightly heated items such as scrambled eggs and French toast . The main bacteriological problem in the freezing and drying of eggs is securing raw material worthy of processing . The contaminating bacteria are most usually the kinds that cause spoilage of eggs at low temperatures such as representatives of the genera Alcaligenes , Pseudomonas , Proteus , and Flavobacterium . However , Salmonella may be present also , and occasionally hemolytic bacteria . Constant vigilance is necessary to insure that specimens containing bacteria will not be incorporated thereby contaminating an entire batch . Parts of contaminated shell must be kept out . An extremely important precaution is to exercise excellent general plant sanitation . Unless the highest standards prevail as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frequent cleaning of equipment , the finished product may not be acceptable bacteriologically . Another reason for high counts may be excessive multiplication of contaminants occurring prior to processing , caused by delays along the processing line . PASTEURIZATION Pasteurizing the egg magma prior to freezing and drying will reduce the bacterial load substantially . The aim is to rid the product of the majority of contaminants , without coagulating the egg . Among the factors affecting survival are the time ? temperature relationships of the pasteurization process , type of organism involved , cell load , and pH of medium .  | A new regulation requires that all egg products be pasteurized beginning 1966 . Regulations are administered by the Consumer and Marketing Administration , USDA . A new development has taken place in regard to pasteurization of egg white . Previously , liquid egg white could not be adequately pasteurized because the temperatures required to kill the pathogens proved damaging to the physical properties of the proteins . The new process involves adjustment of the pH from 9 to 6.8 and the addition of a suitable metal salt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stabilized whites may then be pasteurized by the method now used for whole egg : heating to 140 ? 143 ? F for 3.5 ? 4 minutes . The process was reported by Lineweaver and Cunningham ( 1964 ) at the 24th Annual Meeting of the Institute of Food Technology ( program paper 151 ) . When the pH of the whites is lowered to a level of 6.6 ? 7.0 , the heat stability of ovalbumin , lysozyme , and ovomucoid is increased and viscosity changes during heating are avoided . The protein conalbumin is stabilized by the addition of aluminum salts or iron salts . The metallic ions combine with the protein to form a complex which is more heat resistant than the free protein . An explanation for the fact that whole egg is more heat stable than white is that the pH is lower and the iron present in the yolk reacts with the conalbumin . FROZEN EGGS During freezing and freezer storage the bacterial population gradually diminishes . The greatest decrease , about 50% , occurs during the first two weeks , but greater reductions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than fast freezing . It is important to remember that although freezing and freezerstoring eggs will reduce the number of bacterial contaminants , some bacteria will survive and will be ready to multiply in the thawed product . Frozen eggs must be kept frozen until just prior to being used . The method of thawing is important . If the frozen egg is thawed at a high temperature or if the thawed product is held at temperatures favorable for bacterial growth , the survivors may multiply to dangerously high numbers . When defrosting takes place under refrigeration , the process may take days in eggs packaged in large bulk , but is a bacteriologically safe method . DRIED EGGS To achieve a stable product , the glucose content in yolks and whole eggs is usually reduced before drying by enzyme treatment or  | by fermentation . Egg whites may be hydrolyzed by treating with trypsin under heat ( 140 ? F ) or they may be yeast fermented before they are dried . Beginning in 1966 , all egg products to be dried must be pasteurized . Most of the egg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The magma is sprayed into a dry , heated ( 340 ? F ) air current . The aim is to withdraw moisture and to leave only 1% in the product . As is true for frozen eggs , the number of microorganisms may vary considerably except when the product has been pasteurized previous to drying . The drying process itself may reduce the bacterial load to a fraction ( 1/10 to 1/1000 ) of the original load , but the number of survivors may still be large unless the initial load is quite low . A variety of bacteria have been reported to survive , among them pathogens such as heat-resistant salmonellae and fecal streptococci . Micrococci and spore formers have been recovered also . No multiplication of survivors can take place in the egg powder because of its low moisture content . Stuart et al . ( 1945 ) reported a decrease in the total number of bacteria in whole egg solids during storage . When the egg solids were stored for 46 days at 86 ? F ( 30 ? C ) a decrease to approximately onetenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of salmonellae in pasteurized whole egg solids of pH 5.5 has been studied by Byrne and Rayman ( In : U.S. Quartermaster Food and Container Institute For the Armed Forces , 1954 ) . The egg was first pasteurized for 1.5 ? 2 minutes at 140 ? F ( 60 ? C ) , then stored in cans for 342 ? 416 days at warehouse temperatures . Six out of 30 cans contained viable salmonellae ; the counts were 10 ? 475 cells per 100 g of egg solids . When dried egg is incorporated in mixes the microbial quality of the egg used determines the quality of the mixes . Thatcher and Montford ( 1962 ) examined egg products , and foods containing them , in Canada . They warn that inclusion of unpasteurized egg products in mixes renders these unsafe . These workers isolated 14 different Salmonella serotypes from 119 egg-containing cake mixes of which 51.2% contained Salmonella . They also warn that unpasteurized egg may serve as a source of salmonellae in other non-heat-processed foods such as specific dessert pie fillings . Thorough heating is a safeguard for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dried egg . A number of " convenience " mixes containing egg were listed by Thatcher ( 1965 ) in Canada as having been analyzed and found positive for Salmonella : cake mixes and frostings , pancake and waffle mixes , meringue powders , whip-powder mix ,  | batter mix , piecrust mix , cookie mixes , biscuit mix , gingerbread mix , doughnut mix , sponge pudding mix , coconut dessert mix , and several other mixes . The situation is now remedied ; since June 1 , 1962 , a Canadian government regulation has required that Salmonella-free dried egg must be used in mixes . RECONSTITUTED EGG Powdered egg when reconstituted with water assumes the properties of fluid egg , including its vulnerability to bacterial activity . Reconstituted egg should therefore be carefully protected from recontamination and held at temperatures preventing microbial multiplication . It is amazing to observe how carefully shell eggs are routinely treated with regard to refrigeration , while reconstituted egg is found standing for hours in kitchen and bakeshops where the chances for contamination and multiplication are dangerously great . The production of the highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles of sanitation , beginning at the hen house and ending at delivery to the consumer . The consumer , in this case the manager of a food service establishment , must again apply highest standards of sanitation at every step of storage , preparation and service . Cracked eggs should not be used . It is extremely important that the dried and frozen egg purchased originates from processing plants which employ the highest standards of sanitation so as to ensure low bacterial counts including salmonellae and other enteric pathogens . Government-inspected egg products carry the official inspection mark which indicates that the items have been produced according to strict sanitary standards under continuous inspection . Fish and Shellfish Fish and shellfish are extremely susceptible to microbial spoilage . They carry a varied bacterial flora , most of it harmless ; however , organisms of public health significance may be present . Much fresh fish and shellfish is immediately absorbed by the local markets but transportation from one locality to another requires icing . Fish eviscerated under hygienic conditions and well iced will tolerate icing for a couple of days without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marketed in that state . Contaminants The slime covering fish and shellfish may contain bacteria of the genera Pseudomonas , Achromobacter , Micrococcus , Flavobacterium ,  | Corynebacterium , Sarcina , and Serratia , all of which are found in water . If the water from which the fish and shellfish originate contains raw sewage , human pathogens are likely to be among the microbial flora associated with the fish and shellfish . An inhabitant of some waters , fresh and salt water , is Clostridium botulinum Type E. In the intestinal tract of fish are found representatives of Achromobacter , Bacillus , Clostridium , Escherichia , and Flavobacterium . These intestinal bacteria may become quite prevalent as contaminants of opened fish . This is the reason why fish " in the round " have been claimed to keep fresh somewhat better than opened fish , at least for a while . Shellfish such as oysters , clams , and mussels pass large amounts of water through their bodies . In general , the majority of the bacteria found in and on unprocessed shellfish consists of the water bacteria mentioned above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their origin , and are important from the viewpoint of public health , include bacteria and viruses . Clostridium botulinum spores , Type E , are inhabitants of many waters where fish are caught . They have been found to be associated with tuna prior to canning , but proper canning methods will kill them . The slow heat penetration into fish , especially oily fish , presents a problem . However , the information on heat transfer into these products is available to the food technologist and care is taken to obtain a safe canned product . The recent incident of botulism from tuna was caused by faulty seams of cans . The incidents involving toxin Type E in vacuum-packed whitefish chubs point out the danger that toxin may be formed under certain conditions involving light heat processing followed by mishandling and storage at temperatures at and above 38 ? F. Salmonella typhosa may cause a serious problem in shellfish when these are harvested from polluted waters . The dangers are particularly serious in oysters and other marine foods which are often eaten raw or only slightly heated , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oysters and shucked oysters for months . Salmonella schottmuelleri has been found to remain viable in shell oysters and soft clams sufficiently long to be a potential hazard to the consumer . Staphylococci are not members of the typical flora of fresh fish but coagulase-positive forms have been isolated from fillets and other fish cuts . Evidently , these contaminants were added in the cutting operation , their source being the food handler .  | Hepatitis virus may be present in sewage-polluted waters and is known to have contaminated seafood . Oysters and clams , which prefer to live in sheltered bays , are liable to grow in waters which become easily contaminated from fresh water runoffs and even sewage . Places where shellfish grow have plankton , microscopic animals and plant life , which serve as food to shellfish . In the past , some serious outbreaks of typhoid fever were traced to shellfish from sewage-infested waters . Following this , health departments and the shellfish industry asked the Public Health Service for aid in the sanitary control of the shellfish industry . Effective sanitary supervision was initiated in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , develops standards , and evaluates the cooperating states ' sanitary shellfish program , and carries out training programs . These activities will be discussed further in a later chapter . Sanitation in seafood production and distribution has been discussed by Liston ( 1965 ) . Thanks to the rigid sanitary requirements now practiced , the program is very effective in preventing the spread of pathogens which may be carried by seafood . Since fresh fish and shellfish are highly perishable they are consumed or processed as fast as possible . The catch is often processed on the boat ; or it is packed in ice , or frozen , prior to transit to the processing plant or market . Processed Fish and Shellfish CANNED Many kinds of canned fish and other seafood are available . As is true for other canned products , canned seafood is devoid of diseaseproducing organisms but may harbor some thermophilic types which will not cause problems unless the cans are stored at high temperatures . Incidences of food poisoning from commercially canned fish and other seafood have not been on record for many years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was probably caused by recontamination in the can due to faulty seals . Oysters do not lend themselves to the high heat treatment of canning , except when smoked . Crabmeat may be pasteurized and must be kept refrigerated during transport and marketing .  | Salting , marinating , and smoking fish will dry the tissues to some extent . A combination of salting and smoking is frequently used . The heat treatment applied in smoking is nowadays only light . The effect of drying may be intensified by using flowing air . Smoking may be done at fairly low temperatures or at temperatures as high as 200 ? F. Wood smoke contains certain chemicals which seem to act to some extent as a preservative . Formaldehyde is considered to be one of the more effective compounds ; others are aldehydes , alcohols , phenolic compounds , organic acids , and ketones . The germicidal effect of smoking is not completely understood . The volatile compounds omitted differ in their bacteriostatic and bactericidal effects and seem to be most effective against vegetative cells . Spores exhibit more resistance to action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of chemical similar to those occurring in smoke of burning wood , has little if any bactericidal value , but it enhances flavor . Appleman et al . ( 1964 ) , in a study made in Scotland , found coagulase-positive staphylococci in over 60% of the samples they analyzed . The degree of heat treatment would determine survival of this contaminant as well as of Clostridium botulinum Type E. The possibility that insufficient smoking followed by anaerobic packaging might prove a dangerous combination was much discussed when several episodes of Type E botulism occurred in 1963 . The outbreaks were caused by smoked whitefish chubs from the Great Lakes ( Morbidity and Mortality , 1963 ) . As a result of these incidents , smoked fish products made from the Great Lakes regions henceforth will be stored and distributed as a frozen food , at least for a while . This decision has been made jointly by the National Fisheries Institute and the Food and Drug Administration . This toxin is not known to develop at temperatures below the freezing point , according to the Food and Drug Administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some smoked fish products , it is not necessary or advisable that these products be kept as low as other frozen foods , but to assure a safe product the fish is to be held at all times in the frozen state . These regulations may be temporary until practices for long-range application have been studied and can be recommended . The treatment is applied only to smoked fish , not the fresh , canned , frozen , or pickled items . FROZEN Raw fish is seldom frozen whole , but rather as fillets and steaks . Raw shrimp , scallops , clams , oysters , and lobster tails are frequently  | marketed frozen . Shrimp , crab meat , and lobster meat are also marketed in the cooked and frozen state . The freezing kills part , but certainly not all , of the contaminants . Upon thawing , if time ? temperature conditions permit , the survivors will resume multiplication . COOKED FISH AND SHELLFISH Items which are frequently marketed in the cooked stage include crab , shrimp , and lobster . The process of cooking renders them almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salmonellae is not uncommon ( Silverman et al . 1961 ; Nickerson et al . 1962 ) . In fact , the percentage of samples contaminated with Staphylococcus aureus was reported to be extremely high , up to 75% , in some instances . An extensive study was made by Raj and Liston ( 1963 ) on the effect of processing on bacteria of public health significance in frozen seafoods . These authors found that frozen raw seafoods , including fish and oysters , when entering the processing plant carried rather low levels of bacteria of public health significance . The initial cutting operation of the frozen fish caused a tenfold increase in counts . The staphylococci count in the samples increased from 7% to 64% ; among these staphylococci were coagulase-positive strains . Battering and breading operations added more significant contaminants , among them hemolytic streptococci , coagulase-positive staphylococci , enterococci , coliforms , and miscellaneous anaerobes ; batter was shown to be an excellent medium for multiplication of contaminants . In 73% of the battered samples , staphylococci were found . The precook operation , done in oil , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streptococci and the coliforms . However , this heat treatment hardly affected the staphylococci , enterococci , and anaerobes . Research results of other workers have also pointed to the dangers of introducing great numbers of bacteria , including pathogenic contaminants , with the breading operation , especially when it is performed by hand . Contaminants of significance include coagulasepositive staphylococci , salmonellae , shigellae , and enterococci . In a study by Appleman et al . ( 1964 ) , coagulase-positive staphylococci were isolated in a high percentage of unfrozen crabcakes . Frozen crabcakes were not as high in viable staphylococci . The importance of sanitary standards is evident from data by Slocum ( 1960 ) presented in Table 20.  | The same author stressed the point that efficient terminal heat treatment killed a large proportion of the contaminants . The danger of recontamination of cooked items is present wherever food is prepared , including quantity food service . The application of the principle of efficient terminal heat treatment deserves more attention than it now gets in many establishments where food is prepared and served to the public . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this act the standards for quality were developed , including fish . The administration is the responsibility of the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries , U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service , Department of the Interior . Shellfish are under the jurisdiction of the U. S. Public Health Service , and this jurisdiction extends to catching , processing , and marketing . The product must come from beds which are certified to be pure . Only fish and shellfish from uncontaminated waters should be purchased . Local health authorities are helpful when it comes to choosing vendors for fish and shellfish . To safeguard high quality fresh fish and shellfish , they should be stored for the shortest periods possible . Frozen products should be kept frozen , and precautions taken during thawing to prevent the items from warming up to temperatures supporting bacterial multiplication .  | RESERVOIRS OF MICROORGANISMS CAUSING FOODBORNE GASTROENTERIC OUTBREAKS : FOOD SUPPLY PART II . FOOD SUPPLY OF PLANT ORIGIN PART III . PRECOOKED FROZEN FOODS Part II . Foods of Plant Origin Fruits and Vegetables Contaminants Fruits and vegetables carry a natural flora which ordinarily does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoilage in fresh and stored foods are not pathogenic to man either ; for information on microbial spoilage of fresh and refrigerated plant foods , the reader is referred to Vaughn ( 1963 ) . The natural bacterial flora varies with the type of plant . The genera frequently encountered are Achromobacter , Alcaligenes , Flavobacterium , Micrococcus , the coliforms , and the lactics . Plants may acquire human pathogens from contact with contaminated soil , water , human hands , animals , air , harvesting equipment , and so forth . The nature of the contamination depends on many factors . An important source of contamination is soil which contains raw sewage . Fortunately , in the United States , raw sewage is rarely used for fertilizing soil ; and if it is used , it is by persons raising vegetable garden crops for their own use . However , in some other parts of the world fertilization with raw sewage is still practiced ;  | vegetable foods grown on such soil must be expected to be contaminated with human pathogens . Soil may also become contaminated from surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Vegetables The term " fresh " here implies that the plant materials were not processed , but they may have been cold-stored . Fresh fruit may become contaminated from soil dust in the orchard . Fruit collected from the ground , and low-growing fruit , often becomes heavily contaminated with soil organisms . Dust from the road may be an important source when fruit is displayed on roadstands . One of the important sources from a public health point of view is human hands . During harvesting , subsequent sorting , and storing , fruit may acquire the flora adhering to the handlers ' hands . In the case of vegetables , contact with the ground makes contamination with organisms from the soil likely . Spore formers such as Clostridium botulinum and C. perfringens are inhabitants of soil . When the ground has been fertilized with night soil or similar products , the soil flora may include salmonellae originating from the human intestinal tract . For example , the outer leaves of lettuce and cabbage have been found to contain , on occasion , typhoid organisms and other species of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ washing is quite an efficient method for removal of soil , chemical residues , and microorganisms adhering to the outside , but washing does not render plant tissue sterile . Sometimes an accepted disinfectant such as chlorinated lime is added to the washing water . New methods of washing are constantly explored , including the use of detergents . Since washed fresh fruit may be recontaminated before it reaches the consumer , thorough washing is necessary to assure a clean product earmarked for consumption as a raw item . In the case of vegetables , washing may remove much of the gross soil , but additional thorough washing remains to be done by the consumer . It is difficult to clean certain vegetables from all traces of gross soil ; green vegetables are particularly stubborn in releasing dirt . Along with the gross soil , microorganisms and animal parasites are only partially removed , complete removal being almost impossible . Therefore , vegetables to be consumed raw must never originate from sewage-polluted soil . Utmost care must be given to the cleaning  | of all vegetables to be served raw . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added to cooked items which already have received a terminal heat treatment may recontaminate these items . STORING Many fruits and vegetables may be kept fresh for long periods of time if stored under appropriate conditions , which include atmosphere controlled with respect to composition , temperature , and relative humidity . The reader is referred to the literature dealing with the science of pomology and vegetable crops . Processed Fruits and Vegetables CANNED FRUIT Canned fruit is safe from a public health point of view . Spore formers which may survive include some gas-producing butyric anaerobes , such as C. pasteurianum , and the aciduric flat sours , e.g. , Bacillus thermacidurans ; none are pathogens . CANNED VEGETABLES In properly canned vegetables the spores of C. botulinum have been destroyed . Commercially canned vegetables have had an excellent record for decades . However , heat-stable survivors may prove a nuisance and spoil canned vegetables under " tropical " conditions of storage . The thermophilic anaerobes are most frequently encountered in the medium-acid group of vegetables ; the thermophilic flat sours and putrefactive anaerobes represent the more common survivors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . DRIED FRUIT Excellent dried fruit is available on the market and much of it is pasteurized . Fruit which has been sulfured has some of its microbial content reduced by that process . Molds constitute the greater percentage of the flora of dried fruit . DRIED VEGETABLES Vegetables may be dehydrated from the raw stage or they may be blanched before processing . Raw dehydrated vegetables may be used to make fresh-like salads . Examples of vegetables processed in this way are peppers , carrots , and cabbage . These are first washed to reduce soil contaminants . Obviously , the kinds and numbers of microorganisms remaining on  | the product will depend on many factors including kind of soil , kind of vegetable , number of microorganisms , thoroughness of cleaning , and general sanitation during the operation . Germicidal rinses are sometimes used as an aid in reducing the number of bacteria remaining on the vegetable after washing . If the flora includes Escherichia coli , human or animal contamination must be suspected , and use of these vegetables as a raw item must be questioned . Blanched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reduces the microbial content considerably . Sulfuring of vegetables reduces also total counts . The flora of the finished product is therefore largely acquired during processing following blanching . Contaminants often originate with the raw vegetables brought into the processing plant . These contaminants include Aerobacter , Achromobacter , Bacillus , Clostridium , Escherichia , Micrococcus , Streptococcus , Pseudomonas , Lactobacillus , Leuconostoc , and many others . Spores , micrococci , and microbacteria are quite resistant to drying and will linger , while other forms of bacteria gradually decrease in number . No multiplication of bacteria takes place in the dehydrated product if it is stored properly . The microbiology of various dehydrated foods has been discussed by Goresline ( 1963 ) . FROZEN FRUIT AND JUICE These items have not proven to be a problem from a public health point of view . Vaughn et al . ( 1957 ) reviewed the significance of microorganisms in frozen citrus products and found no known health hazard of bacterial origin . Microorganisms of public health significance have been seen to survive for a while in fruit products . Larkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 147 days storage at - 10 ? F in orange concentrate . On the other hand , Hahn and Appleman ( 1952 ) found these organisms to disappear rather fast . The initial bacterial load may have something to do with this discrepancy of results ; possibly , with a larger initial bacterial load the chance that survivors will be detected is greater . Fecal streptococci were also isolated from commercially frozen grape juice , peaches , melon balls , and various citrus juices . As reported by Tressler and Evers ( 1957 ) , survival after several months of freezer-storage was noted by Wallace and Tanner for several pathogenic strains of Salmonella , Escherichia coli , and Proteus vulgaris when these were introduced into cherries and frozen at 0 and - 40 ? F. Survival in the juice was less than four weeks . The survival periods  | for several salmonellae in strawberries have been known to be as long as 6 months . The subject of survival of pathogenic contaminants has been reviewed by Tressler and Evers ( 1957 ) . FROZEN VEGETABLES Vegetables are washed and blanched before freezing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blanching remove much of the natural flora as well as the contaminants from soil and water . Larkin et al . ( 1955 ) found that blanching with 190 ? F water destroyed Streptococcus faecalis in 1 minute . Recontamination of the blanched product may occur during cooling and further handling . Fecal streptococci in sufficient numbers to possibly be of public health significance were isolated from commercially frozen vegetables including green beans , corn , lima beans , and spinach . Splittstoesser et al . ( 1965 ) determined the incidences of coagulasepositive staphylococci in 112 samples of peas , green beans , and corn collected at various stages of processing for freezing . The greater percentage of contaminated samples ( 65% ) was obtained with corn ; the highest counts ( 7.3 per gram ) were found in peas . Major sources of the staphylococci were the hands of employees . The gravity separator used in the processing procedure was found to be a potential area for staphylococcal buildup . DEFROSTING Fruits and vegetables to be used without further heating are defrosted . The possibility that pathogenic contaminants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thawing is allowed to proceed at room temperature for a prolonged period . The fact that fruits and vegetables lose their textural quality quickly when allowed to remain warm for hours after thawing is fortunately a safeguard . With fruit , acidity is a safeguard also . Vegetables to be cooked are , as a rule , cooked from the frozen state ; this is a good practice . Cereal Foods Several types of undesirable microorganisms may be associated with starch and flour , but none are of public health significance except possibly Bacillus cereus . This organism has been indicted in food-poisoning outbreaks in Norway . Hauge , as reported by Dack ( 1956 ) , has studied this organism in its capacity to cause illness in man and he warns that potato and cornstarch may be frequently so  | contaminated , and that foods prepared with starches must not be allowed to remain at temperatures favorable to bacterial growth for any length of time . The spores of this organism are resistant to heating given to foods in routine cooking operations . Spices Spices have a reputation for possessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that few spices seem to have this property . Some have some bacteriostatic action , but others may accelerate bacterial multiplication . Oils from ground mustard , cinnamon , and cloves possess some bactericidal power toward certain bacteria . Garlic and onion have been shown to exert bactericidal power also . The bactericidal action of horseradish was investigated by Foter and Gorlick ( 1938 ) , who reported that the active principle is allyl isothiocyanate . The activity of the vapors was dependent on temperature , the most favorable temperature being 99.5 ? F. These vapors were found to have a greater bactericidal power than garlic and onion . The resistance of different bacteria to a particular spice varies ; differences also exist in the reaction of a specific organism to different spices ( Fabian et al. , 1939 ) . It is an important fact that commercial spices harbor great numbers of microorganisms which may contaminate the menu items in which they are incorporated unless the spices have been heat-treated sufficiently to reduce their bacterial load . The microbial content of untreated spices was studied by Yesair and Williams ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The microbial contents of common spices were combined by Weiser ( 1962 ) and are reproduced in Table 21 . Strong et al . ( 1963 ) examined 20 spices for the presence of Clostridium perfringens ; they isolated the organism from paprika , savory , and poultry seasoning . Nuts Nut meats removed from the shell may harbor a variety of bacteria in large numbers . The presence of enterococci and staphylococci on broken nut meats has been demonstrated by Smith and Iba ( 1947 ) and Hyndman ( 1963 ) . The bacterial load may be reduced by pasteurizing the nuts in 180 ? 190 ? F water . Salmonellae have been demonstrated in shredded coconut . Since nuts are not natural hosts of salmonellae , the contaminants must have been added in the processing or in transport , storage , or other handling . Since nuts are frequently added to highly perishable items , such  | as puddings and other desserts , at the end of the cooking process , they may well be expected to recontaminate the items after these have received their terminal heat treatment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nuts through immersion in hot water ; and prompt cooling to 45 ? F or below of perishable menu items to which nuts were added .  | Principles of Control These principles include the procurement of high quality foods and their protection during storage on the premises . Fruits and vegetables consumed raw should be washed thoroughly . When raw vegetables and nuts are incorporated into potentially hazardous menu items and these are not sufficiently heated to kill the contaminants which may adhere , precautions aimed at precluding bacterial multiplication must be applied promptly . Part III . Precooked Frozen Foods This is a very diversified group of foods . The industry engaged in the processing of cooked frozen foods is relatively young ; its history has been reviewed by Goresline ( 1962 ) . An interest in these convenience food items arose in the early 1930 's . Since World War II cooked and frozen menu items have become of increasing importance in the frozen food field . These items include an astounding array of menu items , from soups to desserts . Foter ( 1964 ) stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for sale in supermarkets , of which approximately 6000 were not available 15 years ago . Processing As the industry expanded , specific microbiological problems emerged , including public health considerations . Precooked frozen items have , in general , an excellent record in regard to food-poisoning outbreaks . In spite of this record , potential danger exists from grossly mishandled products . Surveys have shown that some products that were obviously mishandled contained large numbers of bacteria , including forms of public health significance . The cooking , blanching , and pasteurizing of the raw material kills many microorganisms adhering to the food materials , but the chances for recontamination during subsequent handling can not be ruled out . Many operations , such as deboning , sorting , and weighing , usually require the use of hands . Furthermore , during many operational steps the ingredients are at warm temperatures for some time . Huber et al . ( 1958 ) made a survey of plants processing precooked frozen foods and were able to show that plant sanitation was closely related to the microbial quality of the product leaving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey of the frozen food industry from March 1958 to June 1959 , as reported by Shelton et al . ( 1959 ) . The FDA undertook the survey to  | evaluate the public health and sanitary significance of the microorganisms found in products in interstate commerce . Sixty-three frozen food plants were inspected , and approximately 3000 samples representing 81 food items were examined . The samples were analyzed for total counts , most probable number of coliforms , most probable number of Escherichia coli , and staphylococci . Coagulase tests were run on the staphylococci to assess the presence of potential food-poisoning strains . The foods were arranged into four groups on the basis of the amount of cooking which the product received at the plant plus the amount it is expected to receive when finally prepared in the consumer 's kitchen . Group I contained products which do not require warming prior to serving , such as cream pies and cakes ; counts varied from item to item . Total counts were very high in the products made with chocolate , although there was considerable variation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . High counts could be explained by the use of unclean equipment and long holding of the chocolate base . Coagulase-positive staphylococci occurred in 6% of the samples . This fact was of relative comfort to the public health officials since Group I included highly perishable items . Group II contained samples of 453 finished products , representing 20 different menu items . During the processing of these items , some ingredients were cooked early in the production schedule , then  | mixed with other ingredients and handled more or less considerably before freezing . The members of this group need to be heated before they can be served , but not necessarily to temperatures high enough to destroy the bacterial contaminants . The Staphylococcus toxins would not be inactivated in such heat treatments . High total counts and Escherichia coli counts could be explained partly on the basis of poor sanitation and partly on the basis of unduly long holding periods , or both . Coagulase-positive staphylococci were detected in products that were manipulated , especially in those shaped by hand , such as shrimpburgers , crabburgers , and chicken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations employed in connection with the cooked chicken resulted in large numbers of these organisms ; the slight final browning of the croquettes did not eliminate these . In Group III were combined 796 samples of 40 different menu items . These items differed from those in Group II , in that they were cooked late in the manufacturing process , but they too needed some additional heating prior to being served . In general , counts were lower in this group . There were some exceptions when equipment such as wooden surfaces had evidently recontaminated the cooked items . Coagulase-positive staphylococci again appeared in finished products containing cooked , deboned , and diced chicken : chicken chop suey , chicken chow mein , creamed chicken , and chicken a la king . Contamination with staphylococci also resulted from handling at the packaging line of the finished product . Group IV contained food items which require cooking by the consumer . Analyzed were 226 product samples representing 11 foods . Of concern to the public health officials were the poultry , meat , and seafood pies , all being products which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently high to be a health hazard per se ; however , if the foods should be abused and allowed to thaw for extended periods , multiplication might take place , and the heating that the consumer applies would not inactivate the toxin once it is formed . The authors emphasize that such contamination , which obviously stems from the food handler , is not inevitable and that the control lies in strict sanitary measures . The plants varied a great deal in their standards of sanitation , some having very high standards . In summary , the inspections of the plants manufacturing precooked frozen food items brought out the fact that these plants were , to varying degrees , below the level of sanitation which is desirable  | for a nonsterile food product not receiving a final heat treatment and which may be ingested by the consumer without being given a heat treatment sufficient to destroy microorganisms . The inspections also revealed that the sanitary problems pertained to two areas : ( 1 ) those which have an effect on the type and number of contaminating bacteria and ( 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relation to opportunities for bacterial multiplication . Furthermore , the inspections revealed that some important sanitary principles , such as adequate handwashing , were not practiced as they should have been . Although in most plants the equipment was cleaned well at the close of the operations , it was often left unprotected overnight , and food contact surfaces were not sanitized . And finally , in some instances , the cooling rates of large batches of food were slow , and the foods remained at temperatures favorable to bacterial multiplication longer than is desirable and safe . Sometimes the flow of processing was slow and the processing of perishable ingredients delayed , which allowed for a greater chance for contamination as well as bacterial multiplication . The use of properly sanitized equipment , sanitary working habits of employees , proper heat treatment during processing , avoidance of recontamination after cooking , and avoidance of delays during the entire process , up to freezing , are important means to keep counts low and staphylococci out . Fate of Bacteria in Frozen Foods Total Counts Some microorganisms may temporarily multiply in foods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frozen at 32 ? F , and lower temperatures are required , the exact temperatures depending on the type of food . While food is not solidly frozen , the solutes are available for bacterial multiplication . Elliott and Michener ( 1960 ) found 150 records of growth at subfreezing temperatures scattered over approximately 100 reports . Most of the records for vegetables are for temperatures above 20 ? F for bacteria , although molds may grow at lower temperatures . These authors state that microbial growth was reported to occur at temperatures as low as 10 ? F , but that this is unusual . The psychrophilic bacteria may multiply at about 14 ? F. Bacteria of public health importance such as Staphylococcus aureus , the salmonellae , and the fecal streptococci , are not known to multiply in solidly frozen foods . In fact , with the exception of Clostridium  | botulinum Type E , no food poisoning organisms are able to multiply below 40 ? F. Although there is a paucity of information regarding the mechanism determining death and survival of bacteria during the freezing process and freezer-storage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bacterial population may be expected to decline ; further reduction takes place at freezer storage . Elliott and Michener ( 1960 , 1961 ) have reviewed important data available regarding the behavior of bacterial contaminants under conditions of freezing and freezer storage . The killing effect of the freezing process varies with the type of microorganism , the rate of freezing , and other environmental conditions such as the substrate in which the organisms are frozen . Survival is apt to be higher in non-acid substrates , in menstrua containing protective substances such as meats , poultry , fish , and peas ; and when freezing proceeds at a fast rate . Alternating freezing and thawing seems to have a detrimental effect on survival . In general , approximately 50% of the initial population dies off during the freezing process . Unfortunately , conditions generally conducive to maintaining quality of frozen foods , such as fast freezing and storage at low nonfluctuating temperatures , are also conducive to the survival of contaminants . It is known that microbial contaminants have survived months of freezer storage . It is difficult to generalize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaches the consumer , because it is subjected to so many variables . Hucker and David ( 1957 ) stated that there seems to be a " base " of cold-resistant bacteria , and that there is a species ? temperature relationship which determines the change in bacterial flora of the frozen product . Pathogenic Bacteria Pathogenic contaminants , and survivors , in frozen foods are known to include typhoid bacteria and other salmonellae , staphylococci , enterococci , and spore formers such as Clostridium perfringens and botulinum . Proctor and Phillips ( 1948 ) showed that when Staphylococcus aureus and Salmonella enteritidis were added to cooked foods and these were frozen , the organisms survived for months ( Fig. 11 ) . Survival of S. aureus and enterococci in frozen chicken a la king was demonstrated by Buchbinder et al . ( 1949 ) . In Figure 12 is shown a comparison of species of Salmonella . Survival varied with the species .  | Research data involving frozen items inoculated with Clostridium botulinum ( Saleh and Ordal , 1955 ) indicated that there was danger when the products were grossly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stand at warm temperatures for hours or days . However , no toxin was found in the frozen items or in items defrosted and immediately refrigerated . Canale-Perola and Ordal ( 1957 ) examined frozen chicken and turkey pies produced by five manufacturers . Enterococci were present in all samples and coagulase-positive staphylococci in 37 of 40 pies . Five Salmonella cultures were isolated . The bacterial content of frozen precooked dinners and pies was also studied by Ross and Thatcher ( 1958 ) . The classical indicators of fecal contamination , Escherichia coli and enterococci , were commonly present . Salmonellae were not found , but coagulase-positive staphylococci were determined in numerous specimens ( Table 23 ) . Woodburn and Strong ( 1960 ) studied survival of Salmonella typhimurium , Staphylococcus aureus , and Streptococcus faecalis in simplified food media and submitted these to freezer storage . The  | effect of freezer storage varied with the organism and temperature , survival being greater at - 22 ? F than at 12 ? F. According to Kereluk and Gunderson ( 1959 ) , the rate of survival of enterococci frozen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coliforms ( Table 24 ) . Georgala and Hurst ( 1963 ) reported that food-poisoning bacteria in frozen foods do not differ greatly from nonpathogens in their survival , that salmonellae are less resistant than are S. aureus or vegetative cells of Clostridium , and that bacterial spores and foodpoisoning toxins are apparently unaffected . The protective effect of beef on the death of S. aureus is shown in Fig. 13 . Georgala and Hurst stated that food-poisoning bacteria die more rapidly when stored between 32 and 14 ? F than at 1-4 ? F. Strong et al . ( 1963 ) examined 111 samples of commercially prepared frozen foods for Clostridium perfringens . The items included TV dinners , meat and poultry pies , and similar items ; of these , three were positive for C. perfringens . In a laboratory experiment , Strong  | and Canada ( 1964 ) demonstrated the survival of this organism in frozen chicken gravy . The survival rate was high when the inoculum was mixed with sterilized soil before it was added to the gravy . In summary , contaminants capable of causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precooked freezerstored items . Recognition of the inherent danger in the use of many types of precooked frozen foods has resulted in pressures for establishing standards for bacterial counts in these foods almost from the begining . The pros and cons of setting up bacteriological standards for precooked frozen foods are still under scrutiny . The National Association of Frozen Food Packers has suggested , on a tentative basis , that a standard of 100,000 bacteria per gram be tried for precooked frozen foods . The Massachusetts Department of Public Health in " Rules and Regulations " ( 1961 ) , allows a maximum of 50,000 bacteria per gram , a limit of 10 E. Coli per gram , no coagulase-positive staphylococci , and no representatives of the Salmonella ? Shigella group . The microbiological criteria used , their merits , limitations , and attainability are discussed in Chapter VIII . The Food and Drug Administration is taking an active interest in the bacteriological quality of precooked frozen products , as indicated by their surveys and their close cooperation with industry ( Surkiewicz , 1964 ) . Industry is on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanitary quality of these popular convenience foods . Foter ( 1964 ) suggested the following guidelines to reduce contamination with microorganisms and their subsequent growth in foods during processing : 1 . Use only raw materials which have been produced , stored and transported with minimal contamination . 2 . Keep human contacts with foods to a minimum through mechanization , and indoctrinate personnel with clean habits by provision of adequate handwashing and sanitizing facilities and rigid supervision of all hand operations . 3 . Provide food-processing equipment designed , constructed , installed , and maintained to facilitate cleaning . After cleaning , subject all food contact surfaces to germicidal treatment . 4 . Maintain time ? temperature conditions which will prevent the growth of any pathogenic or spoilage organisms that may gain accidental entry . In food service management the following principles are applicable : 1 ) Precooked frozen menu items should be purchased from reliable vendors , since even products processed under good conditions  | CONTROL : PROCUREMENT OF SOUND FOOD SUPPLY AND APPROPRIATE STORAGE OF PURCHASED ITEMS The institutional buyer is concerned with the sanitary quality of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry has to offer and should get the best buy , best in every respect , including sanitary quality . To keep abreast with the rapidly developing field of food technology is no small task . Fortunately , certain powerful agencies concern themselves with food protection and are an invaluable aid to the consumer in the assessment of the sanitary quality of the food he buys . In the United States and in Canada , certain governmental agencies , both federal and state , have some degree of influence in the control of sanitation in connection with processing of foods ; the control is very stringent . AGENCIES AND ORGANIZATIONS CONCERNED WITH PROTECTION OF FOOD SUPPLY IN THE USA The government agencies concerned with the protection of the food supply available to the consumer officiate as representatives at three levels federal , state , and local ? many times in close cooperation with industry . Other agencies which concern themselves with the sanitary aspects of foods are trade associations and institutes , professional societies , private associations , and foundations . The fundamental concern of all these agencies is the wholesomeness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The food-processing industries , and their associations , are increasingly active and effective in the promotion of the high sanitary quality of their products .  | Federal Agencies Although a number of U.S. Government departments are involved in regulating the food supply , two stand out as being much concerned with the sanitary aspects of food protection : the U. S. Department of Health , Education and Welfare , and the U. S. Department of Agriculture . J ' U. S. Department of Health , Education and Welfare Within this department , two divisions are engaged in activities regarding food protection : .. the Food and Drug Administration 4 and the Public Health Service . The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) The powers and activities of this office apply to foods shipped in interstate commerce with the exception of meats and poultry . These latter products in interstate commerce are exempt in all points which are covered by the Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act and are regulated through the Agricultural Marketing Service , a branch agency of the United States Department of Agriculture . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1906 , as revised in 1938 and 1958 . The activities are briefly described in an FDA leaflet ( U.S. Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , 1962 ) . Among the many other specifications , the act specifies that Ioodshipped in interstate commerce must be safe , pure , wholesome , and processed under sanitary conditions . Also , it authorizes the establishment of legal food standards of identity , prohibits adulteration and misbranding , and prescribes certain regulations for the labeling of canned and otherwise packaged foods . Consumers and law-abiding manufacturers and dealers need and welcome this protection . The FDA , in enforcing the act , enters into many activities . As a part of its charge of policing the purity , quality , and labeling of foods , the agency makes periodic inspections of food establishments and examines samples ; issues and enforces regulations which specify the kinds and quantities of new food additives allowable in or on foods ; establishes the amounts of pesticide residues allowable on food crops and keeps check on shipment to verify that residues are within safe limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperates with state and local agencies in the inspection and , if indicated , removal from the market of foods contaminated in the course of  | tasters and assists industry in voluntary compliance with the Pure Food and Drug Law . In connection with the microbiological aspects of food quality , the requirement that the food not be " adulterated " is of interest , since the presence of certain microorganisms , and/or their toxins , falls into the category of " adulterated foods . " Frazier ( 1958 ) has called attention to this fact and states , the following descriptions of adulteration may have bacteriological implications : ( 1 ) if it the food bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance which may render it injurious to health . . . unless naturally there at less than a harmful level ; ( 2 ) if it bears or contains any added poisonous or added deleterious substance which is unsafe . . . i.e. , above tolerances set ; or ( 3 ) if it consists in whole or in part of any filthy , putrid , or decomposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; or ( 4 ) if it has been prepared , packed , or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with filth , or whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health ; or ( 5 ) it if is , in whole or in part , the product of a diseased animal or of an animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter ; or ( 6 ) if its container is composed , in whole or in part , of any poisonous or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health . Certainly , microorganisms capable of causing foodborne illnesses , and their toxins , are " injurious to health . " Thus , it takes little imagination to see that the FDA can exert considerable power in forcing many foods so contaminated out of the market , at least those shipped in interstate commerce . The microorganisms , the toxins they produce , and other evidences of unsanitary processing need not be proved ; the mere fact that their presence can be shown to be possible may lead to condemnation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been discussed by Slocum ( 1963 ) . The Public Health Service ( PHS ) The Public Health Service is the principal health agency of the Federal Government . This agency conducts a number of effective programs in the interest of public health ( Burney , 1959 . It de lops health resources and  --  improves health services . The PHS concerns itself with affairs of public health significance between the USA and other countries . It is legally responsible for the enforcement of the safety of foods and drinking water aboard interstate carriers such as trains , planes , buses , and ships operating under the flag of the United State Otherwise , unlike the FDA , the PHS is not an enforcement agency . However , it provides powerful aids to other agencies entrusted with the enforcement of regulations pertaining to food sanita- tion and to the food-processing industry . Protection of the public from hazards arising from harmful microorganisms present in food and water is one of the main concerns of the PHS . This agency has made outstanding contributions in developing model sanitary standards for water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of food sanitation , the PHS conducts research , prepares manuals on sanitary procedures , and trains sanitarians and other persons active in fields related to the purity and wholesomeness of food . It is very instrumental in aiding the food industry in achieving and maintaining high standards of sanitation in processing . Regarding food service programs , the PHS feels that food sanitation programs should be flexible and adjusted to meet the needs of the situation , but that " certain basic principles must be understood and accepted if the program 's objectives are to be achieved " ( U.S. PHS Pub . No. 934 , 1962 ) . More will be said later about the various facets of a sanitation program as it applies to quantity food service . The principal considerations in connection with conducting an effective food sanitation program have been stated in the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( 1962 ) . CODES Examples of model codes developed by the PHS are those for drinking water , milk , shellfish , poultry , and frozen desserts . Other codes pertain to eating and drinking establishments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Readings " ) . The model codes are widely adopted with or without revisions by health agencies of the individual states , counties , municipalities , or districts . The PHS will give aid to these agencies in making appropriate revisions to suit their specific needs and in the enforcement of these codes . COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS Certain cooperative programs have been developed with various states . One example is the cooperative State Public Health Service program for the certification of interstate milk shippers . Through the cooperative efforts of health agencies and producers and shippers of milk of high sanitary quality , milk can be moved from areas of overproduction to areas where milk shortage prevails . The program presented at the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments is described in a PHS publication ( U.S. PHS Pub . No. 1040 , 1963 ) . Another example of cooperative programs is the national shellfish sanitation program ( U.S. PHS Pub . No. 33 , 1962 ; No. 906 , 1964 ) .  | Since 1925 , the PHS has cooperated with the various states and industry to insure high sanitary quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three participants having accepted specific responsibilities . The main responsibility of the PHS is the continuing appraisal of state sanitation programs pertaining to shellfish . The PHS is also responsible for certification of interstate dealers of shellfish . The list of certified dealers is made available to the various state and local health authorities . The food service manager or dietitian may obtain this important information from the local health authorities . RESEARCH The food research of the PHS is conducted along various avenues , all projects having to do with the purity and wholesomeness of foods . Research is devoted to both fundamental and applied phases . The PHS supports various centers in which extensive research is carried forth , such as the National Institutes of Health at Bethesda , Maryland ; the Robert A. Taft Sanitary Engineering Center at Cincinnati , Ohio ; and the Communicable Disease Center at Atlanta , Georgia . The PHS awards research grants and fellowships to support research projects elsewhere . TRAINING Training persons active in fields related to the wholesomeness of foods is an important function of the PHS . Persons taking advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , distribution , and service of food , and include dietitians , food service managers , sanitarians , scientists , and food engineers . These training courses provide factual information on newest developments in the various subject areas . They also give opportunity for practice in the application of techniques . The courses applicable to food protection are usually held at the Sanitary Engineering Center at Cincinnati , but special training institutes and field courses are also held elsewhere . The PHS awards training grants to colleges and universities . U. S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) The USDA engages in food protection in that it establishes , administers , and enforces a number of food standards through the branch agency known as the Agricultural Marketing Service ( AMS ) established in 1953 . This office aids in making the tremendous national food marketing operation more orderly , efficient , and economical .  | A considerable part of the research effort and regulatory activity of this agency is devoted to the goal of reducing the incidence of pathogenic and otherwise harmful bacteria in livestock , poultry , and food products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poultry improvement programs , pullorum was practically eradicated from poultry flocks , USDA specialists were successful in developing a workable method for pasteurizing egg white , and the USDA scientists have developed a recommended procedure for isolating salmonellae from meat products and animal feed . The Meat Inspection Act The Meat Inspection Branch of the AMS enforces the Meat Inspection Act and regulations in connection with inspection of meat : that all meat and meat products shipped in interstate commerce , produced in the District of Columbia or in the U.S. territories , or imported from foreign countries must be inspected as regulated by the act and must be packed under a license . Among ' important activities are ante- and postmortem inspections of the animal for disease , and inspection for sanitation pertaining to processing procedures , plant maintenance , and personnel . The USDA inspects approximately 85% of all the meat sold commercially . The Poultry Products Inspection Act Regulations similar to those applied to meat are used for poultry : ante- and postmortem inspection of the animals and inspection for sanitation regarding processing , personnel , and plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . A high percentage of the poultry sold commercially is inspected . ( I Acceptance-Type Inspection Service This service provides , upon request , inspection service which allows an institutional food buyer to write his own specification to suit his needs . This service is discussed later . Commodities Other Than Meat and Poultry Continuous inspection services are available for fruit and vegetable products , dairy products , egg products , and- rabbit meat . Processing plants must at all times measure up to strict requirements for quality and sanitation , or service will be withdrawn . Grading A large percentage of all the trading in foods is done on the basis of U.S. grades set up by the Agricultural Marketing Service . AMS  | grading service will provide certification of quality based on these grades . U. S. Department of Interior The Fish and Wildlife Service , Bureau of Commercial Fisheries , administers the Agricultural Marketing Act as it extends to fish . The fish products which meet the official standards can carry the U. S. shield indicating the grade of the product and that it was packed under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of processors accept this service . State and Local Agencies The food laws laid down by states and municipalities are , in general , fashioned after the regulations or recommendations set up by federal agencies . In the state of New York , the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets concerns itself with problems of food production , protection , and marketing . For example , the Meat Division , effective since 1963 , assumes responsibility for statewide meat inspection and renders services such as sanitary surveillance of slaughter houses and meat-processing plants , counseling on construction plans for proper sanitation and efficient operation , ante- and postmortem inspection of animals , inspection during processing , and label evaluation and approval . Refrigerated warehouses and frozen food locker plants are licensed by the State of New York for the protection of producers as well as consumers ; inspection is made periodically to check compliance with sanitary and temperature requirements of the warehouses and lockers and with other requirements , such as the length of time for which food items may be stored . State food laws are usually enforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level , the Department of Health and/or Board of Health may be involved . Other Agencies Some trade associations and institutes are very active in upgrading and maintaining the sanitary quality of their products . The National Canners Association , the American Meat Institute , and the American Dry Milk Institute are examples of such organizations . Many processing plants set up their own sanitary standards , which are frequently fashioned after federal recommendations . One of the very influential semiprivate agencies concerned with sanitation is the National Sanitation Foundation , which was orga- nized by a group of industrial leaders and Public Health officials . It is a nonprofit , noncommercial organization which seeks solutions to problems involving cleanliness , and it sponsors and conducts research to find answers concerning sanitation . On the basis of results from research , minimum sanitation standards are developed for equipment , products , and devices that are generally acceptable to the health authorities . A manufacturer or producer may apply for the use of the National Sanitation Foundation Testing Laboratory Seal of Approval . Professional Societies The American Public Health Association , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association of Food and Drug Officials are examples of professional societies which have published recommendations pertaining to methodology for investigation of food-poisoning outbreaks and the microbiological examination of foods . MICROBIOLOGICAL STANDARDS Very rapid developments in the processing and distribution of foods which need little or no additional preparation in the kitchen are constantly creating new opportunities for potential hazards to public health . In connection with the concern over potential hazards ( Slanetz et al. , 1963 ) , microbiological standards have been , and still are , ardently discussed . Definition In the report by the Food Protection Committee ( 1964 ) of the Food and Nutrition Board entitled " An Evaluation of Public Health Hazards From Microbiological Contamination of Foods , " the following definitions are given : 1 . A microbiological specification is the maximum acceptable number of microorganisms or of specific types of microorganisms , as determined by prescribed methods , in a food being purchased by a firm or agency for its own use . 2 . A recommended microbiological limit is the suggested maximum acceptable number of microorganisms or of specific types of microorganisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . A microbiological standard is that part of a law or administrative regulation designating the maximum acceptable number of microorganisms or of specific types of microorganisms , as determined by prescribed methods , in a food produced , packed , or stored , or imported into the area of jurisdiction of an enforcement agency .  | Microbiological standards for processed foods , as Frazier ( 1958 ) has pointed out , may be of three types : ( 1 ) standards for the raw product and ingredients , ( 2 ) standards in connection with plant sanitation , packaging , storage and handling , and ( 3 ) standards concerned with the finished product . Ideally , the standard in connection with freedom from pathogens of public health significance should include the pathogens most likely to be present in the particular foods . However , " indicator " organisms and total counts are most frequently used at present . Frazier ( 1958 ) lists the chief purposes of microbiological standards as assurance that ( 1 ) the food will not be responsible for spreading pathogens causing disease and outbreaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of high quality , that is , of good material that has not become deteriorated or unduly contaminated during processing , packaging , handling , and storing ; ( 3 ) the food is acceptable from an esthetic point of view ; and ( 4 ) the food has keeping quality expected of the product . Application Some microbiological standards are now in operation . The Public Health Service has set up recommendations for bacterial limits in drinking water , milk , and shellfish . Some powerful consumers , such as the U.S. Quartermaster Corps , have set tolerances for certain food items . The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has set microbiological standards for its own use . The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has promulgated bacteriological standards for precooked frozen foods , and so has the City of New York . Canada has set up microbiological standards for certain food products and , according to Thatcher 's ( 1958 ) report , with subsequent improvement in the sanitary quality of the food items involved . Several industries for example , the American Dried Milk Institute ? have set up standards for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salmonella-free processed eggs . By the time this book has been printed , more standards may have been put into action . In the United States , milk is presently the only food that is subject to strict microbiological control in every state of the Union . However , with more food preparation being shifted from the institutional kitchen to the processing plant , and with nationwide distribution of these items , strict and nationwide microbiological controls may be initiated for other potentially hazardous foods , although  | the difficulties in connection with the setting up of reasonably safe and acceptable standards will be formidable . Difficulties Encountered The above-mentioned Food Protection Committee has stated these basic principles for setting up microbiological criteria . They should : ( 1 ) accomplish what they purport to do , that is , reduce public health hazards ; ( 2 ) be technically feasible , that is , attainable under conditions of good commercial practice ; and ( 3 ) be administratively feasible . The difficulties encountered in developing and enforcing microbiological standards in foods are manifold . In contrast to water and milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazardous foods are viscous and nonhomogeneous semisolids or solids which can not be filtered , can not be easily pasteurized or otherwise heat treated , and can not be treated with germicides . At present , the great variety of foods produced and variation in formulas make standardization of procedures that would ensure complete elimination of pathogens difficult . A special difficulty in establishing standards presents itself in connection with foods processed by special techniques such as freezing and vacuum packing . It has been argued that standards not only tend to be too inflexible , but that they may even offer false security . It has also been said that their widespread application on a non-uniform basis may cause untold difficulties for the food industry , and even for the consumer , in the areas where controls are less strict . It is for these and other reasons that microbiological standards for processed foods are difficult to establish and make legal . This does not preclude , however , that carefully worked-out specifications should not be set up for an increasing number of food products and used by the food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general improvement of the sanitary quality of our food supply . It has been suggested that control at the processing plant offers a sounder solution to the problem , namely , the inspectional program of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration , state agencies , and local agencies , especially if accompanied by educational programs in sanitation for food handlers . The trend is now for the regulatory agencies to intensify close supervision of the food-processing industry through more frequent inspections and microbiological surveys ; and perhaps even more important , industry seems to be increasingly aware of the microbiological implications in connection with its products they prepare .  | The trend is for industry to either set up high standards of its own or to comply with existing government standards on a voluntary basis . It seems an appropriate time for the managers of food service establishments and their professional organizations to make known their interest in food products of high sanitary quality . A demand for high-quality products would stimulate the food industry to adhere to high bacterial standards for its products through careful quality control . Purchasing processed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administrator of a food service operation to purchase by specification . Methods ; Bacteria Used As Indicators Direct Counts Bacteriological standards may be concerned with numbers regardless of kind , or with numbers of specific bacteria . They may be based on " direct bacterial counts , " which include both living and dead cells . Direct counts have an advantage in that they give a fairly good indication of the past history of the product as far as contamination at some point of the production line is concerned . They also have certain disadvantages , the discussion of which is beyond the scope of this book . Total Counts A frequently used basis for microbiological standards are " total counts " or " standard plate counts , " which represent , hopefully , all living cells present in a food . Total counts include pathogens and harmless saprophytes . As a quality control tool in the processing plant , total counts may reflect on a number of conditions , for example , the raw materials , processing procedures , personal hygiene , and temperature control . They are useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects of his processing methods . When foods spoil due to prolonged storage or mishandling , a microflora characteristic of the particular food and storage temperature develops . Thus , total counts will give excellent information as to the general microbial quality of the product . They are excellent indicators of the degree of decomposition of a food . Total counts are particularly useful in evaluating the sanitary quality of preserved products in which the organism can not multiply , namely , dried , salted , pickled , and frozen foods . They are , however ,  | no aid in evaluating canned foods , since the heating process kills all contaminants except certain thermophiles . High total counts in precooked foods would denote contamination following cooking , or possibly delay in processing procedure following cooking , or poor temperature control , or any combination of these . Although standard plate or total counts are a rough measure of conditions in the food-processing plants , they have been said to be of limited value in denoting sanitary quality from a public health point of view . While high counts indicate that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way , low total counts do not necessarily indicate that mishandling has not occurred since a terminal heat treatment of freezer storage might have eliminated or reduced the original number of living cells . Moreover , food items of low total counts have been reported to be contaminated with pathogens . In spite of these limitations , and the fact that bacteria may grow in milk , total counts are successfully used to evaluate the sanitary quality of milk . The reason is that milk is processed and handled under very standarized conditions . Probably no other perishable food item is as well controlled as milk . In summary , high total counts , although they may represent harmless saprophytes , are likely to arouse suspicion of gross mishandling and thus , of possible contamination with pathogens . Low total counts , on the other hand , are not a guarantee for absence of pathogens . Indicators Specific bacteria of intestinal origin are being used as indicators of sanitary microbial quality . These are , before all , the coliforms , especially Escherichia coli and the fecal streptococci ( enterococci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful indicator of pollution ; it is being used in Europe . The coliforms have been used as indicators of fecal pollution for many decades . Pollution of water is judged by the presence of members of the coliforms , and milk quality has also been assessed on the basis of the presence of these organisms . The question of which one of these organisms should be used as an indicator of microbial quality of foods other than milk is a controversial one . The coliforms ( except E. coli ) , the fecal streptococci , and C. perfringens are ubiquitous organisms and their presence does not necessarily indicate contamination with fecal matter . Aerobacter is a natural inhabitant of plant material . Even E. coli has limitations in that it is a common contaminant of vegetables raised on manured  | soil , and of meats and egg magma . The streptococci are part of the natural flora of cheeses . There is , however , no doubt that in precooked foods the presence of coliforms or other enteric organisms would usually indicate recontamination after cooking or poor temperature control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contaminants be investigated when this organism is detected in a food . Pathogens The question arises whether it would not be most desirable to base the microbial standards on the number of the various pathogens apt to be associated with certain food items , rather than general " indicators . " Perhaps this will be possible some day . At present , the analysis of foods for pathogens such as Salmonella and Staphylococcus aureus has been judged to be inadequate to assess the degree of contamination with these pathogens . However , the methodology for detecting microorganisms of public health significance in foods is constantly being improved . No methods are at present available for the identification of viruses in , and isolation from , foods . The Food Protection Committee of the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Sciences , National Research Council ( 1964 ) summarizes its discussion of microbiological standards as follows Although the standard plate count of aerobic mesophiles and the coliform count can not distinguish between hazards to health and organoleptic qualities , in most instances a food with high counts may be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coli indicates the likelihood of fecal contamination , it also indicates the potential presence of intestinal pathogens . Hazards from the presence of Salmonella in foods has been amply demonstrated . Thus , in the development of microbiological criteria ain ed at lessening health hazards , consideration should be given to include limits for these organisms . The following are therefore recommended as useful microbiological criteria : counts of aerobic mesophilic bacteria and of coliform organisms , and demonstration of the presence or absence of E. coli and of Salmonella . Failure to recover a pathogen by sampling and analysis does not assure its absence , but such testing is of most value as a check on the adequacy of a procedure for destroying or removing the pathogen . Control measures based on positive laboratory demonstration of a pathogen such as Salmonella could do much to improve the relative safety of several foods . Dairy Products The U.S. Public Health Service has set up recommendations in its Milk Ordinance and Code ( revised 1965 ) and many states and  | municipalities base their standards on these . For dry milk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Inc. , and by the USDA ( Agricultural Marketing Service ) . The bacterial standards set up for dairy products vary ; it goes beyond the scope of this book to list all of them . Some states and cities permit the marketing of raw milk and have set standards for it . The reader is referred to recent editions of textbooks on food microbiology , processing of milk and other dairy products , and purchasing of foods for quantity food service . Chilled and Frozen Foods The literature dealing with the subject of microbiological standards for this group of foods is not only extremely extensive , it is also quite controversial . Although the incidence of food poisoning from frozen foods is rare , results of laboratory studies are available which show that grossly mishandled precooked frozen foods may be dangerous . The need for bacteriological standards has been frequently stated , but the difficulties of devising meaningful standards are great . The matter of fecal indicators for assessing the sanitary quality of chilled and frozen foods is a highly controversial one . The survival of the coliforms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was found that Escherichia coil dies quickly , the other members of the coliform group die less quickly , and the enterococci are even more resistant . E. coil is quite sensitive to low pH and in acid citrus juices will be killed more readily than the enterococci . On the other hand , it is argued that the reactions of E. coli are quite like those of the salmonellae and therefore this organism is more valuable as an indicator than the enterococci and that organisms which die off rapidly are useful in indicating recent contamination and danger from pathogens . An excellent review of the subject has been presented by Elliott and Michener ( 1961 ) and the reader is referred to that publication for details . Summary tables prepared by these authors are given in ' fable 25 . Elliott and Michener ( 1961 ) list the principal precautionary arguments as follows : I ) A single set of microbiological standards should not be applied to foods as a miscellaneous group such as " frozen foods " or " precooked foods . " 2 ) Microbiological standards should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual basis , after sufficient data are accumulated on expected bacterial levels , with consideration of variations in composition , processing procedures , and time of frozen storage .  | 3 ) When standards are chosen , there should be a definite relation between the standard and the hazard against which it is meant to protect the public . 4 ) Methods of sampling and analysis should be carefully studied for reliability and reproducibility among laboratories and chosen methods should be specified in detail as part of the standard . 5 ) Tolerance should be included in the standard to account for inaccuracies of sampling and analysis . 6 ) At first , the standard should be applied on a tentative basis to allow for voluntary compliance before becoming a strictly enforced regulation . 7 ) Microbiological standards will be expensive to enforce . 8 ) If standards are unwisely chosen they will not stand in courts of law . Food handling codes and recommended procedures are constantly revised and new ones developed . The following agencies have recommended , or are regulating , these codes : The Association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Public Health Association ; the U.S. Public Health Service ; the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ; the U.S. Department of Agriculture ; the various states , municipalities , and localities of the United States ; and the food industry and its associations . These codes or recommendations are concerned with temperature of storage , design , and construction of frozen food processing equipment , and length of storage of frozen foods . The criteria and codes need to be reevaluated periodically regarding their adequacy and usefulness . The Food Protection Committee of the Food and Nutrition Board , National Academy of Sciences , National Research Council ( 1964 ) , emphasizes in the summary of " An Evaluation of Public Health Hazards from Microbiological Contamination of Foods , " that ... a decision to formulate microbiological specifications , recommended limits , or standards for foods that are meaningful from the standpoint of public health would be premature at present . A number of weaknesses in our knowledge of the hazards from microbiological contamination of foods , in our understanding of potential hazards from newer foods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercially , and in methodology to assure compliance with such criteria , all point to this conclusion . Nevertheless , microbiological specifications and recommended limits are used for a number of purposes , and have generally been successful . Eventually , legal standards , particularly for foods for which a demonstrable microbial hazard exists , might reasonably be advocated . THE ROLE OF THE DIETITIAN , FOOD SERVICE MANAGER , OR OTHER BUYER The person entrusted with the purchasing of food carries the responsibility for obtaining the best he can for the money he spends , one important quality factor being the wholesomeness or sanitary  | quality of the items purchased . The Food Service Sanitation Manual of the Public Health Service ( 1962 ) states that " all food in food service establishments shall be from sources approved or considered satisfactory by the health authorities . " It is the responsibility of the institutional food buyer to find out which sources are safe . Wholesome food from safe sources can be subjected to contamination and spoilage . It is the responsibility of the food buyer to write into his specifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage resulting from lack of time ? temperature control . It is also the responsibility of the buyer to check and inspect the incoming purchases . The steps to effective institutional food buying , as listed by Frooman ( 1953 ) , are these : ( 1 ) find out what the food industry is offering the institutional market ; ( 2 ) determine what best fits your needs ; ( 3 ) compile written specifications covering your selections ; ( 4 ) work out a buying procedure and decide on a course of action ; and ( 5 ) check and inspect all deliveries . In many institutions , the dietitian or food service manager is the person who carries out all of these activities in addition to other responsibilities which involve supervision of the storage of the purchased goods , the preparation and service of menu items , and the storage of leftovers . In some large organizations , a purchasing agent may do the actual ordering and checking . Yet , the dietitian or food service manager may even then exert an influence by requesting that the purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders or by requesting the purchase of " new " items placed on the market . Therefore , the first step , " find out what the food industry offers , " is indeed an important one . This is a relatively easy task for the more conventional line of foods , but not so for the " new " foods , the products of recent and current developments in the food processing field . Standards of wholesomeness have not been developed for many of these new items . Some Recent Developments in the Food-Processing Industry One of the most remarkable developments in the food industry has been the transfer of menu item preparation from the institution kitchen to the factory . The factory-prepared items include partially prepared as well as ready-to-eat products ( Irmiter , 1963 ; Stahl , 1963 ; Hahn , 1963 ; Treadway , 1965 ) . Improvement in speed of transportation and extensive use of refrigeration and freezing are making this development possible .  | Actually , little is known about the microbiology of some of the " new " foods , foods processed by new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being developed for some of these items . It has been stated in the " Report Of The Food Protection Committee " ( 1964 ) that guidelines are of greatest urgency in the case of convenience and mildly processed foods . By keeping abreast of new developments in the food field and research on the sanitary quality of new products , the dietitian or food service manager not only furthers his own knowledge ; if he puts this knowledge to work by using it in his specifications when contracting for food , if he requests products produced under conditions of high sanitary standards , he contributes toward a high goal of sanitation in the food field as a whole . The dietitian or food service manager has various resources which he may use to inform himself on what industry has to offer . Some very important sources of information are professional organizations such as the American Dietetic Association , the American Hospital Association , the American School Food Service Association , the National Restaurant Association , and the various professional state associations . These associations sponsor meetings at which eminent speakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed foods , including the microbiological aspects of their processing and packaging . Also , these national associations have professional journals which publish articles with pertinent information regarding problems related to the sanitary aspects of the food supply . Information on new developments in the food field is also made available by the Consumer and Marketing Service of the USDA in the form of a monthly publication titled Agricultural Marketing , and by the cooperative Extension Services of the various states which transmit food-marketing information . Hospital management magazines , food service magazines , and trade association publications all bring food news to the customer . ( Examples of articles are given under " Additional Readings . " ) Very little information on the sanitary aspects of newly developed food products is actually conveyed to the potential buyer to use as basis for writing specifications insuring sanitary quality . When he receives the food he has no way of quickly checking on this quality other than inspecting for gross signs of mishandling . The training courses conducted by the Milk and Food Training Program of the Public Health Service for key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | on the sanitary aspects of food as it applies to institutional food services . Persons interested in participating should direct inquiries to Training Program , Robert A. Taft Sanitary Engineering Center , Public Health Service , U.S. Department of Health , Education and Welfare , Cincinnati , Ohio . Purchasing by Specification Specifying exactly what is wanted is of greatest importance in purchasing food of high sanitary quality . Precise specifications can and should be made for the food itself as well as the packaging whenever possible . The federal or trade grade , or the brand , of the food should be stated . The size , nature , and sanitary conditions of the container may be specified . There may be specific factors required for specific commodities which are important from the viewpoint of sanitation ; these may concern sanitary standards of the food itself , sanitary condition of containers , conditions of shipping , and other factors . The writing of specifications is made easier by the establishing of grades and familiarity with the product . Governmental agencies and local health authorities may help set up specifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal origin are in the class of " potentially hazardous foods " as defined in the Food Service Sanitation Manual of the Public Health Service ( 1962 ) . Specifications set up by the institutional food buyer should cover the wholesomeness of the product at the source , nature of packaging , handling , and time-temperature control during transit . Dairy Products The Food Service Sanitation Manual ( 1962 ) states , first , that : All milk and milk products , including fluid milk , other fluid dairy products and manufactured milk products shall meet the standards of quality established for such products by applicable state and local laws and regulations . and second , that only pasteurized fluid milk and fluid milk products shall be used or served . Dry milk and milk products may be reconstituted in the establishment if used for cooking purposes only . and third , that all milk and fluid milk products for drinking purposes shall be purchased and served in the original , individual container in which they were packaged at the milk plant , or shall be served from an approved bulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or half and half , which is to be consumed on the premises , may be served from the original container of not more than one- half gallon capacity , or from a dispenser approved by the health authority for such service , and for mixed drinks requiring less than one-half pint of milk , milk may be poured from one-quart or one-half gallon containers packaged at a milk plant . Frozen desserts like ice creams , sherbets , ice milks , ices , and mixes from which frozen desserts are made should all conform to the sanitary standards set up by state and local regulations . The dietitian or food service manager assuming his duties in a locality new to him should consult with the local health authorities before setting up specifications . This is important , since some regulations differ from state to state , as well as from one locality to another . Meat , Poultry , and Products Made from Them In the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( 1962 ) is stated that : All meat and meat products shall have been inspected for wholesomeness under an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may accept other sources which are in his opinion satisfactory and which are in compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations . A comparable statement is made for poultry and poultry products . It is extremely important that the food buyer check with the local health authorities regarding regulations for locally produced meat , poultry , and products made from meat and poultry . Specifications for wholesomeness for frozen meats and poultry are the same as for the unfrozen . Canned meats and poultry should , like all canned foods purchased for institutional use , be processed commercially . The U.S. Department of Agriculture will provide , upon request , an acceptance-type inspection service which allows a food buyer to write his own specifications to suit his specific need for meats and poultry . Under the acceptance service , an institutional buyer can protect himself regarding wholesomeness in that many meats are required to be inspected during cutting . This would be of special advantage in cases of ground meat , which has been shown to often harbor dangerously high numbers of bacteria , among them forms capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from certain cuts . Under the acceptance inspection service , the food buyer can rest assured that his orders are carried out as specified and that the specified cuts are used rather than trimmings which are apt to be more heavily contaminated . Specifications regarding packaging should include a request for sanitary and previously unused wrappings and containers .  | Specifications regarding transit would pertain to care in handling and control of temperature and time : protective wrappings should not become torn ; temperatures should be maintained adequately to prevent bacterial growth ; and the time should be related to the perishability of the specific item . The perishability of mildly processed meats is of special interest here since they are frequently mishandled regarding temperature control . These items because they are not sterile , are vulnerable to warmth and should therefore be held under continuous refrigeration . In pasteurized meats the microbial balance is upset in that an assortment of heat-resistant forms may survive and grow when conditions allow this , while the forms which would normally multiply most vigorously and suppress pathogenic forms are absent . The number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processed foods is on the increase . Included here are hams , other meats , and poultry . Because of the uncertainties in connection with the microbiological aspects of these and other items receiving light heat treatments , it is important that these items not be allowed to remain in the danger zone of bacterial multiplication except for brief periods . Carelessness in temperature control , anywhere and any time , may spell trouble . It has been warned that food items packaged under vacuum might require particular attention since the anaerobic conditions would inhibit many spoilage bacteria , but not the anaerobics and the microaerophilics . However , this is still a controversial issue and requires further study . Specifications for shipment of frozen meats and poultry and products made from them should require that these items be kept at temperatures appropriate to maintain the quality of frozen foods . It is evident , then , that the reliability of the vendor of highly perishable and potentially hazardous items is of utmost importance . This quality of reliability can not be overestimated . Marginal dealers have been known to enhance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoilage , which is an illegal practice . Institutions which are offered donated foods should refuse these donations , on principle . Eggs Eggs may be purchased by federal grades . Consumer grades ( federal ) are AA , A , B , and C ; equivalent federal procurement grades for the wholesale trade are I , II , III , and IV . Eggs graded by trade ( wholesale ) standards are Specials , Extras ,  | Standards , and Trades ; these standards run close to AA , A , B , and C , respectively . Eggs can not receive a grade when dirty , cracked , or broken . This is important since eggs with dirty and broken shells can not be trusted to be free from salmonellae , although they might be . Grades for eggs are based on exterior and interior conditions , and a discussion of these is not appropriate at this time . The reader is referred to the earlier discussion on egg quality ( Chapter VI ) and other literature pertaining to egg production and marketing listed at the end of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buyer 's specifications under the supervision of federal graders , this being the acceptancetype inspection which was discussed above for meat and poultry . When writing specifications for eggs , the institutional buyer should be aware of the fact that egg quality deteriorates rapidly . Therefore , the maximum number of days allowed to elapse between grading and delivery should be specified ; this period is usually restricted to a few days . Also , the temperature conditions under which the eggs are stored before delivery should be specified and should require that the eggs be held under refrigeration at all times . Ideally , the eggs should come from one and the same source known to produce eggs from a disease-free flock of hens under strictly sanitary conditions . Under conditions of competitive buying , contracting for eggs from one producer may be impractical . For processed eggs , specifications can be written to assure minimum total bacterial counts as well as freedom from salmonellae . Whether a recent regulation requiring pasteurization of all egg prior to processing ( be it freezing or drying , see Chapter VI ) will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be stated at this time . More will be known about this after the regulation has been in effect for a time . Fish and Shellfish Fish and shellfish are highly perishable and do not tolerate long holding . Quality standards developed for fish under the Agricultural Marketing Act are administered by the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries , U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , Department of the Interior . Only fish from sanitary sources and processed under sanitary conditions qualify . However , fish shipped in interstate commerce do not require a federal seal of approval for wholesomeness . Most fresh fish is sold without labels and seemingly some confusion exists about guidelines writing specifications for fresh fish . A  | reliable local dealer should prove quite helpful ; his advice might well be sought regarding the availability of the various fresh fish in season . In writing specifications , the sanitary source and processing should be stressed as well as sanitary treatment in transit . This includes sanitary packaging and strict temperature control . Frozen fish must be kept solidly frozen at all times ; wrappings and glazes should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from unpolluted waters . The U.S. Public Health Service is entrusted with the supervision of the shellfish industry , the catching , processing , and marketing . The requirements are stringent . In the Food Service Sanitation Manual of the Public Health Service ( 1962 ) recommendations are made regarding the sanitary supply of shellfish which are : " All oysters , clams , and mussels shall be from sources approved by the State shellfish authority : Provided , that if the source is outside the State , it shall be one which is certified by the State of origin . " And furthermore , " Shell stock shall be identified with an official tag giving the name and certificate number of the original shell-stock shipper and the kind and quantity of shell stock . Fresh and frozen shucked oysters , clams and mussels , shall be packed in nonreturnable containers identified with the name and address of the packer , repacker , or distributor , and the certificate number of the packer or repacker preceded by the abbreviated name of the State , " and finally , " shucked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The certification by state shellfish agencies is made available through the Public Health Service , which issues a periodic listing of certified shippers . The Public Health Service honors only the certification of state shellfish agencies whose sanitary control measures are acceptable to them . This listing is an important and effective means of assuring the health authority that shellfish which originates outside its authority is wholesome . The institutional buyer should consult the local authorities about this listing or should request it from the office of the Public Health Service , Washington , D.C. As is true for other frozen items , frozen shellfish must be kept solidly frozen at all times . Frozen Precooked Items It is important to order from reliable vendors who handle items processed by reputable food processors . Since there have been almost  | no standards set up for these foods , buyers ordering items in very large quantities may wish to establish their own specifications , which may extend to formulation as well as to bacteriological quality ( see Table 25 ) . Strictest time-temperature control during transit is another important point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? F or lower to retain quality in a frozen product ? in the processing plant , during transit , in warehouse storage , and on the premises of the food service establishment . Foods Prepared Outside the Place of Service When food which has been prepared outside the hospital , school , or other place of service is purchased , it should be obtained from sources which comply with the regulations of the state , locality , or municipality . This is true whether the food is served in the conventional way or through vending machines . Such food should be wholesome and be processed , prepared , stored , and transported in a sanitary manner . This requirement includes that all good contact surfaces of containers should be protected from contamination and that strict time-temperature control be exercised during processing , preparation , and transport . In vending , next to malfunctioning of the machines themselves , the most important hazard seems to be related to improper processing and mishandling of the items prior to introducing them into the machine ( Food Protection Committee , 1964 ) . Protecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purchased items should be checked and inspected to make certain that the products agree with specifications . Items that do not meet the requirements should be returned . If cases or wrappings are damaged , or discolored , they should be opened and inspected . All deficiencies should be recorded . Great speed is required in the inspection and subsequent storage of perishables requiring refrigeration or freezer storage . It is therefore essential to know the time when perishables are to be delivered and to be ready for them with adequate personnel and space . Speed protects the food received and reduces the length of time the refrigerator and freezer doors remain open . Frozen foods should be checked for temperature using an unbreakable thermometer . Hayes et al . ( 1964 ) suggest that this be performed by one of two methods :  | 1 . One method is to open the case and remove the top corner package . Use an ice pick to make a hole through the case from the inside , level with the second layer of product . Insert the thermometer stem into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ package , close the case , and weight down with several additional cases to insure good contact . Read the temperature after five minutes . 2 . The other method is to cut a flap opening in the case near the middle cornerpackage . Bend the flap back and insert the thermometer stem between the package layers . Close the flap , weight down with additional cases . Read the temperature after five minutes . The authors warn that firm contact between package and thermometer must be established for accuracy . As is true for other packaged goods , inspection for signs of physical damage is indicated . Signs of thawing should be looked for also . The experienced dietitian and food manager is familiar with these signs : coarse ice crystals , cavity ice , shrinkage , discoloration , leakage , and so forth . Canned items are checked for abnormalities which might indicate that the product is not sterile or may not keep : broken seals , leaks , swells , rust , and so forth . Storage Storage serves to temporarily house the purchased food items . Storage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( Lukowsky et al. , 1962 ) . Storage facilities should provide quarters appropriate for the satisfactory preservation of food quality , including sanitary quality . For dry items such as staples and canned goods , " dry storage " is provided . For highly perishable items , refrigerator or freezer storage is necessary . Refrigerated storage is to be provided for dairy products , meat , poultry , eggs , fish , fruits , and vegetables ; freezer storage for all frozen foods . DRY STORAGE This type of storage serves for food items which do not require refrigeration but must be protected from freezing , excessive heat , and dampness and from rodents and insects . 1 ) ry storage rooms should be cool ( 50 ? 70 ? F ) , well ventilated , and dry ; a relative humidity of 50 ? 60% is satisfactory for many products kept in dry storage . The construction should be such that cleaning is easy . The stored food should be protected against invasion of rodents , infestation with insects , and bacterial contamination . Therefore , the floors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insect-proof . Places where pipes enter and leave the walls should be well sealed off . Dry storage rooms are very frequently located in a basement and , therefore , are usually given the doubtful benefit of all sorts of pipes which run along the ceiling such as water , heating , and sewer pipes . Leakage from these pipes is a common source of trouble in basement storage rooms . Especially ominous is leakage from sewer pipes , which may have most serious consequences caused through contamination of foods with pathogenic bacteria and viruses present in sewage . Sewer pipes need frequent checking for leakage . Hot water and steam pipes may create unfavorably high temperatures in the storeroom and should therefore be well insulated . The temperature can also be increased to an undesirable degree by sunlight entering through glass windows . As was pointed out in an earlier chapter , canned goods are not completely sterile and contain heat-loving , heat-resistant bacteria which survived the canning process ; when temperatures rise to tropical heights , these survivors may begin to multiply , spoiling the contents of the cans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; shelving should be provided . Both wood and metal shelves are used , each having its good and poor points . Wooden shelves may be cheaper but they absorb moisture and are difficult to sanitize , while noncorrosive metal shelves are easy to clean and vermin proof . Lightweight , sturdy , adjustable metal shelving is commercially available for storerooms and refrigerators . Just how far the lowest shelf should be placed above the floor is a matter of judgment . For easy cleaning , a minimum of 6 ? 8 inches should be allowed in any case . Lukowsky et al . ( 1962 ) suggest that 30 inches should be allowed and that the space underneath be used to store flour , sugar , and other items which can be placed on skids or in cans . For the storage of many types of foods , galvanized cans with lids provide excellent containers . For bags and case lots , slatted platforms raised at least 6 inches from the floor are often used . The sanitary quality of the food stored should be constantly protected by providing excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , walls , ceilings , and shelves , should be kept in excellent repair and immaculately clean . Frequent inspection for presence of rodents , insects , and leakage from pipes is mandatory . Insects sometimes gain entrance with crates and boxes into otherwise well-maintained storerooms . To eradicate insects , a professional exterminator should be engaged . Professional services for the extermination of rodents are also recommended .  | After every issue of food , spilled food items must be gathered up and eliminated , either by disposal in covered metal trash cans inside the storage area or by complete removal from the area . The cleaning routine should be frequent . Highest sanitary standards for , and close supervision of , all activities in connection with storeroom use and care are absolutely essential to maintain the sanitary quality of the stored items . Orderly procedures in the stocking and the withdrawal of foods are also necessary to assure that stocked items will be used within a reasonable period of time . FREEZER STORAGE To maintain the culinary quality of frozen foods , storage of 0 ? F or below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperatures , no bacterial hazards need be expected . Ice cream is usually stored at 6 ? 10 ? F because first , it is more easily handled at these warmer temperatures , and second , its culinary quality is enhanced . Whenever possible , frozen foods should be stored in the original containers . If wrapping is done , moisture-vapor proof materials should be used Problems in connection with defrosting will be discussed in REFRIGERATOR STORAGE The various items to be kept under refrigeration require somewhat different temperatures for storage . Dairy products and eggs are stored near 40 ? F , meat and poultry at 30 ? 36 ? F , fish is kept iced or near 32 ? F , fruits and vegetables between 35 and 45 ? F. The control of relative humidity is very desirable for cold storage of food items . A relative humidity of 75 ? 85% is most frequently recommended for dairy products , meats , and poultry ; for eggs , 80 ? 85% ; for fruits and vegetables , 85 ? 95% . Too high humidity causes sliminess in meats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The current trend is to include the feature of controlled humidity in refrigerators . Temperature control is impossible without checking and rechecking the temperatures that actually prevail in a refrigerator . Too often a refrigerator is simply assumed to provide temperature conditions which , in reality , do not exist . The fact that a sign is affixed to the refrigerator door announcing a certain temperature does not  | necessarily mean that the refrigerator lives up to that expectation . Temperatures should be so adjusted that the warmest spot within the refrigerator is not higher than the maximum desirable for the particular food housed . Frequent regular checks are necessary , since the refrigerator temperature will fluctuate with such factors as size and temperature of the food loads placed in it and cooling capacity of the unit . Dairy products and eggs absorb odors from other foods and should be stored separately . Milk and cream should be covered , butter and cheese kept wrapped when stored . Eggs are stored with the pointed ends down and should not be disturbed more than is absolutely necessary . Crates should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Crates containing fruits and vegetables also should be stacked in a way to allow for ventilation . It goes without saying that , at best , cold storage will prolong but not improve the quality of perishable items . Even though properly refrigerated foods may remain bacteriologically safe for a remarkably long time , their culinary quality may not survive . Among the dairy products , fluid milk assumes off-flavors readily . Among the meats , lamb , pork , and poultry do not take kindly to prolonged storage , whereas aged beef may be held for 5 ? 7 days , and fresh beef even longer . Eggs , when stored at the proper temperature and relative humidity , will keep fresh remarkably long . At room temperatures , egg quality deteriorates quickly . It is , therefore , a deplorable procedure to hold eggs issued in the morning for a day 's use in kitchens and bakeshops . Small refrigerator units should be installed in strategic areas of use , to receive and cold-store the eggs . Refrigerated fresh fish should be used within 24 hours if kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , icing should be employed . Since the keeping quality of fruits and vegetables is not as important from a public health point of view , it will not be discussed . Metal shelves are recommended for refrigerators . Sanitary care of the refrigerated storage areas involves frequent inspections of the food supplies and removal of items suspected of quality deterioration ; regular , if possible daily , cleaning of floors ; regular , if possible weekly , cleaning of other surfaces such as walls and shelving . For cleaning shelves , which have direct contact with the food , hot water , soap , a brush , and " elbow grease " are recommended , followed by a thorough rinse with hot water containing baking soda .  | CONTAMINATION OF INGREDIENTS AND MENU ITEMS IN THE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT The conditions and practices which may lead to microbial contamination of food items on the premises of a food service establishment are so manifold that only the main sources of contamination and the more frequently indicted practices will be discussed . The sources of contamination which are of interest from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat arbitrarily , as primary and secondary . The primary sources as the term is used here , are more or less identical with the reservoirs of foodborne pathogens discussed in Chapters V , VI , and VII ? namely , man , sewage , soil , water , air , rodents , insects , and the food supply . The secondary sources include the equipment and utensils which are used in the preparation , service , and storage of food and the physical plant itself ? floors , walls , ceilings , and the like . Primary Sources of Contaminants Man The fact that the food handler is an important source of contamination in a food service establishment should be reiterated in spite of the fact that the human reservoir of pathogens capable of causing foodborne illnesses was discussed before ( Chapter V ) . Needless to say , the human reservoir is important whenever and wherever man handles food , be it in the processing plant , in shipment , in the kitchen , or in the dining room . It seems important to now take a closer look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from man to ingredients and menu items may take place in the food service establishment , with regard to applying this information to effective control measures available to the food service manager , supervisor , and food handler . Healthy man is known to be a potential source of Staphylococcus aureus , Salmonella , Clostridium perfringens , and fecal streptococci ( enterococci ) . The staphylococci are common inhabitants of his skin , nose , mouth , and throat , and may be easily transferred to food . This potential source is available throughout the working hours of the food handler . Every time his hands make contact with his body parts harboring the staphylococci , he contaminates the hands , and subsequently the food he touches . Direct transfer of these cocci from the respiratory tract to food is made when the food worker coughs and sneezes without covering his nose and mouth . If he uses his hands or a hankerchief to cover his mouth , the hands become contaminated and unless they are immediately washed , they serve as a vehicle of transmission for many foods . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food handler when he visits the toilet and does not thoroughly wash his hands before returning to work . Pathogens of intestinal origin which are capable of causing foodborne illnesses include the salmonellae , the fecal streptococci , Clostridium perfringens , and some strains of Escherichia coli . After washing his hands the worker may easily recontaminate them if he touches soiled clothing , faucets , linen towels , doorknobs , and the like . Kespiratory as well as intestinal disorders are frequent causes of illness . Food handlers returning to work shortly after recovery from these disorders are likely to be especially rich reservoirs of the pathogens for a while . The personal habits , also called " hand habits , " of the food handler have a great deal to do with the chances of transfer of contaminants from person to food . These hand habits refer to involuntary movements of the hands , such as scratching the skin , rubbing the nose , smoothing or arranging the hair , touching the clothing , and the like . Funk ( 1955 ) made a revealing study of certain habits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of food . Habits believed to present sanitary hazards were under scrutiny . They were : restroom procedures , including washing hands after visiting the toilet ; washing hands before reporting to work and before returning to work after meals and coffee breaks ; and washing hands after touching body parts . Also studied were certain working habits in the preparation of sandwiches and salads , in portioning desserts ,  | in handling prepared foods , and in dishwashing . Observations were made in three units of a university food service and of a local luncheon counter . It was found that employees who executed a variety of duties had more undesirable habits than employees doing specific jobs . The employees of the lunch counter operation performed more undesirable acts than the employees of the college food service . On warm days , body parts were touched more frequently ; in particular , the hair was brushed away from the face . Length of service of the employee was not a factor affecting the performance of undesirable habitual acts . Busy persons had less time for these undesirable habits . Hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of work . The opportunities for contamination of hands are endless and can not possibly be enumerated . Examples are : picking up a dangling shoe lace which needs to be tied , recovering a potholder from the floor , reaching into a drain which need 's to be unplugged , and countless similar occasions where contact is first made with unsanitary articles and surfaces and then with food . That foods themselves can be reservoirs of undesirable pathogens was discussed in previous chapters ; handling of certain foods likely to bear pathogens may also lead to contamination . The bacterial flora of the hands of food service employees has been analyzed by Horwood and Minch ( 1951 ) . Thirty-four food handlers were selected at random from 22 public eating places in Boston and Cambridge , Massachusetts . These establishments included cafeterias , lunchrooms , restaurants , and drugstores . No attempt was made to trace the origin of the bacteria . It is therefore likely that some bacteria were derived from the food that was handled . Extremely large numbers of bacteria were isolated . Among these , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovered frequently . The results of this study showed up a dire need for education and supervision in matters of personal hygiene . The smoking habit , from a sanitation point of view , may represent a potential danger because of possible transfer of saliva to the hands of the smoker . Also , when a cigarette is laid down on surfaces which are used in food preparation , the saliva will contaminate the surfaces with organisms originating in the human respiratory system . The habit of tasting food from cooking utensils is an unsanitary one , because the taster will inoculate his mouth flora , which is apt to contain staphylococci , into food . This tasting habit is not only esthetically undesirable but potentially dangerous , especially when  | it concerns food which will not be heated or sufficiently reheated to destroy the organisms transferred . Rodents and Insects Rodents and insects are a menace to areas where food is stored and prepared . The danger of contamination with pathogens has been fully discussed in an earlier chapter . Rodents and insect pests have been known to contaminate food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have been known to contaminate menu items left in inappropriate places to cool ; counters , equipment , utensils and working surfaces ; in brief , almost anything left unprotected . Opportunity for entrance and subsequent activities of these pests is afforded wherever and whenever access from the outside exists . The importance of the exclusion of vermin from all areas where food is stored , prepared , and served can not be overemphasized . Soil Soil is carried into the food establishment on man 's clothing , especially his shoes . Soil may be blown in through doors and windows as dust . It may reach the kitchen by adhering to certain foods like celery , root vegetables , and potatoes . Depending on its source , soil may contain almost any microorganisms and parasites , including pathogens causing foodborne illnesses , especially spores , since these remain viable in soil for long periods of time . Reports of outbreaks involving food items , such as pudding , which were allowed to cool in dusty and drafty hallways , have indicted soil as the source of the contaminants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contaminated by soil . Hands which pick up things from the floor become contaminated with soil . McKillop ( 1959 ) , who made a study of the bacterial contamination of food in a hospital over a period of 2% years , found that cooked cold chicken was frequently contaminated with fairly large numbers of Clostridium perfringens ( welchii ) and gave as the probable source kitchen dust . Hobbs ( 1960 ) has stated that Clostridium welchii ( perfringens ) spores can be routinely cultured from kitchen floors . Water As was pointed out in an earlier chapter , the municipal water supply of our cities is , in general , excellent . However , the dangers involved in the use of water from unknown sources are great .  | Contaminated water will contaminate food either directly or by way of hands , equipment , utensils , and the like . If , in an emergency , water must be transported from an approved source to a food service establishment , it is important that contamination be avoided from unsanitary containers and through unsanitary methods of handling . The local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a supply of nonpotable water may be available by permission of the health authorities for special purposes such as fire protecton and air conditioning . Such water is not intended as a food , and if it is used in connection with food or drink it may serve as a source of contamination . Air Adequate ventilation is essential in a food service establishment , be it in the areas of food preparation , service , or storage . If adequately installed and well maintained , the ventilation system reduces condensation , which would otherwise be apt to promote microbial growth on walls and other surfaces . Contaminated water in the form of condensed droplets may fall into food and onto surfaces used in food preparation . Ill-designed and ill-maintained ventilating systems , however , may cause a sanitary hazard in that they permit accumulation of condensates and grease which may contaminate food and working surfaces . Faulty intake air ducts or ducts poorly maintained may admit contaminating materials such as dust , dirt , and insects . Sewage At first glance it must seem shocking that sewage is even mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and storage . Unfortunately , sewage is known to have caused serious illness and gastroenteric foodborne outbreaks which originated in food service establishments . Plumbing , either improperly installed or ill-maintained , has given rise to a variety of troubles , such as crossconnections , back siphonage , overhead leakage , and drainage system stoppage . Due to faulty plumbing , sewage has contaminated water , food , equipment , and utensils . In basement storage areas , leaky overhead plumbing is a frequent source of trouble . In areas where a nonwater-carried sewage system is used , improper disposal of sewage may cause havoc in many ways , but mainly by contaminating the water supply and by attracting flies which in turn disseminate pathogens . Fortunately , nonwater-carried   sewage systems are rarely used in connection with food service establishments , and if they are , they must have the approval of the health authorities . Food Supply Cross-contamination may occur from raw to cooked foods in the storage area and kitchen . In the discussion of the various food groups it was brought out that foods may carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the food 's natural flora or a flora acquired during processing , transport , storage , or other handling . Of special concern to the food service manager are the foods which are known to be potential bearers of microorganisms capable of causing foodborne illness . Even if these foods are basically clean , wholesome , from sources which are approved or considered satisfactory by the health authorities , and safe for human consumption , a potential danger still exists . To recognize and accept the fact that certain foods are potential sources of food-poisoning organisms is the first step to successfully dealing with the problem , since the contamination of cooked food with microorganisms from raw food has been the frequent cause of gastroenteric episodes . Foods of Animal Origin In the preceding chapters the flora of the food supply has been discussed in detail and the reader is referred back for information regarding the contaminants to be expected from specific food items . Among the foods of animal origin , meats and poultry stand out as important sources of contaminants capable of causing foodborne illnesses . These foods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various strains of Salmonella , Clostridium perfringens , fecal streptococci , and to a lesser degree , Staphylococcus aureus . Naturally , all foods touched by human hands may at sometune become contaminated with S. aureus and many comminuted meats , such as hamburger , are so contaminated . COI A ) STORAGE Uncooked animal foods are usually stored in separate refrigerators . This is a good practice since contaminants present on the meats are thus " kept to themselves . " When refrigerator space is limited and no provision exists for the separation of raw meats and cooked items , the chances for crosscontamination are greater . However , only the refrigerator which is  | poorly managed and ill-maintained will allow for such cross-contamination . The bacteria do not spread through the air to other substrates , rather , cross-contamination is usually performed by pieces of meat or other food which happen to drop into unprotected , uncovered items . Undersides and rims of containers , soiled racks , used covers transferred from one item to another , may contain particles of food harboring bacteria which may serve as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw meats are handled , like in cutting , chopping , shaping and portioning , the hands of the food handler , his clothing , the working surfaces and equipment , all may become contaminated with the bacterial flora of the meat . In cases of trichina-infested pork , the trichinae may be spread to cooked food items . The literature abounds with examples of foodborne illnesses traced to the contamination of cutting boards with bacteria - salmonellae , in particular ? and also with enterococci and Clostridium perfringens . Grinders , cutters , and similar equipment are frequently indicated , and so are wooden pushers for grinders . Kitchen practices which allow raw foods to come in contact with cooked food , either directly or by way of contaminated equipment , may lead to trouble . Cooked foods are sterile ; when seeded with an inoculum of food-poisoning bacteria , the stage is set for this inoculum to find a medium particularly attractive because it is devoid of competitors . In the case of trichinae , no multiplication will occur ; however , a wholesome cooked product can be rendered contaminated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many large food service establishments raw meats and poultry are handled in an area completely separate from the area where cooked foods are handled and the portioned meats are delivered to the kitchen ready to be cooked . The cutting , chopping , cubing , and slicing operations are carried out by employees who use implements solely reserved for this purpose . Meat-cutting areas which are air conditioned to low temperatures have the additional benefit of discouraging bacterial multiplication during the cutting operations . This is the ideal situation , but unfortunately not always possible , certainly not in small food service establishments . Therefore , it is very important for the operators , managers , and supervisors to fully understand and appreciate the potential dangers of cross-contamination from raw meats to cooked ingredients and menu items , and to pass the information on to their employees . They should either provide equipment and working surfaces which make possible  | complete separation of raw and cooked items , or enforce rigorous rules regarding sanitation of contaminated surfaces and equipment . If raw meats and poultry must be handled in the kitchen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be followed : washing hands following contact with raw meats ; using separate cutting blocks or boards ; and thoroughly cleaning and sanitizing chopping blocks or boards , grinders , choppers , knives , and other implements immediately after use . Cooked ingredients or menu items that have been contaminated and are not promptly reheated or cooled are a real health hazard . Foods of Plant Origin COLD STORAGE Uncooked plant materials such as fruits and vegetables should be stored in a separate refrigerator , if at all possible . If limited space prevents a complete separation , meticulous separation within the refrigerator is necessary so that cooked items will not be contaminated with the bacterial flora clinging to the plant material . FOOD PREPARATION AREA Most food service establishments have a separate area for the cleaning of fruits and vegetables and for processes such as peeling and chopping . In establishments where such physical separation is not possible , meticulous housekeeping practices are indicated to avoid cross-contamination . When raw vegetables are combined with an otherwise finished menu item which has received its terminal heat treatment , contaminants may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are killed by reheating the item , they will remain viable and may even multiply , temperature and time permitting . One example of a vegetable which is frequently added to a menu item " as the last thing , " is parsley . Nuts are another ingredient frequently incorporated into finished menu items . Still another example is lettuce which could serve as a source of contaminants for u salad or sandwich filling . Leaf lettuce is an especially good source of soilborne bacteria because of its open structure which provides excellent chances for contamination with soil through splashing rains . Multiplication of the contaminant would , of course , depend on the Muitability of the substrate for bacterial activity and on prevailing temperatures . Actually , in this country , the dangers from contaminants of vegetable origin are less acute than those associated with foods of animal origin .  | Secondary Sources of Contaminants Equipment and Utensils Material , design , construction , and state of repair are all of sanitary importance in equipment , large and small . In large floormounted equipment , installation plays a role also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not easily accessible to cleaning . Equipment and utensils made of materials difficult to clean or so designed and constructed that thorough cleaning is inconvenient , are not apt to be cleaned regularly and thoroughly , and are therefore important sources of contamination in a food service establishment . But even equipment of sanitary construction and good cleanability may become a hazard if it is not maintained in a sanitary condition . Bacterial populations may build up to large numbers on first-rate equipment if this is not thoroughly and regularly cleaned . Cleanability of equipment generally depends on first , the nature of the material used in construction and second , the general construction features and the ease with which the equipment is taken apart for cleaning purposes . Examples of materials of poor wearability and sanitary quality are galvanized steel and iron , since the galvanized part wears off easily and soil gathers in its place . Wood , although light and popular as a chopping surface , does absorb and hold moisture , thus allowing penetration of bacteria ; it is difficult to clean , especially when cracks are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutting surfaces and wooden pushers for grinders are still used a great deal in food preparation . The combination of wood and meat is very dangerous because meats and poultry are apt to be contaminated with microorganisms capable of causing foodborne illnesses and the contaminants may easily be spread to the next item by way of wooden surfaces . They may also multiply on the board to enormous numbers , and there is danger that since the cells continue to multiply on the meat juices and food remnants , they would be especially efficient contaminants because their lag phase would be brief and they would continue without interruption as soon as they landed in the new substrate . General construction is considered poor if it does not permit easy cleaning of the equipment and its immediate surrounding . Examples are : large equipment poorly sealed to the floor ; ill-fitting panels ; poorly fitted steps and legs , drawers , and racks ; fixed equipment too closely mounted to the wall ; spouts that come out at an angle and do not empty effectively ; ineffective draws ; poorly fitted  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rivet heads , and other irregular protrusions that make direct contact with the food ; food slicers , cutters , and grinders that are difficult to disassemble and reassemble ; hollow handles on all kinds of utensils and equipment ; ill-constructed rims of pots and pans ; and seams which are rough or open and allow food particles to collect . In brief , all places where food particles may collect and where bacteria and vermin may feed . The National Sanitation Foundation of Ann Arbor , Michigan , has been instrumental in stimulating interest in , and in giving directions regarding , the sanitary aspects of the design , construction , and installation of food service equipment . This organization is noncommercial and nonprofit . It conducts and sponsors research in order to form a basis for the establishment of minimum sanitation standards for equipment that are generally acceptable to health authorities . Certain human traits aggravate the situation concerning the sanitary maintenance of equipment . Many cooks tend to be jealous of their small equipment such as knives , whips , and other small pieces ; they tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hidden when not in use . Thus , these implements may escape the regular washing and sanitizing treatments . Stauffer ( 1964 ) has rightly pointed out that many cooks become so attached to certain implements like knives that they will use them to the last , even when the handles are held together with string or tape and are no longer cleanable . Another common and undesirable kitchen habit is to forget about the periodic cleaning of certain equipment which is used by a number of persons during a workday , such as can openers and cutting boards . Can openers provided in connection with vended , canned foods represent a potential health hazard unless appropriate preventative provisions are made . More will be said about vending problems in Chapters X and XIII . Floors , Walls , Ceilings Floors that are smooth and properly constructed are easily cleaned , whereas rough and absorbent floors are not . Especially in the food food preparation area and in walk-in refrigerators where spilling may occur , an absorbent floor is a potential hiding and feeding place for bacteria which have gained entrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effort is made toward that end . Floors originally smooth but in ill repair are a source of contamination for the same reason . Floors subjected to fluid wastes from cooking kettles and  | improperly drained may be a feeding ground for bacteria as well as insect pests . Similarly , walls and ceilings which are rough or in a poor state of repair may harbor bacteria . Staphylococcus aureus , for example , may survive on such surfaces and contaminate food from these secondary sources . Floors , walls , and ceilings of poor basic construction are almost impossible to keep sanitary . However , even smooth structures are sources of undesirable contaminants unless they have regular and effective cleaning and repair . Other places where contaminants may lodge are window sills , skylights , transoms , light fixtures , beams , rafters , joints , and the like . Kitchen and refrigerator shelves are of special importance as sources of contaminants for cooked foods . The significance of sanitary construction and effective maintenance will be discussed further in Chapter X. Control measures include , first , understanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances for multiplication , and an appreciation of the role of every employee in reducing the dangers of undesirable bacterial activity in the food service establishment ; and second , meticulous housekeeping at every step of food preparation , service , and storage . If management fails to provide adequate sanitizing facilities for equipment used in food preparation , if no directions are given for sanitary maintenance , and supervision is lacking , the employees lose interest in maintaining high standards . Inadequate facilities and lack of interest on the part of any management induce dissatisfaction and fatigue in employees , and the food service employee is no exception in this respect .  | CONTROL : PRINCIPLES PERTAINING TO , AND MEASURES DIRECTED AT , PREVENTING CONTAMINATION OF COOKED INGREDIENTS AND MENU ITEMS IN THE AREAS OF PREPARATION , SERVICE , AND STORAGE In previous chapters ( V , VI , VII ) the reservoirs of pathogens causing foodborne illnesses were discussed , and in a subsequent chapter ( IX ) possibilities for contamination to occur in the food establishment were scrutinized regarding both sources of contaminants and practices which aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storage . The primary sources of contaminants of public health significance in connection with quantity food service are man , animals , sewage , soil , and certain foods ; the secondary sources are equipment , utensils , and the food service premises themselves . In the Food Service Sanitation Manual of the Public Health Service ( U.S. PHS , 1962 ) it is stated that for appropriate food protection " all food being stored , prepared , displayed , served , or sold at food service establishments , or during transportation between such establishments , shall be protected from contamination . " Control of Primary Sources of Contaminants Man : The Food Handler Attributes in a food handler which are important in connection with food sanitation are his health , cleanliness , and willingness to  | learn . Good health reduces the chances for the food handler to be a dangerous reservoir of pathogens ; cleanliness reduces the chances of spreading bacteria of which he may be a source ; and his willingness to learn about sanitation in the food service department and his role in it is a prerequisite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A food service employee should not be on duty when he has an acute form of communicable disease , or while he is a carrier . The acute form is likely to be noticed by the supervisor , whereas the carrier escapes notice ; the person who is a carrier appears healthy . Either the ill person or the carrier is a menace in the food service department in that he may transmit the disease to other employees and to customers through direct contact or through food which he has contaminated . Food may serve in the capacity of a mere vehicle of transmission ( Chapter III ) , in the same manner as doorknobs , money , and the like ; or it may serve as a medium in which certain pathogens can multiply to enormous numbers , if conditions permit , causing outbreaks of food infections and food poisonings ( Chapter IV ) . In the Food Service Manual of the Public Service ( U.S. PHS , 1962 the following recommendation is made : No person while affected with any disease in a communicable form , or while a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , infected wounds , sores , or an acute respiratory infection , shall work in any area of a food service establishment in any capacity in which there is a likelihood of such person contaminating food or food contact surfaces with pathogenic organisms , or transmitting disease to other individuals ; and no person known or suspected of being affected with any such disease or condition shall be employed in such an area or capacity . If the manager or person in charge of the establishment has reason to suspect that any employee has contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of such disease , he shall notify the health authority immediately . CONTINUOUS WATCHFULNESS When a food handler is hired , he should come with a clean bill of health . This may or may not be supported by a statement from a physician . The medical checkup would show that the worker is not suffering from a communicable disease and is not a carrier at the time of the check . However , this clean bill of health would not prevent him from acquiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to get some protection by requiring periodic medical checkups of their food handlers . It seems desirable to require regular , frequent , fecal examinations of food  | handlers in geriatric institutions and hospitals , since salmonellosis is known to occur frequently in such institutions . The very young , the old , and the enfeebled are seemingly more susceptible to salmonellosis than the public at large . The efficacy of periodic checkups can not be a complete safeguard , however . The U.S. Public Health Service in the 1962 Recommendations ( Food Service Sanitation Manual , Section H ) takes the stand that " pre-employment and periodic medical examinations of food service establishment employees are not required by this ordinance . . . . " This puts the burden of keeping track of their employees ' health squarely on the shoulders of management . There simply is no substitute for continuous watchfulness on the part of the supervisor for signs of illness in his or her employees , coupled with cooperativeness on the part of the employee . It is the responsibility of the supervisor to see to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident , to verify with the attending physician the nature of the illness , and to not allow the patient to return to work until the infectious stage has passed . In case of communicable diseases which may render a patient a carrier , his return may be delayed a long time . It is the responsibility of the food handler to aid the supervisor in this endeavor . Some illnesses , such as intestinal illnesses , have symptoms not readily evident to other persons . Stauffer ( 1964 ) , who called attention to the importance of health-conscious food handlers , stated that absenteeism is commendable whenever a food service employee has a condition as small as an inflamed hangnail . The reader is referred to this excellent series of five articles on sanitation in hospital food service . Since the cooperation of the food handler is so very essential , he must be or become health conscious . His interest can be stimulated by education , and so can his motivation to contribute his part by not coming to work when afflicted with a contagious illness . As Stauffer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment practices , continuous attendance is highly rewarded and absenteeism is frowned upon . There is also the fear of the employee of losing pay because of days missed and fear of being removed from the job . His motivation to cooperate toward the goal of high sanitary standards is indeed handicapped by these fears and probably additional ones . The dietitian , food manager , or supervisor has the responsibility to instill in employees a health consciousness which will overcome such fears .  | Cleanliness Cleanliness and clean personal  --  habits are extremely important in food- handlers . They are not only desirable for esthetic reasons , but they are absolutely basic to sanitary food handling . PERSONAL HABITS It has been said before , and must be reiterated here , that even the healthy person may carry microorganisms of public health significance on and in his body . These microbes , when allowed to contaminate food and multiply , may cause serious foodborne illnesses in persons who consume this food . These facts have been discussed in detail in Chapters III and IV . Clean hair , skin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of food with the microbial flora for which the food handler is the primary source as well as a " middleman , " since his hands and garments may , of course , spread microbes from other sources also . Sneezes and coughs may spread pathogens in two ways , directly through the air and indirectly through the hands . It is therefore mandatory that the mouth and nose be protected when coughing and sneezing to avoid the direct transmission of germ-laden droplets to food , food preparation surfaces , and equipment ; it is also mandatory to subsequently wash hands thoroughly . Every use of the handkerchief should be followed by washing of hands , whether the handkerchief was previously used or not . Every trip to the toilet should be terminated by thorough washing of hands . In the Public Health Service Food Service Sanitation Manual ( U.S. PHS , 1962 ) this recommendation is made : All employees shall wear clean outer garments , maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness , and conform to hygienic practices while on duty . They shall wash their hands thoroughly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often as may be necessary to remove soil and contamination . No employee shall resume work after visiting the toilet room without first washing his hands . HANDWASHING Facilities for washing hands should be provided in dressing rooms , near the toilet room , and in the kitchen and the service area . A sink used in food preparation is not the place to wash hands . Many food service establishments lack a sufficient number of separate handwashing sinks in the kitchen , or lack them altogether in the food  | preparation area . Sanitation education can not succeed if provisions are not made for practicing what is preached . The importance of washing hands and cleaning nails can not be overrated . Management has an obligation to provide handwashing facilities in strategic points , thus making it convenient for the food handler to do the frequent hand cleaning required in his job . Hands should be washed before starting work , after the coffee break , after smoking , after visiting the toilet , and each time when hands have been soiled in work or by touching soiled surfaces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouth , and ears , and soiled clothing . As was discussed earlier , many persons perform certain involuntary movements with their hands , touching various body parts ; these are the so-called hand habits and their control is difficult but essential . Sinks for handwashing should be provided with warm water . If one faucet provides cold water , the other very hot , the cold will be preferable to most persons because of fear of getting scalded . Therefore , mixing valves providing warm water of 110 ? ? 120 ? F have been suggested by Stauffer ( 1964 ) . This same author recommends the use of soaps designed for handwashing in hospitals by physicians and nurses . USE OF TOBACCO The use of tobacco should be prohibited in the food preparation area , in the food service area , In storerooms , and in the area where dishes , pots , pans , and utensils are washed . Usually , certain areas are provided by management where the employees may smoke . Hands should be washed after smoking because they are apt to become contaminated with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if worn for more than one day , should be stored on the premises in clean lockers . Caps or nets should be used toprevent hair from contacting-food surfaces and the food . itself . Management is responsible for an adequate , clean place in which the employee may change and store his clothing . In many institutions , uniforms are provided ; in others , laundry service is available on the premises . It is , in general , undesirable to allow the worker to travel to his place of work in uniform , since the garments may become quite unsanitary enroute .   Education in Principles of Personal Hygiene Education in the principles of personal hygiene is basic to the success of a training program in food sanitation . Personal hygiene is what it says : personal . Interference with personal freedom is likely to arouse in almost everyone a feeling of resistance or even resentment , unless one understands and fully appreciates the reasons for the restrictions . Therefore , education in the principles of sanitation should precede or accompany actual training in " how-to-do-it " matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food sanitation will be presented in Chapter XIV . Man : The Customer The customer may contaminate displayed food ; therefore , displayed food must be protected from contact with him at all times . Wrapping food , when possible , will achieve that goal . Where unwrapped food is displayed , however , devices must be used which are effective in guarding food from customers ' hands , sneezes , or coughs and which are easily cleaned . Tongs , forks , spoons , or other devices suitable to allow the particular food to be picked up by the customer should be provided . Protection from hands and breath of customer should be exercised whenever a food item is subjected to possible contact and ensuing contamination . Animals Pets Pets , such as dogs and cats , may be rich sources of bacteria detrimental to public health , as was discussed previously ( Chapter V ) . The control of pathogens from pets is straightforward , in that pets absolutely must be kept out of all areas where food is stored , prepared , and served , except that guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted to the dining room area ( U.S. PHS , Food Service Sanitation Manual , 1962 ) . Persons who have handled pets should wash their hands and arms thoroughly before touching food . These precautions should be remembered when food is prepared in the home for community meal service . Rodents and Insects RODENTS The control of rats and mice is of great importance since rodents are hosts to many dangerous pathogens which they harbor in their  | intestinal tracts and carry on their feet and fur ( Chapter V ) . Among these pathogens are salmonellae which are capable of causing outbreaks of foodborne infections in man . In principle , rats and mice must be kept out of the food service department including storage rooms , kitchen , bakeshop , pantry , dining room , and garbage-storage rooms . The all-out important control measure is to effectively protect all openings to the outside against the entrance of rodents . Conditions of the building that may permit entrance include : windows near the ground ; ventilation grills ; holes in floors , walls , ceilings , especially near pipe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor or threshold . The control measures consist of screening windows and ventilation grills , sealing openings with cement and/or metal plates or strips , and making doors flush with the floor threshold . Further control measures require that harboring places where mice and rats might find temporary refuge should be eliminated . Such harboring places include unused crates , boxes , and rubbish piles . Good housekeeping practices should prevent these items from accumulating during the day , and inspection should be made each evening to assure that no such trash is being left around during the night . Needless to say , food should never be left out during the night . Garbage should be protected from rodents at all times . Eradication of rodents which have entered should be performed by an experienced professional exterminator . The local health authority should be consulted for advice . Directions for the use of sanitation in the control of rodents have been given by Johnson ( 1960 ) . Control methods against rodents are also discussed by Bjornson ( 1960 ) . Information on rodent-proof methods of construction is made available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgia . INSECTS Insects , especially flies and cockroaches , are pests most undesirable in any food service establishment . They must not be allowed in areas where food is stored , prepared , and served . Unfortunately , cockroaches sometimes enter hidden in crates and in other food containers and wrappings . Basic to effective control of insect pests is an understanding of their life cycles and feeding habits . The reader is referred to Chapter V for information , as well as to publications cited at the end of Chapters  | The control measures directed against insect pests should include , first , preventing these animals from entering the areas where food is stored , prepared , and served and where garbage is stored and , second , eradicating the specimens which have gained entrance to these areas . Some insects can be kept out by screening windows , skylights , transoms , doors , vents , and other openings to the outside , provided the screening is sufficiently dense for the exclusion of the smaller specimens . Screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch are recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Screened and other doors should be self-closing . Cockroaches may enter also through cracks in walls and floors . Therefore , control measures must include the elimination of such entering places . Frequent harboring and feeding grounds for cockroaches are places where large equipment such as steam-jacketed kettles is in poor contact with the floor or base . Food particles and moisture are apt to collect in cracks and crevices , providing food and drink , in addition to shelter , for the roaches . Through frequent inspection , such roach harbors must be located and appropriate action taken . These consist of sealing off cracks and crevices and eradicating the insect population . There is no doubt that constant vigilance in maintaining high standards of basic sanitation is an extremely important measure in the effective control of all vermin . Through effective basic sanitation , a buildup to large populations is prevented by depriving the insects of food , drink , and shelter , their three basic needs . Whenever it is necessary to chemically eradicate insect pests present in a food service establishment , a professional exterminator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority will he helpful . Besides flies and cockroaches , numerous other insects are apt to invade the food service department and cause a nuisance . Although these may not be as important as bearers of pathogenic bacteria as flies and cockroaches , they can not be ruled out as disease carriers , and they can cause economic losses . Moths , weevils , and beetles are insects often associated with dry foods such as flour , cereals , and dried fruit . They are typical pests of the " dry storage " area . Frequent inspection is necessary to prevent a buildup in population . Infestation can be recognized not only by the presence of the insects themselves but also by the fruits of their activities such as webbing , clumped-together food particles , holes in beans , holes in packaging , insect feces , and so forth .  | Efforts should be made to ( 1 ) prevent infestation of the storage area by way of infested goods entering the area , although this is difficult when large shipments come in ; ( 2 ) regularly and frequently inspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food to contaminated containers ( in principle , food should be left in the original containers ; if transfer is made , the previously infested container must be washed and sanitized ) ; ( 4 ) avoid spills onto the floor , and immediately gather spilled food and place it in covered containers or completely remove it from the area ; ( 5 ) regularly and frequently clean under bins , sacks , and other containers in which food materials are stored ( Chapter VIII ) ; and ( 6 ) if at all feasible , practice careful temperature control . Refrigerated storage provides excellent protection since none of the insect pests remain active at these low temperatures . In food service operations where refrigeration facilities are used for dry foods , items such as cereals , cocoa , chocolate , dried beans , powdered milk , dried fruit , nuts , and the like can be successfully stored for prolonged periods without risking losses caused by the activities of insects . Control of insects in a food service establishment has been discussed by Johnson ( 1960 ) , Scott and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A leaflet by the Entomology Research Division of the Agricultural Research Service ( 1962 ) deals with cockroaches and their control . GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION IN THE CONTROL OF VERMIN Because of the great importance of environmental sanitation in the control of vermin , the following points need to be reemphasized : 1 ) Rats , mice , flies , and cockroaches , to mention the most important pests , are attracted to food and odors from food regardless of whether the food is fresh or whether it is beginning to decay , as may be the case when garbage is stored . 2 ) These vermin are also attracted to human feces and unsanitary toilets . 3 ) Basic sanitation serves rodent control as well as insect control : a . Incoming produce must be kept covered , preferably in a screened area . The area must be kept clean from spills and wastes . b . Empty containers , crates , boxes , and the like must be disposed of frequently and regularly , and never left accessible to vermin overnight . c . Garbage and rubbish must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials which do not absorb odors , do not corrode , and are easily cleaned . The  | containers should not leak . Garbage and rubbish cans should be covered with tight lids , unless they are stored in waste refrigerators or in vermin- and odor-proof rooms . Garbage should be removed frequently . Garbage containers should be thoroughly cleaned using special brushes and be decontaminated using hot ( 180 ? F ) water or steam . d . Food waste grinders must be installed in accordance with the regulations of the state and local health authorities , be suitably constructed , and be operated properly to prevent insanitary conditions in the food preparation area . e . Toilet facilities must be kept immaculately clean and in excellent working order . f . The floors and equipment in the areas where food is stored , prepared , and served should be maintained in a state of excellent repair and cleanliness . Regular inspection and cleaning schedules and efficient methods of cleaning are basic sanitary measures which will deprive vermin of shelter , food , and drink . Sewage , Water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Facilities SEWAGE DISPOSAL Sewage is one of the most dangerous sources of human pathogens ( Chapter V ) and should not make any contact whatever with food , drink , equipment , utensils , and any other surfaces which make contact with food . Therefore , sanitary sewage disposal is a prerequisite for good food sanitation . Sanitary sewage disposal should prevent the contamination of the ground and the water supply ; it should also preclude access of rodents and flies to human feces . Proper sewage disposal is apt to be of special concern to those who operate temporary food service establishments . To prevent serious hazards from improper sewage disposal the U.S. Public Health Service recommends in the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( 1962 ) that " All sewage shall be disposed of in a public sewerage system , or , in the absence thereof , in a manner approved by the health authority . " In compliance with the above regulations set up by the Public Health Service , the following requirements should be met , as stated in the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( U.S. PHS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) All water-carried sewage shall be disposed of by means of : ( a ) A public sewerage system ; or  | ( b ) An approved sewage disposal system which is constructed and operated in conformance with applicable State and local laws , ordinances , and regulations . b . Non-Water-Carried Sewage : * ( 1 ) Non-water-carried sewage-disposal facilities shall not be used , except where water-carried disposal methods have been determined by the health authority to be impractical . Under such conditions , only facilities which have been approved by the health authoritiy shall be used , and operation of these facilities shall be in conformance with applicable state and local laws , ordinances , and regulations . PLUMBING Proper and sanitary plumbing is extremely important in food sanitation . If plumbing is not properly installed or is not properly maintained , serious troubles will ensue . Among these , back siphonage , stoppages , and cross-connections with the water system have frequently caused contamination in the food preparation and storage areas , with serious consequences . Leakage of sewer pipes is another common problem which must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faulty sewerage plumbing , the U.S. Public Health Service states in the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( 1962 ) : Plumbing shall be so sized , installed , and maintained as to carry adequate quantities of water to required locations throughout the establishment ; as to prevent contamination of the water supply ; as to properly convey sewage and liquid wastes from the establishment to the sewerage or sewage-disposal system ; and so that it does not constitute a source of contamination of food , equipment , or utensils , or create an insanitary condition of nuisance . The recommendation for compliance with these regulations is that all plumbing should conform to applicable State and local plumbing laws , regulations , and ordinances . There are also specific recommendations concerning drains from dishwashers , steam kettles , refrigerating units , and vegetable peelers , in that these drains should be prevented from causing back flow of sewerage or flooding of floors . The latter trouble is a common one in some basements . Unfortunately , storage rooms are also frequently located in basements and may become subjected to flooding which contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the appropriate solutions to problems arising in connection with the sanitary aspects of plumbing .  | TOILET FACILITIES Toilets must be of sanitary design , maintained in good working order , used properly , and kept in clean condition . Insanitary toilet facilities attract flies and other insects ; they also are a hazard to clothing and hands of the food handler using the facility . Management has a responsibility to see to it that toilets are adequate in number , construction , and maintenance . The following regulations are stated in the Food Service Sanitation Manual ( U.S. PHS , 1962 ) : Each food-service establishment shall be provided with adequate , conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees . Toilet fixtures shall be of sanitary design and readily cleanable . Toilet facilities , including rooms and fixtures , shall be kept in a clean condition and in good repair . The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self-closing . Toilet tissues shall be provided . Easily cleanable receptacles shall be provided for waste materials , and such receptacles in toilet rooms for women shall be covered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the health authority , such facilities shall be separate from the establishment . When toilet facilities are provided for patrons , such facilities shall meet the requirements of this subsection . In compliance with these regulations , the Public Health Service has suggested that the following requirements be met : ( 1 ) that toilet facilities be conveniently located and accessible to the employees at all times ; ( 2 ) that they conform to applicable state and local regulations , ordinances and laws , or be approved by the health authority ; ( 3 ) that the design of stools and urinal be sanitary ; ( 4 ) that the toilet rooms be completely enclosed and have tight-fitting , self-closing doors ; ( 5 ) that the maintenance of toilets pertain to repair and regular cleaning of rooms and fixtures , control of odors , constant supply of toilet paper , and provision for waste receptacles ; and ( 6 ) that provision be made for hand-washing facilities such as sinks , warm water , and adequate supply of soap , paper towels , and waste receptacles . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment shall be provided with adequate , conveniently located hand-washing facilities for its employees , including a lavatory or lavatories equipped with hot and cold or tempered running water , handcleansing soap or detergent , and approved sanitary towels or other approved hand-drying devices . Such facilities shall be kept clean and in good repair . Knee-operated faucets are more sanitary than hand-operated faucets . In principle foot-operated faucets should be sanitary also . However , cleaning of the area between the foot pedal and the floor is inconvenient and apt to be slighted.                     