@@773935

txt Deadly Logic Thus game-theoretic analysis quite obviously falsifies the manner in which decisions are often made in realworld political contexts . Conceivably this could be a minor criticism , however . Those deterrence theorists who invoke game theory for their purposes ? none of whom , I assume , really believes that human behavior is ideally " rational " ? might have in mind that in a situation of all-out nuclear war or the threat of it , the disparities between the different values involved are so immense , and the likeliest course of behavior for both sides so obvious , that one can assume the possibility of a fairly high level of " rational " behavior being achieved , This would be to say that the axiomatic structure of game theory has one real-world analogue in times of drastic international military crisis , if at no other times . But even if we for the moment make this heroic assumption , we soon find out that the assumption of rationality creates no greater a disparity between the game-theoret is universe and the real political world than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We may see this by taking a close look at some examples of do . terrence theorizing that have seemed to be strengthened by reference to game theory . Perhaps the most striking instance occurs in Oskar Morgenstern 's The Question of National Defense . Unlike some other deterrence theorists , Morgenstern has ex. illicitly cast himself in the role of a Cassandra . Yet at a few key junctures it is extremely difficult to dissociate Prophecy from theory in his work on defense policy , and not merely because of his association with von Neumann . Thus in The Question of National Defense we come acre s$ the following at a crucial point in the argument : 100 Game Theory and Nation The parallelism of these efforts with what goes on in games such as poker is apparent . One should therefore expect that an understanding of these games would be helpful . This is the domain of the mathematical theory of games of strategy . It has , indeed , produced rules of behavior which are directly applicable to military problems of the kind outlined here . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later . . . ( cf. , p. .8 ) . The important point to make at this juncture is that each side will have to choose that strategy which is optimal for him in the sense that it is his best action no matter what the other side can do to hurt him.14 1f the reader then turns to p. 78 , for the " fundamental lesson " drawn from the theory of games , he will discover phis : The principle that in view of modern technology it is in the interest of the United States for Russia to have an invulnerable retaliatory force and vice versa sounds para-doxical . It is , however , possible to give a rigorous proof . The argument is complicated and difficult ; it makes use of notions of the mathematical theory of games of strategy . . . . Leaving these statements aside , we can argue on an intuitive basis ... . In three other places in the text , each involving some key point about the nature and feasibility of deterrence , Morgenstern states the relevance of game theory in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Sunday Times Magazine Section entitled I'Cold War Is Cold Poker , " in which Morgenstern issues popularized clarion call for more familiarity by Ameri-uns with " games " of strategy.16 It is thus hardly accidental that if one mentions Morgenstern in casual conversation , one often finds him 101 Deadly Logic identified as the man who has helped provide a " theoretical " foundation for an optimal American defense policy . Perhaps this is not wholly Morgenstern 's doing , as he can not help his permanent association in educated minds with the idea of game theory . But if he had intended to discourage excessive reliance by his readers on such a notion of what he is proposing , he would certainly have done well at all costs to avoid the language I have quoted . And in fact it does not seem as though he wished to produce any other result , really : his book opens with the prefatory remark that " This book is based on a long and profound involvement with defense problems , ranging from the mathematical theory of strategy to the logistics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not tax Morgenstern with an explicit assertion that these two problem-solving techniques bear the same kind of relation to choice-making in national defense policy , but the implication is certainly there . The same kind of association between grand strategy and scientific theory that Kahn has postulated for systems analysis is claimed for game theory too . And yet , when we ask what a game-theoretic analysis can actually accomplish for deterrence theory , a different picture emerges . We may bring this true picture into sharp focus by asking what exactly is being claimed . The key word in Morgenstern 's discussion is " invulnerability . " If by his reference to invulnerability Morgenstern meant that one should adopt the strategy which assures that one will be unhurtable , the quoted statement would merely be trivial . But Morgenstern does not mean to be trivial nor to suggest that we need game theory to tell us to be stronger than our opponents in every possible way . What Morgenstern does mean to say , as 102 Game Theory and National Policy his discussion of " The Oceanic System " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy for a nation is the one which makes an attack on that nation most undesirable ? that is , which enhances its retaliatory capability . Morgenstern is not alone in associating this proposition with game theory . Although other analysts are more subtle than he , several of them have also made exactly the same kind of argument . Thomas Schelling has written , in his The Strategy of Conflict , an essay on " The reciprocal Fear of Surprise Attack " and a following essay on " Surprise Attack and Disarmament . " 18 The first is purely theoretical , the second entirely policyoriented . The subject of each is the same , though : the perils of a hostility system that is surprise-prone because of the vulnerability of one or both of the parties involved . In fact , one can see Schelling as giving , through an intensive study of different kinds of game situations , the " help " Morgenstern promised , that will show invulnerability to be the " best " posture in certain " games " of strategy . The argument of the theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be driven . . . to rely on arrangements that either observably blunt their own capacity for surprise or observably improve their own and each other 's warning system reliability . " 19 This argument is restated in the policy chapter to put the case for preferring deterrence plus arms control to general and complete disarmament ; as Schelling asks rhetorically : " Should we instead recognize measures to safeguard against surprise attack not as first steps toward disarmament but as an implicit acceptance of mutual deterrence ' as the best source of military stability we are likely to find . . . ? " 20 From a game-theoretic analysis , then , we generate the con-103 Deadly Logic elusion that invulnerability is the best posture we can buy , and may even ( as Schelling points out ) require increasing our participation in the arms race in order to produce greater " stability . " 21 Similarly Daniel Ellsberg ( now an official in the Department of Defense and a highly respected deterrence theorist ) has written a theoretical paper on deterrence , published originally by RAND.22 The conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , is that measures which simply enhance our first-strike capability con-trast poorly with measures " for reducing the vulner-ability of the retaliatory force " ; 23 the latter reduce the value to the Soviets of striking first as opposed to waiting for our first strike . This conclusion is presented , how-ever , through a discussion couched almost wholly in game-theoretic terminology , replete with matrices , utility function , payoff structures , etc . According to Ellsberg , he is not trying " to define a game ' corresponding to this schema , though the format might suggest that in-terpretation . . . . " But clearly a discussion carried on entirely in terms of a mathematized and deductively axiomatic probability-utility calculation makes such an interpretation unavoidable , let alone " suggests " it.24 As for Eilsberg 's view of the usefulness of his paper , it is clear that , as stated by the editor of a volume in which the paper appears : " The model is not intended to be rigorous but does provide a useful conceptual schema for analysis . " 25 Morgenstern and Schelling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that his discussion " may represent a minimum framework which is an advance over that implicit in much current discussion , " which , like Woh1stetter and Knorr , he too scorns : " Unfortunately , there has been a historical 104 Game Theory and National Policy tendency on the part of policy-makers to reject the aid of abstract frameworks of the present sort on the grounds that they are too simplistic , ' and then to make practical decisions on the basis of much cruder , implicit models . " 26 At a lower level of generalization , we note the related comments of Charles Hitch himself on the subject of defense against nuclear attack . " Suppose , " Hitch asks , " you have your defenses deployed as well as you can . Now you get more defenses . How do you deploy them ? " His answer is prefaced by the remark that his intuition at first told him that you would deploy the additional defenses to protect additional targets , but " game theory says no . You use additional defenses mainly to increase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as we shall see , it is fairly clear that Hitch is talking about defense against nuclear attacks , and his assumption appears to be that one 's " most valuable targets " ? by which he clearly means chiefly weapons sites ? should be as heavily defended as possible . Once more , then , " game theory " tells us to emphasize retaliatory capability . And yet , despite all this intellectual fire-power ? which is clearly the way semi-informed readers must see it ? one is forced to the conclusion that the admittedly important proposition about invulnerability and retaliation is not " proven " or " shown " in any way by game theory . Let us assume for the moment ( an assumption I shall shortly criticize ) that somehow a calculation of our values can be made : that we can have some fairly rigorous knowledge of the choice relevant Americans ? and Russians , etc. ? would make between surrender and destruction , war and peace , freedom and subjugation , and the various incremental steps toward any of these 105 Deadly Logic ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then talk seriously about our " utilities , " and we would be able to discriminate rigorously among various possible outcomes . Let us go on to imagine that for a given situation ? say , defense against a potential attack on the continental United States ? there are three alternative strategies available to the United States . Given all the information that must need go into such a calculation , we arrive at a description of the " game , " in which the strategy that promises to maximize our security level is one of the variants of the strategy of deterrence , as Morgenstern , Schelling , and Ellsberg conceive it . Have we now demonstrated that deterrence ( i.e. , maintenance of an " invulnerable " second-strike posture ) is our " best " strategy ? No , we have not . What we have demonstrated is merely that given certain conditional values for all possible ( non-negligible ) outcomes of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. conflict ( i.e. , our own best estimates of the gains or losses to us and them from each conditional outcome ) , a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning this statement turns out to have when we view it in the light of the nature of game theory . To begin with , let us consider the nature of strategic choice . A strategy , put simply , is a set of rules for making a choice among a series of alternatives , or of discrete choices among alternatives , where there is un-certainty about what conditions will be like when the decisions must be made. , Game theory , then , is the theory by which we arrive at appropriate rules ; if a game-theoretic analysis is complete , it will provide us with the rules for an appropriate response to every conceiv-able non-trivial alternative set of circumstances.28 A decision consisting of the adoption of a strategy always 106 Game Theory and National Policy contains a statement of the type : if he is going to do such and such , then I ought to do such and such . Strategies are therefore sets of contingent choices . An operational , or tactical choice , by contrast , 29 is the kind of choice we make in analyzing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order that we may know how to implement the strategy . ( Another way of putting this is to say that a strategy is merely a verbal instruction to one 's self ; an operational choice gives the verbal instruction physical content . ) A policy , finally , is a choice we initially make among values , or purposes : among , that is , the ends to be sought by means of appropriate strategies and tactics . Thus , in theory one may decide as a matter of policy to keep the lands of Southeast Asia free from Communist hegemony at whatever cost ; a strategy is then necessary to accomplish this end . One may then adopt , say , a " limited war strategy , " which tells one that in certain circumstances one will ( or will not ) enter a limited war situation to do this . The use of strategic bombing of North Vietnam then , may be a concrete operation shown by analysis to be necessary for the successful carrying out of the strategy . In the form I have so far chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , the choice of an appropriate strategy , and the choice of concrete means to implement the strategy , are each presumably a different and separate kind of decision . However , what the example should make obvious is that , as Charles Linblom among others has cogently argued , these various types of choices are often if not always inextricably intermingled.30 The policy of " containment " itself implies a strategy , and indeed might not even be adopted in the absence of assurances that a strategy 107 Deadly Logic appropriate to its implementation existed . In turn , what looks like a strategy may in another perspective really be a policy ; the strategy of limited war may originally commend itself in the form of a policy statement that the nation should not engage in unlimited wars except to defend its own substance . And most important , the tactic of , say , strategic bombing will in some contexts quite probably be seen by either ourselves or others as symbolizing , or eventually even compelling the inde-pendent adoption of a new strategy or a new policy ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement of a national purpose ( say , " victory " ) hitherto unstated , rather than the mere preference for a " technique . " These terms , then , can be distinguished only formally : " technical " problems of procedure can not be separated from prob-lems of strategic analysis , nor both from problems of political evaluation . Furthermore , to the extent that in politics what seem to be strategic or tactical choices always involve policy considerations , the game theorist as decision-maker is faced with an additional problem . He would have to be prepared to supply not only an evaluative analysis of possible outcomes , but also a means of assessing the political values that , if they change , will change the utility of the different possible outcomes to us ? and vice-versa ! This would not be necessary if the following conditions obtained : ( 1 ) we knew that the performance capabilities and the behavioral modes of ourselves and our opponents would not change over time ; ( 2 ) we had in hand some kind of quantified and unvarying national value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Constitution . But both of these condi-tions are simply antiempirical.31 108 Game Theory and National Policy The problem is not merely that we can not at present quantify our values but , more important , that we can not ( lo it as dynamically has the interplay between strategy , policy , and tactics demands . Game theory is based on a static representation of human behavior . The following statement by von Neumann and Morgenstern makes this quite clear : We repeat most emphatically that our theory is thoroughly static . A dynamic theory would unquestionably be more complete and therefore preferable . But there is ample evidence from other branches of science that it is futile to try to build one as long as the static side is not thoroughly understood.32 Whatever may come about in the future , there is certainly not yet a dynamic game theory . But then , how can the theory be used to describe the real world in any way ? In the real world , there is not an unrelated mass of single-shot " games , " but rather many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unrelated , and each of which may or may not be best described as one multipleplay game or many single-play games . Whenever there are separate sequential groups of events that may be described as " games " but are non-autonomous ; or whenever in one game sequence later plays are non-autonomous ( with regard to earlier plays ) , and consequently the potential utilities and payoffs can not be stated precisely ab initio , then a static theory is irrelevant for practical purposes . And the crucial point is that most important real world events are indeed always dynamically structured in the sense that one can not judge ( impute payoffs to ) the results of a given situation without knowing ? often only by using hindsight ? how it affected , and 109 Deadly Logic was affected by , other situations of whose existence one may not previously even have been aware . Changing expectations modify values , and changing values modify expectations ; short-run results modify the assessment of long-run results . To reify one set of conditional outcomes is to hide this truth from ourselves.33 Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game but not how to recognize whether we are in one.34 For example , how does one know that a single game , or even an extensive game , is not really part of a more extensive game , for which the optimal strategy over-all is not at all the same as the optimal strategy for each " game " that composes it ? 35 The limited-war game in Vietnam or the Formosa Straits may be part of theU.S. - China deterrence game ultimately ; in addition , these may all be part of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. deterrence game , and even part of limited-war games in say Berlin or Cuba . Then again perhaps not . Who can really tell ? One would have to be a prophet not only about the evolution of events but of one 's own and one 's opponents ' values to resolve this question . Similarly , the deterrence game may be part of a larger world-peace versus world-war game , or democracy versus communism game ; this might suggest to us entirely different estimates of the expected payoff of a given deterrence strategy if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think ( when it will be too late ? ) to put the question that way . Furthermore , all these may ultimately be conceived of as part of a human race versus nature game . Which of these is the case we may not find out until we are well into the game ( which game ? ) ? and what our values really are will of course depend on which game we recognize ourselves as being in. lAnd to mention only briefly a point I shall advert to at length later on , no Game Theory and National Policy in the real world a given choice may have the political effect of freezing out options that in theory are supposed to be available as a corollary of that choice . Often we need to be extremely lucky to know what the effect of a choice on ourselves will be even the day after we make it ? let alone months and years in the future . It is evident that this is precisely the point that renders Morgenstern 's and Schelling 's claim and Ellsberg 's example meaningless . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of game theory , it follows that the statement about invulnerability 's being the best strategic posture can be true only at a single decision-point  --  that is , in a single crisis . How far in the future is that crisis to be ? Our values , and our estimates of their values , and their estimates of our values , may have changed by then ( whenever " then " is ) . Indeed , the adoption of the recommended strategy might be one of the events that leads to a change in the conditional values ! Furthermore , we have also seen that the particular kind of U.S.-U.S.S.R. conflict , which the analysts tend to deal with and for which deterrence is supposedly a feasible strategy , may be part of another " game " entirely ? a three player , U.S.-U.S.S.R. - China game ? and the prospects of maximizing our " security level " in this game may be negatively affected by the adoption of the deterrence strategy for our " military conflict " game ; thus , Arthur L. Burns has written that " some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attractions of nuclear warfare for the two Super-powers have the unintended consequence of attracting more members into the nuclear club . " 38 Within the framework of a single game 's matrix , how can we possibly assess the significance of such an eventuality ? 111 Deadly Logic Finally , as Karl Deutsch has pointed out , capabilities are not constant but changing.37 Thus , returning to our other point about the lack of a clearcut demarcation between policy , strategy , and tactics , we see that changes in available tactics as well as changes in policy might also change our estimate of the desirability of a given strategy . Of course , all this is hypothetical ( though no more so than the uses of game theory that we are discussing ) . But if we analyze the specific proposals involved , these criticisms have a direct bearing . Concretely , the argument for additional increments of " invulnerability " is hedged in by several limiting conditions . On the one hand , " invulnerability " may entail mere deterrence and thus conflict with other military goals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails , " etc . ( This is exactly the gravamen of the change that Kahn , Glenn Snyder , and others have made against the version of deterrence theory that is associated with Morgenstern . ) On the other hand , the addition of new increments of military strength of any kind may interfere ? or have interfered ? with the attainment of non-military goals , such as general disarmament ( e.g. , a " soft " bomber base in Turkey is a lot easier to disarm than a " hard " missile site buried somewhere under the Rocky Mountains ) . Superficially , we could avoid this logical problem . We could assume that American and Soviet leaders care almost entirely for the value of protecting our ( their ) retaliatory capability , and hardly at all for the distinct values of , say , being able to " roll back " the " Iron Curtain " ( Western " Imperialists " ) , or doing everything possible to bring about disarmament , etc . But this would be to say that deterrence is the best strategy if one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is and always will be to deter ! No doubt ? but one does not need the help of game theory to arrive at this useful conclusion . There is still further reason for being totally skeptical about these examples of reliance on game theory . In addition to telling us merely that if we want to deter we should deter , arguments such as these also depend on an unstated and controversial assumption about the importance of conscious goal-directed behavior in real life . We begin by observing that , once more , the argument we are dealing with rests on the " delicate balance of terror " thesis . Ellsberg writes ( and clearly Morgenstern and Schelling would agree with him ) that " Perhaps the most significant aspect of the current i.e. , 1960 strategic balance is that , under typical conditions of technology and posture the value of a strike-first policy is greater than the value of a strike-second policy to the Soviet Union . " ' 1 Therefore , Ellsberg argues , we should decrease the value to the U.S.S.R. of a strike-first policy ( by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a strike-second policy ( by correlatively putting our own forces in a strike-second posture ) . The unstated assumption in this argument , which is identical with the one Schelling makes in both his theoretical and policy discussions , is that there already is ( was ) a significant ( non-negligible ) value in a strike-first policy for the Soviet Union . But why should we think this to be the case ? I can imagine four reasons : ( No. 1 ) the Soviets want to destroy us if they can , independently of our own behavior ( short of " surrendering " to them ) . ( No. 2 ) The Soviets want to destroy us because they think we want to destroy them . ( No. 3 ) The Soviets ought to want to destroy us because we do want to destroy them . ( No. 4 ) The Soviets 113 Deadly Logic have to assume that we may want to destroy them as long as we have the kind of force posture that looks aggressive ; assuming this , their logic must dictate to them a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea which of these assumptions deterrence theorists actually made ? which statement is in itself a commentary on their supposedly " clarifying " use of game theory . What we might call the Assumption of Their Malevolence ( No. 1 ) is unsupported by any evidence that any deterrence theorist has to offer . The Assumption of Suspicion ( No. 2 ) does not clearly entail a strategy of deterrence as compared with a strategy of negotiated disarmament or what are called " unilateral initiatives " by us.39 Indeed , in this context further militarization of any kind might well have negative effects . The Assumption of Our Malevolence ( No. 3 ) is quite obviously not believed in by any deterrence theorist . As for the Assumption of Reciprocal Fear ( No. 4 ) , 49 I am under the impression that some writers such as Schelling believe it to be indicated by the structure of game theory itself . But it is not ; rather it is imported from outside . This is so because there is no such thing as a deployment that inherently " looks aggressive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence that even with a " soft , " apparently first-strike posture we could not seem non-aggressive to sensible opponents is sheer dogma , as is insistence on the corollary notion that a second-strike posture does n't look aggressive . Of course in a crisis , as Wohlstetter argues , appearances must be expected to change for the worse and we might not be able to help seeming aggressive , or somehow destructive of Soviet values.41 But still that does not necessarily indicate a strategy of deterrence ( i.e. , the 114 Game Theory and National Policy development of a " better " second-strike posture ) for us . The problem is one of the autonomous probability of events ? that is , the probability that an event will occur no matter what we consciously do about it : a condition that may be true even of events we think of as highly susceptible to rational control. * However , because of its antiempirical assumptions of rationality and perfect knowledge , and because of its static character , game theory can not take this aspect of real life into account . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen in the rules mentioned above , is that in a " game " of strategy 115 Deadly Logic intentions are directly translated into results ; the only factor influencing the translation is the strength of a given intention ? i.e. , the utility to us of a given outcome ? compared with the strength of the remainder of our own and our opponent 's intentions . But there is no reason to believe that intentions always or even usually produce results in real life ( see the note above ) . I shall have more to say later about the methodological importance of the possibility that events have an autonomous probability of taking place regardless of what conscious opponents do . Suffice it to say here that in the face of centuries of man 's apparent incapacity to control the course of his affairs , the assumption that conflict is rationally ordered , while it may be extremely useful for heuristic purposes of theory-building , is in the context of politics sheer mysticism . Abstractly , our intentions may not be taken into account by our opponent in his formulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a rule based on a complete misinterpretation of our future intentions , or based on his intentions in another " game " that are not affected by what we do , except grossly ; we may do the same of course . Similarly , he may not be able to translate his intentions into results , nor may we : political constraints generated prior to the particular conflict may warp intended actions from the desired effect . Concretely , there is a certain autonomous probability that the Soviets ( or , someday , the Chinese ) will be deterred , or will not want nuclear war , no matter what choice we make over a certain range of choices available to us . Fear of world opinion ; their own internal restraints ; and simple unwillingness to take a chance on attacking even " soft " nuclear forces are among the ele-116 Game Theory and National Policy ments that might produce this likelihood . At the same time , there is a certain autonomous probability that war ? i.e. , breakdown in the U.S.-U.S.S.R. - China conflict structure ? will come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment of whether the Assumption of Reciprocal Fear compels the adoption of a given strategy ( by this I mean both the use of the strategy itself and the public actions involved in adopting it ) is incomplete without an estimate as to how the choice will affect those two probability levels . For example , if we felt that the autonomous probability of nuclear war in the cold war era was high , and that a massive increase in our secondstrike strength would not decrease this probability , then even though such a strategy seemed the " best " counter strategy to the Soviets ' most preferred strategy , we might not ( in 1960 , say ) adopt it . We might prefer ( have preferred ) to stay at the lowest level of armament consistent with our not being absolutely terrified , and pressed for some kind of disarmament . That is , we are " hedging " because of our ignorance of our opponents ' intentions ( and his of ours ) .42 What is the best hedge is open to question . If the U.S.S.R. has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us are indications of hostile action , 43 then Schelling 's preference for higher levels of missile deployment is self-defeating , as it is also if they have a ( secret ) decision-rule against first use , or if disarmament is their preferred strategy under any circumstances . Whether they are in fact likely to have any such rules , or are instead likely to be " aggression-prone , " is a matter to be decided by educated guesswork based on a sober , political analysis of Soviet intentions ( and our own , 117 Deadly Logic since we may or may not provoke them by our actions ) . Sober political analysis is exactly what is not contributed by airy , speculative analyses based on " insights " derived from game theory . Like systems analysis , game theory leads us astray by focusing our attention on secondary problems that happen to be theoretically calculable . Ill . Pseudo-Quantification So far we have been considering several deterrence theory formulations as instances of the application of game theory 's broad insights and over-all approach to decision-making . There are also deterrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory more directly , by constructing specific problems and demonstrating how their solution indicates the choice of a certain deterrence strategy . For example , Morton Kaplan has presented his only purely theoretical analysis of deterrence in an article entitled " The Calculus of Nuclear Deterrence. 1144 The " calculus " involved is based roughly on the concepts of game theory , or at least on the kind of formal discussion of strategic choice that has developed under the general aegis of the theory of games . The reader is warned by Kaplan that his intention is only heuristic , that his " model " of international conflict is not a rigorous one , and that some major simplifications have been made in developing it . This warning having been issued , Kaplan then goes on to create , analyze , resolve and discuss a " game , " the conclusion of which is that given a " game " with the values and payoffs Kaplan has assigned , the strategy of limited nuclear reprisals may very likely be the most effective threat for countering a massive attack 118 Game Theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps , on reading through this article keep in mind that Kaplan 's calculus is only meant to demonstrate a heuristic model , which according to Kaplan himself has certain definite limita tions as a source of data for policy-makers ; one can per haps also keep in mind that the values and probabilities with which he fills in the matrix boxes of his calculus have been made up by Kaplan out of whole cloth . But when one on further investigation finds that Kaplan is the author of at least three independent articles that con tain a wholehearted advocacy of precisely that strategy of limited nuclear reprisal , it becomes very difficult to make any distinction at all between Kaplan 's theory and Kaplan 's advocacy.41* In a slightly different fashion , Glenn Snyder , another writer well-known in this area , mixes abstract theory with practical application . His major work , Deterrence and Defense , is subtitled " Toward a Theory of National Security . " Three-quarters of the book , approximately , is devoted to a very untheoretical discussion of the problem areas of American defense policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " gray areas , " etc. 119 Deadly logic The first chapter , by contrast , is set forth under the heading , " Deterrence and Defense : A Theoretical Introduction . " Snyder 's purpose in this introduction is to show that " deterrence " and " defense " represent different and often mutually exclusive values ? the value of being able to prevent attack and the value of being able to counter it effectively ? and that in providing for either of these values through the development or deployment of a given weapons system one necessarily foregoes the opportunity to use the expended resources in forwarding the other of those values . At the same time , however , he surrounds this point with a whole battery of matrices such as those used by Kaplan , ( incorrect ) explanations of " the principle of mathematical expectation , " 47 and other examples of " rational " decision-making discussed in the context of the formal theory of strategy . The idea appears to be that such choices can be rational ? and thus one 's defense strategy as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the concept of national security considered on such a basis . Similarly , in the last chapter Snyder discusses problems of communication and tacit bargaining with the " enemy , " and attempts to develop a theoretical framework for analyzing and choosing among the various practices that are ordinarily called " diplomacy . " Here too , Snyder is concerned with the problem of what " moves " are " rational " in the strategic context . The net effect of these two parts of Deterrence and Defense is to surround and infuse the discussion of substantive problems with the notion that formally " rational " solutions to them can not only be found but chosen by policy-makers . The whole purpose of these chapters seems to be to convey the idea that in some way a formal 120 Game Theory and National Policy theory of rationality , of the kind advanced in the work of game theorists and those doing related work in the area of " rational " strategy will lend considerable aid to the planner or public-spirited citizen who wishes to deal intelligently with the immediate problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not , that is indubitably the notion that is conveyed . Finally , when one is prepared for thinking about strategy in these terms , one comes across in Snyder 's concluding chapter a " mathematical example " concerning defense in Western Europe . It is interesting to read Snyder 's Kaplan-like assertion that the example " is intended only to illustrate the essential logic and involves no commit ment either to the numbers or the results . " 48 However , when one discovers that Snyder 's game matrices inter alia show that massive retaliation would be a " cheaper " response to a surprise attack on the U.S. than would " no response " ; that buying more ICBM 's would increase the probability of peace ( i.e. , " no attack " by the U.S.S.R. ) and that buying more limited-war capability would be even better ; and when one further remembers that Sny der has implicitly and explicitly made all these points earlier in his text , 49 then one must be forgiven for think ing that Snyder 's lack of " commitment " to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such " examples " accomplish a two-fold purpose . First , simply by force of being an " example " the calculation makes certain assertions . One of Snyder 's matrices , for instance , reads as follows ( this is the limited-war capa bility matrix , in which the numbers represent ? on what scale only Snyder knows ? costs to the U.S. of different responses to different actions by the U.S.S.R. ) . 121 Deadly Logic The whole point of assigning utility numbers to such " values " can only be to convey the impression , first , that these problems actually are calculable ; and second , that the risks under discussion really are worth taking . Thus , for example , when Snyder calls the imaginary " loss " to the United States if it fails to respond to a Soviet nuclear attack on the U.S. - 500 , while calling the cost of " no response " to a ground attack on Western Europe only - 100 , he is saying that there is a quantifiable relation 122 Game Theory and National Policy from the American perspective between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western Europe to Com munism.50 The former is only five times " as bad " ( what-ever that can conceivably mean ) as the latter , which is to say that in some circumstances the difference would be negligible . The result is implicitly and appreciably to in-crease the favorability of our estimate of adopting strat egies in which the United States takes a serious chance of incurring destruction : that is , strategies that propose to defend Western Europe by **25;1100;TOOLONG means . Similarly , Kaplan 's quantification of the costs and gains of limited nuclear retaliation suggests that these risks too are easily commensurable . Although von Neu mann and Morgenstern do not even faintly suggest that index numbers can be constructed for this kind of value , the deterrence theorists blithely proceed to engage in this kind of pseudo-quantification. * 123 Deadly Logic If , on the other hand , we were to take such " values " as the nation , our culture , etc. , more seriously , we might never be able to justify by calculation a policy that created a serious risk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in reality , our instinct would be to value our obligation to Western Europe more highly than our obligation to ourselves . But then we would have to further decide how we valued a Europe that had been the scene of war , as against a Europe that had been " conquered " by Communism , as against the risk of nuclear war , etc . The point is that to call the process of arriving at such judgments " calculation " is merely to ratify with spurious authority the decision to do what one 's prejudices lead one instinctively to want to do . To assert commensurability and calculability where they are entirely lacking is to make a hidden value judgment of the most egregious kind. * The other purpose accomplished by these " examples " is equally objectionable . Analyses of such matrices falsely assert , again sub silentio , the static quality of the events we have to deal with in politics ? as indeed they must , given the nature of game theory . For the calculations concern ( and can only concern ) single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have said , there are no ( or few ) single decision-making moments . Where did the assigned " values " come from ? What concatena tion of events , what prior choice among competing strat-124 Game Theory and National Policy egies produced them ? Furthermore , since the " game " we are in does not end , as we have seen , with this " de cision , " what effect do we expect it to have on the future utilities of future outcomes in different games ? The ques tions can not be answered , of course : because the ex amples are meaningless . IV . The Uses of Tautology In fact , we have really not been talking about " ex amples " of strategic choice at all , since there is no reason to believe that strategic choices will ever be made in this way ( and no reason to believe that if they are made in this way , they are anything but inane ) . All that a reference to game theory can possibly do is provide an algebraical illustration of a verbal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no better than the verbal argument ; in most of the cases I have mentioned it is actually worse. * In Ellsberg 's paper , for instance , the verbal case for finite deterrence is no less convincing than such argument ments usually are . But the " game " representation is ex tremely poor . The matrix alternatives he shows are " Wait ( and strike second if struck ) " and " Strike ( first ) . " In reality , though , given his own argument the likeliest alternatives would be that both sides wait or that both strike " first " simultaneously ? an option not described in his matrix . Furthermore , the matrix is in any event theoretically worthless in that " Wait " can not possibly be a " move " in a game : all moves are made 125 Deadly Logic simultaneously and in ignorance of the opponent 's " move , " so what could one possibly be " waiting " for ? As for Kaplan and Snyder , they make the relatively simple argument for multiple options look even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , " " U.S. , " etc. , that are , to put it mildly , eccen tric . And Hitch , whose reference to game theory I have not previously discussed , and who of all these writers ought most to know better , is the worst of all . A strong case for concentration of defense could be made out ver bally ? if one were talking about protecting prime tar-gets , which are not yet well protected , and if the value to the potential attacker of the already protected targets was in every case higher than the value of any as yet un protected target . That is , Hitch 's statement makes sense only on the extremely dubious assumption that we are chiefly protecting our retaliatory force , which is not yet satisfactorily protected , and which requires all our ad ditional defenses to be satisfactorily protected , and which we have no reason to doubt is an attacker 's sole target until it is completely destroyed. * But then ? and this is a point that finally summarizes our previous remarks ? if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not actually shown us anything at all . Our assumptions have dictated our behavior ; game theory has merely provided us with a mathematical technique for explicating the meaning to us of our assumptions ( which will only be necessary if 126 Game Theory and National Policy the calculations are complicated ) . And if we have made bad assumptions , as Hitch appears to have done with a vengeance ? e.g. , does " defense " really have no diminishing utility at the margin ? ? then even game theory can not save us from error . On the contrary , it merely helps us hide our errors from the untutored . Logicians say that from an empirically false premise any conclusion follows . To use an antiempirical theory ? which is how we must describe game theory in the context of international relations ? doubles one 's chances for arriving at " any conclusion . " For one can follow rigorously the premises of the theory ; or one can import one 's own unverified assumptions into the theory 's structure and proudly present their working-out as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In either case , one has merely borne out Alfred Schutz 's sardonic remarks about the experimental use of behavioral models : A total harmony has been pre-established between the determined consciousness bestowed upon the puppet ( the " rational man " ) and the pre-constituted environment within which it is supposed to act freely , to make rational choices and decisions . This harmony is possible merely because both , the puppet and its reduced environment , are the creation of the scientist . And by keeping to the principles which guided him , the scientist succeeds , indeed , in discovering within the universe , thus created , the perfect harmony established by himself 54 He succeeds also , one might add , in substituting a pseudoscientific vocabulary for the simpler , less impressive language of personal belief in arguing about matters of public policy . Game Theory and Deterrence Theory : The Experimental Approach I. The Contribution of Thomas Schelling THERE is yet another and more sophisticated use to which game theory has been put in deterrence studies : that which is found in the work on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already mentioned . Schelling 's work is crucial for a final assessment of the question of the influence of game theory in this field . It could conceivably be argued ? although I think such an argument would totally misapprehend the nature of intellectual influence ? that most of the works I have discussed previously are not important ; or that their importance has nothing to do with their references to game theory . Neither of these arguments could possibly be made with regard to Schelling , for of all the theoretical works in the field of deterrence analysis his The Strategy of Conflict has been the most respected in the academic and research community ; ) and although the relationship of his theoretical to his practical arguments is often ambiguous , there is still obviously an intimate connection between them which has escaped no one 's attention . A caveat , it is true , must be entered about Schelling 's use of game theory . The Strategy of Conflict is not really a book , but rather for the most part a collection of loosely related articles in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually occur under separate titles . However , to think that this separation can be made psychologically is to be very unrealistic . Let us consider , for example , Part III of The Strategy of Conflict . A chapter on the concept of " The Threat that Leaves Something to Chance , " in which the idea of " brinksmanship " receives a favorable reception , directly follows an entirely theoretical essay on the potential roles of " Randomized Threats and Promises " in formal game situations , in which Schelling attempts to see what insights can be gained by relaxing the rigidity of the " rules " of communication in formal game theory so as to make the sequence of information-receiving , information-sending , and choice-making more true to life.2 The two chapters are not linked explicitly , but the central subject of each ? what happens when the choice of fulfilling a threat or not fulfilling it is out of the threat-maker 's hands ? is the same ; and it is impossible not to come away from one 's reading with the feeling that the same expertise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the argument in favor of " brinksmanship . " In Part IV , as noted in the previous chapter , Schelling follows the same pattern in his discussion of protection against surprise attack . In this case too , the conclusion of the policy chapter ? that an arms control system based on the controlled deployment of invulnerable weapons is preferable to general and complete disarmament ? thus seems somehow theoretically grounded ; in both cases only the most hardened compartmentalizer could manage to ignore the possibly fortuitous conjunction.3 Finally , we must refer to the most famous essay of all thost that appear in The Strategy of Conflict , that on " Bargaining , Communication , and Limited War . " 4 The 130 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory subject of this essay also does not fall within the theory f games , strictly speaking , but rather is a report of experimental work suggested to Schelling by his dissatisfaction with orthodox game theory . But the whole is couched as part of the development of a theory of bar ; raining that would be an advance on the orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , a close examination of this essay and the surrounding material reveals particularly well just how Schelling fills his dual role as speculative theorist and hard-headed policy adviser . " Bargaining , Communication , and Limited War " is the final chapter in a section on " a theory of strategy , " and is preceded by a purely theoretical chapter on bargaining . The first part of the essay itself describes Schelling 's laboratory simulation of " games " of conflict . Here functioning as an experimental social psychologist , he tries to show what happens when certain types of " games , " characterized by partial conflict of interest and partial mutuality of interest , 5 are actually played . The problem he deals with is whether his players , prevented from communicating with each other and thus from co-ordinating their behavior , can somehow achieve a kind of tacit co-ordination that will enable them , independently , to make choices that have the effect of an agreement that provides some payoff for each player : as compared with the " no agreement " case , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one might ordinarily expect to have eventuated because of the prohibition on communication . For example , two players are asked to agree , without overt communication , on the division of 100 dollars . If they each name the same division , they get 100 dollars each ; if their divisions do n't match , they get nothing . 131 Deadly Logic This " game , " or any similar " matching " game can be varied to observe whether a felt inequality of initial circumstances ( asymmetry ) will reflect itself in a mutual recognition that an exactly even split can not be agreed upon as easily as an " unfair " one . Again , two players are shown a map with various landmarks on it . The landmarks include several buildings , hills , etc. , but only one river , which divides the map unevenly . The question is whether the players , imagining themselves as military commanders , will agree on a division of the map area ? without fighting ? at the unique river . Or , two players are told to choose a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the question is whether they will co-ordinate their choices on the basis of their perception of some unique physical feature of the matrix. ? In all these games what Schelling discovers is the existence of something he calls " prominence " ( or " focal points " ) . This characteristic of game situations is best described as a psychologically distinctive solution point , such as the one equality among a host of inequalities or , as in the last-named case , the pull which the upper left-hand corner of any set of boxes supposedly exerts on Western eyes ( all other things being equal ) . For Schelling , what is significant about this concept of prominence , and what shows the theoretical thrust of his work , is the demonstration that for certain classes of games potential solutions or outcomes exist which are unknown to formal game theory , and which it would not predict . The experiments are thus of obvious importance for theory construction in the area of decision-making and bargaining studies . ( In this context , we can see Schelling 132 Game Theory and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luce and Raiffa quoted on p. 99 above . ) However , the report of these intriguing experiments is followed , in the remainder of the essay , by an exceedingly practical disquisition on limited war . The purpose of these pages is to argue that prominence may exist in real limited-war situations as well , and the examples of tacit co-ordination on the non-use of poison gas in World War II , and of " sanctuary " agreements , etc. , in the Korean War , are adduced . Then the question of nuclear weapons is raised , and it is suggested that without overt agreements such as treaties , we and the Soviets may be able to agree on a non-first-use policy in future limited wars . Finally , the subject is raised again in a completely policy-oriented appendix ( Appendix A ) in which national leaders are advised how they ought to behave if they wish to maintain the nuclear-non-nuclear distinction which Schelling finds already in existence. ? And of course these essays are also crucial to the subject of deterrence generally ( though perhaps not as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that one of the conditions that nuclear deterrence must deal with is the necessity of keeping limited wars limited . Furthermore , the concept of tacit co-ordination is actually basic to the central idea of deterrence itself ? i.e. , the necessity for each side to divine the circumstances under which the other side will or will not use its deterrent , and so informally to treat certain actions as non-provocative of nuclear war . Thus Schelling , in these pregnant essays , has set the stage for his preparatory remarks to The Strategy of Conflict and could hardly disclaim their clear impact . Deadly Logic The subject of the book , he writes , " ( s ) trictly speaking . . . falls within the theory of games . " * To this he adds : The essays are a mixture of " pure " and " applied " research . To some extent the two can be separated . . . . In my own thinking they have never been separate . Motivation for the purer theory came almost exclusively from preoccupation with ( and fascination with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical ideas was absolutely dependent on an identification of live examples . . . the interaction of the two levels of theory has been continuous and intense .9 Finally , an introductory essay that deals mostly with the uses of strategy studies for " theoretical development " concludes with the remark that It seems likely that a well-developed theory of strategy could throw light on the efficacy of some . . . old devices Schelling here refers to ancient and medieval precursors of the exchange of hostages idea in deterrence theory , suggest the circumstances to which they apply , and discover modern equivalents that . . . may be desperately needed in the regulation of conflict.io Thus , despite the ambiguity of Schelling 's intentions , we must surely conclude that his accomplishment ? the interweaving of theoretical speculation with policy dis cussion ? is what matters . And as to that it is clear that one is constantly being led in the direction of " practical applications " and " live examples . " 134 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory In sum , Schelling is important as a theorist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important and striking proposals ; and his proposals are striking and important not merely because of their content but also because they seem to be based on his theories.11 When he is quoted as an authoritative source by deterrence analysts , it is as the contributor of such concepts as the " reciprocal fear of surprise attack , " " the threat that leaves something to chance , " " tacit co-ordination , " etc. , which are thought to infuse more simple-minded ideas of strategy with a sophisticated , " theoretical " content . As the author of academic arguments for the possible desirability of a " brinksmanship " strategy , for the in stallation of a " hot line " between the Kremlin and the White House , and for stabilizing measures in the arms race generally , Schelling is at least as well known as he is for his work on bargaining and threats ; and the point is that he is well-known for all these contributions on the basis of the same book . II . The Uses of Simulation : Limited War My purpose in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapters on systems analysis and game theory proper ? is to clarify what Schelling 's theoretical work actually adds to his policy discussion , and what is the exact nature of the latter with regard to rigor , theoretical grounding , etc . I shall begin with some remarks about the concepts of prominence , co-ordination , and limited war . That agreed-on limitations in a limited war must be distinct and obvious is a point with which I assume no one would want to argue . Clearly , all who are engaged in the discussion of limited war are in Schelling 's debt 135 Deadly Logic for making them more aware of this point than perhaps they were before.12 Schelling himself , furthermore , carefully restricts the scope of his argument : he realizes , that is , that limitations in war do not exist per se , but only ( if at all ) if we and our opponents very badly want them to exist.13 What needs to be pointed out , however , is that Schelling 's work , because it is so oriented to the immediate short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tells us nothing about the prospects of limited war , and thus nothing about the prospects of nuclear deterrence . Specifically , Schelling gives us no reassurance that escalation 14 can be avoided . He offers some grounds for hope that if both sides wish to avoid escalation it may be possible for them to do so . Even here he implicitly overstates his case , though . For despite his caution he fails to clarify precisely the conditions under which his experiments are relevant or irrelevant . Thus , take the following passage , which is perhaps the central one in Schelling 's disquisition : Let any of us try to cooperate for a prize : we are to sit down right now , separately and without any prior arrangements , and write out a proposed limitation on the use of nuclear weapons , in as little or as great detail as we please , allowing ourselves limitations of any description that appeals to us ? size of weapons , use of weapons , who gets to use them , what rate or frequency of use , clean versus dirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on or not on cities , with or without warning ? to see whether we can all write the same specification of limit . If we are in perfect agreement on the limits we specify , we get a prize ; if our limits are different , we get no prize . We are permitted the extremes of no limits at all on the one hand , or no atomic weapons at all on the other , and any graduation or variation defined in any way we please . 136 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory My argument is that there are particular limits simple , discrete , qualitative , " obvious " limits ? that are conducive to a concerted choice ; those who specify other kinds of limits , I predict , can find few partners or none at all whose limits coincide with theirs.15 That " no-use-at-all " would be easier to agree on than any other limitation is beyond doubt ; but whether it would itself be at all " easy " to agree on is a question that is simply not illuminated by Schelling . He appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as evidenced by his reference to the appendix from which the above quotation is taken , in the body of the main essay.1 ' But in fact they provide little or no help . The experiments provide no help because there is no reason to believe they replicate any of the conditions of international conflict ? and to the extent that they do , the results are unimpressive . In the 50-50 division game , for example , the players have no incentive at all to do " better " than one another , since their chances of losing are virtually infinite if they do n't co-operate and their culture is egalitarian ; 90 per cent of Schelling 's sample chose the even split . In the map-river game , by contrast , only slightly over 60 per cent could agree on the river.17 It hardly seems surprising that as the games get more complex and conflictful , the incidence of agreement dwindles ; or , the less the grounds for conflict , the more the likelihood of co-operation . That is the most one can make of such experiments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Martin Shubik has noted , since motives can not be observed empirically we can not be sure exactly why the players chose the solution they did . " The players may have been tacitly co-ordinating their behavior because their motives were co-operative , 137 Deadly Logic or because each was trying to do the best possible for himself . If the latter were the case ( and Schelling gives no reason to believe otherwise ) , then less symmetrical games might produce either a clear winner or a refusal to agree , and more strongly conflict-of-interest games might produce simply a head-on collision resulting in no agreement . The real-world analogues of these latter situations are , for our purposes , " surrender " and escalation to all-out war ; neither is an acceptable conclusion to a conflict in the universe of deterrence theory . Furthermore , Schelling 's experiments are culturebound in that there is no true emotional antagonism between his subjects . Other experimenters have found that when the conditions of such games are varied so as to simulate hostile conflict , non-co-operative results are more often produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar to Schelling 's formal-rule games , but making in addition various attempts to generate hostility and competition among the players of the game , reports as follows : ... Agreement was least difficult to arrive at in the No Threat condition , was more difficult to arrive at in the Unilateral Threat condition , and exceedingly difficult or impossible to arrive at in the Bilateral Threat condition ... . In our experimental bargaining situation , the availability of threat clearly made it more difficult for bargainers to reach a mutually profitable agreement . Indeed , Bilateral Threat presents a situation so conflict-fraught that no amount of communication seems to have an ameliorating effect ... . Everyday observation suggests that the tendency to respond with counterthreat or increased resistance to attempts at intimidation is . . . a common occurrence.is 138 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory In addition , one group of experimenters who set out directly to test Schelling 's propositions in varied laboratory settings , observed a tendency of truly mixed-motive games ? games with some element of co-operation present ? to degenerate into zero-sum , or strictly competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the players to " look good " or " score points " rather than to understand their opponents ' psychology and thus reach collaborative bargains ; others have reported that when the players are divided into competing groups , group affiliation tends to affect their understanding of proposed solutions in a biased manner.20 These reports , of course , generate their own methodological problems and are not necessarily any more relevant in a broader setting than are Schelling 's . Certainly they are no less convincing , though . On the basis of the evidence so far before us , that is , we can not make the leap and conclude from Schelling 's work that the ability of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. to reach " tacit agreements " has been shown , either by analogy or by isomorphism , to be more likely than we thought it was . Indeed , Schelling 's own interpretation of his work has led him to statements about international conflict that now look dubious , as the following : ... Consider some other distinctions that are significant in the limiting process . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Indochina ; ... ( T ) he point of all this is that , in limiting war , tradition matters 21 Doubtless the nuclear non-use threshold is a more rigid one . But traditions that were much older have decayed 139 i , Deadly Logic before , 22 and nothing that Schelling has written should lead us to the conclusion that this one will be any different in an armed and hostile world . The comments I have made here perforce apply to writers other than Schelling , of course . There have been produced in the last decade a host of reports of " war games " ; informal " simulations " ; large-scale computerprogrammed " simulations : " etc.23 Most of these studies make no attempt , or only the most abashed attempts , to justify some kind of policy on the basis of the experiment.24 Over-all , though , the impression is occasionally given that we are somehow picking up information about the world through these exercises , for those working in any area of public policy hesitate to admit that they are accomplishing nothing at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a game in which by some fantastically subtle political maneuvering the Chinese Communists force both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. to agree to a poorly policed disarmament scheme ; China then reveals itself as the strongest nuclear power in the world and begins to dominate world politics ; nuclear War threatens . Kahn then announces , " This game , although it can be denounced as farfetched and gloomy does illustrate a number of problems implicit in presently conceived arms control agreements . " Of course it does not ; the game only illustrates the players ' attitudes toward Communist China.25 Whenever , that is , the experimenter arbitrarily chooses the " parameters , rules and structural features " for his experiment to investigate certain variables , the utility of the parameters themselves becomes a separate question.26 In Schelling 's work the most important parameter for " practical applications " is notable chiefly by its total 140 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory absence : namely , the assumptions we make about American , Soviet , Chinese ( and German ? French ? Egyptian ? ) political behavior . As Verba has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like ' the real world is not important . What is important is the question of whether it operates like the real world in the respects that are relevant to the study at hand . " 27 Where the most relevant feature of the real world is not even considered , obviously we can make little practical use of the study . Thus we must assert that , once again , the approach to policy that we have been studying is no better than the verbal argument that is given for it . That we can reach tacit agreements on nuclear weapons and nuclear war , being a proposition that is never discussed by Schelling , remains unproved . As for the theoretical experiments , as yet they do little more than explain to us Schelling 's thought-processes about limited war . The latter are surely interesting ; but any suggestion that the accumulated weight of expertise developed by the growth of game theory and related studies is somehow thrown behind Schelling 's policy proposals would be absolutely incorrect . 111 . Games and Threats : The Theory of Brinksmanship To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements on mutual military restraints as long as the arms race continues , and that an attempt at complete disarmament ought therefore to be our most-preferred Iternative as compared with various limited-war strateies , Schelling has at various times made answer . The theory of brinksmanship and a theory of arms control , both developed ( the latter inchoately ) in The Strategy of 141 Deadly logic Conflict represent answers that are supposedly strength ened by insights derived from game-theoretic analysis . The supposition , however , does not stand up under in vestigation . I have already mentioned Schelling 's notion of stability through arms control , briefly , and will advert to it again later . As for his idea of brinksmanship , it is based on an analysis of threats in the context of game theory . In this analysis Schelling tries to assess what an ability to deliver ultimatums , commit one 's self to certain strate gies or to the randomized choice of a mixed strategy , etc. ? possibilities outside the pale of orthodox game theory ? might do to the choice of strategies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of such devices ( e.g. , getting in one 's own ultimatum or com mitment to a certain strategy first ) one may be able virtually to compel one 's opponent to adopt the strategy that is best for one 's self . In other words , Schelling is attempting to argue that threats can be not anxiety-producing phenomena but , in some circumstances , inspirations to correct choice . Deter rence , of course , is tacitly based on threats ( and this is especially true of deterrence in limited war or other crises ) . Schelling is thus implicitly suggesting that deter rence will not look like an impossibly bad strategy if we can learn how to use threats properly ; " brinksman ship " is the general theory of crisis threats that he develops . The idea of brinksmanship as discussed by Schelling has two elements that may seem separate but are ulti mately related : the notion of an " irrevocable commit ment " and of a " threat that leaves something to chance . " The " threat that leaves something to chance " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one in a physical or psychological position such that if the threat is not responded to in the desired Cashion one may not be able to control one 's counterresponse ( e.g. , by leaving the actual performance of the ihreat to an independent third party ) . This kind of " threat " derives its potency from the mutual recognition by opponents that , in Schelling 's words , .. . Some of the most momentous decisions of government are taken by a process that is not entirely predictable , not fully " under control , " not altogether deliberate . . . a nation can get even into a major war somewhat inadvertently , by a decision process that might be called " imperfect " in the sense that the response to particular contingencies can not exactly be foretold by any advance calculations , that the response to a particular contingency may depend on certain random or haphazard processes , or that there will be faulty information , faulty communication , misunderstanding , misuse of authority , panic , or human or mechanical failure 2s The central idea here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that an opponent is left with only one sensible ( " rational " ) course of action : in effect , to give in . But Schelling 's development of this idea is most unsatisfactory . To begin with , a close inspection of the passage cited and of the whole essay from which it is taken suggests the following interpretation : fear of predictable nonrationality is expected ( or hoped ) to lead the threatened party to respond rationally . ( Schelling uses the word " rational " sparingly in the essay under discussion , but in context it is clear that by " imperfect " decision processes he means to denote what he elsewhere implies is irrational behavior ; see , e.g. , the quotation on p. 164 below. ) 143 Deadly Logic However , Schelling is thus caught in a self-contradiction , because he tries to have it both ways . If he were consistent , he would have to admit that it is just as " predictable " that " they " will respond irrationally to our threat , or fail to comprehend its meaning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unintentionally " carry out the threat . As Karl Deutsch has noted , " The theory of deterrence . . . first proposes that we should frustrate our opponents by frightening them very badly and that we should then rely on their cool-headed rationality for our survival . " 29 Conversely , it is also " not entirely , predictable " that we will not make the threat badly , or unconvincingly , or make a threat we did n't intend to make . After all , if our decision-making processes are imperfect , then surely so are our threat-making processes . These brief comments suggest that the theory of brinksmanship is just a simple play on words . This is clear in John Foster Dulles ' version of the theory , in which Dulles seems to say " We acted cleverly and they responded in the appropriate manner . " 30 But of course if they had n't , then we would have acted stupidly . This makes the theory of brinksmanship a post hoc ergo propter hoc theory , and thus no theory at all . Like others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own reliance on game theory . In the first place , he forgets that in real life one can not define one 's parameters as easily as on paper . Thus the uncertainties that make brinksmanship such a problematical , if not terrifying , strategy are lost sight of in the theoretical analysis . We know little about the psychology of credibility but for our matrices we simply assume it.31 Again , we have no reason to believe that there is any such thing as a purely retaliatory weapon , 32 but for our 144 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory paper chase we state that some of our weapons are retaliatory , and that our opponent knows it : reality disappears in a haze of abstraction . Moreover , in the game-theoretic universe in which Schelling begins his analysis , paper opponents respond to threats and promises by choosing the most mathematically correct among the strategies that remain to them . But that is not necessarily so in the real world unless one assumes , as all deterrence theorists seem to assume , that decision-makers invariably choose a correct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means . But that particular predisposition is an essential component of the notion of instrumental rationality that game theory incorporates ? a notion which is thus smuggled through the back door into our roomful of supposedly " imperfect " decision-processes . Without that predisposition , without the game theoretic or some other assumption of rationality ( see chapters 5 and 6 below ) , " brinksmanship " becomes meaningless . If rational choice can not be expected from either party , as must clearly be the case , Schelling 's theory leaves us in limbo : brinksmanship becomes just another ambiguous move that does not force a single " correct " course of action . Schelling has merely created a paradox : we must be irrational in order to be rational . Of course , if perfect information were available on both sides , the meaning of a threat could presumably be made unequivocally clear . But in a world where omniscience is granted to few statesmen , the only way Schelling 's " threats " or " commitments " can be given an unequivocally clear meaning to a fallible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be unquestionably and publicly automated . 145 Deadly Logic But then the " threat that leaves something to chance " is turned into an " irrevocable commitment , " 33 and that is an even less cheering prospect . The true nature of irrevocable commitment is indicated quite well in the following passages from Schelling and Morgenstern : To illustrate , an instructive model is that of twenty men held up for robbery or ransom by a single man who has a gun and six bullets . They can overwhelm him if they are willing to lose six of themselves , if they have a means of deciding which six to lose . They can defeat him without loss if they can visibly commit themselves to a threat to do so , if they can simultaneously commit themselves to a promise to abstain from capital punishment , once they have caught him . ... If fourteen of the twenty can overpower the remaining six and force them to advance , they can demonstrate that they could overwhelm the man ; if so , the threat succeeds and the gunman surrenders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own inability to avoid jeopardy.34 It is sometimes argued that the death penalty is not a good deterrent against murder because many murders occur nevertheless . Therefore one might argue that the deterrent against aggression on this country might not work either . But the parallel is faulty : The murderer has a good chance not to be found , or when found to escape , not to be convicted , or , if convicted , to receive mild punishment , to be granted clemency , etc . All this is different from the present military situation . There the alternative to not seeing the deterrence is a very high probability of obliteration . The point is to make this probability " equal to one , " that is , to make obliteration certain and automatic . If every potential murderer were sure that the very moment he commits the murder he too is killed , few murders would occur.35 These passages reveal just how unpromising the idea of irrevocable commitment is . The reason no modern society has ever considered investigating Morgenstern 's 146 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to most people unless there is absolute certainty about two things : the guilt of the criminal and the utter wilful unrighteousness of his deed . But such certainty is almost always lacking in a court of law , and so too is it lacking in international relations.36 ( Indeed , if one reads Morgenstern 's Question of National Defense closely , one can see that although he has relied throughout on the metaphor of instant obliteration in justifying his favored weapon systems as threats , he has with complete inconsistency insisted that those systems must be such as to permit slow , thoughtful decision-making when an actual attack has been made . Surely one does not make obliteration " certain " by being slow and thoughtful . ) Furthermore , in actuality there are some " potential " murderers whose propensity for homicide might very well be increased by the existence of a certain death penalty ; there are also , in large numbers , would-be suicides.37 The motives of such persons are no doubt attenuated at the level of international politics ; but following Freud , it can certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leaders of nations.38 As for Schelling 's besieged gangster , although it is not clear from the surrounding text whether Schelling wishes to treat his situation as one analogous to the problem of nuclear deterrence , the reader can not help but see that in fact the analogy to a pure deterrence situation in some respects holds perfectly . This is only one of many such analogies with which The Strategy of Conflict is replete . This one is particularly significant because , whereas the others only suggest relevant questions or hint at possible solutions to such questions , we have here a clear-cut statement , conveying a tone that informs the surround-147 Deadly Logic ing chapter and ultimately much of the book : " the threat succeeds . . . . " 39 In the face of such assurance one is constrained to note that Schelling is clearly relying also on the capital punishment analogy , and his argument is thus subject to the same objections . If one could construct a world in which gunmen and victims got into such situations , I can think of no reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or would not ) be especially likely to surrender , rather than to settle for carnage . Furthermore , Sch ? 1-ling 's example suggests one immense difficulty of " irrevocable commitment " ? the gangster could if Schelling had not so carefully and omnisciently defined his armament make his own threats , such as , to blow everyone up if a hand is laid on him . And suppose he could not convince them that he was not bluffing ? The prognosis would then be fairly desperate . Put simply , the " irrevocable commitment " is ( at the level of nuclear war ) Kahn 's " Homicide Pact Machine " ; and the " threat that leaves something to chance " may very well be a delayed-action version of the same thing . The interested , or alarmed reader is referred to Kahn 's discussion of such machines on pp. 145-49 of On Thermonuclear War ; without dissecting the notion in Kahn 's comprehensive fashion , we can surely see that this is the most undesirable possible tendency of pure , Type I deterrence . We have , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliteration mechanism . At what point is it to be set to operate ? What reason have we to believe that the choice we make beforehand will be the one we wish we had made afterward ? If there is no way back from the brink , then one has rendered one 's self incapable of rectifying errors of judgment or calculation , and de-148 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory liberately put one 's self in a position where one can be destroyed by a single mistake . If this is the way correct choices are forced by threats , then we badly need less threats and more blundering ? and we must also hope , as Karl Deutsch suggests , that the Russians and Chinese will never translate The Strategy of Conflict.4o At various times , to be fair , Schelling attempts to answer such objections by referring to real-life situations , not merely game theory problems , in which such threats apparently work : criminal law , child-rearing , automobile driving , labor relations , marital relations , and alliance relations are among those he mentions.41 Such examples of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authoritative , really only accentuate the looseness of his thinking . The differences between the relationships that are described by some of these examples and those prominent in the American-Communist conflict system are so obvious that they need no belaboring . Two are especially worth noting , though . The child-rearing analogy suggests that Schelling 's cavalier handling of the " levels-ofanalysis " problem is endemic in his thought . If be can suggest that a relation based on love and designed for the education of dependents is analogous to one based on distrust or hatred and designed for the intimidation of equals , we should not be surprised at his manifest lack of interest in discussing such banal phenomena as American and Soviet foreign policy . As for automobiles , Schelling refers approvingly to an astonishing article by C. W. Sherwin , in which the latter compares war-peace decisions with automobile-driving decisions , and finds cause for rejoicing in the comparatively low rate of failure among the latter : " The American automobile driver Deadly Logic makes , on the average , between 10 million and 100 million successful decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later Sherwin remarks , generously , " the calculation , I realize , sounds a little naive . " ) 42 Schelling praises Sherwin 's article as an " excellent example " of the attempt by scholars to go beyond " immediate problems " and create instead a " methodology " for dealing with long-run problems.43 If this is Schelling 's idea of a " methodology " his lack of care in moving between the world of theory and the world of practice is not surprising . Elsewhere he has written that ... whether deterrent threats lead to desperation , hostility , and panic , or to quiescence , confidence , and security , probably depends on how the threats are arrived at and expressed , what demands accompany them , and the costs and risks of initiating violence or reacting to it . If the participants in a threat system lack the kind of " toughness " that immunizes them to irritation , suspense , and the involvement of personal honor , substantive threats are probably best kept for last resort . . . . They should be deterrent rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support some fundamental status quo , superimposed on which is a system of etiquette , law , ritual , diplomacy , arbitration , or self-restraint . The threat for regular use , then , is the threat that persistent violation of the rules , or persistent bad faith , will endanger the " civilization " that has been built . It takes more than just willingness on both sides to do this , though . It takes skill , and perhaps some luck ; tradition and confidence depend on experience , not just intentions . ( And many of us are not yet persuaded that the intentions are even there . ) My point is not that it is little white threats that make the world go round . It is that nations need n't give up just because military brute force may have to be replaced by threats as a means of protection . . . . Perhaps as we become less confident of brute force , and more attentive to the role 150 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory of threats , we can be more subtle , more careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is Schelling 's prerogative to believe that one can write of the cold war as involving " irritation , suspense , and . . . personal honor , " and expect to solve the problems of a revolutionary age by reference to " some fundamental status quo . " But his notion of the usefulness of threats depends on such ideas ; and they are purely political ideas , which he never otherwise discusses . They are also questionable ideas : one never gets the impression from Schelling or other deterrence theorists that they would be willing to put up with constant , irritating , and even humiliating threats from the Russians or Chinese . Our threats are supposed to intimidate them into behavior congenial to us ? but what of their threats to us ? Nor is the concept of " learning " helpful here . It has been suggested by some deterrence theorists , Schelling among them , that " rational " responses , which at present could not safely be expected ( say , to a limited nuclear attack ) , may be " learned " under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " learning " of rational responses to take place in an atmosphere of nuclear violence , is to make exactly the same dubious assumptions about behavior as are made by deterrence and brinksmanship theory in the first instance . Furthermore , while " learning " abstractly requires only stimuli and an organism to respond to them , in the case of deterrence the term concretely seems to suggest the additional element of some kind of teacher-pupil relationship . It is indeed remarkable that in considerations of the prospects for the learning of proper deterrence behavior , it is invariably " we " who teach " them . " Schelling 's bargaining 151 Deadly Logic models , in which the bargainers gradually " learn " what they can agree on , are an exception . But if one thus takes a completely agnostic position about who " teaches " whom , one has no reason to believe that the bargain reached will be acceptable to the American version of deterrence theory . One might ask , what qualifies " us , " except our self-love ? One can not avoid concluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depends on an asymmetrical evaluation of the world in which behavior that is reasonable and even educational when done by us is offensive saber rattling when done by our opponents . Indeed , that is the only way one can explain remarks such as this one of Schelling 's : " I pay little attention to the Geneva negotiations . The most promising course is to get the Soviets to agree to a fairly expensive inferiority and taper off ourselves . " 46 IV . The Bias of Game Theory Having said all this about these various " uses " of game theory and " proof " of the desirability of a deterrence strategy , we can now also see why many observers , whether well- or ill-informed , have been so passionately critical of the resort to game theory by deterrence theorists . The genesis of these criticisms lies precisely in the indiscriminate concentration on conflict that deterrence theorists are so proud of . It is not that , as Wohlstetter claims , game theory is " pro-conflict " and its critics " anti " ; 47 it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theorists to describe strategic choice in completely militarized terms , and in an imaginary context of complete insecurity . 152 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory All the writers I have mentioned ( except Hitch , who is working at a lower level of generalization ) do this . Taking the matter of insecurity first , one can see that it is this emphasis that is largely responsible for the " mis-sile-gap " notion that was so central in all these ap-proaches to deterrence . James King , himself an expert of note , has remarked about the " missile gap " that Even though many of them do n't believe it themselves , they insist that our strategy should be formed , and our military plans made , as ' if the Russians will attack the moment a set of conditions can destroy 90 percent of the Strategic Air Command . This is to proceed as though the Soviets were bent on world conquest , like an Alexander . Nobody believes that any more , but the analysts treat it as a conservative and there-fore necessary operating assumption . But of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own courses of action and these , in turn , influence the adversary 's intentions . The realist assumption , unadorned , therefore , hardly seems the way to get agreement , of the kind we need a lot more than we need additional armaments , with the Soviet Union . The realist assumption , as applied by the analysts , in other words , leads to an unjustified preoccupation with military force . More than that is required for security.48 It is the minimax theorem , among other things , that makes this " conservative posture " seem " rational . " And it is in the game theory universe that " enemy " advantage , or estimate of gain over cost , is immediately translated into a strategic choice . If deterrence theorists had not been infatuated with this way of looking at the world , they might have made different assumptions about the need to go far beyond a minimum deterrent in the crucial years of the past decade and not set in motion the " self-fulfilling prophecy " that King describes . 153 Deadly Logic As for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly visible in their refusal to compare military strategies with non-military ones . Again , the intellectual constraint imposed by thinking game-theoretically is one factor affecting this refusal ; for in the kinds of schema that Ellsberg , Schelling , and others invent , the two kinds of strategies are not strictly comparable and can not be rigorously analyzed without so much complication that the matrix model becomes useless.49 The worst and most significant offender in this regaiTd is Schelling , who has bolstered his earlier theory of deterrence plus arms control with some further work in which general and complete disarmament is described as just another , poorer example of a deterrence-arms-control system . Having made this description , Schelling feels free to remark that general and complete disarmament is " a fraud . " 50 It is probably true that hostility is endemic , and entails conflict , which entails deterrence , always and everywhere . Indeed , I have said that Schelling oversimplifies his bargaining models by not building hostility into them . But much worse is the way in which he compounds this omission , when , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms-control model , he assumes that only militarized strategies are available for expressing it . Why should this be so ? Why could not a disarmed world maintain deterrence without nuclear weapons , and perhaps even by means of non-military strategies ? 51 In principle , it is surely not impossible ; and if the resulting balance would be relatively unstable , one might prefer the potential of that instability to the " stability " of a world armed to the teeth with " second-strike " missiles . 154 Game Theory and Deterrence Theory There are sensible ( though not necessarily correct ) political arguments to be made against the attractiveness of this prospect or the feasibility of reaching it . But deterrence theorists offer no such arguments , and one of the ways in which they avoid offering them is by refer-ring to game theory ; that is , they put their conclusion about the primacy of military strategies into a matrix so that they never actually have to defend it . Of course , the fault is not with the theory but with its , ? oi-disant practitioners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce such a mode of thought. * Military deterrent threats are only an example of deter-rent threats , not a paradigm for them , and military conflict is only an example of , not a paradigm for , con flict in general . But the disposition to think in this way to begin with , combined with the pressure toward over-simplification that is entailed when one attempts to use a theory that really does not yet have practical uses in any complicated context , fi3 produces the results we have seen . All these theorists think that a world can be built on nuclear threats . Schelling gives them , the rationale that after all , lawyers , husbands , and mothers build worlds on threats too . No doubt that is so , and in a matrix all threats look the same . And yet , the result of this undis ciplined theorizing is to obscure the terribly important possibility that those other threats work , not because they are like H-bomb threats , but because they aren't. 155 5 Deterrence Rationality and Decision-Making I. The Assumption of Rationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealt with the contribution to deterrence theory of specific analytic techniques that have been developed by social scientists The remainder of this study deals not with techniques bu with an obviously related concept : the more general and informal notion of decision-maker rationality that have already mentioned from time to time. * In a way , it could be argued that this notion , rathe than the methods of analysis so far discussed , is th major contribution from modern social science that ha been put to use in theorizing about nuclear deterrence For recent developments in all the social sciences ? an some not-so-recent developments in one of them ? hav been heavily weighted with the vaguely specified con geries of ideas that is subsumed under the phrases " ra tional behavior " and " rational man . " Not only in eco Deadly Logic nomics but also in political science , sociology , and social psychology , as well as in that interdisciplinary field now called " decision-making " ( of which game theory is a signal instance ) , new conceptions more and more concern the observable or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-rational " behavior . Thus there has been a proliferation of attempts to show how the prospects for various kinds of goal-attainment can be calculated , or at least will seem more calculable than they did heretofore , if only some model of rational choice can be constructed . Moreover , in some more positivistic versions of social science , " rationality " is proffered as a weapon with which to break through the barrier of the " fact-value " distinction : the assertion is made that while " value statements " about society are only subjective and thus not systematically analyzable , the social scientist can contribute studies that demonstrate the most instrumentally " rational " method for attaining agreed-upon or " given " ends.l This particular kind of argument about value judgments and rational discourse appears to have had a major effect on deterrence theory , although it is now somewhat dated in professional philosophical discourse . In deterrence theory , the general " assumption of rationality " takes the concrete form of the assumption that if policy-makers will only make correct choices ( i.e. , be " rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least its consequences mitigated.2 We have seen how this assumption is heavily relied on by Kahn , by Glenn Snyder in his theoretical framework for discussing national security policy , and by Morgenstern in his use of the capital punishment analogy . This explicit reliance on a notion of decision-maker rationality is found again and 158 Rationality and Decision-Making again in the literature , as the following quotations indicate : Deterrence may be defined as a method of forcing good ( or more accurately , rational ) behavior through the fear of self-destruction . . . nothing is required of the opposing sides except self-interest and a certain amount of rationality.3 It is sometimes said that strategists and systems analysts must ( or , at any rate , do ) assume that preparations for wars and wars themselves are conducted in a perfectly rational way on both sides . This sounds rather foolish and , in fact , would be . . . . There is nothing in the nature of a conflict system design which forces the analyst to assume that the opposing parties are perfectly intelligent . A candid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to say nothing of what we know of enemy institutions and history , quickly establishes the likelihood of irrationalities . Nonetheless , the possibilities of rational behavior have a large if not an exclusive role in a systems analysis . If men are not always rational beings , they are the only beings who are sometimes rational. ** . The rationality upon which deterrence must be based is frangible.6 The likelihood of rational decision-making under conditions of limited strategic war ? as indeed , in any kind of nuclear war , or in any kind of serious war in the nuclear age ? is another problem about which little , in fact next to nothing , 159 Deadly Logic is known . . . . We are not justified in concluding that rational decision-making will be hopelessly degraded . Beyond doubt , however , here is another built-in-risk of limited strategic war . This is a risk we need not run if better alternatives obtain . Only if they did not would it make sense to take advantage of the possibility that both our opponent and we would be reasonably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision makers may be less systematic than the logic this i.e. , his calculus requires .... 8 Deterrence demands hard , continuing , intelligent work , but it can be achieved . It is the job of deterring rational attack by guaranteeing great damage to an aggressor . . . . 9 Deterrence , to be effective , has four requirements : . . . 3 . The opponent must be rational , i.e. , he must respond to his self-interest in a manner which is predictable . 4 . In weighing his self-interest , the potential aggressor must reach the conclusion the " deterrer " is seeking to induce . In other words , the penalties of aggression must outweigh its benefits . At the very least ( all countries ) should strive to make certain that war , if it does start , is the result of a deliberate decision and is not produced because the opponents , in taking measures which they deem to be defensive , push each other into an attack in self-defense 1 ? A deterrence policy . . . constitutes a special kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be run by the party to be deterred , if certain actions are taken , and about the advantages that he will gain if those actions are avoided.11 There is . . . a constellation of studies , all concerned with various aspects of policy , or rational decision , and of conflict of purpose ; all interpretable as attempts to work out the implications of various strategies being adopted by 160 Rationality and Decision-Making participants in one or another of the several spheres of rational decisions .... 12 Deterrence . . . is concerned with influencing the choices that another party will make , and doing it by influencing his expectations of how we will behave.13 A few remarks about the relationship between deter rence and behavioral theory are in order before we pro ceed to a discussion of the assumption of rationality . First , several of these quotations would seem to suggest that deterrence theorists do not really expect rational be havior but rather are merely hoping for it . Some of my comments will be addressed to the hope rather than the expectation , therefore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rational action will indeed take place , all assume that it can take place ? and this assumption is really the subject of the following chapters. * Indeed , there are grounds for asserting that deterrence theory in Coto is nothing more than one kind of theory of rational behavior . At least this is true as long as one puts at the heart of one 's analysis a syste matic behavioral generalization , rather than a vague hunch or intuition on the one hand or an analysis of the behavior of concrete individuals on the other . And al-though many laymen and even policy-makers may indeed accept deterrence on the basis of merely a formless hunch or intuition that " the bomb ca n't go off , " no prominent deterrence theorist has ever done so ; 14 nor has any deter-161 Deadly Logic rence theorist produced an analysis of American and Soviet social patterns that show deterrence behavior to be a cultural norm in the two societies. * On the contrary , what presents itself to the academic world and the in-formed public as deterrence theory is based precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is true that some deterrence theorists have out-rightly denied reliance on the rationality concept and said no more than that as a rule fear and uncertainty may be expected to prevent the outbreak of nuclear war.15 But they too are ultimately thrown back upon that con cept . For such words as " fear " and " uncertainty , " when generalized beyond an analysis of specific decision-makers , merely establish a certain ( theoretically quanti fiable ) relationship between a general assumption of decision-maker rationality and a subassumption of in f or mation ( without which any theory of rationality is in any event incomplete ) . Thus , when one says that uncer tainty helps to prevent all-out war , one simply says that in any decisional calculation that envisages a potential response of all-out nuclear war to certain courses of action , one so weights the calculation against those courses of action that only a very little expectation of 162 Rationality and Decision-Making such a response is necessary to make them seem undesirable . ( But one can not eliminate the need for knowledge altogether without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger of nuclear war . This would be a strategy not of deterrence but of bluff or of unilateral disarmament. ) 16 Actually , if decision-makers were generally moved by non-rational criteria , then no matter how fearful and uncertain they were , their uncertainty and fear would be irrelevant , for those are words suggesting consequence , and non-rational actors are either heedless of consequences or unable to perceive them accurately in an empirical sense ? that is what it means to be nonrational.17 If , for example , one is to induce desired behavior by threats ? to deter ? then one must be capable of the reasoning necessary to predict which threats will induce which behavior . Or , if one is the object of threats , one must be capable of the reasoning necessary to determine the proper response to them . Merely conscious behavior is not enough , for it is compatible with unreason , as witness the behavior of , say , the paranoiac . Deterrence , moreover , is basically a matter of successful prediction ? or , to be less formalistic , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes of " rational " thought make this possible. * Irrational or non-rational decisionmakers can avoid catastrophic decisions , but only by accident , not because they have any principle of decisionmaking ? such as withdrawal from positions of dangerous uncertainty ? that will help them to avoid it . *There is such a thing as predictable irrationality ; psychoanalysts deal with it regularly , for instance , or like to think they do . But they deal with it on a rational basis , for in the analystpatient relationship , the former is manipulating the situation on Lhe basis of a " rational " analysis of the latter . 163 Deadly Logic In fact , it should be emphasized that no qualification of the notion of rationality can be fitted into deterrence doctrine and leave that doctrine standing whole as an explanation of the successful avoidance of nuclear war ? as more , that is , than a frantically hopeful hunch . If it is diluted with any really non-rational propositions , its logical structure , at least , must begin to collapse . It is important to make this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the assumption of rationality , have claimed , or seemed to have claimed , that deterrence theory is not necessarily a theory of rational behavior . Thus Schelling has argued that a rational strategy can under some circumstances be used by otherwise irrational persons , and Kahn has suggested that a rational strategy may also work vis-a-vis normally irrational persons . ... Even among the emotionally unbalanced , among the certified " irrationals , " there is often observed an intuitive appreciation of the principles of strategy , or at least of particular applications of them . I am told that inmates of mental hospitals often seem to cultivate , deliberately or instinctively , value systems that make them less susceptible to disciplinary threats and more capable of exercising coercion themselves.18 Moreover , we want to deter even the mad . It is sometimes stated that even an adequate . . . deterrent would not deter an irrational enemy . This might be true if irrationality were an all-or-nothing proposition . Actually , irrationality is a matter of degree and if the irrationality is sufficiently bizarre , the irrational decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , we should want a safety factor in . . . deterrence systems so large as to impress even the irrational and irresponsible with the degree of their irrationality and therefore the need for caution . ' 9 164 Rationality and Decision-Making As for Schelling 's point , one can only say that anything is possible but that ordinarily we hope for a little more assurance about the way the arts of statesmanship are being practiced than we would find in an institution for the mentally ill . Kahn 's hortatory argument is , by contrast , well taken , but he is not really diluting the rational element in deterrence theory , as some have thought ; 20 he is merely saying that even the mad may be pressured into rationality by the sheer obviousness of the deterrent threat . Quite so ; that is what deterrence is all about . More interestingly , Glenn Slyder has pointed out that emotional values may be built into a rational calculation , soAhat various weights may be given to the satisfaction of emotions such as honor , prestige , etc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to note that if the process itself is distorted from " rationality " by the experience of such emotions at the time of decision-making or planning ( for instance , if " honor " compels the making of a threat that sober calculation would show simply can not be made credible ) , then the process can no longer be described as a rational one . These attempts to imply a limit on the scope of the assumption of rational behavior , therefore , only make clearer than ever the strength of the relationship between a coherent behaviorally generalized deterrence doctrine and the concept of rationality ? that is , the hope that things can be arranged so that rational decisions will be made . II . The Ambiguity of Deterrence Rationality One way to begin a consideration of the rationality assumption in deterrence theory would be to ask what 165 Deadly Logic specifications it consists of . One would have to make up a catalogue of such specifications one 's self since no deterrence theorist has offered one.22 Presumably one would have to include , in some cases argumentatively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given situation , complete knowledge of the options , non-involvement in policy-making of those not interested in such an approach , etc . However , I think it is more useful to start merely with a broad statement : " rationality " in deterrence theory refers to the making of policy decisions that correctly balance a nation 's efforts in pursuit of the dual deterrence goals of preserving national ( or alliance ) integrity and avoiding ( high-level ) nuclear war . In pursuing an investigation into the prospects for , and problems of , consistently making such decisions , we shall find out just what specifications the assumption of rationality can in fact meaningfully include . The first point I shall discuss here concerns the effect on the way we conceive of certain strategic problems that involve long-run versus short-run considerations when we adopt the notion that strategic behavior is best thought of as rational behavior . The problems I have in mind are those of limited war and technological progress . Deterrence theory tells us , essentially , two things : first , that limited means of defense or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( it is the insistence on this point that distinguishes advocacy of deterrence from advocacy of " massive retaliation " ) ; second , that the ultimate deterrent threat ( or response ) of all-out nuclear war should be reserved for those provocations , that can not be deterred or thwarted by limited means . The key to these two components of deterrence doctrine is the idea of credibility . A rational man does 166 Rationality and Decision-Making not ( a ) make threats that are not credible , or ( b ) allow himself to be deterred by threats that are not credible or ( at least ) are incredible . The notion of non-credibility is tautological , and does not necessarily have any empirical referents ; but it is assumed by everyone who has contributed to the development of deterrence theory that there are indeed some potential provocations that should not be met in theory , or could not be met in practice by the ultimate threat of all-out countervalue war.23 What exactly these provocations may be is a matter of internal doctrinal dispute that is not of major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theorist posits the need for some kind of limited war capability , even if only the capability for fighting , a la Kahn , a " controlled counterforce war " that avoids the destruction of cities.24 Thus the rational decision-maker , when confronted with a limited threat , according to the theory of deterrence counters it with limited means ? and in short-run terms it is always " rational " for him to do so . If a nation can prevent an incursion on its interests , as it defines them , by fighting a limited war of greater or lesser inten-sity , then it should " rationally " do so . If a limited war is being lost and the question of " escalation " arises , a rational decision-maker will weigh the worth of the interest being defended and the probability of successfully defending it against the ultimate probability of a destructive war and the worth of what would be destroyed by it ; if on the basis of current information the expected payoff of the first calculation is higher than that of the second , escalation will logically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a dangerous contradiction in deterrence theory . 167 Deadly Logic Unfortunately , that is indeed the case . I have already pointed out , in my remarks on game theory , that it is theoretically possible for a series of " correct " short-run decisions to add up to an " incorrect " long-run decision . ( The reverse is probably also true . ) In practice , this is to say that the idea of rational decision contains an essen tial ambiguity when applied to repetitive events . The example of limited war is a case in point . There are two problems involved here : the problem of escalation and the problem of continuing cold war . As to the former , it is " rational " to escalate so long as two conditions exist : ( 1 ) any counterescalation can be " over-bid " ; ( 2 ) the process does not lead to all-out nuclear war . Unfortunately , the conditions are mutually incom patible . Eventually , if no counterescalation by the oppo nent can be successful , the only riposte left to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And " rationality " has no principle for choosing between the two , since they are both rejected as goals . There is a possible answer to this dilemma as posed . It might be asserted that " rational " action in such a situation is to press for a negotiated settlement at a point where the escalation spiral is not yet out of control.26 That is an unsatisfactory solution , however , unless one side is clearly superior at all levels of escalation , including that of all-out nuclear war . If the question of superiority and will is uncertain , negotiation is not ipso facto a prefer-able alternative for the side that happens to be losing at the moment . Of course , we could strive to make the question of su periority and will certain : that is , to make the United States decisively superior to the Communist nations at all the levels of the " escalation ladder . " But if this " negotia-168 Rationality and Decision-Making tion through strength " is " rational " behavior for the United States , it also is for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " depends on establishing asymmetrical rules of behavior , or asymmetrical levels of achievement , for us and our opponents.27 But such behavior is insensible unless we have empirical evidence to support the proposition that such an asymmetry exists and can be made to continue to exist . The obvious difficulty with such a proposition is the hubris that is required to assert it ? which perhaps explains why no deterrence theorist has ( wisely ) ever been caught asserting it in public.28 Failing some such " rule of the game , " which would proclaim the U.S. ( or its opponents ) permanent " winner , " the dilemma of our so-called rational decisionmaker persists . He may think his side is permanently the " stronger , " but he must convince the opponent of this also . Since strength is a matter of will as well as resources , this may be very difficult to accomplish ; the more continual one 's own success , the more one 's opponent is led to redouble his efforts in order to stop " losing . " A desperate gambler betting double-or-nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will find it easy to convince himself on each successive throw that the odds in favor of " heads " have gone up ? though a moment 's thought would show him that before each throw the odds are still 50-50 . And , conversely , his winning opponent , though he knows full well that over a lengthy series of throws the odds against continued " tails " are astronomical , will comfort himself with the thought that on each single throw they are , after all , 50-50 . Gamblers often work themselves into such disastrous situations , where they become unable to stop ; the difference between their situation and ours is that ordinarily the loser does Deadly Logic not have the capacity to blow them both up if he can no longer sustain his losses . The point is that there are two " logics " to this situation ; one short-run and one long-run . It is " rational " to choose either logic ; but if the opponents make different choices or if they both choose the short-run view , they are headed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is natural to discount the future about which one knows so little , as against the present about which one has so much more information . And the analogue of the coin that must fall " heads " sooner or later is the opponent who must " win " a battle sooner or later ? but whose future needs we are unlikely to worry about when there are obvious victories to be won in the present . Indeed , Levine has written about deterrence theorists that they " have the shortest time horizons of any group in the arms debate , giving the greatest relative weight to the present as compared to the future " ; that " they want to buy time " ; and that " they will almost always opt for short-run stability , for next year 's ' fulfillment of their major goal of keeping the peace i.e. , nuclear peace . " 29 Such a preference is no doubt defensible . But from a different ? equally " rational " ? point of view it can also be impeached . The impact of events over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both ( see my discussion of game theory , above ) , and thus change someone 's perception of what is an " obvious " or " acceptable " victory ? or defeat . And the result may be a longrun disaster . For example , Sherman 's march through Georgia , a marvelous exercise in military strategy , contributed to " winning " the Civil War ? and also contributed to " los-170 Rationality and Decision-Making ing " the peace for the next century or more . What was conceived of as " victory " then came to seem like a kind of defeat when reconciliation rather than subjugation became the North 's goal ? but it was too late to take back Sherman 's march . In a world full of nuclear weapons , similar miscalculations could produce a much more devastating result than lynchings and other forms of racial oppression . For a great power that was continually losing in the cold war might finally feel it necessary to make a surprise attack , or find some other method of initiating all-out nuclear war , in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of perverse psychic satisfaction. * Other kinds of potentially disastrous misperception or miscalculation of one 's true interest in the outcome of a certain event are equally imaginable . Richard Rovere has written about the Korean War that " it was the most hated war in our history " and that " it was so divisive and so productive of hatreds and bitterness that it might very well have been better never to have become involved in it . " 30 Ultimately that war may not turn out to have been harmful at all . But the point is that if even the war j , ! I described by Herman Kahn as " the right war in the right place at the right time " 31 can be so judged , to call the process of making decisions about entering such wars " rational " is to say nothing at all . 1 , To see more clearly the impact of the long-run-short run dilemma , we can turn to no better example than to what is so far the only serious attempt by an academic theorist to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deadly Logic practice , not just by luck or accident , but because of the relevance of its descriptive categories . The study to which I refer is Charles McClelland 's analysis of the Quemoy-Matsu crisis of 1958 . In this analysis , McClelland concludes about Secretary of State Dulles ' handling of the crisis : Opposition behavior , largely , was to look back with disfavor on the general course of American policy in the Far East before the Quemoy crisis and to call for a shift in the line of current action as a prelude to some future reforms of policy . The more plausible interpretation of the Opposition role is that it was , in the main , ineffective in influencing the direction of the Administration 's crisis policy because it failed to follow and exploit the specific " logic of the situation " in the succeeding phases of change and development in the crisis arena . . . . Opposition 's watchdog responsibility should develop in international politics into the careful tracking of the particular path being trod by the Administration and the criticizing and reporting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisional opportunities of passing international situations.32 Now what must be noted about this analysis is that it is precisely the definition of rationality in terms of " the logic of the situation " that can generate the process of self-contradiction I have described . Our perception of the logic of the situation itself may be unsatisfactory . " Rationality " may require " exploiting " it ( see the quote from Kahn on p. 182 below ) , but a different kind of " rationality " ? the " rationality " of survival , for instance ? may require changing it . Robert Wolff has noted one of the many ways in which that fear might turn out to be well-grounded : 172 Rationality and Decision-Making Some while ago , a high Chinese official was reported as saying that China could profitably fight a nuclear war , because even if the United States killed 300 million Chinese , there would still be ( at that time ) 300 million left . This statement , whether genuine or not , sent shivers through the western world , for it opened up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . Should the United States ever confront a China armed with nuclear weapons and possessed of so grim a value scale , it will literally be faced with annihilation or surrender . There will be no defense , and deterrence will have failed 33 Similar considerations pertain to other cold war crises . American escalation in Vietnam may be " rational " if the Vietnamese , Soviet , and Chinese turn out to have less of the necessary kinds of resources for such a struggle than we do . It also may not , for like Sherman we may " win " the war but lose the peace . And of course our escalation will have been decidedly " irrational " if in the end they turn out to have more of those resources . Nor can we really make any predictions in this regard , since we do n't even know whether the necessary resource for such a struggle will finally be military muscle or emotional resolve . Again , in the case of the Cuban missile crisis of October , 1962 , the general impression in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba was that the administration 's policy had been " successful " in forcing the withdrawal without enlarging the crisis ? just as Dulles ' policy in 1958 was " successful . " But a number of such successes , or a similar " success " in a situation in which the opponent suddenly decided he was valuing his cause too lightly , and our victory may be Pyrrhic indeed . 173 Deadly Logic Of course deterrence theorists have tried to cope with the problem of escalation in the cold war . Thus Schelling and Kahn argue ( very tentatively , as I have noted earlier ) against any first use of nuclear weapons in lim ited war : 34 we should be wary of pushing our opponents too hard . But their argument , to the extent that they really mean it , is political rather than logical ; and since they rate political considerations inferior to logical ones , that argument may always be overturned by a new cal culation . If national leaders decide they can gain an advantage by using nuclear weapons in a limited war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to make the move worthwhile , then they will " rationally " ( by Kahn 's or Schelling 's standards ) use them 35 ? and be almost exactly in the situation of the gamblers in my example , if the enemy does " raise the bid . " If we rely , as does deterrence theory , on rationalistic logic rather than subjective insight , then only perfect knowledge of the future could help decision-makers to avoid such a prospect with certainty ? and perfect knowledge does not exist in human affairs . Nor do Schelling 's bargaining games offer a way out of this theoretical impasse , even were one to concede their relevance . As long as those games are being played - co-operatively , both players should " co-operate " on the " rational " solution : meet at the river that divides a territory unevenly , divide a dollar unevenly because one of the players has made and can enforce a " brinksman ship-like " commitment to accept only such a division , etc . But it would also be perfectly rational for the losing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " anymore and try to kill the other ! For the winning side , it is " rational " not to use nuclear weapons in a limited war , Rationality and Decision-Making since escalation might otherwise be unstoppable . But is it for the losing side ? Not if " he " decides it is no longer worthwhile to keep the war limited ? and nothing in Schelling 's or anyone else 's theory of rationality can tell him not to reach such a decision , for that is a matter of values , which according to such theories are determined a priori , and which in real life can be changed at will . If one ca n't stand losing a small war , who knows , one might win the large one ? why not escalate ? * It is no answer to say that ultimate escalation will be irrational because the winning side , if it has been rational , also has an invulnerable countervalue deterrent . As Kahn points out , no deterrent can be assumed to be completely invulnerable , beyond question ; there are always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And since the preattack environment is more familiar than the post-attack environment , those uncertainties are likely to favor the first attacker.36 By the same token , Kahn has assured the world that " annihilation " is not inevitable . He can imagine situations in which it does not occur ; so may a potential loser , with his back to the wall . If one is fairly sure of losing what one values anyhow , why not do it at a time and place and with means of one 's own choosing ? Furthermore , the possibility of some such outcome could conceivably be greatly increased if the concept of " rational behavior " is applied in the same way ? as it must be if it is applied at all ? to the cold war 's technological as well as to its political problems . The inherent self-contradictions of that concept operate similarly in this area . In a world based on mutual deterrence , the *Or , as Senator Goldwater has asked , " Why Not Victory ? " Deadly Logic possibility of technological breakthrough in either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also either a limited or ultimate threat , and it is " rational " to counter that threat by appropriate means . These means are , of course , to make the breakthrough one 's self , either before the other side or so soon after that its momentarily sole possession of the new " weapon " is not yet decisive . Thus , if a new type of bomb or missile poses the possi bility of a more devastating or more unstoppable attack , each side must " rationally " strive to develop it first . The same is true for defensive weapons , such as antimissile missile systems , massive civil-defense programs , etc . It is also true for radically divergent types of weapon sys tems , such as those meant for biological and chemical warfare ( and thus , the United States is currently en-gaged in rationally building up an extensive arsenal of such weapons ) .37 And , of course , if a " destabilizing " breakthrough can be achieved by the mere addition of greater numbers of a weapon already in inventory , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time . A recent article by Clark Abt lists weapon-system in novations that will be feasible in the next decade . Most of the horrific ones are considered by him to be not worth the cost of developing them ; that is , he assumes that that is the way American and Soviet policy-makers will perceive the situation.38 But the costs we are willing , or even eager to bear vary with the way the world looks to us . If either side 's perception of the threats to its well-being changes radically ? which is not out of the question , given the Vietnam situation , for example ? then it may come to seem rational to build some destructive devices even at a very high monetary and social cost . At the very 176 Rationality and Decision-Making least , on past performance no deterrence theorist will find himself able to say that it is irrational . The result is that rational behavior may ( and probably does ) posit a continuing " arms race , " both qualitatively and quantitatively , wherever there is a potential gain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude " results in the following typical comments by a government official : " There is safety in the research race . . . . The arms race is a dynamic thing . . . . By maintaining our research we can make sure that asymmetries do not occur . " 40 The possible consequences of such an attitude are twofold . First , to the extent that arming against each other exacerbates tensions between opponents , one or both sides become more likely to find themselves in the presence of so implacable a threat that only war can eliminate it . Second , the arms race itself greatly increases the likelihood that one side , in a situation of tension bordering on desperation , will perceive ( or misperceive ) its enemy as being likely to take advantage of a breakthrough in the arms race ( and of course also increases the possibility that the perception will actually be correct ) . The effect of the combination of these two possibilities is to increase the probability of escalation in a limited war , or simply of " pre-emptive " attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An instructive recent example of potential long-run irrationality based on rationalizing short-run calculations is the American decision to possess a clear first-strike capability against the Soviets , who are felt to be incapable of matching our effort.41 And so they are , probably ; so the next logical step for them is to move the arms race up a notch by developing some new super-weapon that Deadly Logic will be destructive enough , and " invulnerable " enough , to unbalance the arms race all over again by destroying the security of America 's " secure " retaliatory force , and also of any conceivable civil-defense plan . They may not , but we will only know after the fact ? and will they have been " rational " not to do so ? Not by our standards , apparently . Again , Freeman Dyson has argued that an American decision to push ahead with the development of an antiballistic-missile missile system would give a disastrously forward push to the arms race , but no deterrence theorist has seen fit to oppose the tentative decision to do just that.42 In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of an ABM program would be that it would give the U.S. the kind of capabilities and understanding of ABM that can come only from actually being in the ABM business . " 43 This indeed is a kind of " long-run " thinking that we could do with less of . Similarly , the failure by the major powers to agree on and enforce a world-wide general disarmament system before the " Nth Country " situation gets out of control ? with all the threats of accidental war , catalytic warj44 etc. , that that event may entail ? is a further example of the possible " irrationality " of rational strategic thought . But it is hardly a surprising one , since , if rationality is our guide , we have no principle for deciding whether proliferation is a good thing . Herman Kahn , after much agonizing , has recently decided that ? like first use ? it is not . But he sees the other side of the argument too : by some standards , which are perfectly compatible with nuclear deterrence , proliferation ( to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing . Suppose , for instance , our NATO allies , or the West Germans , insist on proliferation for themselves ? Even if we do n't want nuclear proliferation , we also do n't want to fracture NATO , 178 Rationality and Decision-Making or force the Germans to carry out their threats to arm themselves with nuclear weapons if we will not arm NATO.45 What are we to do ? One thing is certain : rationality does not tell us which course to pursue . The impact of these major ambiguities in deterrence rationality is especially striking when we consider the doctrine of arms control , which I have already discussed briefly in Chapter III , above . ( I use the phrase " arms control " to imply a type of proposal that is both distinct from , and opposed to , proposals for " disarmament . " ) 46 As we have seen , some deterrence theorists seem to say : If agreement is reached on proposals to police limited war , to guard against surprise attack , to keep communications channels open in the event of unintentional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and development ; 47 and if those agreements are workable , then within that framework a deterrence strategy would be clearly indicated to rational men . The question that arises is : is it consistent " rational " behavior for the same men both to engage in the militarily hostile , occasionally combative conduct that deterrence strategy permits and to keep arms control agreements workable ? There are several reasons for thinking that at best those two modes of conduct can not , with any confidence , be expected to occur together over the long run . At the worst , it can be claimed that they are definitely incompatible , and that Schelling 's theorizing in addition to being methodologically inadequate , is again self-defeating . As John Polanyi has argued : Can we really hope to reach and maintain agreements which have sufficient substance that they significantly diminish the " dangerous arms competition , " and yet are so neutral in their effects , and remain so neutral , that they do not run 179               @ @ @ @ @ @ 