@@773433

txt the French , though victorious , had lost as many men as their foes . There was nothing but retreat left for them , particularly since , before they got to Moscow , a considerable part of the town had been set on fire , and during their stay there mysterious conflagrations broke out in various parts of the city . The return journey was much worse than the advance , since the soldiers were then exposed to the rigours of a very severe winter , accentuated by scarcity of food and fuel and remorseless attacks by the Russian troops . Napoleon hastened back to Paris before the tattered remnants of his army could arrive , making light of the disaster , and before the year 1813 was over he had got together another army of six hundred thousand men , largely recruited of old men and boys . Meantime the character of the struggle against him had changed . The English statesman George Canning had predicted that Napoleon would eventually be defeated by a war of nations , and that this war of nations would start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spaniards resented Napoleon 's attempt to foist his brother Joseph upon them as their king , and with the assistance of English troops under General Wellesley , who afterwards became Duke of Wellington , they fought a long war , the Peninsular War , which has been graphically described as a running sore in the side of France , and which resulted in the deposition of Joseph and the expulsion of the French armies from Spain . Meanwhile , in Germany , the exactions of Napoleon , the arrogance of his soldiers , and the patriotic appeals of philosophers like Fichte had led to an astonishing outburst of national feeling . In Prussia particularly , the government had been overhauled , serfdom had been abolished , and the army made into a really effective fighting force . Thus when Napoleon marched into Germany in 1813 he had to face an opposition which was more dangerous than anything which he had previously encountered . The Russians , the Prussians , and the Austrians had at last learned the necessity of combining against their common enemy , and the struggle against him had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victory at Dresden , but less than two months later he was signally defeated at Leipzig in the great Battle of the Nations , and before the end of the year he had been driven back into France . The allies offered him generous terms . He was to be allowed to keep the crown of France , whose boundaries were fixed at the Rhine , the Alps , and the Pyrenees , and he was also to keep Belgium and Savoy . He hesitated to accept ; the allies lost patience with him and invaded France . In 1814 Austrians , Prussians , Russians , and Swedes crossed the Rhine , and British and Spanish troops came into the country through the passes of the Pyrenees . Napoleon fought brilliantly , but the odds against him were too great . Paris fell at the end of March , and a week later he abdicated . The victors then restored the French monarchy in the person of Louis XVIII , the brother of the ill-fated Louis XVI , and Napoleon was exiled to the small island of Elba in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to retain his imperial title . Such a mockery could hardly have been expected to satisfy a man of his restless and ambitious temperament , and in less than a year he escaped to France and once more persuaded the people to entrust their destinies to him . He promised them individual liberty , freedom of the press , and much else which , in spite of promises , the restored king had not given them , and he renounced war and conquest , declaring his determination to rule as a constitutional sovereign in future . The French people were duped ; the allies were not . Vigorous preparations were made to overthrow the enemy and destroyer of the world 's peace ' , and in June of 1815 a force , consisting mainly of British and Prussians ; defeated him at Waterloo , in Belgium . A little later he surrendered himself to the captain of an English warship , and was exiled by the allies to the remote island of St. Helena in the SouthAtlantic , where , until his death in 1821 , he busied himself by brooding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and quarrelling with the English governor . Probably more literature has been written about Napoleon than about any other character who has ever lived . His astonishing rise to power , the vast scale of his achievements , the force that lay behind his personality , and the tragedy of his fall have appealed alike to the imaginations of posterity and to those of his contemporaries . He had an opportunity such as comes to very few , and he might , had he been less egotistic , have left behind him the reputation of one of the world 's greatest benefactors . He was a man of great mental capacities and extraordinary powers of organization . The fine roads which he constructed across the Alps and along the Rhine ; the wide streets , magnificent bridges , and triumphal arches with which he beautified Paris ; his work in codifying the laws of France ; and his conviction of the importance of education are some indications of what he might have done if personal ambition and the desire for military glory had not warped his judgements and vitiated his whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even his domestic achievements were coloured by a desire to exalt himself . The triumphal arches of Paris were meant to prevent the people from forgetting his victories ; the central idea of his educational system was that it should turn out loyal subjects of the Emperor , prepared to do his will in all things , particularly military service . When he returned from Elba , and when it was expedient for him to conciliate the French people as much as possible , he promised them a free press , but he had no real sympathy with such an idea ; at the very beginning of his administration he suppressed a number of newspapers and forbade the establishment of new ones , and when he became Emperor he adopted the policy of supplying news to the papers , and he gave them strict orders that they were to publish nothing which was disadvantageous or disagreeable to France ' . His ideal was to suppress all newspapers except one for official purposes . A great deal has been made by some of his codification of the laws of France , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both the civil and the criminal law were codified , but it is the codification of the civil law ? the Code Napoleon ? which is the more important , because it served as a model for the legal systems of other countries . ' It is still used , not only in France , but also , with some modifications , in parts of Germany , Holland , Belgium , Italy , and the state of Louisiana in America . Although some of its provisions , such as the control which it gave a husband over his wife 's property , are almost medieval in character , the Code was a good thing inasmuch as it helped to clarify the laws of France , and to secure permanently some of the benefits of the Revolution . It substituted plain statements for legal mysteries and , like all Napoleon 's enactments , it made for efficiency . There can be little if any doubt that without his driving power it would not have come into existence so soon , and it might not have come into existence at all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so lively a power of concrete vision , so keen an instinct for the large issues of politics , that his contributions to the discussion were a series of splendid surprises , occasionally appropriate and decisive , occasionally involved in the gleaming tissues of a dream , but always stamped with the mark of genius and glowing with the impulses of a fresh and impetuous temperament : 2 To Bonaparte 's presence we may ascribe the fact that the civil law of France was codified , not only with more scrupulosity than other portions of French law , but also with a livelier sense of the general interests of the state . What those interests were , Buonaparte knew . They were civil equality , healthy family life , secure bulwarks * Napoleon once said at St. Helena that his winning of forty battles did not redound to his glory so much as the Civil Code . to property , religious toleration , a government raised above the howls of faction . This is the policy which he stamped upon the Civil Code . ' r Napoleon was certainly intoxicated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ egotism increased , and he became more and more despotic . There seemed to be no limits to his vanity . An author who had written A History of Buonaparte ' was ordered to change the title to A History of the Campaigns of Napoleon the Great ' ; and in 18o6 the Emperor lamented to one of his officers that if he were to pretend to be the Son of God , the veriest fishwife would hiss at him , whereas when Alexander the Great made a similar pretension , all believed him with the exception of his mother , the philosopher Aristotle , and a few Athenian pedants , from which he came to the conclusion that he was not as great a man as Alexander . His desire for glory did find some response in the hearts of the French people . They were proud of his victories , and they made almost unbelievable sacrifices in order to enhance the prestige of France . It is true that they were not heavily taxed , as almost invariably happens to a nation which is at war . Napoleon made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the French had to pay the price of victory in another and more terrible way . They had to endure the killing and the crippling of their most vigorous manhood . No nation has had a more terrible experience of the evil consequences of militarism . When Napoleon fell in 1815 he was probably regarded with almost universal execration , and there were few , if any , outside his own personal adherents , who regretted his exile to St. Helena . Twenty-five years later , however , his reputation had improved . The dull and often repressive rule of the restored Bourbons had failed to inspire respect either in France or out of it . A new generation had sprung up , oblivious of the ruin and misery which Napoleon 's policy had brought to their country , conscious only of his revolutionary ideas and the fear and awe which his very name had inspired abroad . There was consequently great enthusiasm when , in that year ( 184o ) , the body of the Emperor was brought from St. Helena and reinterred with great military splendour in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the church of the hospital for old soldiers known as the Invalides . On the pavement around the tomb the names of Napoleon 's greatest victories are inscribed , and at the side are colossal statues of victory with about sixty captured banners beside them . The whole structure is apt to give a somewhat false impression , because it does not take into account Waterloo and St. Helena , the inevitable results of the attacks upon the liberties of other nations and the desire to occupy a domineering position in the world , which the captured banners and the statues of victory represent . During his last years of captivity , Napoleon uttered one sentiment which is the best explanation of his fall : Brute force has never attained anything durable . ' After Waterloo Europe experienced a somewhat precarious and unstable peace which lasted for nearly forty years . Conferences were held to which the Great Powers , including France , sent representatives , but two things prevented any definite progress towards real international peace , and prepared the way for more fighting as soon as the Continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the first place , the rulers who were restored to their former positions showed that they had learned little from experience , and almost immediately began to aim at absolute power once more . In Spain and Naples there were popular insurrections which were summarily suppressed by the aid of foreign troops , French in one case , Austrian in the other . Europe , during the generation which followed Waterloo , was dominated by the personality and the ideas of the Austrian minister Metternich , and he considered that the Great Powers were acting quite within their rights in putting down promptly any attempt to upset the established order of things in any country which had been at all permeated by revolutionary ideas . The statesmen of Great Britain alone differed from him ; they maintained that every nation has a right to the government which it desires , and that no country should interfere with the internal affairs of another . British resistance was not , however , strong enough to prevent such interferences ; but when in 183o the people of France rose against their king , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and replaced him by another , Louis Philippe , from whom they expected a more liberal policy , the other continental monarchies , very largely because the revolution was openly approved in Great Britain , wisely refrained from interfering . It was , however , in America that the attempt to revive the spirit of absolutism received its most pronounced check . When Napoleon put his brother Joseph upon the throne of Spain in 18o8 , the Spanish colonies across the Atlantic , already seething with discontent , had risen in rebellion , and under a leader named Bolivar had started a war for independence which Spain found it so difficult to suppress that in 1823 Metternich , on behalf of Austria , suggested that the other great states of Europe should assist Spain to put down the insurrection . Great Britain at once opposed the idea , but of more significance was the action of President Monroe of the United States , who protested against the claim of the Great Powers of Europe to interfere in the affairs of South America , and declared that any such interference would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus the famous Monroe Doctrine of America for the Americans ' was enunciated . At the same time Great Britain began to treat with the revolted colonies as with independent states , and within a year or two Colombia , Mexico , Buenos Ayres ( the nucleus of the Argentine Republic ) , Peru , Bolivia , and Chile had completed their emancipation and secured the status of independent republics . About the same time Brazil also proclaimed its independence of Portugal , but accepted the son of the Portuguese king as its ruler . The second reason why the peace which followed Waterloo was not a lasting peace was because the Congress of Vienna , which drew up the Peace Treaty , did not do its work well . It ignored national aspirations , and in its eagerness to overthrow Napoleonism it overthrew much that was good as well as much that was bad . The diplomats who were responsible for it showed a sad lack of imagination . Their sufferings during the Napoleonic regime had blinded them to the new forces which had been working actively in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to encourage . Generally speaking , their ideas of a regenerated Europe did not get beyond the conception of a return to the status quo ante bellum . Under Napoleon Italy had been reduced to three political divisions , all dominated by the Emperor . This step towards unity was destroyed in 1815 , eight states were set up , and the whole of Northern Italy was handed over to the German-speaking Austrians . Russia was confirmed in her possession of Finland , whose people were entirely alien . Norway and Sweden were united . Germany was organized into a confederation of thirty-eight states , governed by a Diet presided over by Austria . The Dutch Republic was destroyed quite needlessly , and its Protestant inhabitants joined to the French-speaking Catholics of Belgium to form a new kingdom of the Netherlands . A more far-sighted policy might have averted the great wars of the nineteenth century , such as the Italian War of Liberation , and the wars by which Prussia destroyed the power of Austria in Germany and established a new German Empire . The Union of Holland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Norway and Sweden in 1905 . However , although the Vienna Settlement proved a bad one , and although most of its work has been reversed since , those who were responsible for it must not be judged too harshly . Their chief mistake was that they disregarded the principle of nationality ; but it must be borne in mind that the most striking illustration of the national spirit which they had witnessed had been in France , and there it had eventually taken the form of a spirit of aggression and self-assertion which they thought it desirable to eradicate . Moreover there was little to suggest to political observers of the time that the new passion of national sentiment was more than a passing concomitant of the wars of liberation , and nothing to cause them to realize that it was indeed the new vital and formative principle that was to transmute the old Europe of dynastic states to the new Europe of homogeneous and self-conscious peoples . It would be unjust to condemn the politicians because they were not prophets ' . I On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have made a far better settlement if they had shown less timidity in some things , and more enterprise in others , and if they had been great enough to sink personal feelings and forget personal indignities in a whole-hearted desire for the general welfare of Europe . They gave nothing but moral support to England 's appeal against the iniquities of the slave trade , and they refused to deal with the problem of Turkey 's oppression of her Christian subjects in Greece and the Balkan Peninsula . The Napoleonic Wars are important in the history of the development of the British Empire , which received a considerable acquisition of territory in consequence of them . Cape Colony and Ceylon were taken from the Dutch , who were at the time allied to France , and Malta , Mauritius , and the West Indian islands of Trinidad , St. Lucia , and Tobago were conquered from the French . The Congress of Vienna confirmed all these acquisitions , and so helped to demonstrate the fact that Great Britain 's most cherished field of activity was ultra-European . WHILE the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbing the peace of Europe , another revolution , which was destined to affect still more profoundly the history of mankind , was taking place in England . This was the Industrial Revolution , a term which is used to express the change which was responsible for the adoption of the system of making things on a large scale in large factories with the aid of steam-power , as opposed to the old system , which was generally followed up to the middle of the eighteenth century , of making goods in the cottages or shops of the workers . The first feature of the Revolution was the appearance of certain important inventions which entirely revolutionized the cotton industry . They were all made between the year 176o and the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars ( 1815 ) , and their effect was so great that , even amid the storm and stress of war , what had been a very small industry catering mostly for local needs became a vast industry turning out more cloth than was needed for national use . In 176o England imported about four million pounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pounds ; and in 1840 , when the world had largely recovered from the Napoleonic cataclysm , she imported nearly five hundred million pounds . This tremendous increase of trade would have been impossible but for the invention and use of the steam-engine . Hitherto , industries had been obliged to remain at those places where water-power was available , but the discovery of the use of steam made it possible for them to go where they could best obtain their raw materials , their labourers , or their markets . Crude steam-engines had been in use in England for many years before the time of James Watt , but he vas the first to make the steam-engine a practical machine for supplying power to the new factories . In 1785 the first experiment was made , and it proved so successful that before he end of the century steam-engines were as common as eater-mills in the factories . The cotton industry was by no means the only one which ) enefited from the new spirit of invention and enterprise . Vlore effective methods were discovered of manufacturing voollen goods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron by means of charcoal was abandoned and the coal and iron industries , which had up to this time seen of comparatively little importance , made such progress hat they eventually became the chief industries of the country ; finally , means of communication ? roads , canals , tnd bridges ? were improved ; in 1804 the first loconotive was made , and in 183o the first passenger railway , ) etween Liverpool and Manchester , was opened , and itephenson 's engine , The Rocket ' , attained a speed of over hirty miles an hour . After this railways multiplied , and by he middle of the century there was a network of them over Europe as well as England . The steamboat preceded the team-engine as a means of locomotion . There was a steammat on the Firth of Clyde Canal in 18o2 ; in 1819 a steamboat Tossed the Atlantic from Savannah to Liverpool , taking wenty-five days for the voyage , and after that improvements followed rapidly , so that by 1910 it was possible for a boat ) ropelled by steam to cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a voyage which had at one time taken as many weeks or even months . Still more wonderful , perhaps , vere the inventions which arose from the investigations of araday and others into the properties and uses of electricity . n 1835 the first electric telegraph came into existence , and ixteen years later the first underseas cable was laid between England and France . In a few years the telegraph system pread throughout the civilized world , and news which had travelled slowly from place to place could be flashed with incredible speed from one end of the earth to the other . The improvements which had originated in England took firm and rapid root in other countries too , until all the great nations of the earth were thoroughly industrialized ' . In the space of about a hundred years the world had been transformed . If it had been possible for a Roman of the time of the Caesars to come to life in England or in France about the year 1750 he would have found little to surprise him in the industrial methods of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred years later he would have found himself in an altogether unfamiliar world with its busy cities , its factories full of complicated machinery , and its astonishing development of methods of communication . One result of the Industrial Revolution was a great increase of population , and its concentration in places where the new factories were established . The support of this population was rendered possible by agricultural improvements , which are often spoken of as the Agrarian or Agricultural Revolution . Better and more scientific methods of farming were adopted , the old three-field system disappeared , wider areas were put under cultivation , and there were in consequence more corn and meat to satisfy the needs of the increasing town populations . To some extent the great changes which the Industrial Revolution effected fell on prepared soil . Throughout the eighteenth century there was steady industrial development and great commercial activity in Western Europe , exemplified by the development of banking , the growth of intercourse between nations , improvement in internal means of communication such as roads and canals , and even by factory systems on small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under state patronage , such as the glass works at Creusot , the chief shareholder in which was Marie Antoinette , and the linen manufacture of Silesia . But most of these industries had very modest capitals , and the number of people employed was very small , judged by nineteenthcentury standards . In England there were woollen factories as far back as the sixteenth century . Thus John Winchcombe , known as Jack of Newbury ' , is said to have had a hundred looms at work in his own house , and clothing mills were also set up at Malmesbury and Cirencester . But in 1555 this development of capitalist industry was checked by the Weavers Act , which made it impossible for the future for weavers to be collected in large numbers under one roof , by enacting that more than two looms could not be kept in any house . Thus the industry remained in the domestic stage . The Napoleonic Wars resulted in an enormous increase in the volume of English trade . The supremacy of the British navy , the rigours of the blockade which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from invasion , had the effect of shutting out raw materials from continental ports and bringing them to those of Britain instead , and this at a time when mechanical inventions made it possible for that country to cope with the increased demand for her manufactured goods . There were few docks in England when she went to war in 1793 . During the next thirteen years the East India Docks , the West India Docks , and the London Docks were constructed on the Thames alone , and the Mersey , the Clyde , and the Humber kept pace with the Thames . On the continent of Europe the wars naturally checked the progress of commerce and industry , but with the coming of peace these revived , and in countries like France , Belgium , Switzerland , and Germany English machines were freely introduced . Some , such as the spinning jenny , had been introduced even before 1789 . In 1812 the first steamengine to be used in a European textile mill was set up in Alsace . During the ensuing thirty years steam came rapidly into use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five thousand steam-engines with a capacity of sixty horse-power , and in cities like Paris , Lyons , Marseilles , Lille , Bordeaux , and Toulouse there were great factories , and whole quarters peopled exclusively by factory labourers . The wars raised the prestige of London very much . Alone of the great European cities she had been disturbed by no invader , unless it was the foreign capitalist like Nathan Rothschild who found it the best centre for his operations . During the progress of hostilities England had paid subsidies to the allies ; during the years following , all nations ? France , Prussia , Austria , Russia , even the United States of America , and the South American republics freely after 1820 ? came to London to borrow . English ideas and implements were borrowed as well as English money , and the early history of the great changes effected by the Industrial Revolution on the continent of Europe contains many English names , such as Cockerill , who helped to found the machine industry of Belgium ; Douglas , who made textile machines in France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bobbin lace machine at Douai shortly after the battle of Waterloo . In some arts and crafts , however , continental nations went ahead of England . Thus Germany became superior in scientific methods of metallurgy , and France in the beauty and design of her textiles . The Industrial Revolution was not , however , an unmixed blessing . The domestic ' system of industry which it brought to an end was in many respects more conducive to the happiness of the workers . Artisans usually did their work in their cottages or shops , and in very many cases they were not entirely dependent upon what they earned at their trades for their livelihoods . For instance , in the time of the English poet Chaucer ( 1340 ? 1400 ) the cutlers of Sheffield lived in cottages to which plots of land were attached , and in bad times or when they thought that a temporary change of occupation was desirable , they were able to devote their energies to gardening . The Industrial Revolution changed all that . It made it necessary for workmen to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rows of ugly tenement houses with no gardens or even grass plots attached to them were built for their accommodation , and so originated the hideous towns which are still to be seen in many of the industrial districts of the world . The factories were owned by a small class of capitalists , whose main object appeared to be to amass great fortunes for themselves , with little or no regard for the well-being of those who worked for them . Women and children of tender years were employed in large numbers ; wages were scandalously low ; hours of labour were frequently as high as fifteen or even eighteen in the day ; and so inhuman did the system become that governments had to legislate in order to mitigate some of its most obvious cruelties . The factory-owners , naturally , resented these interferences . They contended that industry should be independent of government control , that competition should regulate prices , and that wages and hours of labour should be entirely a matter of supply and demand . If the supply of labour exceeded the demand employers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The working classes were at the time unorganized and somewhat incoherent , and therefore almost wholly at the mercy of their masters . Some of them , like the English Chartists , thought that if the franchise were extended , their lot would be improved ; others grasped the idea that without organization and unity , no permanent improvement was possible , and so they strove to establish trade unions . In England these unions were at first declared to be illegal , and many of their promoters were imprisoned and transported . In 1824 , however , the government legalized them . Since that time they have increased greatly in power and influence , not only in England , but in all the important industrial countries of the world , and they have , undoubtedly , been the means of securing higher wages , fewer hours of labour , and better conditions generally for their members . Although trade unions have become to some extent socialistic , they have in reality no more connexion with socialism than the fact that both have the same ultimate end in view ? the securing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade unions are in the main defensive institutions , socialism is , very definitely , a system of attack . It starts right away with the assumption that the great national services such as the factories , the mines , and the railways should be the property of the state or nation and should not be carried on for the benefit of a few . The earliest Socialists were certainly not revolutionaries , but their ideals and methods have been carried very much farther since their day . Indeed , there are some Socialists who would dispute Robert Owen 's claim to be regarded as the founder of modern socialism on the ground that Owen was not a Socialist at all , but rather a benevolent employer of labour like the Levers of Port Sunlight or the Cadburys of Bournville . Owen was a factory-owner of New Lanark in Scotland , and the idea which appealed to him and to most of the other early Socialists was that a concrete appeal to the finer feelings of the factory-owners would not be without good results . If they could be brought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humane lines , even going so far as to give the workers a definite interest in it , and yet make a fair profit , they would readily abandon their old methods of shameless exploitation of the labour of others . At New Lanark Owen reduced the hours of labour ; employed no young children ; made his factory sanitary and pleasant to work in ; instituted unemployment pay ; shared a certain proportion of his profits with his employees ; and yet was able to make a handsome profit for himself . But although his experiment excited much interest , and he received visits from such exalted personages as the Grand Duke Nicholas I of Russia , and the Duke of Kent , the father of Queen Victoria , his example was not followed by his fellow manufacturers , and a new and more aggressive form of socialism soon made its appearance , a socialism which regarded the rich as the natural enemies of the poor , and which claimed that since all wealth is produced by labour , labour was therefore justified in taking what it had produced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German named Karl Marx , a man of vast learning , particularly in the departments of history , political economy , and philosophy . Marx believed that in just the same way as capitalism had replaced feudalism , so socialism would eventually replace capitalism , and in a manifesto issued in 1848 he made a fervent appeal to the workers of the world to unite , telling them that they had a world to gain and nothing to lose but their chains . Thus he emphasized the international character of labour , and taught the working-classes that their interests were the same the world over , and that national barriers were essentially artificial . But instead of them he erected others , barriers between classes . Even though Marxian socialism might be a force for peace between nations , it is nevertheless a disruptive force within a nation . It has had much effect upon the subsequent course of World History . The revolution which broke out in France in 1848 , and which spread from France to Italy , Austria , Bohemia , and Hungary , resulting in each case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of Socialists , and for a time they exercised a pronounced control over it . Monarchy was overthrown ; national workshops set up , where all who were unemployed could get work or pay ; and strong hopes entertained that France was at last witnessing the end of the reign of capitalism . One agitator wrote : We demand the extermination of property and capitalists ; the immediate installation of the proletariat in community of goods ; the proscription of bankers , the rich , the merchants , the bourgeois ; the acceptance of the red flag to signify to society its defeat , to the people its victory ; to Paris the terror to all foreign governments invasion . ' But such revolutionary sentiments alarmed the peasantry , whose naturally conservative minds could not but regard with apprehension the extermination of property ' . Moreover , the national workshops had not been a success . Crowds of idlers had flocked to Paris to be maintained at the public expense , and the thrifty and industrious had been heavily taxed to support them . The result was that when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election took place , the moderates swept the country , and so few Socialists were returned as to make it impossible for them to influence legislation . The new government immediately suppressed the national workshops , those who had been employed in them refused to disband , and for three days there was fierce fighting in the streets of Paris resulting in the deaths of over ten thousand people , more than had perished in the whole of the Reign of Terror . This was followed by the establishment of the Second French Republic , with Louis Napoleon , nephew of the Emperor Napoleon , as its first and only President . Four years later he got himself proclaimed Emperor . When , in 1871 , his ambitions had ended in the disastrous defeat of the Franco-German War , another attempt was made to establish a Socialist republic in France . Again Paris was the storm-centre , and again there was furious fighting in the streets : it was only after a very fierce struggle that the revolutionary government was overthrown and the way prepared for the establishment of the Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Socialists adopted more constitutional methods , and for this and other reasons formed one of the most powerful parties in the French parliament . Some of their leaders , such as Jaures , whose efforts to prevent war caused him to be assassinated by a fanatic just before the outbreak of the great European struggle of 1914 , were men of international reputation . In Germany , the native country of Karl Marx , socialism made rapid progress after 185o . Bismarck , the chancellor , made strenuous efforts to suppress it , first of all by prohibiting meetings and publications , and imprisoning prominent leaders , and then by stealing the socialist thunder ' . Between 1883 and 1889 he put into operation many of their proposals , such as state insurance against sickness and accident , and old age pensions ? but he failed to undermine the power of the Social Democrats , as the followers of Marx called themselves . When William II became Emperor in 1888 they polled less than half a million votes . In 1907 they polled over three million . But it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries of Europe , that the principles of Karl Marx have been most thoroughly applied . The Bolshevik government , which has ruled that country since November of 1917 , is in both theory and practice a Marxist government , although it had to modify many of its original intentions on account of the hostility of the peasants , who were as much opposed to socialistic experiments as the French peasants were in 1848 . In England the nineteenth century witnessed no revolutions or great political upheavals . Unlike their compatriots on the Continent , the English reformers had not to fight against strongly entrenched despotisms , or governments which were too reactionary to be reformed , and so freedom , in the words of the poet Tennyson , broadened slowly down from precedent to precedent ' . Successive governments improved the Poor Laws , made the franchise more democratic , did something for education , reformed the criminal law , and it was not until the next century that socialism began to be a force to be seriously reckoned with in political affairs . It was a much less extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marx . The first Labour Government of 1924 contained few if any Marxists , and some of its members were not even Socialists . In the United States of America , despite the existence of such revolutionary organizations as the Industrial Workers of the World , the forces of capitalism are as yet much too strong for those arrayed against them , partly no doubt because the vast resources of that great country make it possible for workmen to be paid much higher wages than they are paid in the countries of the Old World , and so the most fruitful cause of discontent is to a large extent eliminated , for revolutionary societies naturally thrive where there is discontent and injustice . The Socialist Movement , which has to-day become a world movement , is a standing monument to the fact that among the new class of powerful capitalists whom the Industrial Revolution created , there were few who strove to be the servants of the community like Robert Owen , many who were simply self-seeking oppressive individuals who put their own selfish ambitions before the interests of the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ONE of the great features of nineteenth-century history is the development of the idea of nationality , despite the attempts of reactionary statesmen to arrest it . Between the years 1822 and 183o , if we include the Spanish American republics and the Portuguese empire of Brazil , about a dozen national states originated . During this period the four great empires of the world were the British , Russian , Austrian , and Turkish , and in each of them national movements exercised a disruptive influence . The Dutch subjects of Great Britain in South Africa and her French subjects in Canada both began to feel British government to be wellnigh intolerable , and most of them would have liked to follow the example set by the rebellious subjects of Spain in South America and found separate states . The century was far advanced before British statesmen realized that the real solution of the problem was a federation of states free to govern themselves and bound by the lightest of ties to the mother country . In the Russian Empire , the Finns , who wished to return to Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both somewhat turbulent . There was nothing really deserving the name of insurrection in Finland , but the Poles were more enterprising . In 183o they broke into open revolt , with no other result than to furnish an excuse for the despotic Czar , Nicholas I , to treat them with more rigour and cruelty than ever . Within the Empire of Austria , the Slays of Croatia and Dalmatia , the Magyars of Hungary , and the Italians of Northern Italy gave frequent expression to their national aspirations . But it was in the Turkish Empire that nationalism won its most enduring victories during these momentous eight years . First the Serbs succeeded in making themselves practically independent of the Sultan , then Albania and Montenegro defied his authority , and finally the Greeks waged a successful war culminating in the acknowledgement of their independence in 1829 . For this result they were much indebted to foreign aid . The glories of the Greek past attracted many volunteers like the English Lord Byron . Their cause was very popular in England and France , and the government of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasted for eight years and it was waged with equal cruelty and baseness by both Greeks and Turks . The Greeks of 1820 ? 30 had few if any of the noble qualities of the Greeks who broke the might of Persia in the fifth century B.C. Another important national rising of this period was the revolt of the Belgians against the dominance of Holland . The union of Belgium and Holland had not worked well . The Dutch were Protestants , the Belgians were Roman Catholics , but this difficulty might easily have been overcome if it were not for the fact that the Dutch practically monopolized all // the important offices in the state . The seat of government was at The Hague ; Dutch was declared to be the official language ; six-sevenths of the ministers , seven-eighths of the officers of the army , and nearly all the public servants of every description were Dutch . The success of the French revolution of 1830 , when the Bourbons were overthrown and the more liberal-minded Louis Philippe made king , encouraged the Belgians to put their fortunes also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year they had achieved their purpose , and their independence had been recognized by the Great Powers of Europe . Russia and Prussia would have preferred to crush them for violating the settlement of Vienna , but the new French government supported them whole-heartedly , and England shrank from the possibility of a European war . The year 1848 , the great year of revolutions , was one of distinct triumph for national ideals , even though the triumph was short-lived . Metternich , the arbiter of Europe , the friend of reaction , the foe of nationality , was forced to leave Vienna in disguise amid the contents of a laundry-cart . Hungary and Bohemia both claimed national autonomy : Milan expelled the Austrians : Venice became an independent republic once more . Charles Albert , King of Sardinia , put himself at the head of an Italian national movement , and declared war upon the Habsburgs . Frederick William IV , King of Prussia , was forced to grant constitutional government to his subjects , and to authorize the summoning of a German National Parliament . In Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to make their country a separate nation . But all these movements flattered only to deceive . The national and democratic leaders showed an amazing lack of foresight and prudence , and by stupid quarrels among themselves threw away the fruits of all their efforts . Dissensions among the rebels gave the Austrian reactionaries the opportunity to crush the Bohemian and Austrian movements with much slaughter . The Magyars of Hungary were similarly treated . In this case the Austrian troops received valuable assistance from the Russians and from the Croats , the Slays of Hungary , to whom the Magyars would not grant the liberties which they desired themselves . In Italy the alliance of the liberal-minded Pope Pius IX , Charles Albert of Sardinia , and the republican advocate Mazzini , whose writings had done much to awaken the national consciousness of his countrymen , was a happy augury of success . But , unfortunately , the alliance broke up , and those who had composed it turned their arms against one another . The Pope was alarmed at the irreligion of the republicans , and he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria from Roman Catholicism . Charles Albert mismanaged his campaigns badly and was defeated at Custozza and Novara , and Mazzini 's attempts to establish a republic at Rome failed when French troops were sent against him in defence of the rights of the Pope . In Germany the National Parliament wasted a great deal of its time in the discussion of abstractions , and failed to persuade Frederick William of Prussia to become the head of a German Empire . The result was the restoration of the old ineffective federation of 1815 with Austria as its head . An observer of these events , Otto von Bismarck , remarked at the time : Not by speeches and resolutions of majorities are the mighty problems of the age to be solved , but by blood and iron . ' In England , the Chartist demonstrations ended in a ludicrous fiasco , and the Young Ireland Movement was easily suppressed . But the cause of nationality was not lost in either Italy or Germany . After his defeats , Charles Albert abdicated the throne of Sardinia in favour of his son Victor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately to be attained . In 1852 Victor Emanuel made Count Cavour his chief minister . Cavour was a diplomatist of the first order , and henceforth all his gifts were directed to one end ? the extension of the kingdom of Sardinia to include the whole of Italy . The abortive risings of 1848 ? 9 had proved that foreign aid was necessary to the achievement of this plan , and there was no enifP -y country from which assistance could be expected more naturally than from France . The ruler of that country , Napoleon III , prided himself on the fact that he was the nephew of the first Napoleon , and he desired nothing so much as to follow the policy outlined by his great uncle . The Napoleonic regime had not been altogether an evil to the Italians . The country had been divided into three political divisions , all dominated by Napoleon , and thus it had been given some semblance of unity , which was ruthlessly destroyed in 1815 , much to the distaste of Italian patriots , who did not relish the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the triumph of reaction that for many years the Nationalists dared not carry on their propaganda in the open . Secret societies came into being , and to the most famous of these , the Carbonari , Napoleon III , when he was a young adventurer with little beyond his dreams to satisfy his romantic temperament , had at one time belonged . There was still another reason why Italian patriots might expect assistance from him . His thirst for glory was almost as great as his uncle 's had been , and the Italian adventure seemed to afford an admirable opportunity for satisfying it . Moreover , his model , the great Napoleon , had in the evening of his days at St. Helena , with magnificent disregard for the records of history , announced that the principles which he had tried to realize throughout his career , and which were the foundation stones of his empire , were democracy , peace , religion , and nationality . Consequently , Cavour did not find it too difficult a matter to secure the alliance of France , especially since , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops to assist the French during the Crimean War , and so in 1858 it was agreed that Napoleon should aid Sardinia to expel the Austrians from Italy . In the following year the French army of deliverance came into the peninsula , the Austrians were badly beaten at Magenta and Solferino , and then Napoleon , without consulting his allies , made peace with the Austrians , who were to be allowed to retain Venetia . Lombardy and Parma were to be added to Sardinia , but Tuscany and Modena were to remain separate states under the dukes who had formerly ruled them , and the Romagna , which had revolted against the authority of the Pope , was to be restored to him again . Napoleon 's desertion of his allies was due to many causes . He had planned the Italian campaign primarily to add lustre to his own name , but most of the glory seemed to have been accorded to Victor Emanuel , who was joyfully hailed as the king of a united Italy . Napoleon did not want to see the whole of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appealed to him was a federation of four states ? Sardinia ( enlarged by the addition of Lombardy , Venetia , Parma , and Modena ) , Central Italy , the Papal States , and the Bourbon kingdom of Naples and Sicily , all admitting the overlordship of the Pope . He made peace with the Austrians and allowed them to retain Venetia as soon as he realized that if they were utterly expelled from Italy the whole of the country would be quickly united under Victor Emanuel . But his withdrawal from the campaign did not have quite the effect which he anticipated . The national ardour of the Italians had been thoroughly roused . Tuscany , Modena , and the Romagna refused to return to their former rulers , and France had to agree to their absorption into the kingdom of Victor Emanuel ( 186o ) . Then the people of Naples and Sicily rebelled against the inhuman government of the Bourbons , and with the assistance of the great soldier Garibaldi they too achieved their independence , and by an almost unanimous vote decided to become part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the year 186o included the whole of the country with the exception of Venetia and a small strip of territory around Rome , which the Pope still retained . After his successes in Naples , Garibaldi was eager to march on to Rome and conquer the papal dominions , but he was prevented by Cavour , who realized that such an action would bring the French into Italy again , but this time probably as the allies of Austria in defence of the rights of the Pope . Thus all the fruits of the War of Liberation would be needlessly thrown away . It was better to wait until favourable opportunities of securing both Rome and Venetia should present themselves . For the final acquisition of these much coveted territories , Prussia was the country to which Italy was indebted . The unity of Germany was secured by methods which were in many respects very different from those which succeeded in Italy . In both countries a particular state , Sardinia in Italy and Prussia in Germany , put itself at the head of the national movement , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and William I , had resolute and able chief ministers who were masters of the tortuous and tricky art of diplomacy . In Prussia the role of Cavour was played by that Otto von Bismarck whose contempt for those who sought to solve the problem of German nationality by long speeches in the parliament of 1848 had been so forcibly expressed . In 1862 Bismarck became the chief minister of the King of Prussia . He was no believer in constitutional government like Cavour . The people of Germany were not to be allowed to achieve their unity in their own way . It was to be achieved for them by their rulers by a policy of blood and iron ' . Shortly before his appointment as the Prussian chief minister , Bismarck , during a visit to London , had made a frank confession of his aims and prospects to the English statesman , Benjamin Disraeli . I shall soon ' , he declared , be compelled to undertake the leadership of the Prussian government . My first care will be , with or without the help of parliament , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself this task . He can not , however , carry it through with his present councillors . When the army has been brought to such a state as to command respect , then I will take the first opportunity to declare war with Austria , burst asunder the German Confederation , bring the middle and smaller states into subjection , and give Germany a national union under the leadership of Prussia . ' This was an exact description of the policy which Bismarck actually carried out . He increased the Prussian army and made it the most effective fighting machine in Europe by extending the system of military conscription in a way which was not approved by the elected representatives of the people . He adopted measures of stern repression against Socialists and any others who ventured to oppose or criticize his actions , and then , when he was convinced that his army was sufficiently powerful , he deliberately set to work to isolate Austria diplomatically , and to find an excuse to attack her when isolated . By holding before them the glittering prize of Venetia he secured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war with Austria . Russia promised to remain neutral , and so also did France . Napoleon III was so ignorant of the completeness of the Prussian preparations that he believed that there would be a long war in which the combatants would wear one another out . Germany would be more hopelessly divided than ever , and he would be able to interfere and impose what terms he pleased upon both Prussians and Austrians . At this time ( 1866 ) , Napoleon 's prestige was distinctly waning , and something was needed to restore it . In 1863 the Poles had solicited his aid in a rebellion against the Czar . Napoleon had replied with encouraging words which filled them with hopes which were soon falsified , when he sent them no assistance and allowed the rebellion to be crushed in blood . The French Emperor had done nothing beyond estranging the Russian government . Still more unfortunate was his interference in American affairs in the following year . He sent an army across the Atlantic to Mexico to support the claims of Maximilian , the brother of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His action alarmed the government of the United States , who were naturally devoted to the Monroe doctrine of America for the Americans , and Napoleon , to avoid international complications , was obliged to withdraw the French troops and leave Maximilian to the mercy of the Mexicans , who ultimately captured and executed him . Thus when the war between Austria and Prussia broke out Napoleon 's reputation needed some rehabilitation . But the result of the war , far from doing this , gave it still another severe blow . In the astonishingly short time of three weeks the Austrian troops were thoroughly defeated and Bismarck was in a position to dictate terms to his foes . The confederation of 1815 was dissolved and Austria ceased to be counted as a German power ; Prussia was allowed to annex Schleswig-Holstein , Hanover , Hesse , and other small states which had helped Austria in the late struggle ; she was also allowed to organize the states of North Germany into a Confederation under her own headship ; and Italy was confirmed in the possession of Venetia . Nothing now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his lost prestige , but to go to war with Prussia , and nothing suited the plans of Bismarck better . He believed that a war with France would rouse the patriotism of the South German states so that they would unite under Prussia against the common enemy , and afterwards join the North German Confederation . Napoleon , on the other hand , believed that their jealousy of Prussia was so great that they would fight for him . But again he made a bad miscalculation . As Bismarck anticipated , all Germany united against the French . Napoleon was defeated and made prisoner at the battle of Sedan ; the victorious Germans even besieged Paris and forced it to capitulate ; the Empire was overthrown ; and France was obliged to surrender territory and pay a heavy indemnity to the victors . The war , instead of hindering the development of Germany , as the French Emperor had hoped , consummated the work of 1866 . The South German states , having sent their troops to fight side by side with the Prussian forces , agreed after their common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in January of 1871 , in the palace of Versailles , William I of Prussia , the president of the Confederation , was proclaimed German Emperor in the presence of the other German princes . The Franco-German War also completed the unification of Italy . Before it broke out , Bismarck made certain of the alliance of the Italians by holding before them the tempting bait of Rome , which French troops were holding for the Pope . The reverses which he experienced at the hands of the Germans compelled Napoleon III to withdraw the French garrison . A month later the troops of Victor Emanuel entered Rome , the people welcomed them enthusiastically , and the union of Italy was complete . The Pope was allowed to remain in the Vatican , and offered the status of a sovereign prince with the right to receive ambassadors and maintain a guard . He was also offered a liberal annuity . But Pius IX was too much annoyed at the loss of his temporal power to accept these terms . He retired into the Vatican , proclaiming himself a prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 that peace was made with the Italian government , who agreed to pay the Papacy for its loss of earthly power . But it is impossible to resist the conclusion that the loss of its temporal dominions has not been a bad thing for the Papacy . Its spiritual power at the beginning of the present century was probably greater than it had been at any time since the Middle Ages , and this must have been largely due to the fact that the Pope is no longer hampered by the cares and ambitions of an Italian prince . XXIX MODERN IMPERIALISM THE events of the years from 1859 to 1871 virtually destroyed the old Europe of Metternich and the Congress of Vienna , and brought into its place a new Europe based upon nationality . But the settlement of 1815 had one advantage over that of 1871 , in that it was international , and not , like the later settlement , imposed to a considerable extent by the dominant will of a victorious power . The Peace of Frankfort which concluded the Franco-German War , was as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French were incensed at the loss of the rich provinces of Alsace and Lorraine , which Germany annexed almost as cynically as the Great Powers had divided Poland among themselves in the eighteenth century . The recovery of the lost provinces became almost a national ambition among French people , and the feelings of bitterness which their loss aroused had much to do with the great European War of 1914-18 . Bismarck did his best to allay these feelings by encouraging the French to seek compensation in other directions , particularly in North Africa , where they proceeded to build up a colonial empire for themselves , with as much disregard for the rights of the native inhabitants as the victorious Prussians had shown for French rights in the matter of Alsace and Lorraine . Bismarck never fully realized the value of colonies . This was partly why he encouraged French colonial enterprise . He was also actuated by the belief that it would lead to disputes with Great Britain and Italy , who were also interested in North Africa , and so France would be isolated diplomatically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Algiers had been annexed in 1830 and its development had been one of the main features of the reign of Louis Philippe . In 1881 a French expedition occupied Tunis , to the great displeasure of the Italians , who had been casting longing eyes on the same territory themselves . The result was a period of marked unfriendliness between France and Italy , which lasted for thirty years . Shortly afterwards the French began their so-called peaceful penetration ' of Morocco , an action which led to acute dissension with Spain . In 1891 they occupied the Ivory Coast , Dahomey in the following year , and Madagascar in 1895 . In the meantime Great Britain had not been idle . Her territories in South Africa had been much increased by the annexation of Natal and the Transvaal . The latter state had been colonized by Boers , or settlers of Dutch extraction , who won back their independence in 1881 , four years after it had been taken away from them . But after the Boer War of 1899 ? 1902 the British government again annexed the Transvaal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boers , who had naturally assisted their kinsfolk in the war . Their period of subjugation was a brief one . In 1907 they were granted the privileges of self-government , and united with Natal and Cape Colony to form a Union of South Africa , very similar to the Dominion of Canada . The first Prime Minister of the Union , Louis Botha , had been the leader of the Boer forces against Great Britain in the late war . In other parts of Africa too the British Empire was considerably extended before the end of the nineteenth century . The Gold Coast colonies , Uganda , Zanzibar , part of East Africa , Nyasaland , and Rhodesia were all either annexed or marked out as definite British spheres of influence . In 1883 Great Britain secured control over Egypt and remained there , despite the fact that technically it was a part of the Turkish Empire . The development of Egypt under British direction was very marked , and in many ways most beneficial to the people ; but there was some discontent on the part of Nationalists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign power , however efficient that power might be , and the path of the British administrator was rendered still more difficult by the fact that it was considered necessary to conquer the Sudan , a tributary state to the south of Egypt , where a Muslim leader , who called himself the Mandi , was preaching a holy war of liberation . The Mandi was never conquered , but his successor , the Khalifa , was subsequently defeated and killed , and the conquest of the Sudan achieved , to be followed almost immediately by a dispute with France which might easily have resulted in a European war , and which is an illuminating illustration of how colonial rivalries may easily precipitate international strife . A certain Major Marchand , at the head of a French mission , arrived at Fashoda , on the Upper Nile , and showed a disposition to remain there , although the British declared it to be within their sphere of influence . There were angry recriminations between the two countries , but war was fortunately averted , the French withdrew from Fashoda , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly on account of Bismarck 's ideas on the subject , was somewhat late in the grab for African territory . We do not ' , said Bismarck , wish to colonize nor can we do so . We shall never possess a fleet . Nor are our workmen , our lawyers , our retired soldiers worth anything for colonization . ' But the commercial instincts of the German people were subsequently too much for him . It became necessary to seek new markets for surplus capital , new sources of raw material . The result was that between the years 1884 and 1890 Germany acquired four considerable areas of African territory : Togoland , the Cameroons , German South-West Africa , and German East Africa . Strenuous attempts were made to develop these regions by building schools and railways and by the liberal expenditure of money upon various schemes of improvement , but wars with the natives and the comparatively poor commercial returns made the value of the experiments somewhat doubtful . The Belgians were more fortunate from a purely material point of view . In 1876 King Leopold of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Belgian Congo , the vast region between German East Africa and the French Congo . It was and is a great rubber-producing country , and the most reprehensible methods were taken to make the wretched natives work . They were forced to labour on railways or to drain swamps for Belgian capitalists , work which was particularly repulsive to them , accustomed as they had been to the free life of the jungle . The chiefs were expected to supply fixed numbers of workmen , and if they did not do so their villages were often burned . The natives were also told that they must supply a certain quantity of rubber every year . Failure to comply meant severe punishments , even torture and maiming . When these methods were exposed there were vigorous protests in both Europe and America , and the force of public opinion became so great that the Belgian ministry was compelled to take over complete charge of the Congo State and see that the natives were treated with more humanity and consideration . In 185o Africa was The Dark Continent ' . Apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , Cape Colony , Algeria , and a few scattered British , French , and Dutch settlements on the west coast , the continent was one of black mystery , inhabited by native tribes . Then , between the years 185o and 188o , explorers like Speke , Livingstone , and Stanley braved the terrors of the unknown , torrid heat , terrible diseases , wild beasts , and savages ; discovered the sources of the Nile ; and made adventurous voyages up the Congo and Zambesi rivers . They brought back with them marvellous stories of scenery of unexampled grandeur , wealth in the form of raw materials which had never been realized or utilized , even remains ? at Zimbabwe in Rhodesia ? of a vanished civilization . At this time the development of industrialism in Europe and the consequent growth of the population was creating a demand for raw materials of every kind , and that is why the exploration of Africa was followed by such a scramble for territory among the great European Powers that , by the end of the century , it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries unannexed : Liberia ; Morocco , which later became a French protectorate ; and Abyssinia , which successfully maintained its independence against an Italian army of aggression . It was not only in Africa that the colonial ambitions of the Great Powers found outlets for themselves . The nineteenth century witnessed an enormous extension of the British Empire in almost all parts of the world . India became entirely British , so too did Australia and New Zealand ; protectorates were established over the Malay States and many of the islands of the Pacific ; and in the Far East Great Britain joined with France , Germany , Russia , and Japan in the economic exploitation of China . The relations of Europe and China go back to ancient history . Some of the Roman emperors , including Marcus Aurelius , sent embassies to the Chinese emperor , and during the Middle Ages China was visited by travellers like the Polos and by missionaries anxious to spread the Christian religion . After Vasco da Gama had discovered the sea route to the East round the Cape of Good Hope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they received a very cold welcome , and Canton was the only port where they were allowed to embark and disembark their wares . But after 1840 this state of affairs was altered , and China was forced by European powers to open other ports , such as Shanghai and Tientsin ; to grant concessions to British , American , French , and German capitalists ; and even in some instances to cede territory , such as the island of Hong Kong to Great Britain , Port Arthur to Russia , and Kiau Chau to Germany . Her defenceless condition also exposed her to the aggressive ambitions of her neighbour Japan . The rise of Japan is one of the most astonishing features of modern history . Until a hundred years ago her world influence was negligible ; she was an exclusively oriental power , dominated by such essentially medieval ideas as feudalism and serfdom . During the sixteenth century Dutch and English traders had carried on a little business in Japan , and Christian missionaries had visited the country , but they both became very unpopular and were driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off almost entirely from the rest of the world , until in 1853 the United States officer Commodore Perry landed in Yokohama and asked for permission to trade . This was granted , and similar concessions were made to other Powers , but the Japanese were more wary than the Chinese . They realized that they must learn something about European inventions and European ideas if they were to protect themselves against exploitation . The result was the abolition of feudalism , the reorganization of the army and the navy on a European model , the creation of a parliament , the building of factories and railroads , and the emergence of Japan in the course of about fifty or sixty years into the ranks of the Great Powers of the world . The growth of her manufactures had the same effect as the growth of manufactures had in Europe . It made her anxious to extend her trade and seek new markets . The proximity of Korea , and the comparatively defenceless condition of China to whom it belonged , gave her the opportunity which she desired . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Japanese won ( 1894-5 ) , and although Korea was not formally annexed until 1910 , it had been little better than a Japanese province for the fifteen preceding years . Russia was also interested in Korea ; she built forts there , kept troops in the neighbouring province of Manchuria , and leased Port Arthur from China . The result was a war with Japan ( 1904-5 ) , in which the Russians were so badly beaten that they had to agree to the evacuation of Manchuria and Korea , and give up their rights over Port Arthur to the Japanese . It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that modern imperialism was a direct result of the Industrial Revolution , which by enabling Europe and the United States of America to produce more goods than they could sell in their own markets , and by furnishing rapid means of transporting these goods from one end of the earth to the other , created keen competition for the control of foreign markets . Sometimes this did not take the form of colonization . For instance , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as railways and mines , to develop the resources of backward countries . The investment of German capital in the construction of a railway from Constantinople to Bagdad and the sinking of Russian capital in the Trans-Siberian railway are good examples of this sort of thing . But for the most part the securing of concessions was not deemed sufficient . It was felt that , in order to develop the resources of a country and control its products , the country which was prepared to invest its capital must have some sort of proprietary interest . This might take the form of annexation , sometimes at the wish of the inhabitants , such as the acquisition of the South Sea island of Hawaii by the United States , more often very much against the wishes of the inhabitants , as in the case of the Japanese annexation of Korea . Another class of colony was the protectorate , where native rulers were recognized and where the protecting country agreed to defend the protected from civil wars and from external aggression , and to help them in developing and cultivating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold over Uganda and Somaliland . A third type of colony was represented by the mandated territories ' , colonies which formerly belonged to Germany or Turkey , defeated nations in the First World War ( 1914-18 ) , and which were subsequently administered by representatives of the victorious countries under mandate from the League of Nations . Thus Palestine was mandated to Great Britain , Samoa in the South Seas to New Zealand , and German South-West Africa to the Union of South Africa . No account of the development of modern imperialism would be at all complete without some reference to the part played by Christian missionaries . The British Empire in Africa owed very much to the labours of such men as David Livingstone and Robert Moffat , while in other parts of the world its growth was considerably assisted by the efforts of men like Williams and Chalmers in the South Seas , Gren- fell in Labrador , and Marsden among the Maoris . Spain in the sixteenth century was under a similar obligation to the Jesuits . Sir Harry Johnston , one of the greatest authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the work of Moffat and others among the Bechuana and Matabele tribes , both of whom are now British subjects : Nearly all the Bechuana tribes now are Christians and are prosperous and happy , no longer tortured by famine or killing each other in constant quarrels . It must not be forgotten that the missionaries first got a hearing by showing that they were men of their hands , that they could be , if need arose , blacksmiths and carpenters , brickmakers and bricklayers , good shots with the rifle , horsemen and cattle keepers . Not many years elapsed after these episodes , before they had become throughout South Africa , from Cape Colony to the Zambesi , the trusted advisers and allies of the native tribes . ' Another writer r declares that the work of the missionaries has ennobled South African history by contributing ; to it an element of the picturesque , a spice of chivalry and romance . Africa became attractive , as a scene of adventure , where among wild beasts and wild men noble lives were lived and sometimes lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was something to seek , and something to find , something which savoured of the days when , to awakening Europe , the lands beyond the seas seemed bright and young . ' But the work of missionaries has also come in for severe criticism from some quarters . It is claimed that they are but the advance guard who make it easy for soldiers to conquer and traders to exploit the territories of people who are not able to defend themselves with any hope of success against the inroads of the white races . It is , however , hardly fair to blame missionaries for the subsequent actions of unscrupulous traders in lands which have been opened up by their efforts , T Sir Charles Lucas ( formerly Under-Secretary at the British Colonial Office ) . i and there is no doubt that the greatest obstacle to missionary success has frequently been the low standard of commercial morality shown by such traders . There is no real reason for disagreement with the claim put forward by the World Missionary Conference , which met at Edinburgh in 1910 : It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Missionaries to Governments . It would , in the first place , be impossible always to draw a dividing line between the aim of the missionary and the aim of the Government . Missions aim not merely at securing the spiritual enlightenment of the individual , but also at promoting the healthy social life of the community . Governments likewise aim at enhancing the welfare of the people . In this field , therefore , Governments have been spared much expense and great care by what Missions have done . Of forms of service lying outside of strictly religious work , in which Missions have done work of a type which Governments appreciate and themselves undertake , we can only make passing mention . In exploration , scores of missionaries have been pioneers ; in sociology , their observations have contributed a mass of material of the highest value . Many languages have been by them reduced to writing , their grammatical principles ascertained and recorded , and development of a literature has been begun . Their study of developed languages has enriched philology and all human culture . Their educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printing-press and introducing the school-book , the newspaper and healthful literature of all kinds , they have again and again been pioneers . By their medical work they have not only alleviated the sufferings of millions , but have also powerfully promoted the cause of public health , while destroying the malignant influence of pretenders to magical power . By their influence with the people and their dissemination of higher principles of life , they have often made possible the acceptance and enforcement of good laws which without them Governments would have feared to pass , and would have been unable to make effective . ' In some respects , the imperialistic activities of modern nations had admirable consequences . In many undeveloped and uncivilized countries efforts were made to improve the people both mentally and materially . Jungles were slowly cleared , prairies cultivated , means of transport enormously improved , and diseases fought and conquered with a courage which is at least as great as that of the soldier in battle . But imperialism has not always developed in this way . It has sometimes led to Congo atrocities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by shameful exploitation . Not one of the great empire-building countries of the world has a clean record in imperial matters . There are foul pages as well as fair . Even the British Empire was established mainly for commercial reasons , and it would be absurd to imagine that it was ever maintained for purely philanthropic purposes . Many empire builders have been men of unquestionable integrity , brave , unselfish , patriotic in the highest sense . But others have been men bent upon advancing their own individual interests rather than those of their country . While imperialism has undoubtedly been a potent force in the civilizing of backward peoples , it has also been a prolific cause of wars and international discord . In our own century it has been responsible for some minor wars , such as that between Russia and Japan , and it was one of the root causes of the First World War , a greater and more terrible war than any that had preceded it . The ill will between France and Germany was accentuated by colonial rivalry over the matter of Morocco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , claimed the right to establish a protectorate . Germany disputed French monopoly , and in igxi almost went to war because France would not consult her in Moroccan matters . Seven years previously , Great Britain had formally recognized the priority of French interests in Morocco in return for a similar recognition by France of British interests in Egypt . Thus the entente cordiale ' between the two // countries originated in the area of colonial rivalry and conflict . Germany 's reaction to this unexpected and unwelcome agreement between two Powers whom colonial rivalry had several times brought to the brink of war was increasingly unfriendly and even threatening . As a result Britain and France drew closer together for mutual protection against Germany , which had the effect of bringing the Empire with all its resources to the support of France against Germany when the First World War began in I914 . XXX RUSSIA AND THE NEAR EAST IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY THE task of making Russia a European country , begun by Peter the Great , was continued after his death , but it was not until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other countries of Europe . Her emergence from the isolation of centuries was not entirely due to statesmen and politicians ; it was largely the result of the international reputation of Russians like the novelists Tolstoi , Dostoievsky , and Turgeniev , the musician Tchaikovsky , and the scientists Mendelyeev and Metchnikoff . Russia played a prominent part in the overthrow of Napoleon , and Czar Alexander I was one of the dominant personalities in the Congress of Vienna , and in some of the subsequent attempts to resettle Europe after the Napoleonic upheaval . Alexander , in his younger days , had been a man of liberal ideas , but contact with the Metternich school of politicians and his own observations of the results of the spread of revolutionary principles throughout Europe changed him into a reactionary , impatient of all change . His powers over his subjects were practically unlimited . He could make peace and war ; he could commit any one to prison and even order executions without being held answerable to any living being ; he could appoint and dismiss ministers as he pleased ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal control . In the years which elapsed between his return from the Congress of Vienna and his death in 1825 , he used his vast powers to prevent the influx of progressive ideas into Russia and to keep his people in a state of Oriental subjection . The result was that , when he died , certain revolutionary societies seized the opportunity to start a revolt which was too badly organized to succeed , and which was savagely suppressed by the new Czar , Nicholas I. Five years later an insurrection in Poland was put down with even more harshness and cruelty . Some of the leaders were executed , and forty-five thousand families were forced to leave their native country and settle in the valley of the Don and the Caucasian Mountains . Nicholas I was one of the most arbitrary and tyrannical rulers with whom a country has ever been afflicted . He believed that autocracy was the only legitimate form of government , and that a ruler should strenuously oppose the spread among his subjects of ideas which were in the least likely to curb his power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they owed worship , fidelity , service , and love ' to the Czar , and that they had no claim to liberties other than what he was disposed to grant them . And so the books which came into Russia from foreign countries , even books on science and religion , were rigorously censored , private letters opened and examined to see whether their writers held revolutionary opinions , and any attempt to subvert or reform the government punished by long terms of imprisonment , exile to the mines of Siberia , and even death . At this time nearly one-half of the Czar 's subjects were chattel slaves , worse off than the English serfs of the early Middle Ages , forced to labour on their lords ' lands for certain days in the week , not allowed to marry without his consent , not even secure against personal violence at his hands . Even the best masters occasionally maltreated their serfs ; ' under the worst their condition was wellnigh intolerable , and during the reign of Nicholas I ( 1825 ? 55 ) there were more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Accordingly , Alexander II , the son and successor of Nicholas , began to think that their emancipation might be an act of sound statesmanship . It was not , however , until 1861 that the edict of freedom was issued , and it was such a half-hearted concession that the benefits which it conferred were far less than they appeared to observers not familiar with the conditions of Russian life . The landowners had to surrender a portion of their estates to the peasants ; but they were liberally compensated by the government for what they had lost , and the emancipated serfs were expected to pay back in instalments the money which the government had disbursed . It was more than they could do , and for years they lived absolutely on the edge of starvation , until in 1904 the Czar Nicholas II forgave them the heavy arrears which were still due . Alexander II freed the serfs , but otherwise his government was little better than his father 's had been . Reformers were regarded with the same suspicion ; new ideas were treated as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political offenders ; and a wholesale system of spying upon the private lives of individuals took away the last vestige of personal liberty . Under these circumstances , the more ardent reformers decided upon a new and very hazardous course of action . They resolved to employ against the government the very weapon which the government had used against them , the weapon of intimidation . In 1879 sixteen suspected revolutionaries were hanged , and many more im- prisoned or sent to Siberia . Two years later the reformers retaliated by assassinating the Czar . But methods of terrorism are bound to fail eventually , and even though they have continued in Russia to the present day there can be little doubt that they have retarded rather than promoted progress . In 1894 Nicholas II succeeded his father Alexander III as Czar of Russia . The new emperor was thought to be favourable to reform , but he soon dispelled all the hopes that had been centred on him by continuing the policy of his predecessors , and particularly by his choice of ministers who were notorious for their reactionary ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because they refused to agree to the doctrines of the Russian National Church . Many of them fled from Russia to foreign countries , particularly to the United States of America : it is significant that when the Czardom was finally overthrown Jews figured largely among the destroyers . Another class which suffered under Nicholas II were the literary and scientific men , University professors , writers of distinction , students , all of whom one would naturally expect to be stirred by the ferment of new ideas . Many of them suffered imprisonment and exile for the expression of their opinions , and it was no uncommon thing for literary and scientific meetings to be broken up by the police because they were considered to be disloyal or lacking in respect for the Czar . This state of affairs could not go on indefinitely , and to the reformers the war between Russia and Japan ( 1904 ? 5 ) came as a blessing in disguise , because it exposed the incompetence of the Russian Government , and appreciably weakened its power to continue along the course of unreasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russian forces were fighting in the East , and while Russian money was being squandered in the interests of a few capitalists , the people of Russia were enduring all the torments of famine , and in many cases , driven desperate by their woes , they sacked and burned the houses of the landowners much as the French peasants had done during the great Revolution . On Sunday zznd January 1905 a great deputation of working men and working women assembled outside the Winter Palace at St. Petersburg to present their grievances to the Czar in person . His reply was to send his troops against them , first with whips , and then , when that did not disperse them , orders to shoot were given ; hundreds were killed and thousands wounded . Similar encounters between the people and the military occurred in other parts of the country , and these , together with the failure and bad mismanagement of the Japanese campaign , so incensed the nation that before the year ended the Czar was obliged to consent to the creation of a parliament , called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into force without its consent ; and to promise the people liberty of speech and the right to hold public meetings . However , he contrived to avoid many of these obligations ; by manipulating the suffrage he kept men of advanced ideas out of the Duma ; he made a practice of dissolving it when it was too critical ; and methods of terrorism were still pursued . During the year 1906 more than nine thousand persons were either killed or wounded for political reasons . Despite all this , the revolutionary societies went on growing in power and influence , and the Duma , crippled as it was , was able to effect some much needed reforms . When the First World War broke out in 1914 Russia took part on the side of France against Germany and Austria , but the government displayed such an amazing lack of foresight and ordinary efficiency that in 1917 it was overthrown . The Czar was forced to abdicate , and a Coalition Government of advanced Liberals and moderate Socialists came into being . Its failure to give Russia peace made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in November the Bolshevist Government with a former Russian barrister and political exile , Nikolai Lenin , as its president , was established . It did not immediately succeed in giving Russia peace or stability . In some ways it proved very efficient , notably perhaps in the building up of a strong revolutionary army , which successfully repelled all attempts to restore the old Czarist regime . But personal freedom gained little from the change . The execution of the Czar and other members of the Russian royal family was followed by the murder of thousands of others who had in some way or other expressed their hostility to the new system of government . Critics of the existing order were treated in much the same way as they were under the Czars . The First World War also resulted in a temporary decrease in the size of the Russian Empire . A separate state of Poland was created ; Esthonia , Livonia ( Latvia ) , Lithuania , and Finland became independent ; and for three years ( 1918-21 ) Georgia was also free , after which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which experienced a still more remarkable break-up in the century following the Congress of Vienna was the Turkish Empire . For two centuries after their conquest of Constantinople the Turks were a grave menace to the Christian states of Europe , but since the eighteenth century their power has visibly declined . This is due partly to the evolution of Russia as a European power . The inhabitants of that part of the Turkish Empire which became known as the Balkan Peninsula ? Bulgaria , Roumania , Serbia , Montenegro ? were for the most part Christians who belonged to the same branch of the Church as the Russians . Most of them belonged to the Slavonic race . Russia therefore claimed the right to protect ' them , and when Turkey conceded this towards the end of the eighteenth century she was giving Russia an excuse for intervening in Turkish affairs , and an opportunity for strengthening her own position in the Near East by stirring up strife among the Christian subjects of the Sultan . The nineteenth century witnessed two processes at work within the Turkish Empire ? movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the connivance and sometimes the active assistance of Russia , and a definite policy on the part of the Russian government , if not to exclude Turkey from Europe altogether , at least so to weaken her position there as to force her to visualize her future development as an Asiatic rather than as a European power . Unfortunately for the success of this plan , it was regarded with persistent hostility by the statesmen of England , Austria , and France . England was afraid that Russia might capture Constantinople and so get control of the Dardanelles and the Eastern Mediterranean . Any considerable increase of Russian power was regarded as particularly menacing to the English dominion over India , which the Russians were believed to desire for themselves . Accordingly it became almost an article of faith among the more imperialistic of British politicians that Turkey must at all costs be protected against Russian aggressions . This was the reason why England intervened in the Crimean War , and why in 1878 , when the Russian forces had almost overthrown the Turkish Empire in Europe , the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , insisted that the victors should stay their hands and submit the whole matter to the arbitration of a general European congress which met at Berlin . In England , however , sympathy with Turkey was by no means universal . The Liberal school of politicians , under its great leader Gladstone , was more concerned with the sufferings of the Christian subjects of the Sultan than with the possible effect of the Russian conquest of Constantinople upon the British Empire in Asia . The famous English archaeologist , Sir Arthur Evans , ' has given us a vivid description of the Turkish province of Bosnia in 1875 , which can be taken as a truthful account of all the Turkish provinces at that time . He found that , except in the large towns , t The chief discoverer of the remains of the old Cretan civilization at Cnossos. where they could expect protection from European consuls , the lives of Christians were unsafe because the authorities were violently anti-Christian and pro-Muslim in sympathy . Taxes were levied with little regard for the ability to pay of those upon whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turkish soldiery . No provisions were made against bad harvests ; whether the crops were plentiful or whether they failed altogether a fixed quota of taxes had to be paid , and sometimes they were levied in advance before the harvest had been gathered in . In 1874 there was a failure of crops in Bosnia and Herzegovina , and the intolerable conditions which ensued so aggravated the peasants that insurrections broke out which soon spread to other parts of the Balkans . This gave the Turkish government the excuse for perpetrating some of the worst atrocities of which they have ever been guilty . The victims of their lust for blood soon numbered tens of thousands . A wave of horror passed over Western Europe , and frantic appeals for help were made by the oppressed Balkan peoples . In England Mr. Gladstone made the Bulgarian atrocities the text of a series of speeches against the Eastern policy of the government , and insisted that the alliance with the unspeakable Turk ' should end . But Disraeli , the Prime Minister , still feared Russian designs , and beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkey 's treatment of her unruly subjects . Under these circumstances Russia decided to act alone , and in 1877 her armies invaded Turkish territory . They met with instant success , and in the following year the Sultan was obliged to agree to the independence of Bulgaria , Serbia , Roumania , and Montenegro . At the time Russian forces were in occupation of the important fortress of Adrianople , about a hundred and fifty miles from Constantinople , and Disraeli , seriously alarmed at future possibilities , made his famous demand for a European congress . This met at Berlin : it confirmed the independence of Serbia , Roumania , and Montenegro , and of Bulgaria subject to the payment of an annual tribute to the Turks ; and Russia , Great Britain , and Austria were each given some territory which had previously belonged to the Sultan . Great Britain got Cyprus , Russia a tract of land east of the Black Sea , and Austria the right to administer Bosnia and Herzegovina . Apart from Turkey itself all that was now left of the Turkish Empire in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance of retaining supremacy over these regions , but the methods employed were the same as those which had failed in the past : misgovernment , corruption , and sporadic resort to terrorism . It became more and more obvious that if the decline of the Turkish Empire was to be arrested , its methods of government must be radically altered . Gradually a movement developed , particularly among army officers imbued with the excellence of Western ideas , whose object it was to secure for Turkey the benefits of constitutional government instead of the inefficient and stupid autocracy of the Sultan and his officials . This movement was known as The Young Turk Movement ' , and in 1908 it was strong enough to force the Sultan , Abdul Hamid , to grant a constitution and summon a parliament . But the Young Turks had set themselves a tremendous task , and their difficulties were increased by the attitude of other nations towards them . Austria took advantage of the situation to establish full sovereignty over Bosnia and Herzegovina ; Italy found an excuse to seize the Turkish province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesman Venizelos organized a great Balkan League whose object it was to drive the Turks out of the Balkans altogether , and eventually out of Europe as well . In I912 the Turks found themselves obliged to fight a formidable combination consisting of Greece , Serbia , Bulgaria , and Montenegro , against which they made a very feeble resistance . The victorious allies ad vanced as far as Adrianople , which they captured , but then started quarrelling among themselves , and the result was a second Balkan war in 1913 , in which Greeks , Serbs , Montenegrins , and eventually Roumanians fought against the Bulgars . This war undoubtedly saved Turkey 's position in Europe . Adrianople was recovered , and when peace was concluded at Bucharest , although Turkey had to surrender Macedonia , which was divided up between Greece , Serbia , and Bulgaria , and agree to the independence of Albania , she was allowed to retain Constantinople and a small area to the west including Adrianople . The Balkan problem had much to do with the World War of 1914-18 . It was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the heir to the Austrian throne , the event which furnished the pretext for the outbreak of hostilities , occurred . Austria held the Serbian government responsible for this ; Russia defended the Serbs ; Germany came in on the side of Austria , France on the side of Russia , and England on the side of France ; and so a comparatively trifling event , in an obscure little town of which most people in the world had never even heard , developed into a prolonged and worldwide war . All the Balkan states , with the exception of Bulgaria , were anti-German . Turkey took some time to decide on which side her interests lay , and finally made the diplomatic mistake of concluding an alliance with Germany . The result was that the Turkish Empire was still further dismembered . Up to this time her losses had been mainly European . There was now little to take in Europe , so she was deprived of control over vast territories in Asia ? Syria , Mesopotamia , Palestine , and Arabia including the Hejaz.I She also lost her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to retain his authority over Constantinople and the district around , but the government of the greater part of what was left of the Ottoman dominions in Asia Minor was seized by a body of Turkish nationalists , discontented with the old regime , who styled themselves The Government of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey ' , with their capital at Ankara . In 1922 this government deposed the Sultan and took over the administration of Constantinople , and in the following year Turkey was formally proclaimed a republic with Ankara as its capital , and Mustafa Kemal Pasha , the leader of the nationalists , as its first President . XXXI THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA NOWHERE did the Industrial Revolution have greater l effect than in the United States of America . If it were not for the development of transport , the invention of steam engines , steamboats , and the electric telegraph , much of the North American continent would still be as sparsely populated as parts of Central Africa ; the Far West would hardly have been colonized at all ; and a state like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as from Washington . The development of means of transport has had a wonderful effect not only in opening up undeveloped regions but also in bringing together the peoples of the various states which compose the American Union , so that to-day there is less difference between an American of San Francisco and an American of New York than there was in the eighteenth century between a New Englander and a Virginian . This great community of the United States ' , writes H. G. Wells , is an altogether new thing in history . There have been great empires before with populations exceeding a hundred millions , but these were associations of d-ivergent peoples ; there has never been one single people on this scale before . We want a new term for this thing . We call the United States a country just as we call France or Holland a country . But the two things are as different as an automobile and a one-horse shay . They are the creations of different periods and different conditions ; they are going to work at a different pace anc1 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and possibility is half way between a European state and a United States of all the world . ' I The development of methods of transport undoubtedly precipitated the American Civil War of 1861 to 1865 , which nearly wrecked the Union , but its final result was to make it very much stronger than it had beerl ? The northern and southern states of the American union differed widely in interests and modes of life . The southern states were organized on a basis of slavery ; in the northern states all men were free , slavery having been eliminated by 1804 , chiefly through the operation of economic law , and as , with the development of transport and the general opening Op of the country , new states were created and made parts of the Union , it became a matter of vital importance to determine whether the free institutions of the North or the slave conditions of the South were to prevail in them . In 1833 an anti-slavery society was founded in the North with the object of effecting the complete abolition of slavery throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South were not really strained until after Texas had become a state of the Union ( 1845-7 ) . Texas had belonged to Mexico , Where slavery was against the law , but its colonists had been largely recruited from the southern states of America , and whenthey joined the Union , they claimed and , despite strong opposition , won the right to keep slaves . Their victory excited much angry feeling in the North , and it did not completely allay the uneasiness of the South , where the steady stream of European emigrants to the northern states could not be regarded with anything but apprehension , for it meant the establishment of new states such as Minnesota and Iowa , which were strongly anti-slavery . Thus it appeared probable that the North , which already had a majority in the House of Representatives , would also secure a majority in the Senate and perhaps abolish slavery altogether throughout the Union . In 186o Abraham Lincoln , a man of much strength of character , who had frequently expressed strong anti-slavery opinions , was elected President , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alabama , Georgia , Louisiana , and Texas ? without waiting for Lincoln 's inauguration , decided to secede from the Union and form a Confederation of their own under the presidency of Jefferson Davis . The North disputed their right to secede , and it was upon this issue that the Civil War was fought , not upon the question of slavery , although that naturally came to the front before the contest ended , and Lincoln had made up his mind that , if the North won , slavery should be abolished altogether . But it was not until 1865 , the last year of the war , that Congress decided in favour of abolition , and the war had actually ended before this decision was ratified by the states . At first the result of the conflict was in considerable doubt . The fortunes of the combatants fluctuated in the most bewildering fashion . The northern states were numerically stronger than the southern , and their resources were much greater , but they were handicapped by the lack of good generals and by a considerable amount of disunion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the greatest military genius of the war . At times Lincoln 's difficulties seemed almost insuperable . He had to struggle against dissensions in his own cabinet , defeats in the field , some amount of distrust , considerable war weariness , and even external interference . The French took advantage of the situation to support the Austrian Maximilian 's claim to the throne of Mexico , thus deliberately flouting the Monroe Doctrine , and the English government did not prevent the agents of the southern states in England from launching three swift cruisers , of which the best known is the Alabama , which did an immense amount of damage to the commerce of the northern states . ' But Lincoln never lost faith in the righteousness and the ultimate triumph of the cause for which he stood . Eventually the North discovered two leaders of the first rank in Generals Grant and Sherman , and on 9 April 1865 the patience and invincible fortitude of the President received their due reward when Lee and his army surrendered to Grant . Within a month all the other secessionist armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at an end . Lincoln did not live long to enjoy his triumph . On 14 April , five days after Lee 's capitulation , he was assassinated at Ford 's Theatre in Washington by an unemployed actor of southern birth , insanely angry at the triumph of the North . His death was a national calamity . The task of reconstruction after a great war is generally even more difficult than the winning of the war . The successful combatants are apt to think more of what they have suffered than of anything else , and they are , on that account , not in a fit state of mind to do justice to their foes . Lincoln was in many ways an extraordinary man , and , if it were possible , he came out of the Civil War a better man than he was when he entered it . He felt no bitterness towards his foes ; he desired above everything that the war should result in a new birth of freedom , and that government of the people , by the people , for the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his last public speech , delivered only a few days before his death , he pleaded for reconciliation , tolerance towards former enemies , and the reconstruction of loyal government in the defeated South . He was the one man who could have carried out this humane and far-sighted policy ; his death ruined all chances of reconciliation and harmony . It gave the control of national affairs to men who desired only to be just , and who were not inclined , as Lincoln had been , to temper justice with generosity . To them the defeated Southerners were rebels who had forfeited the political rights to which their former slaves had become entitled , and so they enfranchised the negroes and disfranchised their masters . The negroes proved utterly incapable of governing , and the voteless whites took the law into their own hands , so that for many years the southern states were in a most turbulent and unsettled condition , and there was no real peace until the political predominance of the whites had been restored . At the beginning of the war there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with extraordinary rapidity . Five great lines now link the Atlantic with the Pacific , and there is a total railway mileage throughout the states of more than a quarter of a million miles . There was quite as marked a development of telegraph lines and telephone wires , so that the United States was until the success of the Communist Revolution in Russia the largest real community in the world . After the First World War the development of air lines , radio , and television drew even closer the links binding together great continental areas , such as the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. , and created a new class of superpowers unknown in the previous history of the world . The United States is a country of very great resources , where the possibilities of producing wealth are far more considerable than in the countries of the Old World . It does not covet colonial possessions , but it has established control over places which are considered necessary for its national safety and prosperity such as Puerto Rico , and the international waterway known as the Panama Canal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission with an American as president . Alaska , bought from Russia in 1867 , and Hawaii , annexed in 1898 , became the 49th and 50th States of the U.S.A. in 1959 . To many the term United States of America will at once suggest big business , industrialism in its most highly developed form , immensely wealthy individuals , and skyscrapers , marvellous products of architectural and engineering genius . But this impression does not do full justice to the American character . Business is , undoubtedly , a dominant interest , a means of self-expression and of advancement in both wealth and power for young people of ambition and talent . Wealth is not , however , worshipped as an end in itself , but rather as a material proof of success , and Americans are remarkably free and generous with their fortunes . The American , while he strives to make the best of the world as it is , is also very much alive to the need for a better world . This latent idealism was admirably expressed by Franklin Roosevelt , in his inaugural Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the millions of his fellow citizens who were denied education , recreation , and the opportunities to better the lot of themselves and their children . He declared that one-third of the nation was ill housed , ill clad , and ill nourished , but he made it clear that the picture which he had painted had been painted in the confident hope that the nation was on its way forward to a better state , in which the test of its progress would be not an addition to the abundance of those who have much , but the provision of enough for those who have too little ' . The elections of President Roosevelt in 1933 and again in 1937 were triumphs for idealism ; so , too , was the election in 1913 of Woodrow Wilson , the statesman who will best be remembered for his project of a League of Nations to check wars between civilized peoples . Outside the United States , Americans have shown a real and a practical interest in the welfare of humanity , such as in their work on behalf of the sufferers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Marshall Plan to relieve distress and restore the European economy after the Second World War . Their international influence has been , on the whole , decidedly pacific . During the nineteenth century they were involved in only two armed conflicts with European powers : one with Great Britain , between the years 181z and 1814 , and the other with Spain in 1898 . The first of these arose from the claim which the British made during the Napoleonic Wars to search neutral ships for contraband of war ; it was fought at a time when the relations between the two countries were considerably less cordial than they are to-day ; but it has been followed by over a century of unbroken peace , and the frontier between the States and the British Dominion of Canada is absolutely undefended by fort or arsenal of any kind . The war with Spain had reference to the Spanish colony of Cuba , which had been in a state of insurrection for many years . The intervention of the United States was not dictated by any desire for conquest , but mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and although Cuba was conquered it was not retained . As soon as the people were fit for it , they were allowed to govern themselves . Cuba became an independent self-governing republic ; its subsequent history has been turbulent , with many insurrections , and lately the dictatorship of the Marxist Fidel Castro established in 1959 . Puerto Rico and the Philippine Islands were also annexed , much against the wishes of the inhabitants in the latter case ; but in 1934 the people of the Philippines were given a constitution by which they were allowed to govern themselves , under the general supervision of a United States High Commissioner , for a period of ten years , after which they were to be completely independent . The Japanese invasion during the Second World War delayed this , but in 199.6 a Philippine Republic was proclaimed . The United States is not keen to annex lands abroad ; foreign relations are under public control ; and although the President has great powers they are subject to the control of the Senate , which is in its turn responsible to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Wilson , after the First World War , failed to get the Senate to ratify the terms of peace , and although the Covenant of the League of Nations , for which he was mainly responsible , aroused some enthusiasm in the country , it did not arouse enough to bring victory to his party in the presidential election of 1920 . XXXII THE TWENTIETH CENTURY THE twentieth century has been one of great scientific , economic , and political development , but , unfortunately , the pace of moral development has been very much slower . Before the century was half-way through its course , two wars had been fought , which , because of the vast areas which they covered and their almost universal effects , are rightly called World Wars , the first between 1914 and 1918 , and the second from 1939 to 1945 . The immediate cause of the First World War was the assassination in Sarajevo , a small Bosnian town , of the Archduke Franz Ferdinand , the heir to the throne of Austria , and his wife . This was followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was held to be responsible for the crime . Austria was certain of German support , Russia would not allow the extermination of Serbia , France was the ally of Russia , and Great Britain , bound to France by an entente , was finally impelled to go to war because of an unprovoked invasion of Belgium by the Germans . But the crime of Sarajevo was merely the spark which fired a train laid over a period of many years . The real causes of the war were more deep-seated : international rivalries which had existed for at least a quarter of a century before the outbreak of hostilities ; competitive armaments ; a race for colonies and spheres of influence ; the ramifications of high finance ; and rankling feelings of discontentment with territorial adjustments which had followed previous wars , such as the cession of Alsace and Lorraine to Germany , and the occupation by Austria of provinces which were claimed to be Italian . Few , if any , of the war-makers of 1914 could have foreseen its results : the magnitude of operations fought in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the enormous waste of human life and of human treasure ; and the changes in the map of the world which followed the defeat of Germany and her allies . Four empires came to an end , three of them ? the German , the Austrian , and the Turkish ? as penalties of defeat , the fourth , the Russian , as the result of internal revolution . In 1914 most people expected decisive battles and a comparatively short war ; the idea of a world-wide conflict lasting for four years with the killed alone numbering eight millions would have been regarded as fantastic . Germany gained some early and spectacular successes , advancing through Belgium and France almost to the gates of Paris , but when the United States of America , with its great reserves of manpower and its immense industrial resources , entered the war in 1917 , the German cause was doomed . Apart from its military significance , this intervention was an event of great historical importance . Europe had failed to save herself , and the New World had again redressed the balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world affairs was nearing eclipse . But America , as it transpired , was not yet ready to assume the full responsibilities and obligations of world leadership . After the war , a conference met at Paris to draw up conditions of peace . Like the Treaty of Vienna of just over a hundred years before , the Treaty of Versailles can easily be criticized . Like its predecessor it was drawn up when passions were still inflamed , and the terms imposed upon Germany were harsh and ungenerous . Stripped of her colonies , her army reduced to negligible proportions , forced to cede Alsace and Lorraine to France , and to agree to the temporary occupation by French troops of the Saar valley , Germany was also compelled to hand over to Poland large parts of the industrial area of Silesia , and asked to pay an impossible sum in reparation for damage done by her troops . These terms gave rise to a strong feeling of injustice , and undoubtedly had much to do with the subsequent success of the Nazi movement . Italy also felt aggrieved . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side of the victors , and altrtough she was rewarded by the cession of the Trentino and Trieste , she felt that she had been badly treated because Dalmatia , which was claimed to be predominantly Italian , was incorporated in the new state of Yugoslavia . To this the Yugoslays retorted that the peace treaties had put more than a million of their nationals under Italian rule . On the whole , however , the principle of nationality was not ignored at Paris . New states like Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia were created , and Poland , Rumania , and Greece were reorganized , with the principle of nationality the predominating consideration in each case ; Austria was reduced to the status of a small republic where Teutonic culture prevailed ; and frontiers were so drawn that , in the new Europe , only 3 per cent . of the population were subjected to alien rule . One of the most hopeful features of the settlement was the American President Wilson 's insistence upon the formation of a League of Nations , which , he believed , would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his policy was not endorsed by his fellow countrymen , and that the United States of America never joined the League , which came to an end in 1946 . The essence of the League Covenant was that each member nation should submit disputes and quarrels to the League before resorting to warlike measures ; at one time fifty-six nations , including all the great powers except the United States , were members , and it is obvious that , if they had all been sincere in what they professed , the world could have been rid of war . But fierce national and colonial aspirations , and tendencies on the part of strong nations to exploit their strength , rendered much of the League 's work ineffective in the difficult years between the two World Wars . It proved very successful in settling minor disputes , and in promoting such humanitarian projects as the regulation of the trade in opium , but it had no success at all in its efforts to curb the aggressiveness of strong powers , or in reducing armaments . It could not stop Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy from conquering Abyssinia , another member state , in 1936 . It was a lamentable fact that in 1937 the armed strength of the great nations of Europe was much greater than it was on the eve of the First World War . The period between the World Wars ( 1918 ? 39 ) was one of ever-recurring turmoil and trouble . Hopes of a freer and happier world received many setbacks , particularly on the continent of Europe , where undermining of authority and weak governments led to the establishment of dictatorships , the negation of democracy . The first of the dictators was the Russian Lenin , who , on the ruins of the Czarist Empire and the ineffective rule of the moderate Socialist Kerensky , founded a Communist or Bolshevist Republic , governed as far as possible in accordance with the principles of Karl Marx . Lenin was a fanatic , a visionary , a fatalist , who had long been obsessed with the idea that it was his destiny to establish the dictatorship of the proletariat in Russia . He retained some of the worst features @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tolerate opinions contrary to those of the governing classes , its ruthless removal of people considered to be hostile to the state . But there was also a constructive side to his genius , and under him , and his successor Stalin , Russia became a powerful and well-organized state . Industries were developed and expanded ; education , physical training , and public health received intelligent and widespread attention , and the Russian armed forces became far stronger than they had been under the Czars . The Union of Socialist Soviet Republics ( U.S.S.R. ) , the official title of the Russian State , did not always rigidly adhere to Marxist doctrine . Lenin sanctioned private trading in 1921 , and both he and Stalin were not averse to the use of foreign capital and foreign skill when it suited them . The next European country to submit to dictatorship was Italy , where the end of the war was followed by strikes , vigorous anti-German propaganda , and denunciations of patriotism , due to dissatisfaction with Italy 's territorial gains , and to high taxes and high prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war . A succession of weak governments failed to improve conditions , to restore public confidence , or even to maintain the semblance of order . Chafing under this state of affairs , a former Socialist , a man of fiery energy and blatant patriotism , Benito Mussolini , the son of a blacksmith , formed a party known as the Fascisti , after the rods or fasces which the lictors bore as symbols of their authority before the Roman Emperors . In 1922 a march on Rome was arranged , and from that time until Mussolini 's fall from power in 1943 Italy was a Fascist state . The king was nominally at the head , but the real power was exercised by Mussolini . As in Russia , no opinion was tolerated except that of the state ; press , platform , and university were all expected to promulgate the new doctrines ; disobedience meant imprisonment or exile to a remote island ; but Fascism , unlike Bolshevism , was anti-Communist , even though its leader had at one time been an advanced Socialist . Despite its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the people were made conscious of their high destiny as the heirs of the traditions and culture of Imperial Rome . But the militancy and arrogance of the ancient Roman spirit were also inculcated , with results which were eventually to lead Fascism and the monarchy which supported it to complete disaster . Among Mussolini 's admirers was an Austrian , named Adolf Hitler , a man of humble origin and little education , who had fought in the German army during the war , and had never risen above the rank of lance-corporal . After the war , Germany fell on very evil days . She failed to pay the heavy reparations demanded of her , and depreciation of the currency reduced the value of the mark to such an extent that many Germans became destitute ; the strong armies which th French , the Poles , and the Czechs were allowed to maintain on her boundaries caused uneasiness in Germany , and a demand for rearmament ; and when in 1929 the statesman Stresemann , who had honestly tried to organize the republic on non-military lines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York led to the withdrawal of American money from Germany , the condition of the country became so serious that the Germans were ready to hail almost anyone as a saviour . This was Hitler 's great opportunity . Six years before , his party , the National Socialist or Nazi Party , had failed so completely in an attempt to seize power that few could have expected its revival as a powerful factor in German politics . It was apathy and despair which made Hitler 's rise to power possible , but , even so , it could never have been achieved without the support which he got from German capitalists because he preached undeviating opposition to Communism , whose spread they had begun to fear . The government was too weak to suppress the brown-shirted private army which Hitler had gathered around him ; in 1933 he became Chancellor , and a year later , after the death of the aged President Hindenburg , the head of the German state . As Chancellor he was responsible for Germany 's secession from the League of Nations , and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large-scale rearmament , conscription , reoccupation of prohibited districts in the Rhineland , and repudiation of restrictions imposed by the Treaty of Versailles . His methods were frequently ruthless . Traitors were executed ; and Jews and open opponents of the Nazi regime were consistently persecuted . The extent of his influence and the fanatical reverence with which he was regarded by millions of his subjects , are as remarkable as his rise to absolute power from so lowly a beginning . He certainly did much to make the Germans more self-reliant than they had been since their defeat in war , and to improve their physique ; but unfortunately all this was for one end . Germany was to be a great military empire again , the dominant power in Europe , and ultimately in the world . Self-reliance turned to arrogance , and to brutal interference in the affairs of other countries . The murder in 1934 of the Austrian Premier , Dr. Dolfuss , who disapproved of Hitler 's methods , was contrived by Nazis from Munich ; in 1938 German troops occupied Vienna , and Austria and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's empire . Another country where internal troubles resulted in dictatorship was Spain . In 1923 , taking advantage of the weakness of the parliamentary system , General Primo de Rivera seized power and set up a military dictatorship which lasted until 1929 . He was an admirer of Fascism and , like Mussolini , brooked no opposition to his will : the king was a mere puppet in his hands ; the Press was rigidly censored ; intellectuals opposed to the dictatorship were banished from the country , and political opponents were thrown into prison . Primo de Rivera died in 1930 , and early in the following year a bloodless revolution resulted in the deposition of the king , Alfonso XIII , and the establishment of a republic . But the Republic failed to crush the three pillars of monarchy ? nobility , church , and army ? or to satisfy extremists , and there followed some years of anarchy culminating in civil war when in July 1936 General Franco led a revolt against a left-wing coalition government . This Civil War spread throughout the peninsula and developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between rival factions . Germany and Italy supplied the rebels with all their bombing and fighting aeroplanes , and with thousands of volunteers , and Russia gave similar assistance to the Spanish government . Great Britain , France , and the United States of America tried to localize the conflict , but with little success , and the war ended in 1939 with victory for Franco , and the establishment of a new dictatorship . Very different was the dictatorship set up in Turkey in 1923 O q the ruins of the old Turkish Empire . The last of the Sultans fled from Constantinople in 1922 , and a year later a Turkish Republic was proclaimed with Mustapha Kemal Pasha as its first President . Kemal , who died in 1938 , undoubtedly dominated the Turkish National Assembly , and exercised dictatorial powers in carrying out his policy , but it was a policy whose ultimate aim was an efficient , self-governing modern state , free from the taint of connexion with the corrupt and bloodstained government of the Sultans . This was why Constantinople ceased to be the capital ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the uplands of Anatolia . Kemal was a man of progressive ideas , and under his vigorous direction a remarkable transformation was effected in Turkey . Old restrictions were removed ; women were compelled to abandon the veil , men to substitute a rimmed hat for the fez ; dervishes , magicians , sellers of charms and amulets and other such relics of the servile and unprogressive past , were decreed out of existence . The Turkish Republic has become a modern state which , while renouncing servitude to the nations of Western Europe , has not hesitated to copy what is best in their culture . Polygamy has been abolished ; the laws have been codified and rationalized ; careers have been thrown open to women as well as to men ; and so great was Kemal 's influence that a decree that the Muslim religion should no longer be regarded as the official religion of the state in no way lessened his power or undermined his prestige . After his death democratic progress continued until it was interrupted by a military coup d'etat in 1961 , followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain , France , and the United States of America war had only a temporary effect upon liberty ; democratic institutions were too strong , too firmly embedded , to be permanently destroyed , or even permanently affected . In Great Britain , conscription was discontinued , and although discontent among the labouring classes frequently found expression in demonstrations by unemployed , strikes of different workers , and even in a general strike of nine days in 1926 , the good sense of the people always precluded the possibility of an armed rising ; doctrines like fascism and communism made little headway ; the use of paper led to no catastrophic fall in the value of money , as it did on the continent of Europe ; the franchise was widened to include all men and women of adult age ; education and the social services were extended ; and state insurance against sickness and unemployment helped to alleviate distress . The war strengthened rather than weakened constitutional monarchy . Of this there were two striking illustrations : the widespread rejoicing when King George V attained his Silver Jubilee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1936 of George VI , after the abdication of his elder brother , Edward VIII , a popular monarch who chose to renounce his throne rather than a marriage which was strongly opposed by the leaders of Church and State . He realized that , if he were to remain on the throne , it must be as the servant of the people , guided in all matters of importance by the advice of the ministers whom they had put into power . There were important changes in the structure of the British Empire during the inter-war years . In 1921 , a new Dominion , the Irish Free State , was created . This was a predominantly Roman Catholic state , and did not include the six Protestant counties of the North , who preferred to remain more closely connected with Great Britain . The new Dominion , like the older Dominions ? Canada , South Africa , Australia , and New Zealand ? was accorded its own parliament , its own flag , the right to send its own ambassadors to foreign countries , and the right to impose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Statute of Westminster further increased the prestige of the Dominions , giving them a status equal to that of Great Britain , bound to one another by only one acknowledged ( bligation , allegiance to the British Crown . Legally this gave them the right to secede if they chose . The accession of a British sovereign not personally acceptable to any one of them might have such an effect , so that the Statute has had a tendency to increase the prestige and responsibility of the Crown . The Irish Free State did secede in 1937 , a not very surprising event , when one remembers the embittered relations which had existed between its inhabitants and Great Britain prior to the granting of self-government . But again the northern counties stood aloof . They still remain a very loyal part of the British Commonwealth with a Governor appointed by the British Crown , and representation in the British Parliament , in addition to a parliament of their own . When the Third French Republic came to birth in September 187o , and indeed for years afterwards , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1875 the historian Hanotaux wrote that possibly it would not adapt itself easily to a crisis in which the fate of the country was at stake ' . His fears were not justified , but they were not really put to the test until the First World War and the difficult period which ensued . In July 1926 there was a money crisis so grave that the Finance Minister declared that the Public Treasury was at the end of its resources ; and in 1934 the country was in a still more dangerous situation as the result of the frauds of a swindler named Stavisky with whom members of the government were widely believed to be connected . In Paris armed force was used against demonstrators , and some of them were killed . In 1936 , for the first time in the history of France , Communists and Socialists , brought together by a common fear of Germany , united to form a ministry under M. Leon Blum , and many beneficial social measures were passed : a forty-hour working week was decreed ; the school-leaving age was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in arms and to dissolve Fascist leagues . When the First World War ended there were many in the United States of America who thought that their country should for the future concentrate on keeping out of European entanglements ; this belief , aided by a suspicion that President Wilson was arrogating too much power to himself at Paris , led to a refusal to ratify the peace treaty , and to join the League of Nations . Laws were passed to limit immigration ; heavy tariffs were imposed to protect industry from foreign competition ; there was much surplus capital to invest abroad ; and despite some labour troubles , the policy of internal development appeared to be justified by increased prosperity . Although not a member of the League of Nations the American government did not dissociate itself from international movements to ensure world peace . It figured prominently in the Washington Conference of 1921 , the Geneva Conference of 1927 , and the Kellogg Proposals of 1928 , all of which sought to eliminate causes which might lead to war . Relations with South America , particularly with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , held in 1928 , condemned war as an instrument of national policy ' , and took steps to ensure the peaceful settlement of all disputes which might arise between American states . In 1929 , American prosperity received a rude shock : the United States government suddenly found itself confronted by a financial crisis of the utmost magnitude ? not a mere Wall Street crash , but a nation-wide disaster , affecting all classes . Millions faced starvation , and there was no form of state assistance , as in Great Britain , to alleviate their sufferings . Many believed that unrestrained competition and too much scope for individual enterprise were at the root of the evil , and that state control should be stronger and more extensive . And so , in 1933 , Franklin Roosevelt became President , pledged to secure what he called a New Deal ' , which meant that the State was to take over the control of unemployment , to regulate industry , to secure remunerative prices for producers , and to obtain fair wages and good conditions of labour for all workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and President Roosevelt 's reelection in 1937 ( and again in 1941 and 1945 ) testified to the confidence which the American people had in him . Democratic governments survived the First World War in Belgium ( where the victory of the Allies naturally meant the end of German domination , and a return to constitutional monarchy ) , in Holland , and in the Scandinavian countries ? Norway , Sweden , and Denmark ? and the new state of Czechoslovakia became a bulwark of democracy in Central Europe under its first President , Thomas Masaryk , one of the greatest men of his time . He declared that it is the deliberate and discerning love of a nation that appeals to me , not the indiscriminate love that assumes everything to be right because it bears a national label ' . Masaryk 's policy was continued by his disciple and successor , Eduard Benes , but , unfortunately for him , his country , and the world , Czechoslovakia excited the cupidity of Adolf Hitler . When in March 1938 Austria was added to the German dominions , Czechoslovakia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the false plea that he was concerned at injustices suffered by Germans in the Sudeten territories of Czechoslovakia , induced Great Britain , France , and a reluctant Czechoslovakia to agree at Munich to their surrender to Germany . In March of the following year he seized Prague and the rest of Czechoslovakia . Thoroughly alarmed , Britain and France gave guarantees of protection to Poland , which , it was logical to assume , would be the next of Hitler 's victims , and his invasion of Polish territory on 1 September 1939 was followed , two days later , by simultaneous declarations of war against Germany by Great Britain and France . Russia , which had been left out of the Munich discussions , had already made a pact of neutrality with Germany . The Second World War lasted until 1945 ? In some respects it followed a pattern remarkably similar to that of the First World War . As in 1914-15 , there was an initial German attack of such fury that an overwhelming victory was almost achieved . Poland , Denmark , Norway , Holland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after incredib'y short campaigns , and Britain was for a time left to fight alone in circumstances of utmost peril . In the autumn of 1940 a German invasion from the air was defeated by a small but brilliantly efficient air force . In the following year allies came in : the Russians , whose country Hitler had invaded , and , most important of all , the United States of America , whom the Japanese , the allies of Germany , had brought into the war by a treacherous attack upon the American fleet at Pearl Harbour in Hawaii . As in the First World War , there followed years of great anxiety , defeats alternating with victories , and determined efforts to starve Britain into surrender , until in 1945 Germany suddenly collapsed . With many of her cities in ruins from incessant air attacks , and her territories invaded , she could no longer stand the strain . The industrial might of the United States had again been a decisive factor , and the discovery and use of a new and terrible weapon , the atomic bomb , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The scope of the Second World War was even wider than the First . Most of the fighting took place in Europe , but there were also campaigns of great magnitude in Asia and in Africa ; there were fights off the American coasts , in the icy Arctic seas , and in the approaches to Australia ; and strategy had to be conducted on a world scale , necessitating consultations and conferences between the three great allied leaders , the British Prime Minister Winston Churchill , the American President Franklin Roosevelt , and the Russian dictator Joseph Stalin . One such conference took place at Teheran in Persia in 1943 , and another at Yalta in the Crimea in 1945 . Proportionately the losses among the armed forces , despite the use of more destructive weapons , were less than in the earlier war , but the civilian losses were very much greater , and material destruction , particularly in Russia and in Germany , was vast and terrifying , needing the greatest human skill and industry to restore . The map of the world was again greatly altered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies of the victors , and although the three western zones have regained unity and independence as the Federal Republic of Germany , the eastern zone ( the German Democratic Republic ) remains a Russian puppet . Germany 's principal allies , Italy and Japan , were less severely treated . The Italians , who surrendered in 1943 , and who themselves subsequently disposed of Mussolini and other leading Fascists , were allowed to form an independent democratic republic , and the Japanese , whose emperor was not deposed , regained their independence after a period of American occupation and tutelage in 1951 , as a result of the Korean War . The Second World War , like the First , was fatal to many European monarchies . Kingship was abolished in Rumania , Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , and Italy . Apart from Britain there are only six countries where it survives : Denmark , Norway , Sweden , Holland , and Belgium , where the defeat of Hitler was followed by the re-establishment of constitutional monarchy ; and Greece , where a formidable task of rehabilitation had to be undertaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion by both Italians and Germans , followed by civil war . In France , which , for over four years ( 1940 ? 4 ) was literally a German province , liberation was followed in 1947 by the establishment of the Fourth French Republic , which was conducted in much the same way as the Third . After many ministerial crises the Fifth French Republic was proclaimed in January 1959 with the wartime hero Charles de Gaulle as President . In Spain , which was technically neutral during the war , Franco 's dictatorship remained unshaken despite separatist tendencies in Catalonia and the Basque province , and a strike among the miners of Asturias in 1962 . Great Britain emerged from the war with enormous prestige , but with reduced wealth , and her position as a world power diminished . Her empire shrank ; her resources were so impaired that some forms of food rationing were still necessary eight years after the conclusion of hostilities . Most war restrictions were by then removed , but because of the unsettled state of the world military conscription was not at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as was strikingly demonstrated by the nation-wide rejoicings at the coronation of the young Queen , Elizabeth II , in June 1953 . But high taxation has depleted the numbers of the landed gentry , and considerably lessened the power and influence , if not the prestige , of the aristocracy . There is greater equality of wealth ; and insurance against old age , sickness , accident , and unemployment has become a government obligation in what has come to be known as the Welfare State ' . The two most powerful world powers after the Second World War were the United States of America and Russia . Co-operation in war and the generally friendly contacts of the supreme leaders at Teheran and Yalta gave hopes of friendship and understanding when the fighting came to an end , and of the establishment of a world government , which would eventually lead to the outlawing of war . The conclusion of hostilities was quickly followed , after many preliminary discussions , one of which had taken place in Moscow two years previously , by the formation of a new international body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain international peace and security ? to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples ' , and to promote and encourage freedom for all without distinction as to race , sex , language , or religion ' . The United States was one of the original founder members of U.N.O. , which began with fifty members ; the charter of inauguration was signed in San Francisco ; and its permanent headquarters were subsequently established in Manhattan , New York . There was no recurrence of the policy of isolationism which kept the Americans out of the League of Nations . The Organization has a General Assembly where all member nations are represented , and a Security Council of fifteen members of whom five ? the United States , Great Britain , Russia , France , and Nationalist China ? are permanent members , and since the Security Council is predominant , and any one of the permanent members can veto any of its decisions , it is obvious that if they can not work in harmony permanent peace can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less co-operative than in wartime , and she has negatived much of the work of the Council by frequent use of the veto . This has undoubtedly been partly due to suspicions of her former allies , who have not , for example , shared atomic secrets with her . But the fundamental cause is that Russia represents a philosophy and a way of life which is alien to American and British ideas . Russia is a Communist state , and after the war there were indications of a return to the rigidity of early Bolshevist doctrine , and of a desire to convert the world to communism . Poland , east Germany , Hungary , Rumania , Bulgaria , Yugoslavia , and Albania became satellites of Russia , though Yugoslavia under Marshal Tito broke away in 1948 to become an independent Communist republic ; the Czechoslovakian democracy was in 1947 replaced by a Russian-directed Communist dictatorship ; the poverty and ignorance of Asiatic peoples were exploited to further Communist power ; and conferences with the great democracies broke down after much useless talking and recrimination . The presence of large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the formation in 1949 of an organization of mutual defence against possible aggression known as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( N.A.T.O. ) . Ten European countries , subsequently increased to thirteen with the admission of Greece , Turkey , and the German Federal Republic , and the United States and Canada formed the membership . A big test for the United Nations came in 1950 when the Communist state of North Korea invaded South Korea , which was under American protection . Despite the opposition of the Communist members the Assembly decided to repel the aggressors and sixteen nations sent troops , the bulk of these being American . The North Koreans would have been completely defeated if China had not come to their aid . As it was , the battle-line became stabilized near the frontier of the two countries and a truce was eventually signed in the summer of 1953 . The signing of this truce , together with the removal of restrictions in many Communist countries and a moderation in the tone of Russian propaganda , led to occasional relaxations of tension after the death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nationality which was stimulated by the First World War was still farther advanced through the Second World War , particularly in Africa and in Asia , where there was the greatest room for its development . To some extent this was due to Communist propaganda , which used national aspirations to foster discontent as a step towards world revolution . But there were deeper causes too , especially the spread of education among native populations , and the natural desire which it brought to destroy race barriers and to establish social and political equality . Some colonial powers have shown a tendency to oppose this , or to give reluctant consent to changes which had become inevitable . Thus France resisted Tunisian and Algerian demands until 1962 , and while in 1950 she recognized her former colonies of Tonkin , Annam , and Cochin China as the independent state of Viet Nam within the French Union , it was largely because of the rise within the same regions of a rival Communist authority , Viet Minh ( North Viet Nam ) . It was force of circumstances too which obliged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , consisting of former Dutch possessions in the East Indies , including the rich islands of Java and Sumatra , the Moluccas , and part of Borneo . Generally speaking , Great Britain 's attitude has been more generous . The British Empire has become a British Commonwealth of Nations , with self-government a logical and attainable goal for all its members . Some like India , Pakistan , Ghana ( Gold Coast ) , Nigeria , and Cyprus are completely independent ; others like Canada , Australia , New Zealand , and Ceylon are independent but acknowledge the British monarch as their sovereign ; they are free at any time to repudiate this obligation and remain within or without the British Commonwealth . By the end of 1966 all Britain 's former African colonies were independent states within the Commonwealth , except Rhodesia ( the former Southern Rhodesia ) and South Africa . South Africa , with its policy of permanent rule of the Negro majority by the white minority , had been refused permission to remain a member of the Commonwealth when it became a republic in 1961 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to perpetuate their rule over the Negro majority . British troops have been withdrawn from Egypt , although together with France and Israel they tried to re-occupy the Suez Canal zone when the Egyptians seized control of the canal in 1956 . All three withdrew when requested by the U.N . with both the United States and Russia denouncing this action by force . Great Britain gave early recognition to the republic of Israel , which in 1949 was established in Palestine , formerly a mandated British colony ; and when in 1951 the government of Iran ( Persia ) nationalized the oil industry , the British Government made no attempt to use force to recover valuable British refineries . But probably India affords the most striking example of the change which has come over British imperial policy . During the First World War demands for self-government received encouragement when the Lloyd George government promised increasing use of Indians in every branch of the administration , and the development of self governing institutions with a view to the progressive realization of responsible government in India as an integral part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India Act of 1919 put into force a system which divided powers between the British government and various elected Indian councils and assemblies . This did not satisfy Indian nationalists , of whom the most notable was the ascetic Mahatma Gandhi , who disapproved strongly of industrial civilizations imported from the West and their effect on his country . Strikes , self-imposed fastings , and other devices to undermine British authority followed , and further concessions increased Indian responsibility but failed to satisfy the nationalists , who made it clear that they would be content with nothing short of complete independence . The problem was further complicated for the British government by a serious religious cleavage among the Indians themselves . The Muslims wanted a country of their own free from Hindu influence , whereas the Indian Congress , dominated by Hindus , demanded an undivided India . During the Second World War the British government , anxious to retain Indian loyalty , particularly because of a possible Japanese invasion , made proposals of complete self-government , either within or without the British Commonwealth . After the war these promises were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to an end , and its place was taken by two self-governing Dominions , India and the Muslim state of Pakistan . In 1950 India , whose Prime Minister was Pandit Nehru , one of Gandhi 's staunchest admirers , chose to become an independent republic ; Pakistan also became a republic in 1956 . Both states are democracies , with popularly elected assemblies and ministers responsible to them . They have difficulties to overcome greater than those which usually confront democratic governments , arising out of widespread illiteracy ; a great deal of chronic poverty ; under-development of agricultural and industrial resources ; over-population ; religious differences often amounting to fanaticism ; the position of minorities ? Muslims in India and Hindus in Pakistan ; frontier problems and territorial adjustments ; the persistence of caste , particularly in Southern India ; and communism , which has made deep inroads into both India and Pakistan . It will be difficult to communicate the sanity and judgement of the leaders of the Indian democracies , which has often been demonstrated in the United Nations Organization , to vast and clamorous populations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the history of China , the other great power of the Far East . The end of the First World War was here followed by a period of intensive Japanese penetration , and the Chinese delegates at Versailles refused to sign the treaty because it gave them no redress against the invaders of their country . China subsequently became the prey of civil war between rival war lords ; banditry and piracy became profitable occupations ; in 1931 the great province of Manchuria became a Japanese dependency ; and communism secured a firm hold . In these troublous times two leaders emerged as champions of nationalism : Sun Yat-sen , who was proclaimed President of the Chinese Republic in 1921 , and Chiang Kai-shek , who succeeded him in 1925 . Four years later the government established itself in a new capital at Nanking . A seven years war with Japan ended in 1945 , and disputes immediately arose between the Communists and the central government . Chiang certainly had a hard task because of war strains , the illiteracy of the people , and the size of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places remote from the capital . But there was no excuse for the widespread corruption at which he connived , the misuse of generous American aid , and the neglect of American advice . The result was the complete conquest of China by the Communists in 1949 . Their leader Mao Tse-tung , became President of a newly constituted People 's Republic of China ' with its capital at Peking ; his government was recognized by Great Britain in 1950 but the United States of America still recognizes Chiang 's government , which has established itself in the island of Formosa , and still represents China at meetings of the United Nations Organization . This is due mainly to the fact that the Peking government has not been content to keep communism within its own borders . Its intervention in Korea saved the Communists from defeat , and it has been responsible for Viet Minh victories in IndoChina ; it invaded Tibet and in 1959 deposed the Dalai Lama ; in 1962 it forcibly disputed the northern boundary of India . The two decades which have followed the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1945 have been years of unrest and apprehension . As the world has been divided into two major groups , one dominated by the United States of America and the other by communist Russia ( maintaining a not completely happy alliance with communist China ) the United Nations has been more successful in its humanitarian than its political capacity . The powers and prestige of the General Assembly have increased but the veto which can be imposed in the Security Council can still be an absolute bar to the will of the majority . The number of members has more than doubled , but China , the largest state in the world , is still excluded , mainly because of the opposition of the United States , which continues to regard the government of Formosa as the legitimate Chinese government . In the Assembly the principle of one vote for each country whatever its size has tended to decrease the influence of the great powers , and to increase that of the Afro-Asian group one of whose representatives , the Burmese U Thant , was elected as Secretary-General in 1962 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution and is not comprised only of democratic countries . It includes dictatorships like Spain and some of the South American republics , the Union of South Africa where there is discrimination against coloured people , and Saudi Arabia where there are still slaves . Removed from the stress of politics , the humanitarian work of the United Nations , conducted through subsidiary organizations , has achieved notable successes . U.N.E.S.C.O . ( United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization ) has brought education and technical knowledge to undeveloped countries ; the World Health Organization has reduced the ravages of malaria and other diseases ; F.A.O . ( Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations ) has disseminated the most modern agricultural methods , which have achieved such results as the saving of the grape crops of Afghanistan , and a greatly increased yield from the cotton fields of Egypt . The political activities of the United Nations have been less spectacular , but , depending on the importance of the problems and powers involved , useful work has been done in at least two cases by the intervention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the Suez Canal , which had previously been administered by an international company , and British , French , and Israeli forces invaded the country . Their action was condemned by the United Nations ( with the United States and Russia prominent among the critics ) , the invading forces were withdrawn , and United Nations troops were sent to the affected areas to restore peace and order . But when in the same year permission was sought to enter Hungary to investigate the manner in which a revolution had been suppressed by Russian troops , it was peremptorily refused . The United Nations was able to intervene more effectively in the Congo civil war of 196o , and its troops , drawn from many nations , were here engaged in active fighting . Despite the bloodshed the presence of international forces had the effect of limiting the local conflicts before the interests of major powers could seriously collide . On the groupings and alliances of individual countries for their own interests , the United Nations has had little effect , but its meetings provide an international forum where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made known even if little action may be taken . The dissemination of such opinion , especially with regard to colonialism and racial problems , has had a great but not always a fair and beneficial effect . The break-up of the colonial empires and the emergence of new nations have been accepted as inevitable by the European colonizing powers , with the exception of Portugal , which put up all the resistance it could to the seizure by India of Goa in 1961 , and which still clings tenaciously to its African colonies of Angola and Mozambique . The French fought a war lasting seven and a half years to retain Algeria , but gave up the struggle in 1962 ; and in the same year the Dutch , who thirteen years before had very reluctantly acknowledged the independence of Indonesia , agreed to West New Guinea being put under United Nations trusteeship until the inhabitants could decide their own future . Great Britain has been the most realistic of all . Education has been widely spread , university and technical training extended , and local inhabitants prepared for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smooth and orderly except in the case of India and Pakistan in 1947 ; there disputed borders and religious fanaticism resulted in the deaths of 300,000 people and the flight of a total of 14 million from one state to the other in a couple of months ( the greatest exodus in human history ) . But in Africa the new governments were not always able to maintain the law and order and unity they had inherited : Nigeria in particular suffered the murder of two successive prime ministers in 1966 and the threat of breaking up into its main tribal divisions . The Belgians transferred the Congo Free State in 196o to a people unprepared and with hardly any experience of handling even the simplest instruments of government . Chaos soon followed , and the rich province of Katanga tried to break away . United Nations troops were sent in to restore order , a task which took five years . It must be recognized that the future of the British Commonwealth as a political and economic force in the international scene is somewhat uncertain at the present time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal power blocs , led by the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. respectively , but neither bloc is solid in its allegiance and interests . On the Communist side Russia has her differences , more or less serious from time to time , with her European satellites on the one hand and China on the other . On the Western side , both economic and political needs have resulted in closer co-operation between the nations of Western Europe , which recovered rapidly from the devastation of war with aid under the Marshall Plan from the U.S.A. ( 1948-51 ) . The customs union between France , Western Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Belgium , and Luxemburg as a European Common Market ' has already greatly stimulated the commercial prosperity of these countries , and is likely to lead to closer political ties in future . This has placed Britain in a quandary . Her geographical proximity to Europe and the advantages of being able to sell her goods widely in the Common Market incline her to join ; her independent traditions , peculiar relationship with the U.S.A. , and reluctance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back . Whatever the outcome , it is difficult to be confident that the Commonwealth will still hold together as an effective force . If it does manage to do so , in spite of the conflicting interests of its members , it will be an inspiration to the world and a most valuable stabilizing factor in the cause of peace . In the U.S.S.R. the death of Stalin in 1953 was followed by a period of some confusion and uncertainty until in 1956 Nikita Khrushchev , the Secretary-General of the Communist Party , openly denounced Stalin as a criminal and a murderer , and shortly afterwards became Chairman of the Council of Ministers with virtually supreme power . His great energy found frequent outlets in travel and in long speeches extolling the virtues of communism , the glories of Russia , and the evils of capitalism . But by 1964 his boastfulness , unpredictability , and increasing taste for arbitrary personal power had united his colleagues against him . Catching him unawares , they replaced him by Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary of the Party and Alexei Kosygin as Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impotent retirement . In the meantime in the U.S.A. the presidency of General Eisenhower ( 1953 ? 61 ) had seen the end of the Korean War and the admission of Alaska and Hawaii into the Union , bringing the total number of states to fifty . The bright promise of his successor 's presidency ( John Fitzgerald Kennedy , the youngest and the first Roman Catholic president ) was suddenly cut off by his assassination in 1963 . Both the United States and the U.S.S.R. have shown a disposition to interfere in the affairs of other nations , particularly if they consider such interference necessary for their security . Russia resents American military bases in Europe ; to balance this , Cuba , north of the Caribbean Sea and not far from the United States , has received much help from Russia , and was put under an economic embargo by President Kennedy 's administration . In 1961 there was an unsuccessful attempt at invasion by a mixed force of exiled Cubans and American volunteers . In the late autumn of 1962 the Russians established missile bases on the island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and were on the point of invading Cuba , when the Russians agreed to dismantle the bases and withdraw their missiles . The most protracted clash has been over the city of Berlin , which is geographically in East Germany but has a West German section kept in being by American , British , and French forces . In 1948 Stalin tried to starve out the West Germans , but was defeated by an airlift organized on a very large scale . In 1961 the East Germans built a wall to prevent their people from crossing over to the more prosperous Western sector of the city . Between the two most powerful rivals common interests have led to the formation of a third bloc in the U.N. ? a loose association known as the Afro-Asian group . India and many of the newly emerging states of Africa , the Near East , and South-East Asia had to a varying degree the same problems of inexperience , poverty , over-population , or under-development . Although they might accept economic aid from the prosperous rivals ready to court their support , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either the Eastern or the Western group . But this did not mean that they were immune from war , as could be shown by Indian border disputes and by Chinese intervention in Laos and elsewhere . In South-East Asia China showed no intention of letting Russia mould her policy , particularly when she almost openly backed North Vietnam against American resistance to Vietcong ( communist ) infiltration in South Vietnam ( 1961 ? ) . An even more dangerous prospect opened in 1964 with China 's explosion of her first nuclear device . Furthermore China was outside the restraining influences of the U.N. , had the largest population in the world , and unlike Russia claimed that she would gain rather than lose from the outbreak of full-scale warfare . The twentieth century will always be notable as a great age of scientific and technical achievement . There has been an enormous increase of air travel , and the invention of the jet engine has made it possible for aeroplanes to fly faster than the speed of sound . New machines like the helicopter and the amphibious hovercraft have added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth has been made greater by vast irrigation enterprises like the Kariba Dam harnessing the waters of the Zambesi in central Africa , the building of the Aswan High Dam in Upper Egypt , and the conservation of the waters of the Ganges and the Indus in India . French engineers have made the barren Sahara into a land of plenty by the extraction of oil and natural gas . At the end of the fifteenth century European civilization burst the bounds of its own continent and for three centuries set the pattern and the pace for the development of the whole world . In the second half of the twentieth century mankind burst the bounds of his own planet and began travelling in inter-planetary space . The Russians led the way in 1957 , and launched the first man into space in 1961 ; the Americans matched this achievement the next year . Since then these two nations , leading the world in strength , wealth , and technology , have raced neck and neck towards the goal of landing men on the moon and bringing them safely back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is threatened today by an increase in his own numbers beyond what his own planet can support . On the eve of the Industrial Revolution in 1750 the population of the world numbered between 65o and 85o million people , and was increasing at the rate of o ? 3 to 0.4 per cent . per year . By 1959 it had reached about 2,907 million , and had been increasing for some time at the rate of I.7 per cent . per year . If this rate of increase is maintained until the end of the present century , world population will then reach approximately 6,000 million inhabitants . Improved medical knowledge and practice and better hygiene have eradicated many diseases which formerly limited the rate of increase , particularly by killing over half the children born before they reached the age at which they could in their turn have children themselves . The resulting almost unrestricted growth of population in the industrially under-developed countries of the world is already having two consequences : it is estimated that at least 2,000 million of the world 's inhabitants are either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however inadequately , for the everincreasing swarm of people is holding back the industrial development of the under-developed countries . There is a grave danger of the permanent division of the world into rich and poor nations , and of the gap between the standards of living of the rich and the poor becoming even wider than it is today . Voluntary limitation of births has always accompanied industrialization and the improved living standards which result from industrialization ; the problem facing the world today is how to enable the peoples of the poor lands to limit the number of their children in order that they may industrialize and enjoy the resulting improved standard of life . The civilization of the twentieth century is , in many respects , the fitting culmination of the endeavours and aspirations of the past . In some ways , such as in art and in literature , the world of today can not claim superiority over the world of centuries ago . The literary achievements of the Greeks and the artistic works of the great painters of the Renascence have never been surpassed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cro-Magnons were physically superior to the human beings of today ; their brains were heavier , and their average height was 6 feet 3 inches . But the scientific wonders of modern times ? wireless , television , the telephone , the gramophone , the cinematograph , the motor-car , aviation , the release of nuclear energy , space travel ? have no counterparts in the past ; in these respects our civilization is immeasurably superior to any which has preceded it . Socially too there have been great advances , exemplified by widespread movements against slavery , the sense of duty towards backward races , the extension among progressive peoples of the franchise and of education , the provision of pensions for the aged , state insurance against accident , sickness , and unemployment , acts improving the conditions of factories , regulating hours of labour , and ensuring greater safety for those engaged in dangerous occupations . Governments show increasing concern for public health , and the death-rate has been substantially reduced . Life under normal conditions is much more secure than it was a hundred or even fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diseases have practically disappeared , and many others are far less prevalent ; and the work of great doctors like Pasteur , Lord Lister the initiator of antiseptic surgery , Morton and Simpson who introduced anaesthetics , and Sir Alexander Fleming the discoverer of penicillin , has done an incalculable amount towards the relief of physical pain . The zeal for knowledge and the spirit of exploration are as keen as ever . The discovery of the North and South Poles , the conquest of the air , and the successful ascent of Mount Everest , the world 's highest mountain , in May 1953 by the New Zealander Hillary and the Sherpa Tensing , are as glorious examples of courage and endurance as the exploits of Columbus or Francis Drake . But there is still much about modern civilization that is ugly and disquieting , such as pauperism , unemployment , slums , and worst of all , war , the most enduring relic of barbarism . The hopes which enabled mankind to endure the two most devastating wars of all time are still far from fulfilment . Europe has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seething cauldron ; there are many dark shadows over Africa ; and the menace of militant communism has caused the world to be divided into two hostile camps , the one dominated by the United States and the other by Russia in the West and China in the East . The genius of scientists has been used to devise more and more terrible weapons of destruction such as the atom bomb , two of which wiped out the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 ; the hydrogen bomb which has since been discovered is far more destructive , and another World War may mean the end of civilized society . The United Nations Organization , like its predecessor the League of Nations , has done much excellent social work , but it has still to solve the problem of the over-mighty nation which menaces world peace . Selfishness and fear still dominate men 's minds ; Reason 's greatest conquest is yet to come . John Stuart Mill once predicted that all the great sources of human suffering would ultimately be overcome . This would mean not only an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected , but                     