@@773915

txt // poor at all , perhaps because the criteria of poverty are quite different in his society ? how can I be poor , when I wear shoes and do not seem to be hungry ? Since everyday life is dominated by the pragmatic motive , recipe knowledge , that is , knowledge limited to pragmatic competence in routine performances , occupies a prominent place in the social stock of knowledge . For example , I use the telephone every day for specific pragmatic purposes of my own . I know how to do this . I also know what to do if my telephone fails to function ? which does not mean that I know how to repair it , but that I know whom to call on for assistance . My knowledge of the telephone also includes broader information on the system of telephonic communication ? for instance , I know that some people have unlisted numbers , that under special circumstances I can get a simultaneous hook-up with two long-distance parties , that I must figure on the time difference if I want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All of this telephonic lore is recipe knowledge since it does not concern anything except what I have to know for my present and possible future pragmatic purposes . I am not interested in why the telephone works this way , in the enormous body of scientific and engineering knowledge that makes it possible to construct telephones . Nor am I interested in uses of the telephone that lie outside my purposes , say in combination with short-wave radio for the purpose of marine communication . Similarly , I have recipe knowledge of the workings of human relationships . For example , I know what I must do to apply for a passport . All I am interested in is getting the passport at the end of a certain waiting period . I do not care , and do not know , how my application is processed in government offices , by whom and after what steps approval is given , who puts which stamp in the document . I am not making a study of government bureaucracy ? I just want to go on a vacation abroad . My interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aroused only if I fail to get my passport in the end . At that point , very much as I call on a telephone-repair expert after my telephone has broken down , I call on an expert in passport-getting ? a lawyer , say , or my Congressman , or the American Civil Liberties Union . Mutatis mutandis , a large part of the social stock of knowledge consists of recipes for the mastery of routine problems . Typically , I have little interest in going beyond this pragmatically necessary knowledge as long as the problems can indeed be mastered thereby . // The social stock of knowledge differentiates reality by degrees of familiarity . It provides complex and detailed information concerning those sectors of everyday life with which I must frequently deal . It provides much more general and imprecise information on remoter sectors . Thus my knowledge of my own occupation and its world is very rich and specific , while I have only very sketchy knowledge of the occupational worlds of others . The social stock of knowledge further supplies me with the typificatory schemes required for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typifications of others that have been discussed before , but typifications of all sorts of events and experiences , both social and natural . Thus I live in a world of relatives , fellow-workers and recognizable public functionaries . In this world , consequently , I experience family gatherings , professional meetings and encounters with the traffic police . The natural " backdrop " of these events is also typified within the stock of knowledge . My world is structured in terms of routines applying in good or bad weather , in the hayfever season and in situations when a speck of dirt gets caught under my eyelid . " I know what to do " with regard to all these others and all these events within my everyday life . By presenting itself to me as an integrated whole the social stock of knowledge also provides me with the means to integrate discrete elements of my own knowledge . In other words , " what everybody knows " has its own logic , and the same logic can be applied to order various things that I know . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I know that he is always very punctual in keeping appointments . Since " everybody knows " that punctuality is an English trait , I can now integrate these two elements of my knowledge of Henry into a typification that is meaningful in terms of the social stock of knowledge . The validity of my knowledge of everyday life is taken for granted by myself and by others until further notice , that is , until a problem arises that can not be solved in terms of it . As long as my knowledge works satisfactorily , I am generally ready to suspend doubts about it . In certain attitudes detached from everyday reality ? telling a joke , at the theater or in church , or engaging in philosophical speculation ? I may perhaps doubt elements of it . But these doubts are " not to be taken seriously . " For instance , as a businessman I know that it pays to be inconsiderate of others . I may laugh at a joke in which this maxim leads to failure , I may be moved by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I may concede in a philo42 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY sophical mood that all social relations should be governed by the Golden Rule . Having laughed , having been moved and having philosophized , I return to the " serious " world of business , once more recognize the logic of its maxims , and act accordingly . Only when my maxims fail " to deliver the goods " in the world to which they are intended to apply are they likely to become problematic to me " in earnest . " Although the social stock of knowledge appresents the everyday world in an integrated manner , differentiated according to zones of familiarity and remoteness , it leaves the totality of that world opaque . Put differently , the reality of everyday life always appears as a zone of lucidity behind which there is a background of darkness . As some zones of reality are illuminated , others are adumbrated . I can not know everything there is to know about this reality . Even if , for instance , I am a seemingly all-powerful despot in my family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the factors that go into the continuing success of my despotism . I know that my orders are always obeyed , but I can not be sure of all the steps and all the motives that lie between the issuance and the execution of my orders . There are always things that go on " behind my back . " This is true a fortiori when social relationships more complex than those of the family are involved ? and explains , incidentally , why despots are endemically nervous . My knowledge of everyday life has the quality of an instrument that cuts a path through a forest and , as it does so , projects a narrow cone of light on what lies just ahead and immediately around ; on all sides of the path there continues to be darkness . This image pertains even more , of course , to the multiple realities in which everyday life is continually transcended . This latter statement can be paraphrased , poetically if not exhaustively , by saying that the reality of everyday life is overcast by the penumbras of our dreams . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relevances . Some of these are determined by immediate pragmatic interests of mine , others by my general situation in society . It is irrelevant to me how my wife goes about cooking my favorite goulash as long as it turns out the way I like it . It is irrelevant to me that the stock of a company is falling , if I do not own such stock ; or that Catholics are modernizing their doctrine , if I am an atheist ; or that it is now possible to fly non-stop to Africa , if I do not want to go there . However , my relevance structures intersect with the relevance structures of others at many points , as a result of which we have " interesting " // things to say to each other . An important element of my knowledge of everyday life is the knowledge of the relevance structures of others . Thus I " know better " than to tell my doctor about my investment problems , my lawyer about my ulcer pains , or my accountant about my quest for religious truth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me ready-made by the social stock of knowledge itself . I know that " woman talk " is irrelevant to me as a man , that " idle speculation " is irrelevant to me as a man of action , and so forth . Finally , the social stock of knowledge as a whole has its own relevance structure . Thus , in terms of the stock of knowledge objectivated in American society , it is irrelevant to study the movements of the stars to predict the stock market , but it is relevant to study an individual 's slips of the tongue to find out about his sex life , and so on . Conversely , in other societies , astrology may be highly relevant for economics , speech analysis quite irrelevant for erotic curiosity , and so on . One final point should be made here about the social distribution of knowledge . I encounter knowledge in everyday life as socially distributed , that is , as possessed differently by different individuals and types of individuals . I do not share my knowledge equally with all my fellowmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with no one . I share my professional expertise with colleagues , but not with my family , and I may share with nobody my knowledge of how to cheat at cards . The social distribution of knowledge of certain elements of everyday reality can become highly complex and even confusing to the outsider . I not only do not possess the knowledge supposedly required to cure me of a physical ailment , I may even lack the knowledge of which one of a bewildering variety of medical specialists claims jurisdiction over what ails me . In such cases , I require not only the advice of experts , but the prior advice of experts on experts . The social distribution of knowledge thus begins with the simple fact that I do not know everything known to my fellowmen , and vice versa , and culminates in exceedingly complex and esoteric systems of expertise . Knowledge of how the socially available stock of knowledge is distributed , at least in outline , is an important element of that same stock of knowledge . In everyday life I know , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can turn to for information on what I do not know , and generally which types of individuals may be expected to have which types of knowledge . II . Society as Objective Reality 1 . INSTITUTIONALIZATION a . Organism and Activity Man occupies a peculiar position in the animal kingdom.t Unlike the other higher mammals , he has no species-specific environment , 2 no environment firmly structured by his own instinctual organization . There is no man-world in the sense that one may speak of a dog-world or a horse-world . Despite an area of individual learning and accumulation , the individual dog or the individual horse has a largely fixed relationship to its environment , which it shares with all other members of its respective species . One obvious implication of this is that dogs and horses , as compared with man , are much more restricted to a specific geographical distribution . The specificity of these animals ' environment , however , is much more than a geographical delimitation . It refers to the biologically fixed character of their relationship to the environment , even if geographical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals , as species and as individuals , live in closed worlds whose structures are predetermined by the biological equipment of the several animal species . By contrast , man 's relationship to his environment is characterized by world-openness.3 Not only has man succeeded in establishing himself over the greater part of the earth 's surface , his relationship to the surrounding environment is everywhere very imperfectly structured by his own biological constitution . The latter , to be sure , permits man to engage in different activities . But the fact that he continued to live a nomadic existence in one place and turned to agriculture in another can not be explained in terms of biological processes . This does not mean , of course , that there are no biologically determined limitations to man 's relations with his environment ; his species-specific sensory and motor equipment imposes obvious // limitations on his range of possibilities . The peculiarity of man 's biological constitution lies rather in its insi inctual component . Man 's instinctual organization may be described as underdeveloped , compared with that of the oilier higher mammals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these drives arc highly unspecialized and undirected . This means that the human organism is capable of applying its constitutionally given equipment to a very wide and , in addition , constantly variable and varying range of activities . This peculiarity of the human organism is grounded in its ontogenetic development .4 Indeed , if one looks at the matter iii terms of organismic development , it is possible to say that the fetal period in the human being extends through about the first year after birth.5 Important organismic developments , which in the animal are completed in the mother 's body , take place in the human infant after its separation from the womb . At this time , however , the human infant is not only in the outside world , but interrelating with it in a number of complex ways . The human organism is thus still developing biologically while already standing in a relationship to its environment . In other words , the process of becoming man takes place in an interrelationship with an environment . This statement gains significance if one reflects that this environment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the developing human being not only interrelates with a particular natural environment , but with a specific cultural and social order , which is mediated to him by the significant others who have charge of him.6 Not only is the survival of the human infant dependent upon certain social arrangements , the direction of his organismic development is socially determined . From the moment of birth , man 's organismic development , and indeed a large part of his biological being as such , are subjected to continuing socially determined interference . Despite the obvious physiological limits to the range of possible and different ways of becoming man in this double environmental interrelationship the human organism manifests an immense plasticity in its response to the environmental forces at work on it . This is particularly clear when one observes the flexibility of man 's biological constitution as it is subjected to a variety of socio-cultural determinations . It is an ethnological commonplace that the ways of becoming and being human are as numerous as man 's cultures . Humanness is socio-culturally variable . In other words , there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substratum determining the variability of socio-cultural formations . There is only human nature in the sense of anthropological constants ( for example , world-openness and plasticity of instinctual structure ) that delimit and permit man 's socio-cultural formations . But the specific shape into which this humanness is molded is determined by those socio-cultural formations and is relative to their numerous variations . While it is possible to say that man has a nature , it is more significant to say that man constructs his own nature , or more simply , that man produces himself. ? The plasticity of the human organism and its susceptibility to socially determined interference is best illustrated by the ethnological evidence concerning sexuality.8 While man possesses sexual drives that are comparable to those of the other higher mammals , human sexuality is characterized by a very high degree of pliability . It is not only relatively independent of temporal rhythms , it is pliable both in the objects toward which it may be directed and in its modalities of expression . Ethnological evidence shows that , in sexual matters , man is capable of almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pitch of feverish lust , but it is unlikely that one can conjure up any image that will not correspond to what in some other culture is an established norm , or at least an occurrence to be taken in stride . If the term " normality " is to refer either to what is anthropologically fundamental or to what is culturally universal , then neither it nor its antonym can be meaningfully applied to the varying forms of human sexuality . At the same time , of course , human sexuality is directed , sometimes rigidly structured , in every particular culture . Every culture has a distinctive sexual configuration , with its own specialized patterns of sexual conduct and its own " anthropological " assumptions in the sexual area . The empirical relativity of these configurations , their immense variety and luxurious inventiveness , indicate that they are the product of man 's own socio-cultural formations rather than of a biologically fixed human nature 9 The period during which the human organism develops towards its completion in interrelationship with its environment is also the period during which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , must also be understood in relation to both the ongoing organismic development and the social process in which the natural and the human environment are mediated through the sig48 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY nificant others.10 The genetic presuppositions for the self are , of course , given at birth . But the self , as it is experienced later as a subjectively and objectively recognizable identity , is not . The same social processes that determine the completion of the organism produce the self in its particular , culturally relative form . The character of the self as a social product is not limited to the particular configuration the individual identifies as himself ( for instance , as " a man , " in the particular way in which this identity is defined and formed in the culture in question ) , but to the comprehensive psychological equipment that serves as an appendage to the particular configuration ( for instance , " manly " emotions , attitudes and even somatic reactions ) . It goes without saying , then , that the organism and , even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the particular social context in which they were shaped . The common development of the human organism and the human self in a socially determined environment is related to the peculiarly human relationship between organism and self . This relationship is an eccentric one.11 On the one hand , man is a body , in the same way that this may be said of every other animal organism . On the other hand , man has a body . That is , man experiences himself as an entity that is not identical with his body , but that , on the contrary , has that body at its disposal . In other words , man 's experience of himself always hovers in a balance between being and having a body , a balance that must be redressed again and again . This eccentricity of man 's experience of his own body has certain consequences for the analysis of human activity as conduct in the material environment and as externalization of subjective meanings . An adequate understanding of any human phenomenon will have to take both these aspects into consideration , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be clear from the foregoing that the statement that man produces himself in no way implies some sort of Promethean vision of the solitary individual.12 Man 's self-production is always , and of necessity , a social enterprise . Men together produce a human environment , with the totality of its socio-cultural and psychological formations . None of these formations may be understood as products of man 's biological constitution , which , as indicated , provides only the outer limits for human productive activity . Just as it is impossible for man to develop as man in isolation , so it is impossible for man in isolation to produce a human environment . // Solitary human being is being on the animal level ( which , of course , man shares with other animals ) . As soon as one observes phenomena that are specifically human , one enters the realm of the social . Man 's specific humanity and his sociality are inextricably intertwined . Homo sapiens is always , and in the same measure , homo socius.13 The human organism lacks the necessary biological means to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were thrown back on its organismic resources by themselves , would be existence in some sort of chaos . Such chaos is , however , empirically unavailable , even though one may theoretically conceive of it . Empirically , human existence takes place in a context of order , direction , stability . The question then arises : From what does the empirically existing stability of human order derive ? An answer may be given on two levels . One may first point to the obvious fact that a given social order precedes any individual organismic development . That is , world-openness , while intrinsic to man 's biological make-up , is always pre-empted by social order . One may say that the biologically intrinsic world-openness of human existence is always , and indeed must be , transformed by social order into a relative worldclosedness . While this reclosure can never approximate the closedness of animal existence , if only because of its humanly produced and thus " artificial " character , it is nevertheless capable , most of the time , of providing direction and stability for the greater part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to another level . One may ask in what manner social order itself arises . The most general answer to this question is that social order is a human product , or , more precisely , an ongoing human production . It is produced by man in the course of his ongoing externalization . Social order is not biologically given or derived from any biological data in its empirical manifestations . Social order , needless to add , is also not given in man 's natural environment , though particular features of this may be factors in determining certain features of a social order ( for example , its economic or technological arrangements ) . Social order is not part of the " nature of things , " and it can not be derived from the " laws of nature . " 14 Social order exists only as a product of human activity . No other ontological status may be ascribed to it without hopelessly obfuscating its empirical manifestations . Both in its genesis ( social order is the result of past human activity ) and its existence in any instant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as human activity continues to produce it ) it is a human product . While the social products of human externalization have a character sui generic as against both their organismic and their environmental context , it is important to stress that externalization as such is an anthropological necessity.15 Human being is impossible in a closed sphere of quiescent interiority . Human being must ongoingly externalize itself in activity . This anthropological necessity is grounded in man 's biological equipment . ' ? The inherent instability of the human organism makes it imperative that man himself provide a stable environment for his conduct . Man himself must specialize and direct his drives . These biological facts serve as a necessary presupposition for the production of social order . In other words , although no existing social order can be derived from biological data , the necessity for social order as such stems from man 's biological equipment . To understand the causes , other than those posited by the biological constants , for the emergence , maintenance and transmission of a social order one must undertake an analysis that eventuates in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human activity is subject to habitualization . Any action that is repeated frequently becomes cast into a pattern , which can then be reproduced with an economy of effort and which , ipso facto , is apprehended by its performer as that pattern . Habitualization further implies that the action in question may be performed again in the future in the same manner and with the same economical effort . This is true of non-social as well as of social activity . Even the solitary individual on the proverbial desert island habitualizes his activity . When he wakes up in the morning and resumes his attempts to construct a canoe out of matchsticks , he may mumble to himself , " There I go again , " as he starts on step one of an operating procedure consisting of , say , ten steps . In other words , even solitary man has at least the company of his operating procedures . Habitualized actions , of course , retain their meaningful character for the individual although the meanings involved become embedded as routines in his general stock of knowledge , taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the future 17 HaSOCIETY // bitualization carries with it the important psychological gain that choices are narrowed . While in theory there may be a hundred ways to go about the project of building a canoe out of matchsticks , habitualization narrows these down to one . This frees the individual from the burden of " all those decisions , " providing a psychological relief that has its basis in man 's undirected instinctual structure . Habitualization provides the direction and the specialization of activity that is lacking in man 's biological equipment , thus relieving the accumulation of tensions that result from undirected drives . " And by providing a stable background in which human activity may proceed with a minimum of decision-making most of the time , it frees energy for such decisions as may be necessary on certain occasions . In other words , the background of habitualized activity opens up a foreground for deliberation and innovation 1 ? In terms of the meanings bestowed by man upon his activity , habitualization makes it unnecessary for each situation to be defined anew , step by step 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its predefinitions . The activity to be undertaken in these situations can then be anticipated . Even alternatives of conduct can be assigned standard weights . These processes of habitualization precede any institutionalization , indeed can be made to apply to a hypothetical solitary individual detached from any social interaction . The fact that even such a solitary individual , assuming that he has been formed as a self ( as we would have to assume in the case of our matchstick-canoe builder ) , will habitualize his activity in accordance with biographical experience of a world of social institutions preceding his solitude need not concern us at the moment . Empirically , the more important part of the habitualization of human activity is coextensive with the latter 's institutionalization . The question then becomes how do institutions arise . Institutionalization occurs whenever there is a reciprocal typification of habitualized actions by types of actors . Put differently , any such typification is an institution 2 ' What must be stressed is the reciprocity of institutional typifications and the typicality of not only the actions but also the actors in institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always shared ones . They are available to all the members of the particular social group in question , and the institution itself typifies individual actors as well as individual actions . The institution posits that actions of // type X will be performed by actors of type X. For example , the institution of the law posits that heads shall be chopped off in specific ways under specific circumstances , and that specific types of individuals shall do the chopping ( executioners , say , or members of an impure caste , or virgins under a certain age , or those who have been designated by an oracle ) . Institutions further imply historicity and control . Reciprocal typifications of actions are built up in the course of a shared history . They can not be created instantaneously . Institutions always have a history , of which they are the products . It is impossible to understand an institution adequately without an understanding of the historical process in which it was produced . Institutions also , by the very fact of their existence , control human conduct by setting up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction as against the many other directions that would theoretically be possible . It is important to stress that this controlling character is inherent in institutionalization as such , prior to or apart from any mechanisms of sanctions specifically set up to support an institution . These mechanisms ( the sum of which constitute what is generally called a system of social control ) do , of course , exist in many institutions and in all the agglomerations of institutions that we call societies . Their controlling efficacy , however , is of a secondary or supplementary kind . As we shall see again later , the primary social control is given in the existence of an institution as such . To say that a segment of human activity has been institutionalized is already to say that this segment of human activity has been subsumed under social control . Additional control mechanisms are required only insofar as the processes of institutionalization are less than completely successful . Thus , for instance , the law may provide that anyone who breaks the incest taboo will have his head chopped off . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals offended against the taboo . It is unlikely that this sanction will have to be invoked continuously ( unless the institution delineated by the incest taboo is itself in the course of disintegration , a special case that we need not elaborate here ) . It makes little sense , therefore , to say that human sexuality is socially controlled by beheading certain individuals . Rather , human sexuality is socially controlled by its institutionalization in the course of the particular history in question . One may add , of course , that the incest taboo itself is nothing but the negative side of an assemblage of typificaSOCIETY // tions , which define in the first place which sexual conduct is incestuous and which is not . In actual experience institutions generally manifest themselves in collectivities containing considerable numbers of people . It is theoretically important , however , to emphasize that the institutionalizing process of reciprocal typification would occur even if two individuals began to interact de novo . Institutionalization is incipient in every social situation continuing in time . Let us assume that two persons from entirely different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we presuppose that the two individuals have formed selves , something that could , of course , have occurred only in a social process . We are thus for the moment excluding the cases of Adam and Eve , or of two " feral " children meeting in a clearing of a primeval jungle . But we are assuming that the two individuals arrive at their meeting place from social worlds that have been historically produced in segregation from each other , and that the interaction therefore takes place in a situation that has not been institutionally defined for either of the participants . It may be possible to imagine a Man Friday joining our matchstick-canoe builder on his desert island , and to imagine the former as a Papuan and the latter as an American . In that case , however , it is likely that the American will have read or at least have heard about the story of Robinson Crusoe , which will introduce a measure of predefinition of the situation at least for him . Let us , then , simply call our two persons A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner , typifications will be produced quite quickly . A watches B perform . He attributes motives to B 's actions and , seeing the actions recur , typifies the motives as recurrent . As B goes on performing , A is soon able to say to himself , " Aha , there he goes again . " At the same time , A may assume that B is doing the same thing with regard to him . From the beginning , both A and B assume this reciprocity of typification . In the course of their interaction these typifications will be expressed in specific patterns of conduct . That is , A and B will begin to play roles vis-a-vis each other . This will occur even if each continues to perform actions different from those of the other . The possibility of taking the role of the other will appear with regard to the same actions performed by both . That is , A will inwardly appropriate B 's reiterated roles and make them the models for his own role-playing . For example , B 's role in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by A , but enters as a constitutive element into A 's // own food-preparation role . Thus a collection of reciprocally typified actions will emerge , habitualized for each in roles , some of which will be performed separately and some in common 22 While this reciprocal typification is not yet institutionalization ( since , there only being two individuals , there is no possibility of a typology of actors ) , it is clear that institutionalization is already present in nucleo . At this stage one may ask what gains accrue to the two individuals from this development . The most important gain is that each will be able to predict the other 's actions . Concomitantly , the interaction of both becomes predictable . The " There he goes again " becomes a " There we go again . " This relieves both individuals of a considerable amount of tension . They save time and effort , not only in whatever external tasks they might be engaged in separately or jointly , but in terms of their respective psychological economies . Their life together is now defined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible on a low level of attention . Each action of one is no longer a source of astonishment and potential danger to the other . Instead , much of what goes on takes on the triviality of what , to both , will be everyday life . This means that the two individuals are constructing a background , in the sense discussed before , which will serve to stabilize both their separate actions and their interaction . The construction of this background of routine in turn makes possible a division of labor between them , opening the way for innovations , which demand a higher level of attention . The division of labor and the innovations will lead to new habitualizations , further widening the background common to both individuals . In other words , a social world will be in process of construction , containing within it the roots of an expanding institutional order . Generally , all actions repeated once or more tend to be habitualized to some degree , just as all actions observed by another necessarily involve some typification on his part . However , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be a continuing social situation in which the habitualized actions of two or more individuals interlock . Which actions are likely to be reciprocally typified in this manner ? The general answer is , those actions that are relevant to both A and B within their common situation . The areas likely to be relevant in this way will , of course , vary in different situations . Some will be // those facing A and B in terms of their previous biographies , others may be the result of the natural , presocial circumstances of the situation . ' What will in all cases have to be habitualized is the communication process between A and B. Labor , sexuality and territoriality are other likely foci of typification and habitualization . In these various areas the situation of A and B is paradigmatic of the institutionalization occurring in larger societies . Let us push our paradigm one step further and imagine that A and B have children . At this point the situation changes qualitatively . The appearance of a third party changes the character of the ongoing social interaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further as additional individuals continue to be added 23 The institutional world , which existed in statu nascendi in the original situation of A and B , is now passed on to others . In this process institutionalization perfects itself . The habitualizations and typifications undertaken in the common life of A and B , formations that until this point still had the quality of ad hoc conceptions of two individuals , now become historical institutions . With the acquisition of historicity , these formations also acquire another crucial quality , or , more accurately , perfect a quality that was incipient as soon as A and B began the reciprocal typification of their conduct : this quality is objectivity . This means that the institutions that have now been crystallized ( for instance , the institution of paternity as it is encountered by the children ) are experienced as existing over and beyond the individuals who " happen to " embody them at the moment . In other words , the institutions are now experienced as possessing a reality of their own , a reality that confronts the individual as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions are constructed and maintained only in the interaction of A and B , their objectivity remains tenuous , easily changeable , almost playful , even while they attain a measure of objectivity by the mere fact of their formation . To put this a little differently , the routinized background of A 's and B 's activity remains fairly accessible to deliberate intervention by A and B. Although the routines , once established , carry within them a tendency to persist , the possibility of changing them or even abolishing them remains at hand in consciousness . A and B alone are responsible for having constructed this world . A and B remain capable of changing or abolishing it . What is more , since they themselves have shaped this world in the course of a shared biography which // they can remember , the world thus shaped appears fully transparent to them . They understand the world that they themselves have made . All this changes in the process of transmission to the new generation . The objectivity of the institutional world " thickens " and " hardens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mirror effect ) for the parents as well . The " There we go again " now becomes " This is how these things are done . " A world so regarded attains a firmness in consciousness ; it becomes real in an ever more massive way and it can no longer be changed so readily . For the children , especially in the early phase of their socialization into it , it becomes the world . For the parents , it loses its playful quality and becomes " serious . " For the children , the parentally transmitted world is not fully transparent . Since they had no part in shaping it , it confronts them as a given reality that , like nature , is opaque in places at least . Only at this point does it become possible to speak of a social world at all , in the sense of a comprehensive and given reality confronting the individual in a manner analogous to the reality of the natural world . Only in this way , as an objective world , can the social formations be transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialization the child is quite incapable of distinguishing between the objectivity of natural phenomena and the objectivity of the social formations 25 To take the most important item of socialization , language appears to the child as inherent in the nature of things , and he can not grasp the notion of its conventionality . A thing is what it is called , and it could not be called anything else . All institutions appear in the same way , as given , unalterable and self-evident . Even in our empirically unlikely example of parents having constructed an institutional world de novo , the objectivity of this world would be increased for them by the socialization of their children , because the objectivity experienced by the children would reflect back upon their own experience of this world . Empirically , of course , the institutional world transmitted by most parents already has the character of historical and objective reality . The process of transmission simply strengthens the parents ' sense of reality , if only because , to put it crudely , if one says , " This is how these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oneself.26 An institutional world , then , is experienced as an objective reality . It has a history that antedates the individual 's birth and is not accessible to his biographical recollection . It was there before he was born , and it will be there after his death . This history itself , as the // tradition of the existing institutions , has the character of objectivity . The individual 's biography is apprehended as an episode located within the objective history of the society . The institutions , as historical and objective facticities , confront the individual as undeniable facts . The institutions are there , external to him , persistent in their reality , whether he likes it or not . He can not wish them away . They resist his attempts to change or evade them . They have coercive power over him , both in themselves , by the sheer force of their facticity , and through the control mechanisms that are usually attached to the most important of them . The objective reality of institutions is not diminished if the individual does not understand their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large sectors of the social world as incomprehensible , perhaps oppressive in their opaqueness , but real nonetheless . Since institutions exist as external reality , the individual can not understand them by introspection . He must " go out " and learn about them , just as he must to learn about nature . This remains true even though the social world , as a humanly produced reality , is potentially understandable in a way not possible in the case of the natural world 27 It is important to keep in mind that the objectivity of the institutional world , however massive it may appear to the individual , is a humanly produced , constructed objectivity . The process by which the externalized products of human activity attain the character of objectivity is objectivation.28 The institutional world is objectivated human activity , and so is every single institution . In other words , despite the objectivity that marks the social world in human experience , it does not thereby acquire an ontological status apart from the human activity that produced it . The paradox that man is capable of producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a human product will concern us later on . At the moment , it is important to emphasize that the relationship between man , the producer , and the social world , his product , is and remains a dialectical one . That is , man ( not , of course , in isolation but in his collectivities ) and his social world interact with each other . The product acts back upon the producer . Externalization and objectivation are moments in a continuing dialectical process . The third moment in this process , which is internalization ( by which the objectivated social world is retrojected into consciousness in the course of socialization ) , will occupy us in considerable detail later on . It is already possible , however , to see the fundamental relationship of // these three dialectical moments in social reality . Each of them corresponds to an essential characterization of the social world . Society is ci human product . Society is an objective reality . Man is a social product . It may also already be evident than an analysis of the social world that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distortive . ? " One may further add that only with the transmission of the social world to a new generation ( I hat is , internalization as effectuated in socialization ) does the fundamental social dialectic appear in its totality . To repeat , only with the appearance of a new generation can one properly speak of a social world . At the same point , the institutional world requires legitimation , that is , ways by which it can be " explained " and justified . This is not because it appears less real . As we have seen , the reality of the social world gains in massivity in the course of its transmission . This reality , however , is a historical one , which comes to the new generation as a tradition rather than as a biographical memory . In our paradigmatic example , A and B , the original creators of the social world , can always reconstruct the circumstances under which their world and any part of it was established . That is , they can arrive at the meaning of an institution by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's children are in an altogether different situation . Their knowledge of the institutional history is by way of " hearsay . " The original meaning of the institutions is inaccessible to them in terms of memory . It , therefore , becomes necessary to interpret this meaning to them in various legitimating formulas . These will have to be consistent and comprehensive in terms of the institutional order , if they are to carry conviction to the new generation . The same story , so to speak , must be told to all the children . It follows that the expanding institutional order develops a corresponding canopy of legitimations , stretching over it a protective cover of both cognitive and normative interpretation . These legitimations are learned by the new generation during the same process that socializes them into the institutional order . This , again , will occupy us in greater detail further on . The development of specific mechanisms of social controls also becomes necessary with the historicization and objectivation of institutions . Deviance from the institutionally " programmed " courses of action becomes likely once the institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete social processes from which they arose . To put this more simply , it is more likely // that one will deviate from programs set up for one by others than from programs that one has helped establish oneself . The new generation posits a problem of compliance , and its socialization into the institutional order requires the establishment of sanctions . The institutions must and do claim authority over the individual , independently of the subjective meanings he may attach to any particular situation . The priority of the institutional definitions of situations must be consistently maintained over individual temptations at redefinition . The children must be " taught to behave " and , once taught , must be " kept in line . " So , of course , must the adults . The more conduct is institutionalized , the more predictable and thus the more controlled it becomes . If socialization into the institutions has been effective , outright coercive measures can be applied economically and selectively . Most of the time , conduct will occur " spontaneously " within the institutionally set channels . The more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for granted , the more possible alternatives to the institutional " programs " will recede , and the more predictable and controlled conduct will be . In principle , institutionalization may take place in any area of collectively relevant conduct . In actual fact , sets of institutionalization processes take place concurrently . There is no a priori reason for assuming that these processes will necessarily " hang together " functionally , let alone as a logically consistent system . To return once more to our paradigmatic example , slightly changing the fictitious situation , let us assume this time , not a budding family of parents and children , but a piquant triangle of a male A , a bisexual female B , and a Lesbian C. We need not belabor the point that the sexual relevances of these three individuals will not coincide . Relevance A-B is not shared by C. The habitualizations engendered as a result of relevance A-B need bear no relationship to those engendered by relevances B-C and C-A . There is , after all , no reason why two processes of erotic habitualization , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by side without functionally integrating with each other or with a third habitualization based on a shared interest in , say , the growing of flowers ( or whatever other enterprise might be jointly relevant to an active heterosexual male and an active Lesbian ) . In other words , three processes of habitualization or incipient institutionalization may occur without their being functionally or logically integrated as social phenomena . The same reasoning holds if A , B and C are posited as collectivities 6o THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY rather than individuals , regardless of what content their relevances might have . Also , functional or logical integration can not be assumed a priori when habitualization or institutionalization processes are limited to the same individuals or collectivities , rather than to the discrete ones assumed in our example . Nevertheless , the empirical fact remains that institutions do tend to " hang together . " If this phenomenon is not to be taken for granted , it must be explained . How can this be done ? First , one may argue that some relevances will be common to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many areas of conduct will be relevant only to certain types . The latter involves an incipient differentiation , at least in the way in which these types are assigned some relatively stable meaning . This assignment may be based on presocial differences , such as sex , or on differences brought about in the course of social interaction , such as those engendered by the division of labor . For example , only women may be concerned with fertility magic and only hunters may engage in cave painting . Or , only the old men may perform the rain ceremonial and only weapon makers may sleep with their maternal cousins . In terms of their external social functionality , these several areas of conduct need not be integrated into one cohesive system . They can continue to coexist on the basis of segregated performances . But while performances can be segregated , meanings tend toward at least minimal consistency . As the individual reflects about the successive moments of his experience , he tries to fit their meanings into a consistent biographical framework . This tendency increases as the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible that this tendency to integrate meanings is based on a psychological need , which may in turn be physiologically grounded ( that is , that there may be a built-in " need " for cohesion in the psycho-physiological constitution of man ) . Our argument , however , does not rest on such anthropological assumptions , but rather on the analysis of meaningful reciprocity in processes of institutionalization . It follows that great care is required in any statements one makes about the " logic " of institutions . T'he logic does not reside in the institutions and their external functionalities , but in the way these are treated in reflection about them . Put differently , reflective consciousness superimposes the quality of logic on the institutional order.3 ? Language provides the fundamental superimposition of logic on // the objectivated social world . The edifice of legitimations is built upon language and uses language as its principal instrumentality . The " logic " thus attributed to the institutional order is part of the socially available stock of knowledge and taken for granted as such . Since the well-socialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent whole , he will be constrained to explain both its functioning and malfunctioning in terms of this " knowledge . " It is very easy , as a result , for the observer of any society to assume that its institutions do indeed function and integrate as they are " supposed to . " 31 De facto , then , institutions are integrated . But their integration is not a functional imperative for the social processes that produce them ; it is rather brought about in a derivative fashion . Individuals perform discrete institutionalized actions within the context of their biography . This biography is a reflected-upon whole in which the discrete actions are thought of not as isolated events , but as related parts in a subjectively meaningful universe whose meanings are not specific to the individual , but socially articulated and shared . Only by way of this detour of socially shared universes of meaning do we arrive at the need for institutional integration . This has far-reaching implications for any analysis of social phenomena . If the integration of an institutional order can be understood only in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it , it follows that the analysis of such " knowledge " will be essential for an analysis of the institutional order in question . It is important to stress that this does not exclusively or even primarily involve a preoccupation with complex theoretical systems serving as legitimations for the institutional order . Theories also have to be taken into account , of course . But theoretical knowledge is only a small and by no means the most important part of what passes for knowledge in a society . Theoretically sophisticated legitimations appear at particular moments of an institutional history . The primary knowledge about the institutional order is knowledge on the pretheoretical level . It is the sum total of " what everybody knows " about a social world , an assemblage of maxims , morals , proverbial nuggets of wisdom , values and beliefs , myths , and so forth , the theoretical integration of which requires considerable intellectual fortitude in itself , as the long line of heroic integrators from Homer to the latest sociological system-builders testifies . On the pretheoretical level , however , every institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF REALITY edge , that is , knowledge that supplies the institutionally appropriate rules of conduct.32 Such knowledge constitutes the motivating dynamics of institutionalized conduct . It defines the institutionalized areas of conduct and designates all situations falling within them . It defines and constructs the roles to be played in the context of the institutions in question . Ipso facto , it controls and predicts all such conduct . Since this knowledge is socially objectivated as knowledge , that is , as a body of generally valid truths about reality , any radical deviance from the institutional order appears as a departure from reality . Such deviance may be designated as moral depravity , mental disease , or just plain ignorance . While these fine distinctions will have obvious consequences for the treatment of the deviant , they all share an inferior cognitive status within the particular social world . In this way , the particular social world becomes the world tout court . What is taken for granted as knowledge in the society comes to be coextensive with the knowable , or at any rate provides the framework within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future . This is the knowledge that is learned in the course of socialization and that mediates the internalization within individual consciousness of the objectivated structures of the social world . Knowledge , in this sense , is at the heart of the fundamental dialectic of society . It " programs " the channels in which externalization produces an objective world . It objectifies this world through language and the cognitive apparatus based on language , that is , it orders it into objects to be apprehended as reality.33 It is internalized again as objectively valid truth in the course of socialization . Knowledge about society is thus a realization in the double sense of the word , in the sense of apprehending the objectivated social reality , and in the sense of ongoingly producing this reality . For example , in the course of the division of labor a body of knowledge is developed that refers to the particular activities involved . In its linguistic basis , this knowledge is already indispensable to the institutional " programming " of these economic activities . There will be , say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weapons to be employed , the animals that serve as prey , and so on . There will further be a collection of recipes that must be learned if one is to hunt correctly . This knowledge serves as a channeling , controlling force in itself , an indispensable ingredient of the institutionalization of this area of conduct . As the // institution of hunting is crystallized and persists in time , the same body of knowledge serves as an objective ( and , incidentally , empirically verifiable ) description of it . A whole segment of the social world is objectified by this knowledge . There will be an objective " science " of hunting , corresponding to the objective reality of the hunting economy . The point need not be belabored that here " empirical verification " and " science " are not understood in the sense of modern scientific canons , but rather in the sense of knowledge that may be borne out in experience and that can subsequently become systematically organized as a body of knowledge . Again , the same body of knowledge is transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth in the course of socialization and thus internalized as subjective reality . This reality in turn has power to shape the individual . It will produce a specific type of person , namely the hunter , whose identity and biography as a hunter have meaning only in a universe constituted by the aforementioned body of knowledge as a whole ( say , in a hunters ' society ) or in part ( say , in our own society , in which hunters come together in a subuniverse of their own ) . In other words , no part of the institutionalization of hunting can exist without the particular knowledge that has been socially produced and objectivated with reference to this activity . To hunt and to be a hunter implies existence in a social world defined and controlled by this body of knowledge . Mutatis mutandis , the same applies to any area of institutionalized conduct . c . Sedimentation and Tradition Only a small part of the totality of human experiences is retained in consciousness . The experiences that are so retained become sedimented , that is , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unless such sedimentation took place the individual could not make sense of his biography . Intersubjective sedimentation also takes place when several individuals share a common biography , experiences of which become incorporated in a common stock of knowledge . Intersubjective sedimentation can be called truly social only when it has been objectivated in a sign system of one kind or another , that is , when the possibility of reiterated objectification of the shared experiences arises . Only then is it likely that these experiences will be transmitted from one generation to // the next , and from one collectivity to another . Theoretically , common activity , without a sign system , could be the basis for transmission . Empirically , this is improbable . An objectively available sign system bestows a status of incipient anonymity on the sedimented experiences by detaching them from their original context of concrete individual biographies and making them generally available to all who share , or may share in the future , in the sign system in question . The experiences thus become readily transmittable . In principle , any sign system would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system is linguistic . Language objectivates the shared experiences and makes them available to all within the linguistic community , thus becoming both the basis and the instrument of the collective stock of knowledge . Furthermore , language provides the means for objectifying new experiences , allowing their incorporation into the already existing stock of knowledge , and it is the most important means by which the objectivated and objectified sedimentations are transmitted in the tradition of the collectivity in question . For example , only some members of a hunting society have the experience of losing their weapons and being forced to fight a wild animal with their bare hands . This frightening experience , with whatever lessons in bravery , cunning and skill it yields , is firmly sedimented in the consciousness of the individuals who went through it . If the experience is shared by several individuals , it will be sedimented intersubjectively , may perhaps even form a profound bond between these individuals . As this experience is designated and transmitted linguistically , however , it becomes accessible and , perhaps , strongly relevant to individuals who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , in a hunting society , we may imagine to be very precise and elaborate indeed ? say , " lone big kill , with one hand , of male rhinoceros , " " lone big kill , with two hands , of female rhinoceros , " and so forth ) abstracts the experience from its individual biographical occurrences . It becomes an objective possibility for everyone , or at any rate for everyone within a certain type ( say , fully initiated hunters ) ; that is , it becomes anonymous in principle even if it is still associated with the feats of specific individuals . Even to those who do not anticipate the experience in their own future biography ( say , women forbidden to hunt ) , it may be relevant in a derived manner ( say , in terms of the desirability of a future husband ) ; in any case it is part of the common stock of // knowledge . The objectification of the experience in the language ( that is , its transformation into a generally available object of knowledge ) then allows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of moral instruction , inspirational poetry , religious allegory and whatnot . Both the experience in the narrower sense and its appendage of wider significations can then be taught to every new generation , or even diffused to an altogether different collectivity ( say , an agricultural society that may attach quite different meanings to the whole business ) . Language becomes the depository of a large aggregate of collective sedimentations , which can be acquired monothetically , that is , as cohesive wholes and without reconstructing their original process of formation.35 Since the actual origin of the sedimentations has become unimportant , the tradition might invent quite a different origin without thereby threatening what has been objectivated . In other words , legitimations can succeed each other , from time to time bestowing new meanings on the sedimented experiences of the collectivity in question . The past history of the society can be reinterpreted without necessarily upsetting the institutional order as a result . For instance , in the above example , the " big kill " may come to be legitimated as a deed of divine figures and any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prototype . This process underlies all objectivated sedimentations , not only institutionalized actions . It may refer , for instance , to the transmission of typifications of others not directly relevant to specific institutions . For example , others are typified as " tall " or " short , " " fat " or " thin , " " bright " or " dull , " without any particular institutional implications being attached to these typifications . The process , of course , also applies to the transmission of sedimented meanings that meet the previously given specification of institutions . The transmission of the meaning of an institution is based on the social recognition of that institution as a " permanent " solution to a " permanent " problem of the given collectivity . Therefore , potential actors of institutionalized actions must be systematically acquainted with these meanings . This necessitates some form of " educational " process . The institutional meanings must be impressed powerfully and unforgettably upon the consciousness of the individual . Since human beings are frequently sluggish and forgetful , there must also be procedures by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by coercive and generally unpleasant // means . Furthermore , since human beings are frequently stupid , institutional meanings tend to become simplified in the process of transmission , so that the given collection of institutional " formulae " can be readily learned and memorized by successive generations . The " formula " character of institutional meanings ensures their memorability . We have here on the level of sedimented meanings the same processes of routinization and trivialization that we have already noted in the discussion of institutionalization . Again , the stylized form in which heroic feats enter a tradition is a useful illustration . The objectivated meanings of institutional activity are conceived of as " knowledge " and transmitted as such . Some of this " knowledge " is deemed relevant to all , some only to certain types . All transmission requires some sort of social apparatus . That is , some types are designated as transmitters , other types as recipients of the traditional " knowledge . " The specific character of this apparatus will , of course , vary from society to society . There will also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the knowers to the non-knowers . For example , the technical , magical and moral lore of hunting may be transmitted by maternal uncles to nephews of a certain age , by means of specified procedures of initiation . The typology of knowers and non-knowers , like the " knowledge " that is supposed to pass between them , is a matter of social definition ; both " knowing " and " not knowing " refer to what is socially defined as reality , and not to some extra-social criteria of cognitive validity . To put this crudely , maternal uncles do not transmit this particular stock of knowledge because they know it , but they know it ( that is , are defined as knowers ) because they are maternal uncles . If an institutionally designated maternal uncle , for particular reasons , turns out to be incapable of transmitting the knowledge in question , he is no longer a maternal uncle in the full sense of the word , and , indeed , institutional recognition of this status may be withdrawn from him . Depending on the social span @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its complexity and importance in a particular collectivity , the " knowledge " may have to be reaffirmed through symbolic objects ( such as fetishes and military emblems ) , and/or symbolic actions ( such as religious or military ritual ) . In other words , physical objects and actions may be called upon as mnemotechnic aids . All transmission of institutional meanings obviously implies control and legitimation procedures . These are attached to the inSOCIETY // stitutions themselves and administered by the transmitting personnel . It may be stressed again here that no a priori consistency , let alone functionality , may be presumed as existing between different institutions and the forms of the transmission of knowledge pertaining to them . The problem of logical coherence arises first on the level of legitimation ( where there may be conflict or competition between different legitimations and their administrative personnel ) , and secondly on the level of socialization ( where there may be practical difficulties in the internalization of successive or competing institutional meanings ) . To return to a previous example , there is no a priori reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be diffused to an agricultural society . What is more , these meanings may , to an outside observer , appear to have dubious " functionality " in the first society at the time of diffusion and no " functionality " at all in the second . The difficulties that may arise here are connected with the theoretical activities of the legitimators and the practical ones of the " educators " in the new society . The theoreticians have to satisfy themselves that a hunting goddess is a plausible denizen in an agrarian pantheon and the pedagogues have a problem explaining her mythological activities to children who have never seen a hunt . Legitimating theoreticians tend to have logical aspirations and children tend to be recalcitrant . This , however , is not a problem of abstract logic or technical functionality , but rather of ingenuity on the one hand and credulity on the other ? a rather different proposition . d . Roles As we have seen , the origins of any institutional order lie in the typification of one 's own and others ' performances . This implies that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance , and , further , that not only specific actions but forms of action are typified . That is , there will be the recognition not only of a particular actor performing an action of type X , but of type-X action as being performable by any actor to whom the relevance structure in question can be plausibly imputed . For example , one may recognize one 's brother-in-law engaged in thrashing one 's insolent offspring and understand that this particular action is only one instance of a form of action appropriate to other pairs of uncles and nephews , indeed , is a generally available pattern in a matri68 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY local society . Only if the latter typification prevails will this incident follow a socially taken-for-granted course , with the father discreetly withdrawing from the scene so as not to disturb the legitimate exercise of avuncular authority . The typification of forms of action requires that these have an objective sense , which in turn requires a linguistic objectification . That is , there will be a vocabulary referring to these forms of action ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a much larger linguistic structuring of kinship and its various rights and obligations ) . In principle , then , an action and its sense can be apprehended apart from individual performances of it and the variable subjective processes associated with them . Both self and other can be apprehended as performers of objective , generally known actions , which are recurrent and repeatable by any actor of the appropriate type . This has very important consequences for self-experience . In the course of action there is an identification of the self with the objective sense of the action ; the action that is going on determines , for that moment , the self-apprehension of the actor , and does so in the objective sense that has been socially ascribed to the action . Although there continues to be a marginal awareness of the body and other aspects of the self not directly involved in the action , the actor , for that moment , apprehends himself essentially in identification with the socially objectivated action ( " I am now thrashing my nephew " ? a taken-for-granted episode in the routine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place there is a further important consequence , as the actor reflects about his action . Now a part of the self is objectified as the performer of this action , with the whole self again becoming relatively disidentified from the performed action . That is , it becomes possible to conceive of the self as having been only partially involved in the action ( after all , the man in our example is other things besides being a nephew-thrasher ) . It is not difficult to see that , as these objectifications accumulate ( " nephew-thrasher , " " sister-supporter , " " initiate-warrior , " " raindance virtuoso , " and so forth ) , an entire sector of self-consciousness is structured in terms of these objectifications . In other words , a segment of the self is objectified in terms of the socially available typifications . This segment is the truly " social self , " which is subjectively experienced as distinct from and even confronting the self in its totality.3 " This important phenomenon , which allows an internal // " conversation " between the different segments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when we look at the process by which the socially constructed world is internalized in individual consciousness . For the moment , what is important is the relationship of the phenomenon to the objectively available typifications of conduct . In sum , the actor identifies with the socially objectivated typifications of conduct in actu , but re-establishes distance from them as he reflects about his conduct afterward . This distance between the actor and his action can be retained in consciousness and projected to future repetitions of the actions . In this way both acting self and acting others are apprehended not as unique individuals , but as types . By definition , these types are interchangeable . We can properly begin to speak of roles when this kind of typification occurs in the context of an objectified stock of knowledge common to a collectivity of actors . Roles are types of actors in such a context.37 It can readily be seen that the construction of role typologies is a necessary correlate of the institutionalization of conduct . Institutions are embodied in individual experience by means of roles . The roles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectively available world of any society . By playing roles , the individual participates in a social world . By internalizing these roles , the same world becomes subjectively real to him . In the common stock of knowledge there are standards of role performance that are accessible to all members of a society , or at least to those who are potential performers of the roles in question . This general accessibility is itself part of the same stock of knowledge ; not only are the standards of role X generally known , but it is known that these standards are known . Consequently every putative actor of role X can be held responsible for abiding by the standards , which can be taught as part of the institutional tradition and used to verify the credentials of all performers and , by the same token , serve as controls . The origins of roles lie in the same fundamental process of habitualization and objectivation as the origins of institutions . Roles appear as soon as a common stock of knowledge containing reciprocal typifications of conduct is in process of formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is endemic to social interaction and prior to institutionalization proper . The question as to which roles become institutionalized is identical with the question as to which areas of conduct are affected by institutionalization , and may be answered the same // way . All institutionalized conduct involves roles . Thus roles share in the controlling character of institutionalization . As soon as actors are typified as role performers , their conduct is ipso facto susceptible to enforcement . Compliance and non-compliance with socially defined role standards ceases to be optional , though , of course , the severity of sanctions may vary from case to case . The roles represent the institutional order.3A This representation takes place on two levels . First , performance of the role represents itself . For instance , to engage in judging is to represent the role of judge . The judging individual is not acting " on his own , " but qua judge . Second , the role represents an entire institutional nexus of conduct . The role of judge stands in relationship to other roles , the totality of which comprises the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this institution . Only through such representation in performed roles can the institution manifest itself in actual experience . The institution , with its assemblage of " programmed " actions , is like the unwritten libretto of a drama . The realization of the drama depends upon the reiterated performance of its prescribed roles by living actors . The actors embody the roles and actualize the drama by representing it on the given stage . Neither drama nor institution exist empirically apart from this recurrent realization . To say , then , that roles represent institutions is to say that roles make it possible for institutions to exist , ever again , as a real presence in the experience of living individuals . Institutions are also represented in other ways . Their linguistic objectifications , from their simple verbal designations to their incorporation in highly complex symbolizations of reality , also represent them ( that is , make them present ) in experience . And they may be symbolically represented by physical objects , both natural and artificial . All these representations , however , become " dead " ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ongoingly " brought to life " in actual human conduct . The representation of an institution in and by roles is thus the representation par excellence , on which all other representations are dependent . For example , the institution of law is , of course , also represented by legal language , codes of law , theories of jurisprudence and , finally , by the ultimate legitimations of the institution and its norms in ethical , religious , or mythological systems of thought . Such man-made phenomena as the awesome paraphernalia that frequently accompany the administration of law , and such natural ones as the clap of thunder that may // be taken as the divine verdict in a trial by ordeal and may eventually even become a symbol of ultimate justice , further represent the institution . All these representations , however , derive their continuing significance and even intelligibility from their utilization in human conduct , which here , of course , is conduct typified in the institutional roles of the law . When individuals begin to reflect upon these matters they face the problem of binding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make sense . " Any concrete role performance refers to the objective sense of the institution , and thus to the other complementary role performances , and to the sense of the institution as a whole . While the problem of integrating the various representations so involved is solved primarily on the level of legitimation , it is also dealt with in terms of certain roles . All roles represent the institutional order in the afore-mentioned sense . Some roles , however , symbolically represent that order in its totality more than others . Such roles are of great strategic importance in a society , since they represent not only this or that institution , but the integration of all institutions in a meaningful world . Ipso facto , of course , these roles help in maintaining such integration in the consciousness and conduct of the members of the society , that is , they have a special relationship to the legitimating apparatus of the society . Some roles have no functions other than this symbolic representation of the institutional order as an integrated totality , others take on this function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions they routinely perform . The judge , for instance , may , on occasion , in some particularly important case , represent the total integration of society in this way . The monarch does so all the time and , indeed , in a constitutional monarchy , may have no other function than as a " living symbol " for all levels of the society , down to the man in the street . Historically , roles that symbolically represent the total institutional order have been most commonly located in political and religious institutions.40 More important for our immediate considerations is the character of roles as mediators of specific sectors of the common stock of knowledge . By virtue of the roles he plays the individual is inducted into specific areas of socially objectivated knowledge , not only in the narrower cognitive sense , but also in the sense of the " knowledge " of norms , values and even emotions . To be a judge obviously involves a knowledge of the law and probably also knowledge of a // much wider range of human affairs that are legally relevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the values and attitudes deemed appropriate for a judge , extending as far as those proverbially deemed appropriate for a judge 's wife . The judge must also have appropriate " knowledge " in the domain of the emotions : He will have to know , for example , when to restrain his feelings of compassion , to mention a not unimportant psychological prerequisite for this role . In this way , each role opens an entrance into a specific sector of the society 's total stock of knowledge . To learn a role it is not enough to acquire the routines immediately necessary for its " outward " performance . One must also be initiated into the various cognitive and even affective layers of the body of knowledge that is directly and indirectly appropriate to this role . This implies a social distribution of knowledge 41 A society 's stock of knowledge is structured in terms of what is generally relevant and what is relevant only to specific roles . This is true of even very simple social situations , such as our previous example of a social situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bisexual woman and a Lesbian . Here some knowledge is relevant to all three individuals ( for instance , knowledge of the procedures necessary to keep this company economically afloat ) , while other knowledge is relevant only to two of the individuals ( the savoir-faire of Lesbian or , in the other case , of heterosexual seduction ) . In other words , the social distribution of knowledge entails a dichotomization in terms of general and role-specific relevance . Given the historical accumulation of knowledge in a society , we can assume that because of the division of labor role-specific knowledge will grow at a faster rate than generally relevant and accessible knowledge . The multiplication of specific tasks brought about by the division of labor requires standardized solutions that can be readily learned and transmitted . These in turn require specialized knowledge of certain situations , and of the means/ends relationships in terms of which the situations are socially defined . In other words , specialists will arise , each of whom will have to know whatever is deemed necessary for the fulfillment of his particular task . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain individuals can concentrate on their specialties . If in a hunting society certain individuals are to become specialists as swordsmiths , there will have to be provisions to excuse them from the hunting activities that are incumbent on all other adult // males . Specialized knowledge of a more elusive kind , such as the knowledge of mystagogues and other intellectuals , requires similar social organization . In all these cases the specialists become administrators of the sectors of the stock of knowledge that have been socially assigned to them . At the same time , an important part of generally relevant knowledge is the typology of specialists . While the specialists are defined as individuals who know their specialties , everyone must know who the specialists are in case their specialties are needed . The man in the street is not expected to know the intricacies of the magic of inducing fertility or casting evil spells . What he must know , however , is which magicians to call upon if the need for either of these services arises . A typology of experts ( what contemporary social workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally relevant and accessible stock of knowledge , while the knowledge that constitutes expertise is not . The practical difficulties that may arise in certain societies ( for instance , when there are competing coteries of experts , or when specialization has become so complicated that the layman gets confused ) need not concern us at the moment . It is thus possible to analyze the relationship between roles and knowledge from two vantage points . Looked at from the perspective of the institutional order , the roles appear as institutional representations and mediations of the institutionally objectivated aggregates of knowledge . Looked at from the perspective of the several roles , each role carries with it a socially defined appendage of knowledge . Both perspectives , of course , point to the same global phenomenon , which is the essential dialectic of society . The first perspective can be summed up in the proposition that society exists only as individuals are conscious of it , the second in the proposition that individual consciousness is socially determined . Narrowing this to the matter of roles , we can say that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only insofar as it is realized in performed roles and that , on the other hand , roles are representative of an institutional order that defines their character ( including their appendages of knowledge ) and from which they derive their objective sense . The analysis of roles is of particular importance to the sociology of knowledge because it reveals the mediations between the macroscopic universes of meaning objectivated in a society and the ways by which these universes are subjectively real to individuals . Thus it // is possible , for example , to analyze the macroscopic social roots of a religious world view in certain collectivities ( classes , say , or ethnic groups , or intellectual coteries ) , and also to analyze the manner in which this world view is manifested in the consciousness of an individual . The two analyses can be brought together only if one inquires into the ways in which the individual , in his total social activity , relates to the collectivity in question . Such an inquiry will , of necessity , be an exercise in role analysis 42 e . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutionalization in terms of essential features that may be taken as sociological constants . Obviously we can not in this treatise give even an overview of the countless variations in the historical manifestations and combinations of these constants ? a task that could be achieved only by writing a universal history from the point of view of sociological theory . There are , however , a number of historical variations in the character of institutions that are so important for concrete sociological analyses that they should be at least briefly discussed . Our focus will , of course , continue to be on the relationship between institutions and knowledge . In investigating any concrete institutional order , one may ask the following question : What is the scope of institutionalization within the totality of social actions in a given collectivity ? In other words , how large is the sector of institutionalized activity as compared with the sector that is left uninstitutionalized ? 43 Clearly there is historical variability in this matter , with different societies allowing more or less room for uninstitutionalized actions . An important general consideration is what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutionalization . Very formally , the scope of institutionalization depends on the generality of the relevance structures . If many or most relevance structures in a society are generally shared , the scope of institutionalization will be wide . If only few relevance structures are generally shared , the scope of institutionalization will be narrow . In the latter case , there is the further possibility that the institutional order will be highly fragmented , as certain relevance structures are shared by groups within the society but not by the society as a whole . It may be heuristically useful to think here in terms of ideal-typical // extremes . It is possible to conceive of a society in which institutionalization is total . In such a society , all problems are common , all solutions to these problems are socially objectivated and all social actions are institutionalized . The institutional order embraces the totality of social life , which resembles the continuous performance of a complex , highly stylized liturgy . There is no role-specific distribution of knowledge , or nearly none , since all roles are performed within situations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model of a totally institutionalized society ( a fit topic for nightmares , it might be remarked in passing ) can be slightly modified by conceiving that all social actions are institutionalized , but not only around common problems . ' While the style of life such a society would impose on its members would be equally rigid , there would be a greater degree of role-specific distribution of knowledge . A number of liturgies would be going on at the same time , so to speak . Needless to say , neither the model of institutional totality nor its modification can be found in history . Actual societies can , however , be considered in terms of their approximation to this extreme type . It is then possible to say that primitive societies approximate the type to a much higher degree than civilized ones.44 It may even be said that in the development of archaic civilizations there is a progressive movement away from this type.45 The opposite extreme would be a society in which there is only one common problem , and institutionalization occurs only with respect to actions concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be almost no common stock of knowledge . Almost all knowledge would be role-specific . In terms of macroscopic societies , even approximations of this type are historically unavailable . But certain approximations can be found in smaller social formations ? for example , in libertarian colonies where common concerns are limited to economic arrangements , or in military expeditions consisting of a number of tribal or ethnic units whose only common problem is the waging of the war . Apart from stimulating sociological fantasies , such heuristic fictions are useful only insofar as they help to clarify the conditions that favor approximations to them . The most general condition is the degree of division of labor , with the concomitant differentiation of institutions 46 Any society in which there is increasing division of labor is moving away from the first extreme type described above . Another general condition , closely related to the previous one , is // availability of an economic surplus , which makes it possible for certain individuals or groups to engage in specialized activities not directly concerned with subsistence 47 These specialized activities , as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common stock of knowledge . And the latter makes possible knowledge subjectively detached from any social relevance , that is , " pure theory . ' " This means that certain individuals are ( to return to a previous example ) freed from hunting not only to forge weapons but also to fabricate myths . Thus we have the " theoretical life , " with its luxurious proliferation of specialized bodies of knowledge , administered by specialists whose social prestige may actually depend upon their inability to do anything except theorize ? which leads to a number of analytic problems to which we shall return later . Institutionalization is not , however , an irreversible process , despite the fact that institutions , once formed , have a tendency to persist . ? For a variety of historical reasons , the scope of institutionalized actions may diminish ; deinstitutionalization may take place in certain areas of social life . " For example , the private sphere that has emerged in modern industrial society is considerably deinstitutionalized as compared to the public sphere.5I A further question , with respect to which institutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship of the various institutions to each other , on the levels of performance and meaning ? ' 2 In the first extreme type discussed above , there is a unity of institutional performances and meanings in each subjective biography . The entire social stock of knowledge is actualized in every individual biography . Everybody does everything and knows everything . The problem of the integration of meanings ( that is , of the meaningful relationship of the various institutions ) is an exclusively subjective one . The objective sense of the institutional order presents itself to each individual as given and generally known , socially taken for granted as such . If there is any problem at all , it is because of subjective difficulties the individual may have internalizing the socially agreed-upon meanings . With increasing deviance from this heuristic model ( that is , of course , with all actual societies , though not to the same degree ) there will be important modifications in the givenness of the institutional meanings . The first two of these we have already indicated : a segmentation of the institutional order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , following that , a soSOCIETY // cial distribution of knowledge , with role-specific knowledge coming to be reserved to certain types . With these developments , however , n new configuration appears on the level of meaning . There will now be an objective problem with respect to an encompassing integration of meanings within the entire society . This is an altogether different problem from the merely subjective one of harmonizing the sense one makes of one 's biography with the sense ascribed to it by society . The difference is as great as that between producing propaganda that will convince others and producing memoirs that will convince oneself . In our example of the man/woman/Lesbian triangle we went to some lengths to show that it can not be assumed a priori that different processes of institutionalization will " hang together . " The relevance structure that is shared by the man and the woman ( A-B ) does not have to be integrated with the one shared by the woman and the Lesbian ( B-C ) , or with the one shared by the Lesbian and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to coexist without overall integration . We then argued that the empirical fact that institutions do hang together , despite the impossibility of assuming this a priori , can be accounted for only in reference to the reflective consciousness of individuals who impose a certain logic upon their experience of the several institutions . We can now push this argument one step further by assuming that one of our three individuals ( let us assume that it is the man , A ) becomes dissatisfied with the lack of symmetry in the situation . This does not imply that the relevances in which he shares ( A-B and C-A ) have changed for him . It is rather the relevance in which he has not previously shared ( B-C ) that now bothers him . This may be because it interferes with his own interests ( C spends too much time making love with B and neglects her flower-arranging activities with him ) , or it may be that he has theoretical ambitions . In any case , he wants to unite the three discrete relevances and their concomitant habitualization processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can he do this ? Let us imagine him a religious genius . One day he presents the other two with a new mythology . The world was created in two stages , the dry land by the creator god copulating with his sister , the sea in an act of mutual masturbation by the latter and a twin goddess . And when the world was thus made , the creator god joined the twin goddess in the great flower dance , and in this way there // came to be flora and fauna on the face of the dry land . The existing triangulation of heterosexuality , Lesbianism and flower cultivation is thus nothing less than a human imitation of the archetypal actions of the gods . Not bad ? The reader with some background in comparative mythology will have no difficulty finding historical parallels to this cosmogonic vignette . Our man may have more difficulty getting the others to accept his theory . He will have a problem of propaganda . If , however , we assume that B and C have also had practical difficulties in keeping their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are inspired by A 's vision of the cosmos , there is a good chance that he will be able to put his scheme over . Once he has succeeded and all three individuals " know " that their several actions work together for the great society ( which is A-B-C ) , this " knowledge " will influence what goes on in the situation . For instance , C may now be more amenable to budgeting her time in an equitable way between her two major enterprises . If this extension of our example seems far-fetched , we can bring it closer to home by imagining a secularization process in the consciousness of our religious genius . Mythology no longer seems plausible . The situation has to be explained by social science . This , of course , is very easy . It is evident ( to our religious genius turned social scientist , that is ) that the two sorts of sexual activity going on in the situation express deep-seated psychological needs of the participants . He " knows " that to frustrate these needs will lead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a fact that our trio sell their flowers for coconuts on the other end of the island . That settles it . Behavior patterns A-B and B-C are functional in terms of the " personality system , " while C-A is functional in terms of the economic sector of the " social system . " A-B-C is nothing but the rational outcome of functional integration on the intersystemic level . Again , if A is successful in propagandizing his two girls with this theory , their " knowledge " of the functional imperatives involved in their situation will have certain controlling consequences for their conduct . Mutatis mutandis , the same argument will hold if we transpose it from the face-to-face idyll of our example to the macro-social level . The segmentation of the institutional order and the concomitant distribution of knowledge will lead to the problem of providing integrative meanings that will encompass the society and provide an overall context of objective sense for the individual 's fragmented // social experience and knowledge . Furthermore , there will be not only the problem of overall meaningful integration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one type of actor vis-a-vis other types . We may assume that there is a universe of meaning that bestows objective sense on the activities of warriors , farmers , traders , and exorcists . This does not mean that there will be no conflict of interests between these types of actors . Even within the common universe of meaning , the exorcists may have a problem of " explaining " some of their activities to the warriors , and so forth . The methods of such legitimation again vary historically 53 Another consequence of institutional segmentation is the possibility of socially segregated subuniverses of meaning . These result from accentuations of role specialization to the point where rolespecific knowledge becomes altogether esoteric as against the common stock of knowledge . Such subuniverses of meaning may or may not be submerged from the common view . In certain cases , not only are the cognitive contents of the subuniverse esoteric , but even the existence of the subuniverse and of the collectivity that sustains it may be a secret . Subuniverses of meaning may be socially structured by various criteria ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taste , and so on . The chance of subuniverses appearing , of course , increases steadily with progressive division of labor and economic surplus . A society with a subsistence economy can have cognitive segregation between men and women , or between old and young warriors , as in the " secret societies " common in Africa and among American Indians . It may still be able to afford the esoteric existence of a few priests and magicians . Full-blown subuniverses of meaning such as characterized , say , Hindu castes , the Chinese literary bureaucracy , or the priestly coteries of ancient Egypt require much more developed solutions of the economic problem . Like all social edifices of meaning , the subuniverses must be " carried " by a particular collectivity , J4 that is , by the group that ongoingly produces the meanings in question and within which these meanings have objective reality . Conflict or competition may exist between such groups . On the simplest level , there may be conflict over the allocation of surplus resources to the specialists in question , for example , over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exempt , all medicine men , or only those who perform services in the household of the chief ? Or , who is to receive a fixed 8o THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY stipend from the authorities , those who cure the sick with herbs or those who do it by going into a trance ? Such social conflicts are readily translated into conflicts between rival schools of thought , each seeking to establish itself and to discredit if not liquidate the competitive body of knowledge . In contemporary society , we continue to have such conflicts ( socio-economic as well as cognitive ) between orthodox medicine and such rivals as chiropractic , homeopathy or Christian Science . In advanced industrial societies , with their immense economic surplus allowing large numbers of individuals to devote themselves full-time to even the obscurest pursuits , pluralistic competition between subuniverses of meaning of every conceivable sort becomes the normal state of affairs.55 With the establishment of subuniverses of meaning a variety of perspectives on the total society emerges , each viewing the latter from the angle of one subuniverse . The chiropractor has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poet than the businessman , the Jew than the gentile , and so on . It goes without saying that this multiplication of perspectives greatly increases the problem of establishing a stable symbolic canopy for the entire society . Each perspective , with whatever appendages of theories or even Weltanschauungen , will be related to the concrete social interests of the group that holds it . This does not mean , however , that the various perspectives , let alone the theories or Weltanschauungen , are nothing but mechanical reflections of the social interests . Especially on the theoretical level it is quite possible for knowledge to attain a great deal of detachment from the biographical and social interests of the knower . Thus there may be tangible social reasons why Jews have become preoccupied with certain scientific enterprises , but it is impossible to predict scientific positions in terms of their being held by Jews or non-Jews . In other words , the scientific universe of meaning is capable of attaining a good deal of autonomy as against its own social base . Theoretically , though in practice there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowledge , even with cognitive perspectives on society . What is more , a body of knowledge , once it is raised to the level of a relatively autonomous subuniverse of meaning , has the capacity to act back upon the collectivity that has produced it . For instance , Jews may become social scientists because they have special problems in society as Jews . But once they have been initiated into the social-scientific universe of discourse , they may not only look upon // society from an angle that is no longer distinctively Jewish , but even their social activities as Jews may change as a result of their newly acquired social-scientific perspectives . The extent of such detachment of knowledge from its existential origins depends upon a considerable number of historical variables ( such as the urgency of the social interests involved , the degree of theoretical refinement of the knowledge in question , the social relevance or irrelevance of the latter , and others ) . The important principle for our general considerations is that the relationship between knowledge and its social base is a dialectical one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge is a factor in social change . ' ' ' This principle of the dialectic between social production and the objectivated world that is its product has already been explicated ; it is especially important to keep it in mind in any analysis of concrete subuniverses of meaning . The increasing number and complexity of subuniverses make them increasingly inaccessible to outsiders . They become esoteric enclaves , " hermetically sealed " ( in the sense classically associated with the Hermetic corpus of secret lore ) to all but those who have been properly initiated into their mysteries . The increasing autonomy of subuniverses makes for special problems of legitimation vis-a-vis both outsiders and insiders . The outsiders have to be kept out , sometimes even kept ignorant of the existence of the subuniverse . If , however , they are not so ignorant , and if the subuniverse requires various special privileges and recognitions from the larger society , there is the problem of keeping out the outsiders and at the same time having them acknowledge the legitimacy of this procedure . This is done through various techniques of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outsiders ' interests and to their emotions ) , mystification and , generally , the manipulation of prestige symbols . The insiders , on the other hand , have to be kept in . This requires the development of both practical and theoretical procedures by which the temptation to escape from the subuniverse can be checked . We shall look at some of the details of this double problem of legitimation later . An illustration may serve for the moment . It is not enough to set up an esoteric subuniverse of medicine . The lay public must be convinced that this is right and beneficial , and the medical fraternity must be held to the standards of the subuniverse . Thus the general population is intimidated by images of the physical doom that follows " going against doctor 's advice " ; it is persuaded not to do so by the pragmatic benefits of // compliance , and by its own horror of illness and death . To underline its authority the medical profession shrouds itself in the age-old symbols of power and mystery , from outlandish costume to incomprehensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimated to the public and to itself in pragmatic terms . Meanwhile the fully accredited inhabitants of the medical world are kept from " quackery " ( that is , from stepping outside the medical subuniverse in thought or action ) not only by the powerful external controls available to the profession , but by a whole body of professional knowledge that offers them " scientific proof " of the folly and even wickedness of such deviance . In other words , an entire legitimating machinery is at work so that laymen will remain laymen , and doctors doctors , and ( if at all possible ) that both will do so happily . Special problems arise as a result of differential rates of change of institutions and subuniverses.57 This makes more difficult both the overall legitimation of the institutional order and the specific legitimations of particular institutions or subuniverses . A feudal society with a modern army , a landed aristocracy having to exist under conditions of industrial capitalism , a traditional religion forced to cope with the popularization of a scientific world view , the coexistence in one society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience is so full of examples of this sort that it is unnecessary to belabor the point . Suffice it to say that , under such conditions , the work of the several legitimators becomes especially strenuous . A final question of great theoretical interest arising from the historical variability of institutionalization has to do with the manner in which the institutional order is objectified : To what extent is an institutional order , or any part of it , apprehended as a non-human facticity ? This is the question of the reification of social reality.51 Reification is the apprehension of human phenomena as if they were things , that is , in non-human or possibly suprahuman terms . Another way of saying this is that reification is the apprehension of the products of human activity as if they were something else than human products ? such as facts of nature , results of cosmic laws , or manifestations of divine will . Reification implies that man is capable of forgetting his own authorship of the human world , and further , that the dialectic between man , the producer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world is , by definition , a dehumanized world . It is experienced by man as a strange facticity , // an opus alienum over which he has no control rather than as the opus proprium of his own productive activity . It will be clear from our previous discussion of objectivation that , as soon as an objective social world is established , the possibility of reification is never far away.59 The objectivity of the social world means that it confronts man as something outside of himself . The decisive question is whether he still retains the awareness that , however objectivated , the social world was made by men ? and , therefore , can be remade by them . In other words , reification can be described as an extreme step in the process of objectivation , whereby the objectivated world loses its comprehensibility as a human enterprise and becomes fixated as a non-human , non-humanizable , inert facticity . " Typically , the real relationship between man and his world is reversed in consciousness . Man , the producer of a world , is apprehended as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes . Human meanings are no longer understood as world-producing but as being , in their turn , products of the " nature of things . " It must be emphasized that reification is a modality of consciousness , more precisely , a modality of man 's objectification of the human world . Even while apprehending the world in reified terms , man continues to produce it . That is , man is capable paradoxically of producing a reality that denies him. ? l Reification is possible on both the pretheoretical and theoretical levels of consciousness . Complex theoretical systems can be described as reifications , though presumably they have their roots in pretheoretical reifications established in this or that social situation . Thus it would be an error to limit the concept of reification to the mental constructions of intellectuals . Reification exists in the consciousness of the man in the street and , indeed , the latter presence is more practically significant . It would also be a mistake to look at reification as a perversion of an originally non-reified apprehension of the social world , a sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available ethnological and psychological evidence seems to indicate the opposite , namely , that the original apprehension of the social world is highly reified both phylogenetically and ontogenetically.U2 This implies that an apprehension of reification as a modality of consciousness is dependent upon an at least relative dereification of consciousness , which is a comparatively late development in history and in any individual biography . Both the institutional order as a whole and segments of it may be // apprehended in reified terms . For example , the entire order of so ciety may be conceived of as a microcosm reflecting the macrocosm of the total universe as made by the gods . Whatever happens " here below " is but a pale reflection of what takes place " up above . " Ga Particular institutions may be apprehended in similar ways . The basic " recipe " for the reification of institutions is to bestow on them an ontological status independent of human activity and significa tion . Specific reifications are variations on this general theme . Mar riage , for instance , may be reified as an imitation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural law , as the necessary consequence of biological or psychological forces , or , for that mat ter , as a functional imperative of the social system . What all these reifications have in common is their obfuscation of marriage as an ongoing human production . As can be readily seen in this example , the reification may occur both theoretically and pretheoretically Thus the mystagogue can concoct a highly sophisticated theory reaching out from the concrete human event to the farthest corners of the divine cosmos , but an illiterate peasant couple being married may apprehend the event with a similarly reifying shudder of meta-physical dread . Through reification , the world of institutions appears to merge with the world of nature . It becomes necessity and fate , and is lived through as such , happily or unhappily as the case may be . Roles may be reified in the same manner as institutions . The sector of self-consciousness that has been objectified in the role is then also apprehended as an inevitable fate , for which the individual may disclaim responsibility . The paradigmatic formula for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice in the matter , I have to act this way because of my position " ? as husband , father , general , archbishop , chairman of the board , gangster , or hangman , as the case may be . This means that the reification of roles narrows the subjective distance that the individual may establish between himself and his role-playing . The distance implied in all objectifica tion remains , of course , but the distance brought about by disidenti fication shrinks to the vanishing point . Finally , identity itself ( the total self , if one prefers ) may be reified , both one 's own and that of others . There is then a total identification of the individual with his socially assigned typifications . I-le is apprehended as nothing but that type . This apprehension may be positively or negatively ac cented in terms of values or emotions . The identification of " Jew " may be equally reifying for the anti-Semite and the Jew himself , // except that the latter will accent the identification positively and the former negatively . Both reifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is humanly produced and that , even as it is internalized , objectifies but a segment of the self.E4 Once more , such reifications may range from the pretheoretical level of " what everybody knows about Jews " to the most complex theories of Jewishness as a manifestation of biology ( " Jewish blood " ) , psychology ( " the Jewish soul " ) or metaphysics ( " the mystery of Israel " ) . The analysis of reification is important because it serves as a standing corrective to the reifying propensities of theoretical thought in general and sociological thought in particular . It is particularly important for the sociology of knowledge , because it prevents it from falling into an undialectical conception of the relationship between what men do and what they think . The historical and empirical application of the sociology of knowledge must take special note of the social circumstances that favor dereification ? such as the overall collapse of institutional orders , the contact between previously segregated societies , and the important phenomenon of social marginality . " These problems , however , exceed the framework @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Origins of Symbolic Universes Legitimation as a process is best described as a " second-order " objectivation of meaning . Legitimation produces new meanings that serve to integrate the meanings already attached to disparate institutional processes . The function of legitimation is to make objectively available and subjectively plausible the " first-order " objectivations that have been institutionalized. ? While we define legitimation by this function , regardless of the specific motives inspiring any particular legitimating process , it should be added that " integration , " in one form or another , is also the typical purpose motivating the legitimators . Integration , and , correspondingly , the question of subjective plausibility , refer to two levels . First , the totality of the institutional order should make sense , concurrently , to the participants in different institutional processes . Here the question of plausibility refers // to the subjective recognition of an overall sense " behind " the situationally predominant but only partial institutionalized motives of one 's own as well as of one 's fellowmen ? as in the relation of the chief and the priest , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of one and the same individual , of the father , who is also the military commander of his son , to himself . This , then , is a " horizontal " level of integration and plausibility , relating the total institutional order to several individuals participating in it in several roles , or to several partial institutional processes in which a single individual may participate at any given time . Second , the totality of the individual 's life , the successive passing through various orders of the institutional order , must be made subjectively meaningful . In other words , the individual biography , in its several , successive , institutionally predefined phases , must be endowed with a meaning that makes the whole subjectively plausible . A " vertical " level within the life span of single individuals must , therefore , be added to the " horizontal " level of integration and subjective plausibility of the institutional order . As we have argued before , legitimation is not necessary in the first phase of institutionalization , when the institution is simply a fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is self-evident to all concerned . The problem of legitimation inevitably arises when the objectivations of the ( now historic ) institutional order are to be transmitted to a new generation . At that point , as we have seen , the self-evident character of the institutions can no longer be maintained by means of the individual 's own recollection and habitualization . The unity of history and biography is broken . In order to restore it , and thus to make intelligible both aspects of it , there must be " explanations " and justifications of the salient elements of the institutional tradition . Legitimation is this process of " explaining " and justifying.U7 Legitimation " explains " the institutional order by ascribing cognitive validity to its objectivated meanings . Legitimation justifies the institutional order by giving a normative dignity to its practical imperatives . It is important to understand that legitimation has a cognitive as well as a normative element . In other words , legitimation is not just a matter of " values . " It always implies " knowledge " as well . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its particular incest taboos . There must first be " knowledge " of the roles that define both " right " and " wrong " acSOCIETY // tions within the structure . The individual , say , may not marry within his clan . But he must first " know " himself as a member of this clan . This " knowledge " comes to him through a tradition that " explains " what clans are in general and what his clan is in particular . Such " explanations " ( which typically constitute a " history " and a " sociology " of the collectivity in question , and which in the case of incest taboos probably contain an " anthropology " as well ) are as much legitimating instruments as ethical elements of the tradition . Legitimation not only tells the individual why he should perform one action and not another ; it also tells him why things are what they are . In other words , " knowledge " precedes " values " in the legitimation of institutions . It is possible to distinguish analytically between different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels overlap ) . Incipient legitimation is present as soon as a system of linguistic objectifications of human experience is transmitted . For example , the transmission of a kinship vocabulary ipso facto legitimates the kinship structure . The fundamental legitimating " explanations " are , so to speak , built into the vocabulary . Thus a child learns that another child is a " cousin , " a piece of information that immediately and inherently legitimates the conduct with regard to " cousins " that is learned along with the designation . To this first level of incipient legitimation belong all the simple traditional affirmations to the effect that " This is how things are done " ? the earliest and generally effective responses to a child 's questions of " Why ? " This level , of course , is pretheoretical . But it is the foundation of self-evident " knowledge " on which all subsequent theories must rest ? and , conversely , which they must attain if they are to become incorporated in tradition . The second level of legitimation contains theoretical propositions in a rudimentary form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of objective meanings . These schemes are highly pragmatic , directly related to concrete actions . Proverbs , moral maxims and wise sayings are common on this level . Here , too , belong legends and folk tales , frequently tramsmitted in poetic forms . Thus the child learns such adages as " He who steals from his cousin gets warts on his hands " or " Go when your wife cries , but run when your cousin calls for you . " Or he may be inspired by the " Song of the Loyal Cousins Who Went Hunting Together " and frightened out of his wits by the " Dirge for Two Cousins Who Fornicated. " // The third level of legitimation contains explicit theories by which an institutional sector is legitimated in terms of a differentiated body of knowledge . Such legitimations provide fairly comprehensive frames of reference for the respective sectors of institutionalized conduct . Because of their complexity and differentiation , they are frequently entrusted to specialized personnel who transmit them through formalized initiation procedures . Thus there may be an elaborate economic theory of " cousinhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This lore is administered by the old men of the clan , perhaps assigned to them after their own economic usefulness is at an end . The old men initiate the adolescents into this higher economics in the course of the puberty rites and appear as experts whenever there are problems of application . If we assume that the old men have no other tasks assigned to them , it is likely that they will spin out the theories in question among themselves even if there are no problems of application , or , more accurately , they will invent such problems in the course of their theorizing . In other words , with the development of specialized legitimating theories and their administration by full-time legitimators , legitimation begins to go beyond pragmatic application and to become " pure theory . " With this step , the sphere of legitimations begins to attain a measure of autonomy vis-a-vis the legitimated institutions and eventually may generate its own institutional processes.68 In our example , the " science of cousinhood " may begin to have a life of its own quite independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the body of " scientists " may set up its own institutional processes over against the institutions that the " science " was originally meant to legitimate . We may imagine an ironic culmination of this development when the word " cousin " no longer applies to a kinship role but to the holder of a degree in the hierarchy of " cousinhood " specialists . Symbolic universes constitute the fourth level of legitimation . These are bodies of theoretical tradition that integrate different provinces of meaning and encompass the institutional order in a symbolic totality , " using the term " symbolic " in the way we have previously defined . To reiterate , symbolic processes are processes of signification that refer to realities other than those of everyday experience . It may be readily seen how the symbolic sphere relates to the most comprehensive level of legitimation . The sphere of pragmatic application is transcended once and for all . Legitimation now // takes place by means of symbolic totalities that can not be experienced in everyday life at all ? except , of course , insofar as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking , a misnomer , to be used heuristically if at all ) . This level of legitimation is further distinguished from the preceding one by its scope of meaningful integration . Already on the preceding level it is possible to find a high degree of integration of particular provinces of meaning and discrete processes of institutionalized conduct . Now , however , all the sectors of the institutional order are integrated in an all-embracing frame of reference , which now constitutes a universe in the literal sense of the word , because all human experience can now be conceived of as taking place within it . The symbolic universe is conceived of as the matrix of all socially objectivated and subjectively real meanings ; the entire historic society and the entire biography of the individual are seen as events taking place within this universe . What is particularly important , the marginal situations of the life of the individual ( marginal , that is , in not being included in the reality of everyday existence in society ) are also encompassed by the symbolic universe 70 Such situations are experienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday life , and endowed with a peculiar reality of their own . Within the symbolic universe these detached realms of reality are integrated within a meaningful totality that " explains , " perhaps also justifies them ( for instance , dreams may be " explained " by a psychological theory , both " explained " and justified by a theory of metempsychosis , and either theory will be grounded in a much more comprehensive universe ? a " scientific " one , say , as against a " metaphysical " one ) . The symbolic universe is , of course , constructed by means of social objectivations . Yet its meaning-bestowing capacity far exceeds the domain of social life , so that the individual may " locate " himself within it even in his most solitary experiences . On this level of legitimation , the reflective integration of discrete institutional processes reaches its ultimate fulfillment . A whole world is created . All the lesser legitimating theories are viewed as special perspectives on phenomena that are aspects of this world . Institutional roles become modes of participation in a universe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous example , the " science of cousinhood " is only a part of a much wider body of theory , which , almost certainly , will contain a general theory // of the cosmos and a general theory of man . The ultimate legitimation for " correct " actions in the kinship structure will then be their " location " within a cosmological and anthropological frame of reference . Incest , for instance , will attain its ultimate negative sanction as an offense against the divine order of the cosmos and against the divinely established nature of man . So may economic misbehavior , or any other deviance from the institutional norms . The limits of such ultimate legitimation are , in principle , coextensive with the limits of theoretical ambition and ingenuity on the part of the legitimators , the officially accredited definers of reality . In practice , of course , there will be variations in the degree of precision with which particular segments of the institutional order are placed in a cosmic context . Again , these variations may be due to particular pragmatic problems on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of autonomous developments in the theoretical fancy of the cosmological experts . The crystallization of symbolic universes follows the previously discussed processes of objectivation , sedimentation and accumulation of knowledge . That is , symbolic universes are social products with a history . If one is to understand their meaning , one has to understand the history of their production . This is all the more important because these products of human consciousness , by their very nature , present themselves as full-blown and inevitable totalities . We may now inquire further about the manner in which symbolic universes operate to legitimate individual biography and the institutional order . The operation is essentially the same in both cases . It is nomic , or ordering , in character 71 The symbolic universe provides order for the subjective apprehension of biographical experience . Experiences belonging to different spheres of reality are integrated by incorporation in the same , overarching universe of meaning . For example , the symbolic universe determines the significance of dreams within the reality of everyday life , re-establishing in each instance the paramount status of the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality to another.72 The provinces of meaning that would otherwise remain unintelligible enclaves within the reality of everyday life are thus ordered in terms of a hierarchy of realities , ipso facto becoming intelligible and less terrifying . This integration of the realities of marginal situations within the paramount reality of // everyday life is of great importance , because these situations constitute the most acute threat to taken-for-granted , routinized existence in society . If one conceives of the latter as the " daylight side " of human life , then the marginal situations constitute a " night side " that keeps lurking ominously on the periphery of everyday consciousness . Just because the " night side " has its own reality , often enough of a sinister kind , it is a constant threat to the taken-for-granted , matter-of-fact , " sane " reality of life in society . The thought keeps suggesting itself ( the " insane " thought par excellence ) that , perhaps , the bright reality of everyday life is but an illusion , to be swallowed up at any moment by the howling nightmares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of madness and terror are contained by ordering all conceivable realities within the same symbolic universe that encompasses the reality of everyday life ? to wit , ordering them in such a way that the latter reality retains its paramount , definitive ( if one wishes , its " most real " ) quality . This nomic function of the symbolic universe for individual experience may be described quite simply by saying that it " puts everything in its right place . " What is more , whenever one strays from the consciousness of this order ( that is , when one finds oneself in the marginal situations of experience ) , the symbolic universe allows one " to return to reality " ? namely , to the reality of everyday life . Since this is , of course , the sphere to which all forms of institutional conduct and roles belong , the symbolic universe provides the ultimate legitimation of the institutional order by bestowing upon it the primacy in the hierarchy of human experience . Apart from this crucially important integration of marginal realities , the symbolic universe provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within everyday life in society . We have seen how meaningful integration of discrete sectors of institutionalized conduct takes place by means of reflection , both pretheoretically and theoretically . Such meaningful integration does not presuppose the positing of a symbolic universe ab initio . It can take place without recourse to symbolic processes , that is , without transcending the realities of everyday experience . However , once the symbolic universe is posited , discrepant sectors of everyday life can be integrated by direct reference to the symbolic universe . For example , discrepancies between the meaning of playing the role of cousin and playing the role of landowner can be integrated without reference to a general mythology . But if a general mythological // Weltanschauung is operative , it can be directly applied to the discrepancy in everyday life . To throw a cousin off a plot of land may then be not only bad economics or bad morals ( negative sanctions that need not be extended to cosmic dimensions ) ; it may be understood as a violation of the divinely constituted order of the universe . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday roles , priorities , and operating procedures by placing them sub specie universi , that is , in the context of the most general frame of reference conceivable . Within the same context even the most trivial transactions of everyday life may come to be imbued with profound significance . It can be readily seen how this procedure provides powerful legitimation for the institutional order as a whole as well as for particular sectors of it . The symbolic universe also makes possible the ordering of the different phases of biography . In primitive societies the rites of passage represent this nomic function in pristine form . The periodization of biography is symbolized at each stage with reference to the totality of human meanings . To be a child , to be an adolescent , to be an adult , and so forth ? each of these biographical phases is legitimated as a mode of being in the symbolic universe ( most often , as a particular mode of relating to the world of the gods ) . We need not belabor the obvious point that such symbolization is conducive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mistake , however , to think here only of primitive societies . A modern psychological theory of personality development can fulfill the same function . In both cases , the individual passing from one biographical phase to another can view himself as repeating a sequence that is given in the " nature of things , " or in his own " nature . " That is , he can reassure himself that he is living " correctly . " The " correctness " of his life program is thus legitimated on the highest level of generality . As the individual looks hack upon his past life , his biography is intelligible to him in these terms . As he projects himself into the future , he may conceive of his biography as unfolding within a universe whose ultimate co-ordinates are known . The same legitimating function pertains to the " correctness " of the individual 's subjective identity . By the very nature of socialization , subjective identity is a precarious entity 73 It is dependent upon the individual 's relations with significant others , who may change or disappear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afore-mentioned marginal situations . The " sane " // apprehension of oneself as possessor of a definite , stable , and socially recognized identity is continually threatened by the " surrealistic " metamorphoses of dreams and fantasies , even if it remains relatively consistent in everyday social interaction . Identity is ultimately legitimated by placing it within the context of a symbolic universe . Mythologically speaking , the individual 's " real " name is the one given to him by his god . The individual may thus " know who he is " by anchoring his identity in a cosmic reality protected from both the contingencies of socialization and the malevolent self-transformations of marginal experience . Even if his neighbors do not know who he is , and even if he himself may forget in the throes of nightmare , he can reassure himself that his " true self " is an ultimately real entity in an ultimately real universe . The gods know ? or psychiatric science ? or the party . In other words , the realissimum of identity need not be legitimated by being known at all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of legitimation , that it is knowable . Since the identity that is known or knowable by the gods , by psychiatry , or by the party is at the same time the identity that is assigned the status of paramount reality , legitimation again integrates all conceivable transformations of identity with the identity whose reality is grounded in everyday life in society . Once more , the symbolic universe establishes a hierarchy , from the " most real " to the most fugitive self-apprehensions of identity . This means that the individual can live in society with some assurance that he really is what he considers himself to be as he plays his routine social roles , in broad daylight and under the eyes of significant others . A strategic legitimating function of symbolic universes for individual biography is the " location " of death . The experience of the death of others and , subsequently , the anticipation of one 's own death posit the marginal situation par excellence for the individual.74 Needless to elaborate , death also posits the most terrifying threat to the taken-for-granted realities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality of social existence is , therefore , of the greatest importance for any institutional order . This legitimation of death is , consequently , one of the most important fruits of symbolic universes . Whether it is done with or without recourse to mythological , religious or metaphysical interpretations of reality is not the essential question here . The modern atheist , for instance , who bestows meaning upon death in terms of a Weltanschauung of progressive evolution or of revolutionary his94 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY tory also does so by integrating death within a reality-spanning symbolic universe . All legitimations of death must carry out the same essential task ? they must enable the individual to go on living in society after the death of significant others and to anticipate his own death with , at the very least , terror sufficiently mitigated so as not to paralyze the continued performance of the routines of everyday life . It may readily be seen that such legitimation is difficult to achieve short of integrating the phenomenon of death within a symbolic universe . Such legitimation , then , provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Optimally , this recipe will retain its plausibility when his own death is imminent and will allow him , indeed , to " die correctly . " It is in the legitimation of death that the transcending potency of symbolic universes manifests itself most clearly , and the fundamental terror-assuaging character of the ultimate legitimations of the paramount reality of everyday life is revealed . The primacy of the social objectivations of everyday life can retain its subjective plausibility only if it is constantly protected against terror . On the level of meaning , the institutional order represents a shield against terror . To be anomie , therefore , means to be deprived of this shield and to be exposed , alone , to the onslaught of nightmare . ' While the horror of aloneness is probably already given in the constitutional sociality of man , it manifests itself on the level of meaning in man 's incapacity to sustain a meaningful existence in isolation from the nomic constructions of society . The symbolic universe shelters the individual from ultimate terror by bestowing ultimate legitimation upon the protective structures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said about the social ( as against the just discussed individual ) significance of symbolic universes . They are sheltering canopies over the institutional order as well as over individual biography . They also provide the delimitation of social reality ; that is , they set the limits of what is relevant in terms of social interaction . One extreme possibility of this , sometimes approximated in primitive societies , is the definition of everything as social reality ; even inorganic matter is dealt with in social terms . A narrower , and more common , delimitation includes only the organic or animal worlds . The symbolic universe assigns ranks to various phenomena in a hierarchy of being , defining the range of the social within this hierarchy 76 Needless to say , such ranks are also assigned to different types of men , and it frequently happens that broad // categories of such types ( sometimes everyone outside the collectivity in question ) are defined as other than or less than human . This is commonly expressed linguistically ( in the extreme case , with the name of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is not too rare , even in civilized societies . For example , the symbolic universe of traditional India assigned a status to the outcastes that was closer to that of animals than to the human status of the upper castes ( an operation ultimately legitimated in the theory of karma-samsara , which embraced all beings , human or otherwise ) , and as recently as the Spanish conquests in America it was possible for the Spaniards to conceive of the Indians as belonging to a different species ( this operation being legitimated in a less comprehensive manner by a theory that " proved " that the Indians could not be descended from Adam and Eve ) . The symbolic universe also orders history . It locates all collective events in a cohesive unity that includes past , present and future . With regard to the past , it establishes a " memory " that is shared by all the individuals socialized within the collectivity 77 With regard to the future , it establishes a common frame of reference for the projection of individual actions . Thus the symbolic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a meaningful totality , 78 serving to transcend the finitude of individual existence and bestowing meaning upon the individual 's death . All the members of a society can now conceive of themselves as belonging to a meaningful universe , which was there before they were born and will be there after they die . The empirical community is transposed onto a cosmic plane and made majestically independent of the vicissitudes of individual existence . " As we have already observed , the symbolic universe provides a comprehensive integration of all discrete institutional processes . The entire society now makes sense . Particular institutions and roles are legitimated by locating them in a comprehensively meaningful world . For example , the political order is legitimated by reference to a cosmic order of power and justice , and political roles are legitimated as representations of these cosmic principles . The institution of divine kingship in archaic civilizations is an excellent illustration of the manner in which this kind of ultimate legitimation operates . It is important , however , to understand that the institutional order , like the order of individual biography @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are meaningless in its terms . The legiti96 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY mation of the institutional order is also faced with the ongoing necessity of keeping chaos at bay . All social reality is precarious . All societies are constructions in the face of chaos . The constant possibility of anomie terror is actualized whenever the legitimations that obscure the precariousness are threatened or collapse . The dread that accompanies the death of a king , especially if it occurs with sudden violence , expresses this terror . Over and beyond emotions of sympathy or pragmatic political concerns , the death of a king under such circumstances brings the terror of chaos to conscious proximity . The popular reaction to the assassination of President Kennedy is a potent illustration . It may readily be understood why such events have to be followed at once with the most solemn reaffirmations of the continuing reality of the sheltering symbols . The origins of a symbolic universe have their roots in the constitution of man . If man in society is a world-constructor , this is made possible by his constitutionally given world-openness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Human existence is , ab initio , an ongoing externalization . As man externalizes himself , he constructs the world into which he externalizes himself . In the process of externalization , he projects his own meanings into reality . Symbolic universes , which proclaim that all reality is humanly meaningful and call upon the entire cosmos to signify the validity of human existence , constitute the farthest reaches of this projection.so b . Conceptual Machineries of Universe-Maintenance Considered as a cognitive construction , the symbolic universe is theoretical . It originates in processes of subjective reflection , which , upon social objectivation , lead to the establishment of explicit links between the significant themes that have their roots in the several institutions . In this sense , the theoretical character of symbolic universes is indubitable , no matter how unsystematic or illogical such a universe may seem to an " unsympathetic " outsider . IIowever , one may and typically does live naively within a symbolic universe . Whereas the establishment of a symbolic universe presupposes theoretical reflection on the part of somebody ( to whom the world or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , everybody may " inhabit " that universe in a taken-for-granted attitude . If the institutional order is to be taken for granted in its // totality as a meaningful whole , it must be legitimated by " placement " in a symbolic universe . But , other things being equal , this universe itself does not require further legitimation . To begin with , it was the institutional order , not the symbolic universe , that appeared problematic and to which , consequently , theorizing was addressed . For example , returning to the previous illustration of kinship legitimation , once the institution of cousinship is " located " in a cosmos of mythological cousins , it is no longer a simple matter of social fact without any " additional " significance . The mythology itself , however , may be held to naively without theoretical reflection about it . Only after a symbolic universe is objectivatecl as a " first " product of theoretical thought does the possibility of systematic reflection about the nature of that universe arise . Whereas the symbolic universe legitimates the institutional order on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be described as , so to speak , legitimation to the second degree . All legitimations , from the simplest pretheoretical legitimations of discrete institutionalized meanings to the cosmic establishments of symbolic universes may , in turn , be described as machineries of universemaintenance . These , it will readily be seen , require a good deal of conceptual sophistication from the beginning . Obviously there are difficulties in drawing firm lines between " naive " and " sophisticated " in concrete instances . The analytic distinction , however , is useful even in such instances , because it draws attention to the question of the extent to which a symbolic universe is taken for granted . In this respect , of course , the analytic problem is similar to the one we have already encountered in our discussion of legitimation . There are various levels of the legitimation of symbolic universes just as there are of the legitimation of institutions , except that the former can not be said to descend to the pretheoretical level , for the obvious reason that a symbolic universe is itself a theoretical phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of institutions , the question arises as to the circumstances under which it becomes necessary to legitimate symbolic universes by means of specific conceptual machineries of universemaintenance . And again the answer is similar to the one given in the case of institutions . Specific procedures of universe-maintenance become necessary when the symbolic universe has become a problem . As long as this is not the case , the symbolic universe is self98 THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION OF REALITY maintaining , that is , self-legitimating by the sheer facticity of its objective existence in the society in question . One may conceive of a society in which this would be possible . Such a society would be a harmonious , self-enclosed , perfectly functioning " system . " Actually , no such society exists . Because of the inevitable tensions of the processes of institutionalization , and by the very fact that all social phenomena are constructions produced historically through human activity , no society is totally taken for granted and so , a fortiori , is no symbolic universe . Every symbolic universe is incipiently problematic . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become problematic . An intrinsic problem , similar to the one we discussed in connection with tradition in general , presents itself with the process of transmission of the symbolic universe from one generation to another . Socialization is never completely successful . Some individuals " inhabit " the transmitted universe more definitely than others . Even among the more or less accredited " inhabitants , " there will always be idiosyncratic variations in the way they conceive of the universe . Precisely because the symbolic universe can not be experienced as such in everyday life , but transcends the latter by its very nature , it is not possible to " teach " its meaning in the straightforward manner in which one can teach the meanings of everyday life . Children 's questions about the symbolic universe have to be answered in a more complicated way than their questions about the institutional realities of everyday life . The questions of idiosyncratic adults require further conceptual elaboration . In the previous example , the meaning of cousinhood is continually represented by flesh-and-blood cousins playing cousin roles in the experienced routines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Divine cousins , alas , are not . This constitutes an intrinsic problem for the pedagogues of divine cousinhood . Mutatis mutandis , the same is true of the transmission of other symbolic universes . This intrinsic problem becomes accentuated if deviant versions of the symbolic universe come to be shared by groups of " inhabitants . " In that case , for reasons evident in the nature of objectivation , the deviant version congeals into a reality in its own right , which , by its existence within the society , challenges the reality status of the symbolic universe as originally constituted . The group that has objectivated this deviant reality becomes the carrier of an alternative definition of reality.81 It is hardly necessary to belabor // the point that such heretical groups posit not only a theoretical threat to the symbolic universe , but a practical one to the institutional order legitimated by the symbolic universe in question . The repressive procedures customarily employed against such groups by the custodians of the " official " definitions of reality need not concern us in this context . What is important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be legitimated , which , of course , implies the setting in motion of various conceptual machineries designed to maintain the " official " universe against the heretical challenge . Historically , the problem of heresy has often been the first impetus for the systematic theoretical conceptualization of symbolic universes . The development of Christian theological thought as a result of a series of heretical challenges to the " official " tradition provides excellent historical illustrations for this process . As in all theorizing , new theoretical implications within the tradition itself appear in the course of this process , and the tradition itself is pushed beyond its original form in new conceptualizations . For instance , the precise Christological formulations of the early church councils were necessitated not by the tradition itself but by the heretical challenges to it . As these formulations were elaborated , the tradition was maintained and expanded at the same time . Thus there emerged , among other innovations , a theoretical conception of the Trinity that was not only unnecessary but actually non-existent in the early Christian community . In other words , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conceptual machineries constructed to ward off the challenge of heretical groups within a society . A major occasion for the development of universe-maintaining conceptualization arises when a society is confronted with another society having a greatly different history.82 The problem posed by such a confrontation is typically sharper than that posed by intrasocietal heresies because here there is an alternative symbolic universe with an " official " tradition whose taken-for-granted objectivity is equal to one 's own . It is much less shocking to the reality status of one 's own universe to have to deal with minority groups of deviants , whose contrariness is ipso facto defined as folly or wickedness , than to confront another society that views one 's own definitions of reality as ignorant , mad or downright evil.83 It is one thing to have some individuals around , even if they band together                     