@@773827

txt The Scientific Estate are being invented , or proposed , that do not fit within the traditional bundles of either government or private enterprise . The scientists and engineers have been prolific of them , as suggested by the wide variety of government-university research centers and of organizations in operations research and systems management . More important , they have begun to think about the problem of new organizations systematically : " We need to find . . . new institutional patterns and relationships to provide research facilities adequate to deal with modern research techniques , " as Dr. James R. Killian , Jr. , told a Conference on Research and Development and Its Impact on the Economy in 1958.41 And today , we have a wide range of proposals under active consideration for the establishment of new hybrid forms of private-public enterprise . Congress has shown that it understands the extent to which our economics and politics are merging , not by enacting any new theories but by what it does at the grubby level of law enforcement and legislative investigations . This comes up most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the books a few years ago were based on the technology of the Civil War , and were designed to protect the government from the rapacity of the salesmen of blankets and shoes and rifles ' and fodder . That protection , naturally , was to take the form of an enforced separation of the powers of economics and politics : no government official was to have any connection with any private contractor in doing work for the government . But the new nature of science and technology makes our weapons systems depend on a considerable fusion of private contractors ( universities as well as industries ) with the government . And this means that many positions having great influence on strategic decisions must be filled by men who are valuable because they have a variety of interests ? indeed , a formal conflict of interests . It was the plight of the scientists , above all , that forced both the White House and the Congress to revise their notions of conflict of interests . Both did so by moving in a direction that was 50 The Fusion of Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they became less interested in labeling men as either private citizens or public offi- / ' . calIs , and more in asking how they operate . Thus a recent statute : irrcl a recent set of executive regulations do not forbid an indusi a I or university scientist to serve as a government official and advise on matters of interest to his business or his university ; they insist instead that his particular interests be made plain and that his function be restricted to advice and not responsible decisiotls.42 Both the Executive and Congress now seem to be interested primarily in learning how to discriminate among the functions of various types of corporations , sorting out the appropriate roles of manufacturing concerns , systems engineering firms , research and advisory institutions , and university laboratories along lines that would prevent the professional motives of any one institution from being detrimental to the purpose that it is supposed to serve . " But the most significant development is a negative one , like the evidence of Sherlock Holmes ' watchdog that did not bark : no Congressman chose during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interlocking structure of corporate and government interests in the field of research and development . It would be intellectually very satisfying , of course , to be able to measure in some precise way the extent to which economic and political power have been split into their basic elements ? or perhaps even into their nuclear particles ? by the pressure of scientific change , and then recombined into a new t pe of power . This job is ready at hand for one of the many so- ( ial scientists with the skills and the taste for quantification . He mipht well start with a grand and simple abstraction , such as the notion that although economic power and political power have always been in interaction , the new factor that is responsible for t h e i r fusion is the velocity of scientific change . So he might come out with some basic equation like this : political Energy equals economic Mass multiplied by the square of the velocity of sci51 1 The Scientific Estate entific Change , or E equals MC ' . But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will probably not stay true very long , since the human beings who are the refractory ultimate units of the problem would soon find some way to change the economic elements and the political combinations with an eye to asserting their autonomy , or advancing their interests . Even without quantification some broad trends seem clear enough . I have already noted how the attitudes of the liberal wing of Congressional opinion seem to have changed over the past generation . In the early nineteenth century ? before Karl Marx ? the essential purpose of liberal political theorists was to keep economics and politics as distinct elements , with as little interaction as possible . It was conservatives like Hamilton and Adams and Clay who wanted tariffs and a national bank and internal improvements , and Andrew Jackson who fought them on all counts . Later on , and much later in the United States than in Europe , the left wing of politics became committed to government regulation or ownership of parts of the economy , while the right wing took up the cause of the separation of business and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social change , in which scientific development plays so large ( a part , is bringing about another reversal in the alignment of political forces on economic issues . At any rate , the point of view of business seems to be changing , in practice if not in theory . In theory industry is still against government planning , but it wants a rational system for the allocation of government contracts , and it wants the kinds of government services in fields like statistics , and public works , and transportation that will let industry get on with its job . Industry has of course won its main battle : nobody wants government ownership of business , as long as the rich variety of contracting and regulatory techniques gives the government an ample choice of policy tools to direct the economy in whatever degree of detail the Congress and the President want to direct it . And that , of 52 The Fusion of Economic and Political Power course , is where the issue now really arises : in what degree of detail ? A report made by some three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1962 ? in effect a competing report to the official one on " Government Contracting for Research and Development " ? very significantly did not object to the essentials of policy and program control , but mainly to the detailed techniques of administrative supervision 44 Its authors were quite properly eager to be given a broad range of delegation , rather than supervised in niggling detail by government contracting agencies . And in this desire , industry is enthusiastically joined by the universities . The days have long since ended when you could with some color of realism portray American business as antigovernment and universities as harboring a lot of socialists . The presidents and business managers of big universities have as strong a set of motives , and then some , as those of big corporations for wanting as much freedom as they can get , along with their government grants . ( The " then some " derives , of course , from the principles of academic freedom , which academic types tend to rate considerably higher than free enterprise as a value to be given nearly absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists , the commitment to free basic research , and the very internal structure and system of incentives of academic institutions , lead to a demand for freedom in practice even by those who want planning in theory . In theory , indeed , the strongest new currents of political thought seem to be strongly in the direction of the basic merits of freedom as a condition for both scientific and political advance.4 " Now obviously we have been looking at trends that are not peculiar to science as practiced in the laboratories . It is not only the nuclear physicists , but the American Medical Association and the United Electrical Workers , that have increased their share of power over the economy by political influence , as a result of technological change . It is obvious , too , that these trends are not evenly distributed throughout the political economy ; in 53 1 The Scientific Estate the main they have occurred in the growing segment of American society that is most heavily influenced by science and most extensively supported by the government . Is all this merely a military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on politics ? Certainly , the fusion of economics and politics has happened faster in the weapons business than anywhere else . Just as certainly , no one should expect that the same kind of things will happen in a great deal of American business in the near future . But it is well to recall what has been going on in another sector of the economy , agriculture , under the steady pressure of a less spectacular technology . There , it is hard to separate the forces of the market from those of the crop support laws ; it is impossible to separate the interests of a man as an individual farmer from those that he has as the trustee of a soil conservation district , or to tell whether a county agent is a public or private functionary ; and the land-grant colleges continue to enjoy the best combination of public support with independence of policy initiative . If our agricultural scientists do not slow down , the embattled farmer 's dependence on a combination of government programs and scientific techniques will soon be even greater than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our administrative and scientific history : ( 1 ) the lesson of the weapons and space programs , that the most advanced technologies can be supported by government and directed to public purposes ; ( 2 ) the lesson of the agricultural program , that scientific advance can be used even to help ordinary human beings at home . And we are beginning to get hints that political leaders may be drawing a moral from this twin lesson . Mr. Jefferson 's farmers and Adam Smith 's manufacturers had a common interest . Jefferson and Smith were fully aware of the political significance of economic power , but as liberals they wanted the economy freed as much as possible from governmental control . Hence they favored the independence of private busi-54 The Fusion of Economic and Political Power Hess , and of the state and local governments that dealt most directly with business . But by the time of , say , the First World War , the state of technology had made possible the creation of giant corporations which seemed to be identified somewhat less with the cause of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing firm , and indeed seemed to have passed from the control of their owners to their managers . Hence the liberal changed his position ; he moved in the direction of greater power to the national government and more government control or ownership of major segments of the economy . In this respect , he was reluctantly following Karl Marx , no matter how much he disapproved of Marx 's political purposes . But now science has again changed the nature of the property that is of the most strategic importance to politics , and the position of the liberal has shifted with it . When politicians becarne persuaded that basic research held the key to our future security and material welfare , the basic relation of government to private institutions changed . The breakdown of the boundary between the basic sciences and engineering ? which in turn had depended on the discovery of common ground among the basic sciences ? made it impossible for the businessman to defend the old boundary of private ownership that he had fortified so carefully between economics and politics , and unnecessary for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of central authority and eager to protect individual and local interests , or fearful in an era of international danger of the weakness that comes from too feeble a national authority , the battle lines have shifted . We have completely forgotten the issue of government ownership ; the other ways of accomplishing the same purpose are so much less troublesome . We are likely to argue less about whether government should have a broad responsibility for economic policy and the direction of economic effort . But we are likely to argue a great deal more about the terms of the relationship under which private corporations and institutions maintain a degree of auton-55 The Scientific Estate omy while working within a framework of limited governmental support and direction.46 In short , we are now obliged to think about the political functions of various types of people not on the basis of the property they own but of what they know , and of the professional skills they command . 1 56 // The Diffusion of Sovereignty " FACELESS TECHNOCRATS in long , white coats are making decisions today which rightfully and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Senator E. L. Bartlett of Alaska as lie urged that Congress set up its own corps of scientific advisers ! His complaint reflects a fear that is probably shared by many citizens . In view of the esoteric nature of the scientific processes that now seem to dominate our policies , can the elected representatives of the people maintain control over the major decisions of the government ? The typical liberal who supported the extension of governmental control over business in the early twentieth century was not very greatly worried about weakening the independent status of private property as a check on centralized power . To protect his freedom , he was inclined to trust the responsible processes of representative government . No matter how much power might be vested in the government , it would still be under popular control ; the experts in the civil and military services would function only as the agents of policies that had been initiated by the processes of party leadership and legislative debate . But now that great issues turn on new scientific discoveries far too complicated for politicians to comprehend , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job . The fear that the new powers created by science may be beyond the control of constitutional processes , and that scientists may become a new governing clique or cabal of secret advisers , has begun to seem plausible . The intellectual world in general , especially in Europe , is tempted to believe that modern man faces a 57 1 The Scientific Estate political dilemma and is now obliged to choose between the two kinds of authoritarian governments that have taken over the control of many countries . One is the type that is guided by military or clerical leaders who affirm traditional values ; the other is the type of dictatorship based on the materialist dialectic , professing science as its basic faith . If American scientists , like American politicians , have generally not been persuaded that they had to choose either horn of this dilemma , it was probably because their actual experience was quite different from that of their counterparts in many other countries . In most of Europe , the reactionaries and the radicals shared a basic assumption not only with each other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That assumption was the idea of sovereignty , the notion that the government of a nation was in some sense an expression of a single authoritative national purpose , and the embodiment of a unified will . This sovereign will , or the parliament that expressed it , would define a set of policies , based on a coherent set of principles , to be administered by a coordinated and disciplined bureaucracy . To any newspaper reader , it should be obvious how little this ideal of sovereignty corresponds to the actual nature of the American political system , although some scholars try to make the facts the organization of the new programs they have initiated . For American scientists have played a significant role in the development of a system of political responsibility that does not work on the principles of parliamentary government and does not work on the principles of the new dictatorships of either the right or the left that have been supplanting the parliamentary system in many countries . It is a system that ? along with some considerable disadvantages ? has one great advantage : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a single sovereign will , and therefore additional functions can be given to government without adding to the concentration of power within society . 1 58 The Diffusion of Sovereignty We need a theory of the relation of science to political authority that will more accurately reflect the American experience . liefore we Americans try to outline such a theory ? or at least an approach toward it ? we need to take a careful look at the facts . We can not understand science in relation to politics unless we understand the way scientists behave in relation to politicians , both individually and in the organizations to which they belong . We should therefore ask three elementary questions that seem relevant to any theory of political responsibility , and take special note of the role of scientists as we answer each of them : ( 1 ) What kind of men make a career of running the government ? ( 2 ) Who initiates new policies ? ( 3 ) Who controls the organization and procedures of the government departments ? SCIENTISTS AND PROFESSIONALS IN ADMINISTRATION The classic parliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an elected assembly . Since that responsibility is collective ? that is , all members of the cabinet are equally responsible for the policies of the government as a whole ? it is necessary for the actual administration of the government to be under the coordinated control of a single disciplined administrative corps . It is hard to imagine such a corps composed of men whose education and early careers had been devoted to the intense specialization of the modern sciences . At any rate , none of the major nations whose governments are set up on the parliamentary model have ever tried to do without an elite corps of career administrators , and in such a corps scientists are rare indeed . In the United States , on the other hand , men trained in the . sciences , and in the professions based on the sciences , find it easy to move up into high administrative positions . In Great Britain , which is the classic example of a parliamentary government , the Administrative Class , the top corps of the civil service , is still dominated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one man in twenty among these 59 1 The Scientific Estate guardians of public policy has had a scientific or technical education . In spite of recurrent criticism of its role , the Administrative Class still maintains a professional monopoly ( though in a studiously amateur and nonscientific way ) over the organization of the government departments , and a major share of influence in the formation of national policy . It thus has no great interest in making it easy for scientists to move up into its membership , or the universities to work closely with it on its major policy problems . ' Now that we are both constitutional democracies , it makes much less difference that Great Britain has a king and the United States a president , but a great deal of difference how we set up the professional group of men who actually run the government . Our Jacksonian revolution indeed destroyed the hopes of John Quincy Adams for a continuation of the Jeffersonian alliance between science and republicanism . At the same time , by wiping out the beginnings of a career system , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleared the channels of promotion for the scientists who , decades later , were to begin to move up in the civil service . The frontier radicalism of the day distrusted all forms of Establishment ; this was the era in which state constitutions forbade clergymen to hold public office and prohibited educational qualifications for admission to the bar . But as the business of government got more complicated , the frontier had to admit that certain skills were necessary . Its essentially pragmatic temper insisted , as it became necessary to hire civil servants for merit rather than patronage , that the requirements be defined in terms of the needs of the specific jobs , rather than by general educational status . It was easiest to prove the need for special skills in technical fields , partly on account of the objective nature of the problem , partly because scientific societies were determined to raise and maintain their professional standards in the civil service as well as in private practice . ' As a result , it was in the scientific and professional fields that the career civil service system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diffusion of Sovereignty ranks . As we developed our top civil service , we made it something quite different from a career Administrative Class ; most of its members are not only nonpolitical , but nonadministrative its well , and they are not career officials in the same sense as a U.S. Navy officer or a British Civil Servant . In recent years , scientists and engineers , though rare among those in high political office , have done reasonably well in the civil service . The program of Rockefeller Public Service Awards , recognizing distinguished achievement in the federal civil service between 1952 and 1960 , gave two fifths of its awards to men engaged in scientific or technological programs , and having scientific or technical educations . ' Similarly , a recent study of 7,640 federal civil servants in the top ranks showed that as undergraduates a third of them had specialized in engineering , and nearly a quarter in the physical or biological sciences . By contrast , only 16 percent had specialized in applied studies like business , education , and administration , 16 percent in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One tenth of them had doctors ' degrees , and one quarter masters ' degrees ; among those who did graduate work , the proportion with training in the physical and biological sciences was even higher than at the undergraduate level . On their way up to administrative responsibilities , whether in government service or private life , many of these officials had served at length in the sciences and related professions ; as late as fifteen years after starting their careers , 18 percent had been engineers , 8 percent scientists , and 2 percent medical doctors ; only 3 percent had been lawyers . ' . The top positions within the career civil service , for administrative continuity and bureaucratic power , are those of the bureau chiefs . A study in 1958 of the 63 bureau chiefs showed that 9 of them had advanced degrees in the natural sciences , and 17 others had been trained in lesser ways as engineers or technicians . By comparison with these 26 from various branches of technology , there were 9 economists and only 8 lawyers , and 20 from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Scientific Estate from the positions of bureau chief , the top career positions are the so-called " supergrades , " which were added above the regular civil service grades to let the government compete for scarce talent . ' The favorite justification for creating these positions is the need to employ capable scientists and engineers , notably in the technical branches of the Defense Department and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Administrators have ridden along to higher salaries on the political coat tails of scientists . ' Scientists who become bureau chiefs in the U.S. service are , of course , no longer practicing scientists ; they are doing work that in the United Kingdom would be done by a member of the Administrative Class educated in history or the classics . Their training may not be ideally suited for their administrative duties , but neither was that of their English counterparts . Macaulay , after all , used to argue that he wanted to recruit university graduates in the classics not because they had been studying the classics but because the classics attracted the best minds which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training of many American administrators puts them on a level with their English humanist counterparts in at least one respect : their lack of interest in management as a science , or sometimes at all . THE INDUCTIVE INITIATION OF POLICY Though the scientists in top civil service posts have not been deeply interested in administration , they have been interested in policy . And this is the second major way in which the scientific civil servant in the United States differs from his British or European counterpart : he takes a direct role in initiating policies and publicly advocating them . In their influence on policy , as in their advancement in the hierarchy , the scientists in American government have had a special opportunity because they have not had to work under a tightly organized corps of administrators , or a tightly knit political leadership . After the Civil War , there was no strong con1 62 The Diffusion of Sovereignty servative tradition based on a landed interest , and no national party with a coherent ideology to take control of the programs of government . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was no one with sufficient authority to tell the scientific experts that they belonged in a subordinate role . Indeed they were listened to all the more readily because they were usually not thought of as bureaucrats . There was no one from whom Congress wanted advice less than from the regular career service . But each group of scientists had one foot in government , so to speak , and one outside , and the policy views that the insiders developed would come back to the Congress from the National Academy or the scientific societies.10 In a government of limited constitutional powers , a research program could be justified in a given field when an action program could not . But the research ultimately seemed to lead to action , in spite of the lawyers ' scruples and the party bosses ' lack of interest in policy issues . Research was influential not merely because the politicians were persuaded by objective data ; an even more important reason may have been that scientists ( and in some fields , the economists ) were the major organized communities of professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This has been the pattern of the development of many new federal programs : you can trace it in agriculture , in natural resources , in the regulation of business , in labor and welfare , and we now see its beginnings in the support of education . The most influential pattern was set in agriculture . Washington and Jefferson had been interested in fostering scientific improvements in agriculture , and in federal support of a national university . They were blocked by the lawyers ' scruples about states ' rights . But the agricultural scientists found a way to their goal by a different route ? one that evaded constitutional barriers by merging federal and state interests through federal grants of either land or money to the states , and by building up a program on scientific and educational bases . The principal basis 63 1 The Scientific Estate was , of course , the land-grant college ; from it grew the experiment station , the extension program , and the whole interlocking system of institutions which has let the federal government play a more effective role in the agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In all this development , the land-grant colleges and the associations of various kinds of agricultural scientists maintained an important influence on the Department of Agriculture , supplied most of its career personnel , and generally provided the intellectual leadership for national agricultural policy . " Thus in effect they greatly weakened the old constitutional distinction between state and federal functions , but without subjecting the field of agriculture to the control of a centralized bureaucracy . The pattern of grants in aid , with its new set of administrative relationships , met two cardinal needs : ( 1 ) to provide money , as well as national policy direction , from Washington , and ( 2 ) to enlarge the operating responsibilities of the states , while preserving a large measure of their autonomy . It accordingly became the basis on which new programs were developed ? highways , public health , social security , welfare , housing , and others . This was what political scientists came to call the " New Federalism , " which has given the scientists and specialists in each field of policy a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party doctrine . The classic theory of parliamentary government calls for something like a deductive method in the formulation of policy . That is to say , it suggests that policy originates in the doctrines or platforms of the political parties , and that it is then expressed in the enactments of the legislature . The role of administrators and their scientific and technical subordinates is merely to carry out the predetermined policy , to deduce specific actions from the statutory general principles . It was of course not the scientists , but the lawyers , who saved us from this dogmatic belief . Some people still think that the function of judges is simply to interpret and apply the laws that 1 64 The Diffusion of Sovereignty legislatures enact , and the function of administrators merely to administer such laws . This was the conception of the extreme doctrinaires of both the American and French revolutions ; sovcreignty was in the people , and could be expressed only through their elected representatives in deliberative assembly . So for a time in France , during the Revolution , judges were required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whenever they found a case not covered explicitly enough by statute.12 But the lawyers in the tradition of the common law never held with such nonsense . They knew that justice required a great deal of initiative and inventiveness from a profession with a corporate tradition . They knew that the political authority of a legislature would be destroyed , rather than enhanced , if the legal profession and the judiciary looked to it for all ideas and initiative , and failed to exercise their own . In Great Britain the career administrators , for all their formal public deference to members of the cabinet , were soon accorded a powerful role in the initiation of policy , but the notion persisted rather strongly that the scientists were instruments for predetermined ends . In the United States , on the other hand , the politicians were rather more ready to accord to scientists than to general administrators the right to press their policy views . The leaders of political parties or members of an elite administrative corps may like to look on scientists as properly subordinate , and science as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support a policy , a tradition , or an ideology , rather than an end in itself . We can understand this relationship in other countries if we recall how , until recent years , our military services thought that civilian scientists in military laboratories should conduct their research only pursuant to " requirements " defined by military staff work . This notion was exploded as it became apparent that what scientists discovered by unrestricted research might be of greater military importance than the things the military officers thought they wanted ? in short , that the means might determine the ends . 65 1 The Scientific Estate Weapons development provides the extreme ( and almost the only conspicuous ) example in American politics in which scientists have been faced with difficulties in getting a direct political hearing for their policy ideas . For members of Congress usually want their scientific advice on a specific problem undiluted by either party doctrine or the policy views of general administrators . This attitude is something like an inductive , approach to policy . It distrusts the deduction of specific decisions from general political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distrusts the presentation of facts by either bureaucrats or party managers who may distort them for their special purposes ; it is afraid of the doctrine that the end determines the means , for it suspects that the politician does not really know in precise terms what is the chief end of man , and may be tempted to define it to suit purposes of his own . This approach may have been furthered , in American history , by the influence of scientific ideas along with rationalism during the Revolution . Later it may have been furthered by a dim realization that science , if not too much constrained by predetermined political ends ( or , if you like , political teleology ) , could help develop a higher set of goals and purposes than had yet been dreamed of . But mainly , I suspect , it was given a chance because people were sick of the results of exaggerated party doctrine and of the Civil War to which it led . So the President was not expected to run for office , or run , , his administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his departments so closely as to suppress a certain amount of policy initiative from his technical subordinates . Similarly , the Congressional committees , which were fiercely partisan with respect to the spoils of office , became nearly nonpartisan , or at least weakly disciplined by their parties , in the consideration of new policies . And both the executive and the legislature developed the habit of turning for policy advice and assistance not only to the scientists in government , but to their colleagues in the universities and foundations . Both land-grant. colleges and private universities were drawn into the processes of 1 66 The Diffusion of Sovereignty policy making , partly because they were , in the absence of a career bureaucracy , the main reservoir of expertise on which politicians could draw for advice , and partly in response to the influence of the philanthropic foundations . By the 1920 's , some of the major foundations had lost interest in the charitable alleviation of social problems , and had begun to hope that science might solve them . This idea led them to a strategy of supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to test its application . After being tested , the research could be extended by the greater resources of government . The foundations ' aid to scientific education and research is a familiar story in almost every branch of science . Equally important , they went on to help strengthen the professional organizations of scientists , to pay for the efforts of governmental agencies to reform their own systems of organization and administration , and to pay for research projects undertaken at the request of public officials who could not persuade legislatures to appropriate the necessary funds.13 By the time of the Second World War , the leading scientists knew that a grant-making agency like a foundation could initiate nationwide programs by making grants to independent universities and governmental agencies . Hookworm control , the foundation of public libraries , and the reform of medical education had amply proved the point . And political leaders were inclined to turn to private funds to help them explore future policy opportunities , or experiment with them , as when President Hoover sought foundation financing for his Committee on Social Trends and for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the initial administrative costs for President Roosevelt 's Science Advisory Board.14 The process of responsible policy making is thus not something that begins with the definition of a political ideal according to some partisan doctrine , and concludes by using administrative and scientific means to attain that end . It is a process of interaction among the scientists , professional leaders , administrators , 67 1 The Scientific Estate and politicians ; ultimate authority is with the politicians but the initiative is quite likely to rest with others , including the scientists in or out of government . POLITICAL DECENTRALIZATION OF THE EXECUTIVE The presence of scientists and professionals in the civil service and their unusual degree of policy initiative are not the only differences that science has helped to bring about in the American constitutional system . The third difference is perhaps the most profound : the idea that the very organization of government itself is not something to be controlled by the insiders , but may be determined by the processes of open politics . Though the American scientific civil servant has policy initiative , and thus may seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the politician more than makes up for it by assuming control over the internal structure of government organization and over its procedures . The scientists were of course not the major influence in support of this tendency to open the inner workings of government to popular political control ; that tendency came from many social and political sources . But it was encouraged by the early rationalism of the Jeffersonians , who believed that politics itself should be an experimental process . It was encouraged by the desire to give independent status within government to agencies with scientific functions , like the Smithsonian Institution , or agencies that were supposed to make their decisions more on technical than political grounds , fake the regulatory commissions . And it was encouraged by the desire of scientific and professional services to have special status of their own apart from the general civil service , a desire which accounted for separate uniformed corps like those of the Coast and Geodetic Survey and the Public Health Service . One of the classic principles of administration holds that with responsibility should go a corresponding degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Within a limited managerial context , this is the proverbial wisdom , and sound enough . And at the political level , it is the key idea in the classic theory of parliamentary responsibility . The cabinet within the parliament , and the prime minister within the cabinet , were able to take control by saying , in effect , that they could not continue to carry the responsibilities of His Majesty 's Government if not given full control over the means to their proposed ends . But in the United States the idea of authority commensurate with responsibility is contradicted by the history as well as the theory of our constitutional system . For the Jacksonian revolution completed the efforts of the Jeffersonian rationalists to abolish all types of establishments . The Constitution had forbidden a national established church , and the Founding Fathers had moved rapidly to rely on the volunteer state militias rather than a national standing army . And the Jacksonians proceeded to root out the beginnings of a career administrative service , in order to prevent the democratic control of policy from being influenced by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as A. V. Dicey was to point out , the civil servant ( unlike his French counterpart ) was kept subject to the same law and the same courts as the private citizen , in order to make sure that he did not exceed the authority granted him by law . The United States went one step further ; the civil servant was kept , in effect , a part of the private labor market , rather than being made a part of a lifetime service with a corporate tradition . He worked for a bureau that was likely to be fairly independent of any general government policy , and rather more under the control of the particular Congressional committees to which it looked for legislative authority and for the appropriation of its funds . His Majesty 's Civil Service was the embodiment of a national ideal ; the U.S. Civil Service had only a nominal existence ? it was only a set of rules and procedures that imposed negative restraints on a collection of nearly autonomous bureaus . The President , in short , could not effectively demand control 69 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of organization of the executive departments , in order to control the means toward the ends legislated by Congress . For federal administration , like the process of policy making , was supposed to work on something like a parody of the inductive method . The existence of a general bureaucracy , committed to an integrated national purpose , was not to be taken for granted on general principles ; each position in the civil service was supposed to be set up by law , or later by a formal proof of its necessity under a system of job classification , and the men recruited for their ability to fill these particular jobs were supposed somehow to constitute an organization capable of fulfilling a national purpose . The end did not determine the means ; in Congressional procedure , the committee in charge of legislation defined the ends , and the appropriations subcommittee sometimes supplied the means . This was the logical corollary of the peculiarly American assumption that it was just as appropriate for the voters and legislators to control the administrative organization and procedures of government as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means as well as the ends . This was a radical departure from British or European assumptions . The parliamentary progression from conservatives to liberals to socialists never changed the fundamental European assumption that , although governments might be responsible to legislatures for the substance of their policies , it was better for politics and legislation not to meddle with internal administrative organization or the management of the bureaucracy . The socialist political leaders took the unity of the state and its bureaucracy for granted . If anything , they tended to make it all the more monolithic , and to push to its logical conclusion the tendency of Benthamite liberalism to abolish the privileges of guilds and public corporations . But in the United States the current of radicalism ran in the opposite direction ; after the age of Jackson , lobbyists and legislators were likely to concern themselves at least as much with the details of administrative organization as with major policies , 1 70 The Diffusion of Sovereignty generally with the purpose of creating centers of independence within government . Thus , in the nineteenth century , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loose collections of independent agencies , with no responsible executive . This decentralizing tendency was pushed so far that it destroyed the unity of administration , and sometimes had disastrous effects on the competence and the political responsibility of gover nment . But it also disproved the idea ? often assumed both by those who admired and those who feared socialism ? that an extension in the scope of governmental functions in the United States would automatically bring a corresponding centralization of power . THE EXTENSION OF THE NEW FEDERALISM Those three peculiarities of the American political system had made it possible , by the time of the New Deal , to bring the major programs of state and municipal government and the major programs affecting the agricultural economy within the scope of federal government policy , without destroying the operating autonomy of the states and cities or the land-grant colleges . The New Federalism , in short , had worked best in those ; aspects of public affairs in which the power of government and the power of the great industrial corporations were not in rivalry . Leaders of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind and partly in view of their experience with the programs of private foundations , were beginning to wonder , a decade before the Second World War , whether they would have to accept some comparable relationship to the federal government . The system of federal grants and contracts by which universities and industrial corporations now have been brought into a relation of dependence on federal policy and federal funds , but with a high degree of independence with respect to their internal affairs , was not the result of an immediate flash of wartime in-71 The Scientific Estate spiration . Its essential idea can be traced back to the depths of the Great Depression . By that time the naive nineteenth-century faith in the contribution of science to democratic politics was less prevalent in the more important universities and the more advanced fields of science than in the agricultural colleges . Scientists in the major private universities were supported more by private corporations and foundations than by government , and leaders in the newer fields like nuclear physics and biochemistry had closer intellectual ties with their European counterparts than with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists in institutions that derived their support from industrial wealth and were interested in problems of the industrial urban economy saw the constitutional model in a very different perspective . Among them , accordingly , were to be found both those conservative scientists who were most distrustful of government and those radicals who tended to take a Marxist view of the role of science in society . It was from such institutions that the Science Advisory Board of 1934-35 , set up by President Roosevelt to prepare a program to combat the depression , drew its rather conservative members . They came up with a report that shocked their colleagues , for they actually proposed government research grants to private institutions , citing as a precedent the previous programs of aid to the land-grant colleges . The federal government , however , or at any rate Public Works Administrator Harold L. Ickes , did riot think it proper to give federal subsidies to private institutions , and rejected the proposal . " But the reluctance of private institutions to accept government support , and the reluctance of the government to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down under the pressure of the Second World War . The scientists who were then put in charge of the most advanced weapons programs ( including some of the same leaders who had served on the earlier Science Advisory Board ) were ready to work out a thoroughly pragmatic set of arrangements 1 72 The Diffusion of Sovereignty for the conduct of weapons research , based on the same procedures that had worked in the foundation programs with which they were familiar . The approach that they adopted in the two great scientific programs of the war ? the Office of Scientific Research and Development ( OSRD ) and the Manhattan District of the Army Engineers ? was simply to enlist institutions rather than individuals . To those who expect wartime crises and military authority to produce a centralization of authority , this approach must have been as surprising as if the Army had used the war as an excuse to increase , rather than decrease , its reliance on the state militias . But in the hands of Vannevar Bush , James B. Conant , and Karl T. Compton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a still newer and more flexible type of federalism , one that was founded on the government contract rather than the grant-in-aid . Under the OSRD , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology took on the responsibility for developing radar , and the California Institute of Technology rockets . Under the Manhattan District , the University of Chicago set up the first sustained nuclear reaction and the University of California fabricated the first atomic bomb , while Du Pont , General Electric , Union Carbide , and other industrial giants built the facilities to produce the fissionable materials . " The postwar extension of this system , already described , has brought private scientific institutions ? universities as well as business corporations ? into a connection with the federal government as intimate and active as that of any land-grant college . And in at least some parts of the industrial system it may now be bringing about a relation between government and business entirely different from the one that existed during the quarrels of the depression era , much as the grants-in-aid system transformed federal-state relations some decades after the Civil War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political opposition to federal programs even more effectively than did the system of grants to the states . 73 The Scientific Estate State and local governments and private corporations used to join in their jealousy of purely federal activities and to consider extension of them as socialistic . The federal grants to states in the field of agriculture , however , were no longer socialistic in the eyes of the governors and the farm bloc ; they were a defense of the American way of life , even though they entailed government controls . And now that the atomic energy and space and military programs support such a large share of the nation 's business , and so much of its enterprise and innovation spills over quite naturally and properly into related commercial fields , it is no wonder that private business corporations are less jealous of government . More accurately , their jealousy no longer takes the form of fighting socialism , but of haggling over the administrative provisions of contracts . A great deal of private enterprise is now secreted in the interstices of government contracts . In short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states ' rights , the new contractual systems are doing to those for pure private enterprise . The argument for a measure of independence from central authority still remains valid in either case , and so does the need to recognize that the fundamental responsibility of government can not be delegated . Policy decisions remain the responsibility of government . But " policy " here means simply those aspects that government authorities believe ought to be controlled , either because they think them of major importance or because they realize that voters or Congressmen think so . This means that they will consider as policy certain aspects of management ( for example , fair employment practices or prevailing wage rates ) . But , so long as they retain ultimate control , they may act on the advice of contractors upon the most momentous new issues , or delegate major segments of the business whenever they can specify the purposes to be accomplished . The complex and costly nature of certain types of military studies , and the sophistication of the new techniques of operations research , make the possibility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of the contract itself ( or the 74 The Diffusion of Sovereignty grant , which differs from it only symbolically and in technical detail ) to determine whether a central bureaucracy will control every detail of the contractor 's management or will leave him free to decide matters in secret that ought to be determined by the President and Congress . But the general effect of this new system is clear : the fusion of economic and political power has been accompanied by a considerable diffusion of central authority . This has destroyed the notion that the future growth in the functions and expenditures of government , which seems to be made inevitable by the increase in the technological complexity of our civilization , would necessarily take the form of a vast bureaucracy , organized on Max Weber 's hierarchical principles , and using the processes of science as Julian Huxley predicted to answer policy questions.l ' Where scientists have shaped this development , its political and administrative patterns have reflected the way scientists actually behave rather than the way science fiction or Marxist theory would have them behave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucracy the amiable disorder of a university faculty meeting . Take , for example , our oldest and least scientific federal agency having a large operational mission ? the Post Office ? and compare it with the Air Force or the Space Administration . The Post Office is a relatively self-contained hierarchy . The Air Force develops its policies and runs its programs with the advice and cooperation of several dozen of the most influential univerties and industrial corporations of the country , whose executives and faculty members consequently have independent bases from which to criticize any policies , strategic plans , or administrative arrangements they dislike ? and they can always find a Congressional committee to listen to them . The role of science in this difference does not seem to be merely accidental . For one thing , the pursuit of science itself is a non-hierarchical affair ; the best scientists either personally prefer , or are taught by their guilds that they should prefer , the university 's combination of research , teaching , and undisciplined 75 1 The Scientific Estate administration ? and to get the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But more important is the long-range and indirect connection ; when the revolution of the En-lightenment proposed that the organization and procedures of government as well as its policies should be open to scientific inquiry and independent criticism , it started a process which has had deep effects on the constitutional system . These effects showed first in the relation of scientific administrators to their executive superiors and to Congressional committees , and later in the new structure of federalism , and in the new contractual relationships between the federal government and private in-stitutions . The involvement of scientists in these contractual relation-ships since 1945 has extended their earlier influence on our sys-tem of political responsibility . In the first place , scientists have acquired an even higher degree of initiative and independence in policy . Scientists who advise government or carry on research for government , but are not primarily on the government payroll , have an even greater freedom of enterprise than scientists in the civil service . A gov-ernment department that gets its research or its advice from sci-entists on the staffs of private institutions , and pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to be able to train such men in the disciplined habits of anonymous discretion . On the contrary , these scientists have plenty of opportunity to take the initiative in policy matters and to further the contribution that research can make to the opening up of new political alternatives . The stories of the most awesome decisions of recent years ? such as the decision to make the H-bomb , or to establish a Distant Early Warning system , or to try to work out an agreement with the Russians for ending nuclear tests ? reveal a great deal of polit-ical enterprise on the part of scientists . Many of them were men whose primary formal status was with private corporations or universities . " In the second place , the developments since 1945 have given a new push to the decentralization of political responsibility . Al1 76 The Diffusion of Sovereignty ready the American political concern with the means as well as the ends ? the disposition to legislate ( or even to establish by Constitutional provision ) details of organization and procedure ? had made it possible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while centralizing our pol-icies . What we did after the Second World War was to extend this process to a broader system that amalgamated public and private interests . For example , we have nationalized the support of research in the medical schools of the country through the grants of the National Institutes of Health . But administratively  --  which in this case means effectively ? we have denationalized the process of controlling federal expenditures for this purpose . For Congress has by law provided that the principal control over medical research grants be exercised by a network of committees of scientists who are not primarily government officials . If you think sovereignty is something real , this is not the way , you will wish to run a government . You are more likely to de-duce from the ideal of sovereignty the corollaries that the state is something like a person , and that its personality should be integrated and its ideas consistent with one another . Since in the modern industrial world there is no way to keep government and business from being dependent on each other , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find a system of legislative procedures and administrative insti-tutions to translate its ideal purposes into actual practice , may lead to a continuous concentration of political and economic power . On what principles is that concentration to be controlled and held responsible ? Those who have abandoned the traditional value system of Western Europe , or who never held it , are likely to create a new ideology and a new elite to determine the ends of the state , and to control the entire society toward those ends . It may be argued ( and this point will be considered later ) that this is the way to let science control politics . But it is not a system of political responsibility , and need not be discussed now . Those who hold to traditional values are likely to seek some 77 1 The Scientific Estate new version of Plato 's Guardians : the elite who are set apart from the rest of the citizens and trained and dedicated to the purposes of the state . The cruder way to do this , and the way that has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rally round some military leader , or to give special responsibility to the career military corps . This is what has been done by those nations that lack the traditions and the skills of the nation that invented the parliamentary system . The United Kingdom can rely instead on its Administrative Class and its parliamentary leadership . The Administrative Class of its civil service is a corps that can continue to embody the purposes of the state as long as it is careful to avoid a role of authority or public responsibility . And the leadership of the House of Commons is a bipartisan group carefully self-schooled in the art of never letting the internal workings of Her Majesty 's Government and Her Majesty 's Services become objects of political or legislative determination . But under any type of Guardians ? military , administrative , or parliamentary ? the system of political responsibility is designed to test any new proposal in relation to the general purposes of the state , the ideal policies of the governing parties , or the effectiveness of the administrative establishment . It is not very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to license irresponsible private institutions to explore the inner workings of government , or to permit any of its parts to work at cross purposes with the rest . In short , if you start by believing that sovereignty is something real , you are likely to design your constitutional system to focus political attention on the ends of the sovereign state , and to insist that the work of scientists supported by government be treated as a means toward the predetermined ends . Politics in the United States has always seemed impossibly irresponsible to those who think from those premises . And this is perhaps because the United States started from a quite different premise . It not only abolished its allegiance to a particular sovereign , but abandoned the ideal of sovereignty , and treated 178 The Diffusion of Sovereignty it as only a word . Those who used the word most gave it the least reality . Those who talked most about the sovereignty of the several states were careful not to give the idea any administrative ? substance ; if they had , they might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Revolution , its theorists appealed against the idea of sovereignty to both the past and the future . They appealed to the past when they asserted , with the lawyers , that the king was under the law , and that even the parliament itself did not have unlimited power to make law ; indeed they were just as eager to set up Constitutional safeguards against unlimited legislative power as against executive authority . But the Revolution appealed also to the future , as men like Franklin and Jefferson sought to free both politics and science from the monarchical and ecclesiastical institutions that defined traditional values.2o By consequence , democratic politics assumed the right to deal with the means of government as well as the ends , or even io put the means ahead of the ends . This meant that hardly anyone worried if neither the President nor the Congressional committees paid much attention to party doctrine in dealing with questions of policy , or to discipline and coordination in dealing with the administrative departments . This gave the scientists a chance to move back and forth between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take a lively initiative in matters of policy . And it made possible the development of more centers of dissent and criticism with respect to public policy even in those fields . which government undertook to linance and direct . This system makes it impossible to maintain an institutional distinction between ends and means , between policy decisions on the one hand and scientific research or administration on the other . Hence it makes party responsibility in the parliamentary sense impossible , and it greatly complicates the task of coordinating either policy or administration . On the other hand , to blur the distinction between ends and 79 1 The Scientific Estate means is a part of the scientific approach : no scientist likes to feel that his basic values and objectives have been set by others so rigidly that he can not follow where his research leads him . It may be even more necessary to blur the distinction between ends and means , in an institutional sense , in the twentieth century , when it is the requirements of new ideology , rather than old orthodoxy , that threaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexities into public policy , destroyed the comfortable nineteenth-century notion that public issues could really be determined by the parliamentary competition of two opposing doctrines . At the same time science , by developing new techniques of mass communication , made possible the means for producing disciplined support of authoritarian government . If the structure of political institutions does not specifically encourage some social experimentation based on scientific initiative , with some degree of deliberate freedom from the constraints of policy as determined by either partisan theorists or an administrative elite , it will narrow the range of free scientific and political development . Perhaps our eighteenth-century Constitution , with its implied distrust of party discipline , will yet prove to be more adaptable to our scientific era than the classic nineteenth-century parliamentary model of Walter Bagehot or Woodrow Wilson.21 American scientists , who have tended to be a little disillusioned about their relationship with politicians ever since the Jacksonian period , are now entitled to look with a little more satisfaction on the system of political responsibility that they have helped to establish . For it is a system that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to most scientists , especially those who profess no interest in philosophy . It puts a premium on their qualifications for promotion within the bureaucracy , and gives their policy views a respectful hearing . And it is based on principles quite different from either the classic parliamentary system or the single-party system that characterizes the new dictatorships. 1 80 The Diffusion of Sovereignty But all this gives no grounds for self-satisfaction ; it only helps us diagnose our troubles more accurately . It suggests that in the United States the main danger to political freedom and responsibility is not likely to come from the secrecy of scientific advice , or an excess of central executive authority , or a drift toward socialism . There is much less reason to worry that the great decisions of a scientific or technological nature will be secret than that they will be popular ; the temptation of scientists to lobby for particular scientific programs , and to promise technological miracles in order to get funds for basic research may be a demoralizing one . There is much less reason to fear that the Executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole will surrender its power to its own committees , and that they will be too obsessed with new technological toys to deal with broader issues of policy . And there is much less danger of a drift toward a socialist dictatorship than toward a system in which the government will pay all the costs of a series of expensive programs each of which will be contracted out to private corporations and managed in their private interests . We do not need to believe in the traditional ideal of sovereignty to think that a modest measure of coherence in our national policies , and of discipline in our administrative system , may be desirable in the interest of political responsibility . Some argue that in order to attain those ends we need to strengthen the political influence of the traditional learning or religious values . Only by a return to traditional values , they argue , can party leaders be guided by moral and political theory , and career civil servants be trained in a philosophy of the public interest . Is this true ? Or should we press ahead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new set of political dogmas , enforced by a new kind of establishment ? Or do we have another and better choice ? The answers to these questions depend on the basic relation of the sciences to traditional values . 81 1 // The Established Dissenters THE CELEBRATED CONFLICT between science and the humanities is real enough in that it takes up a lot of the time of those who prepare academic budgets or give out foundation grants . But in the American political system , it is a phony war . The literary and the artistic branches of the humanities have never been in the thick of the political battle at all ; they have never contended for the role of determining the values that guide policy decisions , or of supplying a systematic basis for political thought . The branch of the humanities that once undertook to do so was theology , the medieval " Queen of the Sciences . " If science has had any rivals for the honor of providing the intellectual basis for government action , they have been law and moral philosophy , the branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied to it , during the formative centuries of the European political tradition . And if today there is hardly a real political battle between these rival fields of learning it is partly because , in academic politics , science has won a crushing victory ; partly because , having won that fight , science seems to have no desire to occupy the political throne from which theology has been driven ; and partly because theology shows no disposition whatever to regain its old uncomfortable seat of power , from which it once proclaimed the basic values by which government was to be guided . Science , although it has become an establishment supported more or less on its own terms by society , is not moving toward the status of an Established Church , not becoming the citadel of a new orthodoxy . In the American ( and generally , in the West1 82 The Established Dissenters crn ) political system , scientists behave more like Dissenters than Iike hierarchs . And this seems to be almost equally true whether a scientist in theory asserts the unlimited competence of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , there seems to be a wide range of opinion within the scientific community . The eminent scientists ( and their professional allies among the engineers and physicians ) who hold important positions of influence in government , and in the institutional structure by which government and science are now so closely connected , seem to retain rather conventional views . As Insiders , they are likely to accept the subordination of science to the value systems established by the nation 's political tradition and interpreted by the authority of its government , and they can get along without much confidence that they are on the ad to Utopia . The Outsiders , on the other hand ? the scientists yvho prefer to appear as independent critics of present policy ? are less willing to accept the validity of the traditional political ethos , or the necessity for science to be subordinated to a system f organized authority based on traditional values . Obviously this is an impressionistic caricature of two wings of opinion , but it seems to me to identify roughly the difference of attitude between , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Council for a Livable World , and perhaps even many of the contributors to the I ulletin of the Atomic Scientists ? even though the two attitudes are mixed in most scientists and in most of the rest of us . The Insiders ' view was typified by the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology when he told the National Academy of Sciences at its Centennial Celebration that 90 percent of the federal expenditures for research and development should be undertaken only after administrators and legislators had decided that the individual projects were needed . The role of the expert in such decisions was to give advice , and to pass on means , not ends . ' The Outsiders , on the other hand , are comparatively unwill-83 The Scientific Estate ing to fit into a system the ends of which were determined by a prescientific culture , and the institutions of which are still dominated by men trained in the legal or theological or philosophical assumptions of that culture . They are much more likely to believe that the methods of science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the social sciences , are moving toward an ability to solve even our political problems , and that scientists as such have an obligation to take political action to that end . But surprisingly few of them seem to be persuaded that such political action requires any fundamental change in our political institutions . In spite of their general distrust of the processes of politics and politicians , the Outsiders are still willing to put their faith in an oversimplified version of Jefferson 's ideas about political machinery , even though they may have lost their confidence in applied science and its relation to Divine Purpose that was the basis of Jefferson 's belief in progress . Their ideal would be an egalitarian democracy , with all issues decided by the votes of private citizens who have not been corrupted by service in the bureaucracy , and all of whom are earnestly studying science . The ideal has been depicted ? with an admission of its lack of realism but still as an ideal ? as a system of electronic communication in which every citizen could watch and listen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national referendum . ' In their different ways , both the Insiders and Outsiders are too deeply absorbed in current issues to think about the basic theory of their political status . To develop such a theory , besides , would call for a command of nearly all branches of scientific and humane knowledge . No professional scholar has any incentive to undertake such a formidable task ; the specialized structure of the academic world makes the undertaking a disreputable one . But the scientist or administrator who is involved in the new relationship of politics and science is forced to worry about this problem and to have at least some tacit theory to guide him in 1 84 The Established Dissenters dealing with it . As a beginning toward formulating such a theory , he might well recall the way in which science was freed from the domination of the traditional learning . THE CONQUESTS OF SCIENCE The political challenge of science was implicit in its seventeenth-century rivalry with theology and scholastic philosophy . Itcfore that time , the scientists as well as the priests and poets w ere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of analogies with man , and to understand man and the physical universe alike in terms of Divine Purpose . As the mystic , Jacob Boehme , wrote , " man is the great mystery of God , the microcosm , or the complete abridgement of the whole universe , " 3 and in his day this notion guided astronomers as well as poets and theologians . T his was the point of view against which Boehme 's contemporary , Francis Bacon , rebelled at the beginning of the seventeenth century . " It is incredible , " he wrote , " what a number of ols have been introduced into science by the reduction of atural operations to a correspondence with human actions , that , by imagining that nature acts as man does , which is not much tier than the heresy of the anthropomorphists. " 4 Within the two centuries after Bacon , the tables were turned . When that period began , astronomers were just beginning to give up their belief , to which Copernicus had been fully committed , that they had to treat planetary orbits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embody Divine Purpose . When it ended , men were beginning to question the usefulness of Genesis as a textbook in biology and geology . W hen it began , philosophers and theologians were still insisting that nature could be understood by reducing its workings to correspond with the hopes and fears of men , and with what they liked to believe was the will of God . When it ended , nature was teen as a great piece of clockwork , with all of its movements keying the same laws of mechanics , so that Laplace 's ideal scientist , if he could know the position and motion of every atom in 85 1 The Scientific Estate the universe at an instant , would be able to predict everything that would happen thereafter to eternity . With this notion , it was not surprising that Bacon 's " reduction of natural operations " would begin to work backward , and that men would begin to try to understand themselves and their society by reducing themselves to natural operations . Today Bacon might find it incredible to see what a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the social sciences , to reduce human actions to natural operations . The primary article of faith among the orthodox natural scientists ( there are , of course , many skeptics and dissenters ) is that rigorous scientific method is being gradually extended from the hard sciences to the soft sciences ? from mathematics and physics , through chemistry and biology , to psychology and the social sciences . This is the spectrum of the sciences as described by August Comte , and his positivist followers ever since have expected the scientific method to make a progressive advance along this line : philosophy and theology were the enemies , and their defenses were to be steadil reduced as the rigorously impersonal method of the science conquered one field after another , occupying at last the practic. field of government . By the time of Thomas Jefferson , scientists were already as suming that this progressive advance of the sciences would rev olutionize society and destroy the influence of the ecclesiastic . establishments , the stronghold of authoritarian tradition . Jeffer son was too much the practical politician to push his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed with th scientific doctrinaires of the French Revolution who would ex elude Divine Purpose from their system of thinking about thfuture of man and society . ' He was not interested in overthrow ing one type of scholastic establishment and replacing it by an other ; he expressed great contempt for those charitable organiza tions that " spent themselves in founding schools to transfer t ? science the hardy sons of the plough . ' ' ' This attitude , which hel that science needed to justify itself to society by its practic. 86 The Established Dissenters applications , was superficially very similar to the attitudes expessed in England in the seventeenth century by the followers of Bacon . The similarities show up most clearly if we compare the iirposes of the Royal Society , founded by Bacon 's followers in 660 , with those of the American Philosophical Society , founded t 1743 by Benjamin Franklin . The American society 's purposes ere expressed in Franklin 's " A Proposal for Promoting Useful knowledge , " with an emphasis on " Experiments that let Light to the Nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Matter , and multiply the Conveniencies or Pleasures of lie . " That Proposal was in the same spirit as the earlier purposes f the Royal Society , as Robert Hooke defined them in 1663 : it reposed to avoid dogmatic philosophy , or " the explication of iy phenomena whose recourse must be had to originall causes as not being explicable by heat , cold , weight , figure , and the e , as effects produced thereby ) ; " and to work on " Manufaces , Mechanick practices , Engynes , and Inventions by Experints . " ' And yet the political temper of the two groups of scientists , their formative years , was quite different . One received a yal charter ; the other was finally chartered in 1780 by a cute signed by the clerk of the General Assembly of Pennsylia , Thomas Paine . The leaders of the Royal Society proimed that they were " not meddling with Divinity , Metahysics , Moralls , Politicks , Grammar , Rhetorick , or Logick. " 8 he leaders who won control of the American Philosophical iriety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory , revolutionics . The founders of the Royal Society had been associated with Calvinist wing of religious thought that had been the active rce in the Puritan rebellion and the execution of Charles I , so t their renunciation of politics may have been only the price be paid for sponsorship by Charles II . But it was also in ord with the temper of the time : England was " satiated with 87 The Scientific Estate Religious Disputes " and civil war , and scientists , like others , were looking for a chance to cultivate their gardens and avoid useless quarrels . ' By contrast , Franklin and Jefferson , who served as presidents of the American Philosophical Society for nine tenths of the period from 1769 to 1814 , thought of science as the basis for world-wide political revolution and for continuous political progress thereafter . In the last letter Jefferson wrote , he attributed the beginnings of the rebellion against " monkish ignorance and superstition " and in favor of " the rights of man " to the " general spread of the light of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson set an example of political initiative on the part of a scientist ; by the nature of the administrative institutions and legislative procedures that he helped to establish , he cleared the way for scientists to concern themselves with the ends of policy , as well as the technical means toward such ends . But all the while he assumed that science would not become a new establishment , and that it would justify its existence by the type of practical and applied work which it would undertake . But it is striking to see how soon in the history of the American republic the scientist as such disappeared from political leadership . After Jefferson , the presidents of the American Philosophical Society were political nonentities , and American scientists seemed almost as eager to forget about republican egalitarianism , and to be accorded honors befitting their intellectual eminence , as the members of the academies of Paris or Berlin or St. Petersburg ? which were the models for the scientists who , just before the Civil War , were advocating the creation of a National Academy of Sciences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the nineteenth century to set up a strong set of institutions for the pursuit of advanced theoretical science , such as Napoleonic France developed in the Ecole Polytechnique , the Ecole Normale , and the revitalized Academie des Sciences , or such as the German renaissance after Napoleon produced in an impressive number of universities . But even after the revolutionary ardor of American scien-88 The Established Dissenters tists cooled off and they seemed to become similar to the British in their concentration on practical rather than theoretical interests , there still remained a significant difference : the institutional and academic politics that hampered theoretical science in the two countries came from opposite motives . In Great Britain , science ( in spite of the political prudence of most British scientists ) was quite correctly identified at the beginning of the nineteenth century as an intellectual force that had helped produce the American and French revolutions . During the reaction against republicanism in governmental politics , science suffered in academic politics . The ecclesiastical establishment that dominated the older universities had no sympathy for science ; they were willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an applied nature . This academic preference for pure over applied science did even theoretical science little practical good ; it remained strictly a poor relation within the household of the unreformed academic establishments , dominated by the Church of England and the Tory party . It was no accident , then , that the principal leaders of science in Great Britain came from the Scottish universities , like Kelvin , or from obscure dissenting sects , like Faraday , or from among the Unitarians , like Priestley , or the Quakers , like Dalton . ( It seems a little unfair to blame the slow development of basic science during this period on religion as such , for the dissenting sects were typically more earnest and puritanical and often more literal in their religious beliefs than the Church of England ; the problem was not religion , but the politics of the ecclesiastical establishment . ) 11 When more active support came for experimental science , it was in the dissenting academies , or in London and the newer universities founded on German models . The advancement of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caste system , to the lower middle class.12 In the United States , on the other hand , theoretical science was handicapped not because Jefferson and Franklin , with their union of applied science and radical politics , were held back by 89 The Scientific Estate an ecclesiastical establishment , but because they triumphed over it so completely . In the eighteenth century , while science was still ( under the name of natural philosophy ) justified in American colleges as an offshoot and ally of theology , its international standing was higher than at any time during the next century . Curiously enough , in view of the conventional opinion that ecclesiasticism has been the great handicap to science , basic science seemed to flourish in the United States during the eighteenth century , when " natural philosophy was generally held to be the friend and not the enemy of revealed truth , " and when the contemporary science was a part of the program of training for the ministry . By contrast , the nineteenth-century flowering of mechanical invention was comparatively barren of theoretical science.13 During this period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment , but the popular acceptance of a vulgarization of Jefferson 's philosophy : the notion that the practical ingenuity of the Yankee mechanic was better than theory for the advancement of science . Washington and most of our other early presidents might advocate the establishment of a national university , but Congress was quite content to do without such an extravagance . There is something symbolic in the fact that , when an Englishman offered the United States an endowment for a national scientific institution ( being persuaded that only in the United States could science continue its liberating alliance with radical politics ) Congress refused to accept the gift for many years , and when it finally did so , it invested the Smithsonian bequest in bonds of the State of Arkansas , which defaulted on them.14 And when Congress did get around to providing national support for higher education , it was not for the diffusion of knowledge among men , but for the advancement of the agricultural and mechanic arts . There was , indeed , a theological reaction in the United States against the scientific radicalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first college west of the 90 The Established Dissenters mountains , had made a brave beginning in science under the leadership of Jeffersonian free-thinkers and Unitarians , but all that was stifled when it fell under the control of the Presbyterians filiring the great religious revivals of the early nineteenth cent Iffy . " But in the metropolitan centers of the United States , from that day to this , theological obscurantism has been stronger in the lower than the upper classes . The elite universities were more independent of conservative theological pressures than were the backwoods denominational colleges or even the state land-grant colleges , which were formally quite apart from ecclesiastical influence . It was not theological prejudices that kept Harvard from throwing all its weight behind the theoretical sciences ; when it founded the Lawrence Scientific School in 1847 it followed good . I effersonian doctrine in putting its emphasis on the training of men who would serve " as engineers or chemists . . . applying their attainments to practical purposes . " 16 The upper-class institutions of higher learning were simply becoming the technological servants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson had bet on the wrong horse . He had wanted to make sure that science would be applied to the purposes of an agrarian democracy . And so he proposed that in the universities of America agricultural science be recognized as " the crown of all other sciences . " He was the first of our scientists to propose that his particular field , on account of its social utility , be given academic preferment with government aid . " The same artificial means which have been used to produce a competition in learning , may be equally successful in restoring agriculture to its primary dignity in the eyes of men . . . In every College and University , a professorship of agriculture , and the class of its students , might be honored as the first ... " 17 Hamilton , of course , had taken a quite different line . His Report on Manufactures had proposed government subsidies for the advancement of technology , but for the benefit of industry more than agriculture . All the forces of technology in the indus91 1 The Scientific Estate trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were to conspire to make twentieth-century America far more like his dream than like Jefferson 's . And his victory was less the result of the conspiracy of corporate interests than of the failure of Jefferson 's theory of the way in which man 's moral and political purpose was to be advanced in practical politics . For that theory took for granted the essential goodness and harmony of men 's purposes , provided that men were not constrained and oppressed by ecclesiastical and feudal establishments ; it held that the accumulation of practical knowledge in a free and egalitarian society would automatically guarantee the advancement of both knowledge and human welfare , under the guidance of a " natural aristocracy " of talent . " Within a few decades it was plain that popular politics in the United States would not be willing to support either a natural aristocracy in politics or the advancement of science . One half of Jefferson 's theory defeated the other half . Jacksonian democrats were quite willing to follow Jefferson in opposing establishments and class privilege , and relying on applied rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calling to office Jefferson 's " natural aristoi , " or in building up ( as John Quincy Adams proposed ) scientific institutions that would bring America up among the leaders of science . Hence , in spite of the unusual freedom of scientists to advance themselves and their interests in public affairs , and in spite of the widespread support of applied science for both agricultural and industrial purposes , basic science in America remained second-rate throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth century . It did so , not because it was held back by an upper-class establishment , allied with ecclesiastical politics , but because the scientists who had helped shape the politics of the Revolutionary period had come so close to getting just what they wanted . And this was a social and political system with no establishments , in which scientists would be given support on the basis of the practical utility of their research , and in which public affairs would be administered en1 92 i The Established Dissenters tirely by men who would hold office , or lose office , every time the electorate changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jeffersonian hopes were disap , pointed . It was not enough to free science from the shackles of theological influence , and politics from the domination of the church and the bureaucracy or nobility . Once the academic and political worlds were freed of their subordination to such ideas and institutions , they were not content with the high thinking of pure science or the plain living of the small farmer . For the more that technology and science contributed to the material welfare and comfort of mankind , the more science seemed to be dependent on the patronage not of an egalitarian democracy , but of a new type of highly organized power , the industrial corporation and its philanthropic offshoots . When support began to come for science as basic research , rather than in connection with specific applications , it came not from the influence of popular political leadership , but from a source that Jefferson would not have expected and might not have welcomed : a union of great wealth and religious motivation , now characteristically incorporated in an institution that is a legal descendant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The first major step , in frank imitation of the continental European institutions , came with the founding of Johns Hopkins , the first American university to put major emphasis on graduate research in the natural sciences . But the continuing push in that direction came from the general educational foundations that were established soon after the turn of the century . The several Carnegie and Rockefeller foundations had been established by industrialists who were motivated by strong religious beliefs , but the academic strategy that they followed was the opposite of support for an ecclesiastical establishment , or for classical theories of education . Andrew Carnegie , by making his pensions for professors available only to colleges that were not controlled by churches , led a great many academic institutions to separate 93 The Scientific Estate themselves from the control of Protestant denominations ; Congress would not dream of attaching such a condition today to the federal funds pouring into American universities , in spite of the tradition of separation of church and state . And it was under the guidance of Frederick G. Gates and Wallace Buttrick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosopher , that John D. Rockefeller 's fortune became dedicated first to the advancement of medicine and general education , and then to this proposition : " All important fields of activity from the breeding of bees to the administration of an empire , call for an understanding of the spirit and technique of modern science . . . Appreciation of its spirit and technique , moreover , determines the mental attitude of a people , affects the entire system of education , and carries with it the shaping of a civilization . " 2o This was the point of view that had come to dominate the academic and intellectual institutions of the United States , and the thinking of the business and political leaders who financed them . There was no important challenge to its influence ; science was indeed ready to move on " from the breeding of bees to the administration of an empire . " The ideas of objective techniques of inquiry , with notions of purpose and values rigorously eliminated , invaded the social sciences and then began to influence even the study of administration ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in research as well as teaching , and government agencies began to recruit their graduates . As all this went on , the model most frequently held up for emulation was the Administrative Class of the British civil service . Yet after a half-century or so of effort , it is quite apparent that the United States has nothing in its governmental system like the established corps of general administrators , educated primarily in historical and classical subjects , whose influence is so great over the policies as well as the management of British government . The reasons for this divergence are partly political , and some of them were dealt with in the previous chapter . But they are also 94 The Established Dissenters partly academic and intellectual . Professors of political science assumed that the basic values and purposes of man were determined by his religious beliefs , his philosophical ideas , or other , irrational notions , and that science did not deal with such matters at all . They tended , next , to assume that in government the major issues of policy properly depended on value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to politicians ; administrators would be subordinate , and their work should be made as objective and scientific as possible . This theory was supported by Woodrow Wilson 's essay , " The Study of Administration , " 21 which held that administrative science was the same no matter what the policy or the purpose to he served : " If I see a murderous fellow sharpening a knife cleverly , I can borrow his way of sharpening the knife without borrowing his probable intention to commit murder with it . . . " Accordingly , in imitation of the way that scientists renounced any interest in purpose and values , administrators were supposed to renounce any interest not only in the election of their political superiors , but also in the decisions which politicians would make on policies . The theory that science has nothing to do with values and purpose has its practical political corollaries : the Hatch Act Iorbids civil servants to take part in political campaigns , and the Internal Revenue Code denies tax exemption to scientific institutions that use their funds to influence legislation . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British civil service with its impartial administration , but it was quite different in theory as well as in practice . For it asked the administrator not merely to abstain from public participation ita contests for power , but to avoid an interest in the substance of governmental programs . This approach , when followed in aim vcrsity programs of training for government service , turned i experts in managerial techniques ? such as specialists in budgeting or personnel administration ? far more successfully than it produced general administrators . A little later , in imita1on of industrial management , the application of science to 951 The Scientific Estate training for public administration came to include the use of psychology and sociology and cybernetics to deal with the morale of the workers , the effectiveness of their interpersonal relations and communications , and the technical aspects of the decision-making process . But this approach , though it took a broader view of the concept of efficiency , still refused to deal with the policy objectives of the organization . Consequently , the label " administrative , " which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with policy issues , came in the U.S. service to apply to jobs and to men charged with the means rather than the ends of a program , and therefore properly to be subordinated to the " executives " responsible for the substance of policy . The substance of policy , on the other hand , was generally assumed to include the scientific and technological aspects of the program . Scientists , however rigorously they may think they keep ideas of purpose out of their research , are not so inhibited on questions of policy . They are likely to assume , in the best Jeffersonian tradition , that the pursuit of science is not only a good end in itself , but a means toward political ends that are so obviously desirable that others ought to accept them automatically , or at least permit the scientists to propagandize for them while holding public office on a nonpartisan career basis . This is not merely the way scientists think ; it is sanctified by public acceptance . If a career official in the Internal Revenue Service or the Post Office or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher income taxes or the public ownership of the telegraph system or more government regulation of business , it would be considered at least mildly improper , and perhaps even grounds for dismissal . If a rocket expert or a nuclear engineer or a psychiatrist in government service advocates vast appropriations for his field of interest , or major shifts in the relationship of the federal government to private institutions , he may be thought of as zealous to a tiresome degree , but he is only doing his duty . 96 The Established Dissenters " Establishment " has come to be a fashionable term for purses of political ridicule , as young English authors deride the upper classes . But it is a pity to let the dramatists spoil a useful ' political term by making it mean any type of clique or class with It powerful influence . It is useful for a more precise purpose , to define a social institution that is given permanent public support and status apart from current shifts in political power . Thus the Church of England is established , and so are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Civil Service . The intellectual disciplines that dominate this interlocking establishment are those on which the traditional values were founded ; those whom this system has promoted to high rank are licensed to counsel the government on its most important policies , as long as they do so privately and discreetly , and do not get involved publicly in partisan disputes . In the United States , the intellectual and academic tradition was different , and it produced a quite different institutional system , even though it had some of the features of an establishment . In the Jeffersonian tradition , the system was founded partly on the land-grant colleges , whose scientists created the unique American agricultural system ; then Jeffersonian theory mixed with Hamiltonian practice established the great foundations , and made the principal private universities , once thought of as centers of pure scholarship , into decentralized systems for furthering not merely the advancement of science , but its application to public policy.22 And if the mark of an establishment within the government is the ability to maintain a continuous access to the ear of the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in party control of the White House in 1961 brought in a new Council of Economic Advisers , and a new Budget Director , but the President 's Science Advisory Committee was hardly affected . Both of the men who had served as chairman under Eisenhower remained on the committee under President Kennedy , and he chose as his new chairman a scientist who had been on the Eisenhower committee . 971 The Scientific Estate G. K. Chesterton once remarked that Great Britain could take pride in the fact that the sailors in the Royal Navy had never ? well , hardly ever ? mutinied , except for more pay . A social system is stable as long as its disputes are not over fundamentals . On this principle , the present scientific establishment in the United States is healthy enough ; its internal arguments are mainly over the ways in which its grants and contracts are distributed , and from the outside it is challenged mainly with respect to the amount of money it gets , or the specific uses to which the money is put . With one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious effort to present the arguments , from the point of view of a conservative philosophy , against the intellectual approach of the scientific establishment whose theories have so profoundly influenced our national policies . That exception was not altogether serious ; it had some tragic elements , but they were mixed with low comedy . It was the effort made by a special committee of the House of Representatives , under the chairmanship of Congressman B. Carroll Reece ( Republican of Tennessee ) to investigate the work of the tax-exempt foundations . And the intellectual core of the investigation was an attack on the " growing movement to apply the methods used in the natural sciences to research in the social sciences . " This movement , the committee report argued in 1954 , had led the social scientist to believe that the main purpose of his discipline was to catch up with the rigorous and value-free methods of the natural sciences . The effects of this belief were " an excess of empirical research , " based on " inductive reasoning from observed data , " and this in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detriment of our basic moral , religious , and governmental principles . " It was , of course , the final political result of this methodological influence of the natural sciences that the writers of the report were interested in . They said of the scientific method : " Its nat ? ural outcome is an approach to Marxism ? it is not surprising that so many of the social scientists tend to collectivism . " This is 98 The Established Dissents , . dangerous both because " public opinion is greatly determined , In the long run , by the influence of intellectuals , " and more specifically because " the government has come to rely upon foundations and foundation-supported organizations to provide social scientists ' for research and in advisory capacities , " with the effect of " infiltrating government with subversives . " 23 Except for the point about subversives , the argument was one that might have gained considerable support from any of the several conservative schools of thought that were becoming fashionable in American academic life , and that were undertaking to defend the traditional against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had been arguing that the structure of American society had been so shapeless , and its tradition so deficient in firm theological or philosophical principles , that it had no inner defenses against the domination of public affairs by a technology devoid of purpose or spiritual 1 values . Science , this line of argument ran , had had its modern origins in Western Europe in the intellectual movement that was associated with the rise of Protestantism , and perhaps even earlier with the heretical ideas of the nominalists . Its radical implications were kept in some check in Western Europe by the traditional structure of society , but in the United States ? with no aristocratic tradition , and no established church or bureaucracy ? the scientists and their intellectual allies had no real opposition in imposing their ideas on public policy . Worst of all , they seemed to have an edge in the competition for foundation grants . This was a legitimate though highly debatable point of view , and something like it had become current in various centers of academic and governmental thought . For examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the neoThomists gathered at the University of Chicago under the leadership of President Robert M. Hutchins and Mortimer Adler , 24 and among public officials , the quite different ideas of George F. Kennan , who had never been persuaded by liberal scientists that the atomic bomb had made us into One World , or that technical 99 1 The Scientific Estate assistance was rapidly turning all the underdeveloped countries into democracies . But intellectuals of the genuinely conservative tradition were not the allies that Mr. Reece was seeking : he listed Messrs . Hutchins , Adler , and Kennan in his report among those whose names were in the files of the House Committee on Un-American Activities , and used their association to help document the subversive guilt of the foundations . And Mr. Reece 's purpose was certainly not to establish a conservative political authority in the United States ; it was only to prove the charge that he announced as he started his inquiry : " Here lies the story of how communism and socialism are financed in the United States . " 25 The success of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the main ideas in American intellectual life had been invented by a big-money conspiracy , a feat so obviously beyond the competence of " big money " that it was hard for politicians to take the charges seriously , even in the era of McCarthyism . The investigation collapsed shortly after a minority member of the committee read aloud ( without identifying ) excerpts from Papal encyclicals , and a member of the committee staff said that they were " closely comparable to Communist literature , " and that their objectives " parallel very closely communistic ideals . " 26 The Reece report was a good example of the empirical research that it denounced : it amassed a great deal of detail to prove what every academic administrator in the United States knew ? that the major foundations , the major universities , the major scholarly associations and their federations , and the major government agencies all kept in touch with each other and exchanged ideas and personnel , and that science was the ; main source of the ideas they respected most . But it was tragically deficient in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize that the main source of the intellectual tradition that it was attacking was not Marxist , but Jeffersonian ? just as its own attack was based on a Jeffersonian dislike of concentrated economic influence , rather than on a conservative philosophy drawn from the prescientific theological tradition . 100 The Established Dissenters For better or for worse , science escaped from the institutional omination of the older culture very early in the history of the nited States , and in its relation to the administrators of acacmic and public affairs it has been in a position of predominant fluence ever since . The traditional culture , derived from theolgy and the old philosophy , has had comparatively little organ.ed influence on politics ; there is simply no conservative political faction of any consequence that has its intellectual roots in the old tradition , to counterbalance the newer and more radical influence of science . This is perhaps a weakness in American politics ; the most ardent conservatives are , like the late Congressman Reece , not conservatives at all in the historical and philosophical sense of that term ; they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological interests.27 Science in the United States might as well quit rebelling against the older culture from which it sprang . It has become independent of its father long since ; its more dangerous rival is its technological offspring . If science wishes to continue to guard its freedom and emphasize its purpose of knowledge and understanding for their own sakes , it might well begin to worry about the prospect of a society dominated entirely by technological purpose . Science might well wonder whether it might not have fared better in a society in which the theological and political traditions of free institutions remained powerful . But if that is so , science can not count on being protected by the older tradition , which unaided is much too feeble in the United States to set limits on the purposes of technology . THE SELF-RESTRAINT OF SCIENCE Out of its own methods and its own approach , science will have to make some contribution to a new theory about its proper relation to politics . We can best judge what that contribution may be , not by listening to what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they say about their own work as scientists . The average citizen who reads Sunday supplements or the 1 ot The Scientific Estate political scientist who reads Congressional hearings may get the impression that scientists now think that science may some day , even if it can not now , provide the answer to any question of policy . Many scientists feel obliged to assert their potential jurisdiction in this way ; they believe that science , for more than three centuries , has been winning its intellectual battle against theology and traditionalism , and do not see why it should accept any limits on its victory except as a temporary tactic . At times , this point of view ? which is characteristically expressed more often by the Outsiders , who are most conspicuous as critics of public policy , than by the Insiders , who have to help administer it ? seems to represent nearly a consensus in the scientific community . Many scientists , even when they support the Insiders as a practical necessity , seem to think that they are making unworthy compromises with politicians and administrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local politicians who tolerate a certain amount of commercial vice in order not to hurt business . On the other hand , if the layman takes even a brief excursion into the writings of leading scientists , and takes note of what they say about their own business , he is not persuaded that science is a form of knowledge whose practitioners are growing in confidence about their ability to understand and interpret reality , especially with respect to problems that are related to human purposes . Still less is he persuaded that scientists themselves are inclined to unite in an organization that could help to persuade the general citizenry to accept science as an authoritative guide to policy decisions . For example , the revolution in physics over the past halfcentury left many of the more philosophical physicists , especially the leaders of the older generation , with much less confidence that physics can ever reach a complete understanding of concrete reality . The majority of the younger generation may not accept this philosophical pessimism , and may hold to a faith that science can in principle answer any question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they set such limits on the kinds of questions that they consider to have real meaning that they exclude many of the philosophical or political questions that most interest the layman . During the same period , scientists in other disciplines have come to be much less inclined to think that it will ever be possible to develop a single mechanical and deterministic science , to which all other sciences can be reduced in a grand and unified system.28 I am not concerned here with the issue whether in theory physics ( or any other science ) may some day actually provide a complete understanding of nature , or solve any concrete political problem . That is a metaphysical issue that has no operational meaning to a student of politics . I am concerned rather with what scientists themselves think about that issue , for it is hard to imagine that science could provide the intellectual basis for a new theory of politics unless scientists generally believed that their methods contained some promise of dealing comprehensively with major political issues ? as the materialist dialectic proposes to deal with problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And the most pertinent fact is that most American scientists seem to think that such an idea is either irrelevant to their interests , or merely silly . Their attitude comes in the main not from any loss of selfconfidence on the part of the scientist in his particular discipline . Few doubt , moreover , that there is in some sense a fundamental unity of science , and that over the past half-century the several sciences have greatly enlarged their common stock of general principles , and of their conceptual tools of inquiry . Many hold more firmly than ever to their belief that scientific concepts will be progressively unified in principles of increasing generality . Nevertheless , all this is quite different from the much simpler scientific faith of the nineteenth century , which showed more confidence in the complete adequacy of science as a means of understanding reality , and in the possibility of extending the principles of mechanics so as completely to understand and then 103 1 The Scientific Estate to predict and control human and social affairs . That was the kind of intellectual faith on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Physicists began to lose that kind of confidence in the nineteenth century as they went beyond the solid and predictable matter that seemed to correspond to the ordinary man 's notion of what was real . The electromagnetic theory of Faraday and Maxwell , for example , made Kelvin uncomfortable because he could not devise a mechanical model of it.20 And as the physicist got inside the atom , he entered a universe to which some of the older generation never became reconciled ; to them it seemed to contain phenomena that were for the first time , even in principle , unknowable and unmeasurable ; and individual bits of inanimate matter seemed to behave without obeying the classical laws of cause and effect . The younger generation of physicists apparently got used to all this quite promptly . They did not even expect to think in terms of the mechanical models , or the aesthetic analogies , that had been the foundations of the scientific faith of their elders . Einstein tried to convey to the layman some notion of the mathematical and abstract nature of modern physics by saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge increases , his picture of reality will become simpler and simpler and will explain a wider and wider range of his sensuous impressions . " At the same time , he warned , the scientist has to understand reality in the way a man might if he had to study a watch without opening it . " He will never be able to compare his picture with the real mechanism and he can not even imagine the possibility or the meaning of such a comparison . " 30 The younger physicists characteristically did not even care whether there was a watch there in the first place ; if they could identify the things they could observe , and measure and predict their relationships , they were not interested in the kind of " reality " that was beyond their observation , and were not sure that it made sense to assume that it existed . 104 The Established Dissenters The great advances in the physicists ' understanding of the aterial world have apparently come from this kind of selective merest . Science has achieved its great power by insisting on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by refusing to take on problems merely because some outside authority coniders them important . But that power , and the precision of bought on which it depends , is purchased by a refusal to deal ith many aspects of such problems . Some of those aspects are ose that always appeal to the child and the poet , and that used concern the philosopher ? notions of ultimate cause and of uman purpose . Thus Newton refused in the Principia to try to answer the question how one celestial body could move another without touching it ; by setting aside the question that Aristotle and Descartes had considered important , he made it possible not only to predict the movements of the planets , but to relate them to the general laws of mechanics on earth . The demand of each scientific discipline for the right to choose its own problems , and fit them to its concepts and techniques and instruments , suggests that science is not eager to undertake to solve the problems of society as society would define them ? especially since politicians so often insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation ago , a number of physicists were so impressed by the new quantum mechanics , and especially the new uncertainty principle ? resulting from the discovery that it was impossible at the same time to determine with precision the position and the velocity of an electron ? that their confidence was shaken in the regularity of natural phenomena , and the operation of cause and effect . As a result , a few of them took to mystical speculation , and most of them concentrated on their specific research interests and ignored the philosophical implications , but those with the broadest interests undertook to grapple with the problem in a scientific spirit . In recent years , for example , the less mystical and more positivistic among the physicists ? for example , the late Percy W. Bridgman ? have been likely to worry about the limits on the ability of science to know and to predict . 105 The Scientific Estate Even if the physicist retains full confidence , in principle , in the regular sequence of cause and effect , in practice he acknowledges that it is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the atoms without having a limited number to observe under controlled conditions , which means without letting anything come in from outside to upset the experiment . The idea of determinism , in short , has meaning only within a controlled experiment of reasonable size ; to talk of determinism throughout the universe , Bridgman argued , becomes meaningless for any but metaphysical or religious purposes.31 Moreover , there is the limit that is set on the exactness of science by the need to take into account , in any observation , the instruments which give you the knowledge of the things you are studying , as well as the things themselves . As Bridgman noted , this problem comes up not only in dealing with the very small-scale phenomena ? as when it becomes impossible to determine simultaneously the position and velocity of an electron precisely ? but in dealing with very large systems . For you can not understand and control your data unless you understand and control your instruments as well , and once your data reach a certain quantity the control of those instruments will require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Bridgman summed up these limitations ? in a bit of fanciful speculation ? by considering the problem of studying the functioning of the human brain by looking at its individual atoms . In addition to the time required to observe all their vast number , and to consider their interrelationships , there would be the time needed to put the observations into words , and then argue about those words . This would lead , he gloomily observed , to another infinite regression . The biological or social scientist is not nearly so frightened by the quantity and complexity and ( in practice if not in theory ) the unpredictability of the data he has to work with . He is used to dealing with statistical models and probabilities , and inclined to scoff at the timidity of the professor of the supposedly more 1 106 The Established Dissenters gorous discipline who considers it impossible to think at all scitifically about a subject unless it is subject to completely de-terministic rules . But the " harder " sciences seem less eager than they once were to extend their jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are inclined to avoid many questions that the layman would wish to ask , because they con-sider them either too difficult or meaningless , and they seem to take pride in the discovery that they have reached limits on what can be known about certain physical phenomena . The main purpose of science as such can no longer be de-fined in terms of " useful knowledge " ; it is less a matter of pro-viding answers than of opening up new questions . James B. Conant defined science as a series of concepts arising from ex-periment and observation , and fruitful of further experiments.32 This emphasis , as Gerald Holton has pointed out , has led in its extreme form to an interest in highly specialized and sharply de-fined problems , and simultaneously a complete suspension of curiosity in all other directions ; and in its less extreme form , to an " existential acceptance of the known and unknown . " 33 Thus the logical affinity of modern science , in its most rig-orous and positivistic forms , does not seem to be with nineteenth-century idealism , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all knowledge and which was taken to serve as the basis for powerful authoritarian systems of politics . Instead it seems to be with existentialism . Science does not seem to expect to establish a body of set truths that can serve as a dogmatic basis for political action . The main philosophical threat to our freedom is not that science will tempt us to invent a new mate-rialist dialectic , or establish a " 1984 " style dictatorship . It is rather that if we rely on science alone we will be left with no sense of the purpose of existence , and thus no basis for deter-mining our political goals to guide the blind forces of applied technology . Let us leave the physicists for the moment , move along the line from the hard toward the soft sciences , and look at biology . 107 The Scientific Estate Here we find a number of leading biologists worrying about the relevance to science of the idea of purpose , and openly in rebellion against the " reductionist " philosophy , which proposed not only to make biology more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reducing it to the analytical approaches of physics and chemistry . Niels Bohr once noted the limitation on the methods of physics in studying a living organism : to make a complete analysis would destroy it and ruin the observation . But the point made by biologists is even more fundamental : as Rene Dubos argued , even if you could carry on such an analysis , the analytical process inherently ignores the fact that " the traits , properties , and activities associated with the living process are the expressions of the interplay between the constituent parts , rather than of their individual characteristics . " The analytical techniques associated with physics and chemistry can not account for the phenomena most characteristic of life , especially " a continuous interplay with the environment involving purposiveness ' or at least directiveness . ' " If Dubos shows a little unwillingness to commit himself altogether to the word " purposiveness , " he may well be trying to distinguish his position carefully from those who , like Teilhard de Chardin or E. W. Sinnott , are considered by some of their colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitalism , which skirts close to the edge of mysticism.35 Even those biologists who dislike to use the term " purpose " in connection with the evolution or development of biological systems are likely to be just as insistent as Dubos on the limitations which science must acknowledge when it undertakes to deal with living organisms . Ernst Mayr , for example , will have nothing to do with any teleology ( in the sense of anything that smacks of the notion of evolution guided by a final goal or purpose ) but insists that biology , unlike most physics , has to admit a high degree of unpredictability or indeterminacy in its subject matter . Individual events take place essentially at random , particularly in heredity ; each animal is truly unique ; each is so complex that a complete 108 The Established Dissenters description of it is quite impossible ; and in the interaction of living beings new qualities emerge that are not logically predictable from their previous properties . For all these reasons , though statements in biology can have scientific validity , it is a statistical validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predictable.3s As we move along Auguste Comte 's spectrum from physics to biology , and on to the social sciences , we find all these same difficulties intensified . Social scientists generally have hoped that , by making their disciplines more exact , and by imitating the quantitative and rigorous methods of the natural sciences , they could ( a ) provide more reliable guides to those who have to make policy decisions , and might even ( b ) provide the answers to the main policy problems . These two hopes , at first thought , seem very much the same . But they are fundamentally different , and the difference turns on some of the points I have been discussing . The critics of the social sciences have been inclined to say that they will neither provide reliable guides to the policy maker nor provide the answers to policy problems , for two reasons : first , their subject matter is too complex , and second , they mix up their scientific approach with value judgments . There is no doubt that these two limitations , as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way that biology is more complex than physics , and therefore involves less certainty and predictability , so the various social sciences are more complex and difficult than biology . Moreover , as in physics , problems/arise not only from the magnitude and complexity of the data , but from the unreliability of the instruments of observation . Man in society is hard to study scientifically less because he is a complicated object of observation than because he is the instrument of observation , and a refractory one indeed . If modern psychology has taught man anything , it is just how irrational and perverse and unreliable an instrument he is for scientific purposes . It is certainly much harder for him to purge his mind of prejudices and value 109                     