@@773570

txt Part Two Ireland and for disestablishment the Church of Scotland also opposed the Liberals as a party of Scottish Home Rule . ' As far as the Roman Catholic Church was concerned they naturally supported the Liberals in the nineteenth century . It was the party associated with Home Rule for Ireland . On the other hand there is no evidence that this also made them sympathetic to Home Rule for Scotland . There is no reference to it in the Catholic papers between the wars or afterwards . Indeed , whereas the Church of Scotland did stand for a peculiarly Scottish approach to affairs albeit not a nationalist one , the Catholic Church in Scotland did not seem to see itself as , in any way , peculiarly Scottish . The universalistic tradition of the Catholic Church was clearly against this . Mixed with this tradition may also have been the fear that an independent Scotland would be a more intransigently Protestant Scotland . The experience of Ulster would alienate Catholics from this solution . ' If we are to identify support for the SNP we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We would expect Scottish sentiment to exist in the Church of Scotland since this institution bears much of the tradition of Scotland but the Church itself is too intertwined with the existing order in which it has a privileged position , to be a very active supporter of nationalism . The Church of Scotland has certainly been one institution if not the primary institution which has expressed the Scottishness of Scottish society . It has consistently been determined that Scottish life styles should be maintained in a way which has not been raised by other institutions . Thus it is easy to look through the deliverances of the General Assembly of the Church and to come upon deliverances concerning the keeping of the Sabbath , the changes of Catholicism and the virtues of Calvinist theology . On a more secular level the Church through its Church and Nation Committee has concerned itself with the material life of Scotland . From 1920 onwards there has been detailed discussion about the state of the Scottish economy and society . It was not until after the war , however , that the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church of Scotland has pronounced continuously in favour of a Scottish Parliament to deal with Scottish affairs . Its Annual General Assembly has had regular reports from the Church and Nation Committee supporting the idea of Home Rule and pressing the government to take steps in this direction . The first step came in 1948 when , commenting on the White Paper on Scottish Affairs ' the Committee commented:8 130 The Role of the Church , the Army and Football The White Paper . . . manifests no real awareness of the Scottish determination ? which is no longer limited to any party but is nationwide ? to have Scottish affairs dealt with in Scotland by a representative assembly functioning within the British framework . After considering this report the General Assembly resolved as follows:9 The General Assembly , conscious of growing dissatisfaction throughout the country with the Government 's conduct of Scottish affairs and convinced of the necessity for a large measure of devolution of legislative power , greatly deplore the refusal of His Majesty 's government to institute an enquiry into the issues involved and urge upon the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the whole situation further investigated . In 1949 and again in 1950 similar deliverances were made . We should , in particular , note that of 1950 : The General Assembly , impressed by the fact that more than one million people have signed the Scottish National Covenant by the Third National Assembly in Edinburgh , renew their appeal to His Majesty 's government to appoint a Royal Commission to investigate all the issues involved in the proposed measure of devolution . This deliverance specifically mentions the Scottish National Assembly and it seems quite clear that the whole position of the Church has been taken in response to the work of these Assemblies . In Chapter 13 we shall see that many Presbyteries sent representatives to these meetings and several clergymen were prominent in its work . It seems clear from the timing , therefore , that this was not a case of the Church leading the nation but the Church following an existing lead . The importance of the Assemblies for the thinking of these churchmen comes out in the deliverances of the Church and Nation Committee in 1949 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again a separate state . Her interests , her culture and prosperity are too inextricably bound up with that of England , Wales and Northern Ireland . ' The Scottish Convention which ran these Assemblies broke away from the Scottish National Party in 1942 partly on the issue of Home Rule as against the full programme of independence adopted by the SNP. 131 Part Two In 1951 the Stone of Scone , the ancient Crowning Stone of Scotland , was , as we have seen , removed from the Coronation Chair in Westminster Abbey . It had been taken to London by Edward I of England after subduing the northern kingdom . Its presence in England had always rankled among the Scots . The Church and Nation Committee was rather guarded in its comments . 1 ) The Stone has been generally accepted and long cherished as a Scottish possession . . . . 2 ) The original . . . transportation of the Stone to London intended as a symbol of the subjection of Scotland to the English Crown was unjust . . . . 3 ) These facts can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forcible and secret removal from the Abbey by unauthorised persons . . . . 4 ) While this is true , however , it must be recognised that those who carried out the removal of the Stone were activated only by motives of patriotism and not by a desire for personal gain . . . . 5 ) . . . It would seem that the Stone should most properly be in the custody of the Church of Scotland . Again the Church showed its Scottish feeling but again it reacted to events rather than leading the nation . In 1951 , 1952 and 1953 there were again comments by the General Assembly on the need to consider devolution and when , in 1955 , it commented on the report of the Royal Commission on Scottish Affairs10 the deliverance welcomed the document . The General Assembly regret , however , that the Commission did not regard as falling within its remit any consideration of the larger cultural and national issues which seem to call for a much greater measure of devolution than is recommended in the report . There followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not raised in a deliverance of the General Assembly . In 1960 a well-known Nationalist , Miss Wendy Wood , petitioned the General Assembly that , since the last Scots Parliament of 1707 had been adjourned and not dissolved , it ought now to be recalled . The Church was unwilling to pronounce on the legal status of the situation but it reaffirmed its support for Home Rule . Once more there is a gap interspersed with references to the need for more Scottish control of Scottish affairs . At length , commenting on the winning of Hamilton by the SNP , the deliverance of the Church and Nation Committee in 1968 read : 132 The Role of the Church , the Army and Football The Committee takes the view that this development is not a passing phenomenon which can be alleviated by minor measures of further devolution or dispelled by an improvement in economic conditions . The growing concern for recognition of Scotland 's nationhood and for greater control by Scots over their national affairs arises from causes which can not be so easily remedied or removed . The Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out clearly in the Church and Nation Committee 's deliverances in 1974 commenting on the proposals of the Kilbrandon Commission . " It criticised them since , Such powers ( as were proposed ) do not amount to an effective form of self government since no provision is made for direct Scottish control of finance and economic affairs . ' The General Assembly agreed and in 1976 its own deliverances were unequivocal . While welcoming Her Majesty 's Government 's firm binding commitment set forth in the White Paper entitled Our changing democracy ' . . . we i ) regret that the powers proposed to be devolved to the Assembly are inadequate to enable the Assembly to deal with Scottish problems . ii ) reaffirm many deliverances of previous General Assemblies and again call for an effective form of self-government for Scotland under the Crown within the framework of the United Kingdom , such self-government to be exercised through an assembly with adequate financial and economic powers .. . iii ) urge that the Scottish assembly be granted control of a reasonable proportion of the revenues from North Sea Oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) to protect , preserve and safeguard the countryside . The Church 's position There can be no doubt that the Church of Scotland is unequivocally for a very considerable measure of devolution to Scotland . There can also be no doubt that this stance was taken thirty years ago and has been consistently held ever since . It is not possible to dismiss the content of these deliverances as something of peripheral concern to 133 Part Two the majority of churchmen and women which could be forced through by a few hotheads . If this were so then saner elements ' seem to have taken thirty years to realise what the hot heads ' have committed them to . Again the Church and Nation Committee 's report is one which is scrutinised by the General Assembly at some of its best attended sessions . The content of its reports are on matters of general interest and are well covered by the press . It is unlikely that such well considered matters would throw up a deliverance which was not representative of Church thinking . Finally , it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a general concern for Scottish society . The deliverances of the Church and Nation Committee have , at least since the end of the First World War , been concerned with economic state of Scotland and now they range very widely over all aspects of Scottish life . The Church has also been regularly concerned about the destruction of Scottish national life even where it has not considered Home Rule . Thus in 1960 the Church and Nation Committee commented on the condition of Scotland . The sense of hopeful nationhood , of a country with tradition , characteristics and opportunities strong enough to hold its own young people in their country and with a future bright enough to attract them , seems to be losing its force in an ominous way . We should also bear in mind the fact that the Church can not be said to lead the Scottish people on this issue . In the pronouncements just listed they have reacted to events : the Scottish National Covenant , the Hamilton by-election and the Kilbrandon Commission , rather than leading the country as they did in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulpits but the fact of the matter is that the Church 's opinions are important only for a tiny minority of Scots . With the drop in church attendance and general secularisation the Church of Scotland is now a peripheral organisation in Scottish life . While a large proportion of Scots are members , their membership is purely nominal . We can not explain the rise of nationalism on religious grounds . Before closing this chapter let me turn briefly to two other institutions which express Scottishness very strongly . One is football and the other , the Scottish regiments in the British army . I do not believe that either was important in the development of political nationalism but , in a sense , it is surprising that this is so since they are , both of them among the few areas of institutionalised Scottish-134 The Role of the Church , the Army and Football ness that one is likely to meet in the course of ordinary life . They are examples of the way in which these traditional institutions might be difficult to use for the new political developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British army for a layman is the sight of a Highland regiment . The wearing of the kilt and the use of bagpipes means that there is a very distinct personality . One may go further than this to say that in so far as kilts are worn by the civilian population this is a practice which was spread by army experience . There is an extremely strong feeling of regimental pride and a myth , based in fact , of the courage and dash of these units . There is also an affection for them among Scots which was shown very clearly when the government tried to disband one of them : the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders . " Given this , one might expect that , when a large proportion of Scottish men were in intimate contact with these Scottish institutions during the two world wars , this would have brought some feeling of heightened nationality . There is no evidence that this happened . Although the Scots National League was founded immediately after the First World War those instrumental in setting it up do not seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not until 1947 that the first Convention met . If experience with the Scottish regiments made men more nationalist it does not seem to have had this effect immediately . There are one or two explanations of why this happened . The simplest is , of course , that a large number of Scotsmen were in units other than the Scottish regiments . Apart from the Navy and Air Force , recruits were placed in other army regiments , in the Royal Engineers or the Royal Artillery and so on . It is not true , therefore that the majority of Scottish combatants would have gone to Scottish units . Secondly , it is worth remembering that men were not necessarily assigned to regiments according to their place of origin . Large numbers of Scotsmen were placed in infantry regiments with an English territorial affiliation and , in the same way , Scottish regiments contained many Englishmen . On the other hand the spirit of these regiments was so strong that it very often affected the Englishmen . Writing about the First World War Cuddeford says : " As I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Scots Guards were Englishmen but , while in the regiment , 135 Part Two they seemed to come to look on themselves as nationalised ' Scotsmen . Many of them even picked up a Scottish accent and they always addressed one another as Jock ' . The most extraordinary thing was that , in the rows with the Grenadiers by far the most patriotic Scotsmen amongst us were our Cockneys . These nationalised Scotsmen were usually the aggressors too , and in their altercations with the Grenadiers the most weird mixture of dialect would be heard . Although this passage shows the power of regimental feeling it also suggests why experiences of this sort did not lead to the development of nationalism at the 1919 or 1945 elections . What counted in the army was regimental feeling or feeling for the unit rather than feeling for Scotland . It was regimental pride that was instilled rather than pride in Scotland as such and , whereas soldiers fought in the pubs at night , they did not choose Englishmen specifically as their enemies . There are some well-known rivalries among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built up from the smaller unit is noted by Nisbet:14 So too in the direct experience of war and military organisation many millions of men learned even more certainly during the two World Wars the contrast between life charged with moral means and life that is morally empty . Military society is closely associative . . . . One of the most noticeable capacities of military life is to inspire in the individual soldier a feeling for the warmth of comradeship . Something of that spirit which , during an earlier age of European history , unfolded itself in a great profusion of fellowships and associations , reaching all spheres of social life , permeates the soldier 's consciousness . There is an almost medieval hierarchy in military society with the individual identity passing through the concentric rings of platoon , company and regiment and into the field army itself . His identification with each of these units , especially the smaller ones can become intense and morally exhilarating . Perhaps most obviously , it should be said that we are talking about a situation in which men often did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next day . In these circumstances loyalties were likely to be to the immediate unit in which one 's safety depended . Finally it is worth remembering that it was a British Army with all the wealth of British symbolism overlapping 136 The Role of the Church , the Army and Football Scottish symbolism that provided the setting . Although there might be rivalries the need to beat the enemy was seen as by far the most important job . Football Scotland 's passion for football is a very large subject . Many foreign observers have commented that it seems to play a larger role for Scottish people than is true for the English . It would , of course , be very difficult to prove this but it is less difficult to observe that the mood of England-Scotland international matches has changed very considerably over the last ten years . Two things here appeared which were almost unknown before . The first is that a very large proportion of the Scottish supporters carried Scottish flags ; mostly the yellow and red Lion Rampant . It was always true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonnets and some went in for more exotic displays . The flags , or at least the scale on which they are displayed , are new . The other thing is much more striking . At the beginning of international matches National Anthems are played . In the annual Scotland-England matches there is , of course only one anthem to be played , God Save the Queen ' . Up to the mid-1960s this was treated by the crowd with reverence and most spectators would have sung it . From about 1966 onwards some spectators began to whistle or boo the national anthem . At the last few internationals it has been impossible to hear the band let alone to sing the tune . The sign for the band to play has also been the sign for a pandemonium of whistles , cat-calls and jeers to break out . In the last few years the custom has grown to sing a song which has come to fill the gap as a kind of popular national song : The Flower of Scotland ' . This has been referred to in Chapter 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By 1976 this song had become so much a part of the International that the words were printed on the day of the match in the Daily Record , the paper with the largest circulation in Scotland , and the Glasgow Herald . It should also be said that the same disrespect for God Save the Queen ' is shown at the Scotland-England rugby international and that it is not only the terraces that join in but also the older , more sedate and more middle class stands . These developments have to be noted in a book on nationalism in Scotland because of their striking public effect . It is not true that the competition on the football field has helped to launch the political 137 Part Two nationalist movement . There have , after all , been Scotland-England matches since 1872,15 and it was not until the political movement was on its way that these displays took place . The sequence of events suggests that it was the political developments and events like the winning of the Hamilton by-election which led to them rather than the competition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two reasons why it is important to be aware of the sort of national feeling which one sees at football matches . Even though the nationalist wave preceded the new type of display , it is possible that an incident at a football match could precipitate more nationalist feeling . There is no way of proving that this has happened so far . The other point which makes football interesting is the way in which it exemplifies the attitudes of many Scottish people to England . The match between Scotland and England is very much a David and Goliath affair in that England has ten times the population resources from which to draw her team and this situation is recognised by the Scottish supporters . Secondly , there is a feeling that Scotland is in other ways inferior to England and must demonstrate her superiority . This comes out most vividly on the occasions when , in every second year , Scotland play in London at Wembley . The experience of going from a grimy industrial town in the Clyde valley to a prosperous confident metropolis is fairly traumatic especially if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the train . The resentment and anger of the Scottish supporters often spills into high spirits on the way to or from the match . Many writers have commented on this including some of the most gifted football journalists in Scotland.16 The situation may be summed up by saying that football was one of the institutions which maintained for Scots the feeling of rivalry with England . When Mrs Ewing won Hamilton it was one of the elements in the situation which caught the attention of a great many ordinary Scotsmen . Probably they were not very serious but the fact was that football kept the feeling of Scottishness alive . The interests of this feeling are brought out by Alan Sharpe : For a time before , throughout and after the match I have the feeling that my personal worth is bound up with Scotland 's success or failure . ' 17 This was not the feeling which got the nationalist movement going , it was traditional rivalry which had become institutionalised within a British framework , 18 but , once the SNP was on the way , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the situation . 138 9 The Scottish Press One important issue in social science is the extent to which the mass media can affect public opinion . Can it be said that the Press and television in Scotland contributed to the Nationalist wave ? I shall argue that the press to some extent set the agenda for Scottish politics and that , once the strength of the Nationalist vote had been recognised as a result of the Hamilton by-election and other events , the Press contributed by leading a public recognition that nationalism was a serious political movement . Let us first be clear about what the Scottish Press is . There are two mass circulation papers . The Daily Record is owned by the London IPC group and has a circulation of about 660,808 . It is printed in Glasgow . In general approach it follows its English sister paper the Daily Mirror and it thus supports the Labour Party . For a long time the Record fought a battle for circulation with the Scottish Daily Express . Lord Beaverbrook took the Express to Glasgow in 1928 . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland but at 345,500 its circulation is now below that of the Record and , in 1974 , it ceased to be printed in Glasgow . A new office was opened in Glasgow but the printing moved to Manchester . In Aberdeen the morning and evening papers : the Press and Journal and the Evening Express are owned by Kemsley Newspapers and the Dundee Courier and Advertiser and the Evening Telegraph are owned by D. C. Thomson . There are two quality ' newspapers . The Glasgow Herald is owned by a Scottish firm , Outrams . By far the best known Scottish 139 Part Two quality ' is the Scotsman published in Edinburgh and owned , since 1956 , by the Thomson organisation which also owns The Times . Perhaps the first point to be made is that most of those papers are owned by non-Scottish organisations . Only the Glasgow Herald and the Courier of those mentioned are home owned . This is not a new situation for most of them . The non-Scottish take overs were , most of them , effected well before 1935 . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the amount of specifically Scottish news carried was low . By Scottish news I mean news about Scotland as a whole as opposed to news about Britain as a whole or news about some local event within the circulation area of the paper . What is true of the Glasgow Herald is almost certainly true at least of the Scotsman . As we shall see the Scotsman initially led the field in the space given to Scottish politics . We may say therefore , that the newspapers may have contributed to the new interest in Scottish politics and therefore in nationalism by giving it considerable coverage . One of the main complaints by minor parties and minority groups in general is that the mass media prevent the spread of their beliefs simply by not printing news about them . To put their point in more modern language , the Press is one of the main agenda setting ' agencies in politics . What is not dealt with there does not , by and large , become an issue and events which have hitherto been unimportant achieve some currency through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reference to the . ways in which the mass media have dealt with the subject . There is one complication which ought to be cleared out of the way before this discussion begins . It is difficult to distinguish between a newspaper treatment which is based on a genuine point of view on a subject and one which is taken up to encourage the circulation . When the history of the SNP is reviewed , we shall see that the Daily Record publicised the activities of the early NPS in the late 1920s . The editor , David Anderson , was a friend of the nationalist publicist , Wendy Wood , and was sympathetic to the idea of Home Rule but , at the same time , he was faced with the arrival of the Scottish Daily Express and had to find issues which would sell his paper . By the same token , Beaverbrook also reported these events and showed sympathy to the nationalists in private contacts . ' It is difficult to distinguish the initial motives which led to these actions but , to a large extent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulation could encourage nationalism among voters . A 140 The Scottish Press paper which started to publish for reasons of its own economy was persuaded to believe in its own articles . One striking feature of the Scottish Press even before the latest developments was that most of them were at pains to identify themselves as Scottish papers . The Record specifically entitled itself ' Scotland 's Newspaper ' and the Express has always had the prefix Scottish ' to its name . When it ceased to be printed in Glasgow in 1974 it ran a considerable poster campaign to identify itself with Scotland but this was , of course , long after nationalism came on the scene . Although there has been a Scottish consciousness in Scottish newspapers for some time and although , as I have suggested , the Scottish content has increased since 1945 , the Press generally treated nationalism as a joke or was actively hostile . The Glasgow Herald was , perhaps , the most notable paper which stood four square against nationalism . It has always been closely associated with the Glasgow business community who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English or the imperial market . When the Nationalists started to make their gains in the late 1960s it was uncompromisingly against them and , although a Conservative paper , it criticised Edward Heath 's ' Declaration of Perth ' very bitterly in a leaflet published on the day before the Conservative leader 's devolution plans were made public . The Courier in Dundee has also taken this stance but it does not have the circulation and status of the Glasgow Herald and , unlike the Herald , it has maintained its anti-devolution stance . Both the Record and the Express have shown great sympathy for the SNP . When Mrs Ewing won the Hamilton by-election both papers carried columns by her . Along with less sympathetic papers they were quick to criticise the Nationalists when things went wrong after 1969 but they have consistently supported devolution and have argued for more powers to be given to the Scottish Assembly than appeared in the government 's 1976 Bill . In particular they have recommended fiscal powers and some control over oil revenues . Of all the newspapers it is the Scotsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporting devolution . Even before 1939 it had continuously followed this line . Thus on 4 October 1932 : We are convinced therefore that the wise policy is not to meet Scottish nationalism with unsympathetic opposition still less with foolish and shallow ridicule but to try to understand its 141 Part Two aims and guide it into the safest channels . . . this question is likely to be settled by clear evidence that the Scottish people as a whole desire a separate parliament . Such a popular demand could not be and should not be resisted . A major development in the history of the Scotsman was when it was taken over by Lord Thomson of Fleet ( as he was to become ) in 1956 . Up to then it had been Scottish owned but had been a rather dull newspaper . Thomson , a successful Canadian newspaper proprietor , wanted the paper to be a commercial success . He appears to have exercised little or no editorial direction but his general line was that the paper was to be a Scottish paper . Magnusson reports him as saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Record:2 It is the voice of Scotland . It is conservative in that we believe in private enterprise . But that does not mean it agrees with everything the Conservatives do . In matters directly affecting Scotland the paper takes the line that it thinks is best for Scotland . From the mid-1960s the Scotsman gave serious consideration to the question of a Scottish Parliament and , in 1968 , it published a series of articles which were later published as a pamphlet . ' In them the paper recommended a federal solution for the devolution problem and it has stood by this ever since . In addition it has greatly increased its reporting of the activities of the Nationalists and their policies on the question of Scottish government . It employs an able young columnist , Neal Ascherson , whose work appears in the paper very often . In short , the paper which has the highest prestige among the Scottish middle classes has , for a long time , taken a clear pro-devolution line and has even shown considerable sympathy towards the Nationalists . This is not the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In 1974 Sir Hugh Fraser , the chairman of Outram , the company which owned the Glasgow Herald , became a member of the SNP . His father had been , when he occupied the same position , a prominent Conservative . Sir Hugh 's Conservatism had been lower in key but this was a fairly momentous change by any standard . Members of the Herald staff are emphatic that no pressure was applied to change the policies of the paper but it was fairly clear that the Herald could no longer continue what had been at times a rather 142 The Scottish Press abusive campaign against the Nationalists . It is difficult to portray Nationalists as dangerous or naive or both when one 's chairman has just become a Nationalist . A new editor , Ian Lindsay Smith , introduced a policy much more sympathetic to devolution to the extent that , when the latest government failed in its attempt to get its Scotland and Wales Bill through the Commons the first leader in the Herald read : If the cause of devolution is allowed to die then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The paper had come a long way in a few years . Another striking indication that things had changed came in the week beginning 4 April 1977 when the Herald began a week-long series of articles in the important position opposite the leader page discussing the implications of independence in many sectors of Scottish life . The Scotsman was to follow with a similar series . Nationalism was certainly now on the Scottish agenda . A final paragraph should be devoted to the influence of television . As one would expect of an organisation controlled from London the BBC was not remarkable for the depth or extent of the Scottish coverage . The coming of independent television in 1956 did , however change the situation . For the first time there were programmes with a large Scottish content . Announcers had Scottish rather than ' BBC ' accents and the amount of Scottish material shown on Scottish Television ( STV ) was more than on the BBC . In 1958 it was 15 per cent which may still not have been very much . Some of this Scottish material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to do things cheaply and it was cheaper to hire Scottish entertainers . Many of them may have been of low quality but they were Scottish . In the years which followed , the differences between the BBC and STV may not have been so striking in Scottish content but it seems fairly unambiguous that the BBC was partly spurred to present more Scottish programmes by the presence of the commercial company . 143 10 TheSNPVote : some Relations and Conclusions In Chapters 4 to 9 it has been argued that political , economic , cultural and other processes since the beginning of this century have largely awakened a new awareness of Scotland . The material used has been largely historical . In this short chapter I shall explore some survey material in order to see whether it provides any evidence for the deductions which were drawn from historical processes . In particular I shall look at some of the major social groups mentioned in the previous chapters to ask whether the events in the last thirty or forty years have had any effects on them . Survey material was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , forced to look for data in other studies . The obvious disadvantages of this process are that questions which are central to my interests are often omitted and , where they are asked , this is often done in such a way that the data is not available in precisely the way I would want it . In particular , data may be collected in one part of the whole area which I would like to cover . In this chapter I shall use data collected by the Opinion Research Centre , ' the British Election Survey2 and the Strathclyde Area Survey . ' The first two estimate distribution over Scotland as a whole while the third refers only to the Glasgow area . Despite the limited geographical referent of the Glasgow data , the questions asked are more extensive and consequently use will be made of them . In addition the Glasgow data are panel data interviewing the same group of respondents each year for three years . 144 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions In Chapter 5 it was suggested that the economic decline of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as peculiarly Scottish economic problems . Normally those most affected by a recession or by economic problems generally are employees who are likely to be laid off or sacked . Unemployment is a characteristic of manual working class rather than middle class life . If it is the working class who are most affected is there evidence that they are most attracted to nationalism ? Alternatively , since they enjoyed improving conditions in the 1950s as I have shown , is there evidence that a sense of relative deprivation encouraged them to support the SNP in the harsher years of the 1960s ? In Chapter 7 I discussed some reasons why young people might be attracted to nationalism . Is there survey evidence to show that young people have indeed supported the SNP in proportions greater than their elders ? In Chapter 8 I suggested that the role of the Church had been an equivocal one . Is there evidence to show that adherents of the Church of Scotland , the traditional people 's Church with all its historical associations with Scottish nationhood , are more attracted to political nationalism ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an all round increase in Scottish identification . Having dealt with the effect of sectional identification : class , age , religion , I shall turn to see whether there is evidence of a general rise in Scottish identification and whether this identification has become political . Nationalism and social class When the Scottish economy was discussed it was suggested that the rise in SNP votes was related to the economic downturn of the 1960s . In the 1950s the Scottish economy had progressed more or less in parallel with the rest of Britain but in the 1960s the traditional industries began to contract very clearly and this had a vivid effect on the level of unemployment . I have already suggested that manual workers are most likely to be affected by this and therefore one might expect them to be moved to protest : that they would move first to the Nationalists . There are , however , at least two complications . One is that the Nationalist vote started to rise in the early 1960s and data are only available from about 1974 . The other complication is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be involved in any 145 Part Two form of revolt . Several writers have shown that it is those with experience of better things who are most likely to revolt . ' There is another possibility . It is that the context of Scottish politics has changed in such a way that class has a diminishing role in relation to voting behaviour . People may vote according to their perception of the economic situation and the possibility of unemployment but the unit which they identify with as the one likely to suffer is not class but nation . The traditional account of British politics has been of a system dominated by class . This tradition has clearly been broken by the SNP in that it has support from every stratum in Scottish society . This point comes out clearly from Table 10.1 . These data are taken from a survey carried out by the Opinion Research Centre for the Scotsman during June 1975 . The population is ranked from those in high status non-manual occupations , category AB , to unskilled manual occupations , category DE . What do we learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labour are still class parties . The Conservative vote rises with the status of the respondents and the Labour vote drops . It is very noticeable that the Nationalist vote does not behave in this way . The two middle categories are most likely to support the SNP while people of very high status and those of the lowest status are less likely to do so . One interpretation of this is that the SNP is a party of the lower middle class and indeed it might be thought that these are the groups ( Cl and C2 ) most likely to experience problems . They are most likely to be affected by cross 146 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions pressures in that they may have friends who support other parties and they are also the ones who would be affected by recessions and would be more able to understand their situation than those who were also forced to do the least skilled work . A subsequent ORC poll shows , however , that the situation has changed somewhat ( see Table 10.2 ) . From this it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unskilled workers towards the Nationalists . It is also notable that in every social category there has been a move to the Nationalists . One might take it that , in so far as the Nationalists are on the way to being the major party in Scotland , the class nature of Scottish politics is beginning to disappear . Thus , Butler and Stokes 's decline in the class alignment ' takes the form of turning to a party whose base may be national identification rather than class identification . We shall explore this further when we look at specifically ethnic identification and the vote . Relative deprivation The fact that categories Cl and C2 were formerly those that identified most with the Nationalists leads us to return to the relative deprivation hypothesis . Before starting a discussion on this point it is very necessary to repeat Runciman 's warning that relative deprivation is an ambiguous concept . ' Does it refer to political or economic or , perhaps , cultural or status deprivation ? To some extent this Gordian Knot is cut through by the fact that there are very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two virtually all of them relate to a sense of economic discrimination . It is important to underline the fact that the concept of relative deprivation refers to a perception on the part of an individual rather than an objective ' economic , or any other , situation . Thus it may be that government expenditure might be higher in Scotland or the emigration rate might be coming down . Both of these factors would be irrelevant to the relative deprivation ' explanation because this is concerned with perception of a situation , not directly with the situation itself . From the Kilbrandon Commission itself we have evidence that such a sense of deprivation does exist in Scotland:6 in reply to the questions , Compared with other parts of Britain , would you describe ( region ) as well-off financially ? ' and also , Compared with other parts of Britain , would you describe ( region ) as providing lots of opportunities for young people ? ' As can be seen from Table 10.3 the Scots respondents contained very small proportions who thought their part of Britain was doing particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These measures are some indication of the existence of a feeling of relative economic deprivation . In the 1975 survey in Glasgow the following question was asked : 148 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions Compared with the rest of Britain would you describe Scotland as well-off financially or not particularly well-off ? ' Table 10.4 shows the relationship between the answer to this question and the respondents ' political affiliation . It is clear that there is some effect from the relatively gloomy view of Scotland 's prospects . Seven percentage points separate the Nationalist percentage among those who compare Scotland badly with the rest of Britain . It is possible that one factor in voting Nationalist is the perception of this situation . This variable , however , does not alone explain why a large proportion of people who view Scotland in this light vote Nationalist . In a more extensive examination Brooks got more ambiguous results . ' He found a relation between a perception of political deprivation and support for the Nationalist party . ( This deprivation variable was measured in terms of a feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ) On the other hand , his findings on the effect of perceived economic or social deprivation were mixed . Such feelings were high but , of the five measures he used , only two were positively related to Nationalist voting : a perception that jobs were easier to get in England and a perception that luxury items were more widely enjoyed in England . Especially in the second case the relationship was weak . From Brooks 's data and from the Glasgow data we conclude that the feeling of relative deprivation may have some effect but we must try to put these data in relationship to the effect of other variables . Age There are many sources which can be used to demonstrate the youth of the SNP support . I shall repeat the ORC data for the sake of consistency ( see Table 10.5 ) . 149 The SNP proportion falls with increasing age . It is interesting that , for the other two major parties , the vote increases with the increase in age . If we compare these results with similar results in the December survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( see Table 10.6 ) . Religion I have tried to demonstrate that the Church of Scotland has a peculiar place in Scottish society . At the same time there was no evidence that it had led opinion formation for devolution or independence . Religion is one of the most important variables for the explanation of party support . In Germany , Holland and Australia religion has been a major issue which has polarised the political system at one time or another . As far as Britain is concerned there was a traditional relationship between non-conformism and Liberal voting and to some extent this still obtains . ' The modern data have sometimes been collected in an imprecise fashion but when , as in the case of the study in Dundee by Bochel and Denver , ' the questions were worded more carefully , the picture has somewhat changed . Both these authors and the authors of Political Change in Britain 150 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions found that there was some residual effect of religion but that there were cleavages by class within the denominations.10 While membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservative voting , the class of the Church of Scotland member would also have an effect over and above his or her religious identification . Such appears to be the conventional account of the diminished place of religion in British politics . In this study , however , we are looking at a political situation in Scotland where the effect of religion might be different from that in the country as a whole . There is only one piece of evidence on this relation which is easily available through commercial polls . This is to be found in a study of young voters done by the ORC for the Scotsman in May 1976 ( see Table 10.7 ) . It is striking that those identifying with the Church of Scotland are most likely to vote Nationalist . Those who identify with other Protestant Churches number only sixteen and , if we exclude these data because of the small numbers , the Catholics are the least likely to vote Nationalist . The Glasgow survey also collected data on religion . One should recall that this city and its surroundings have one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to test for the effect of religion , therefore , Glasgow is a good place to do it . We must make clear what is meant by religion ' in this context . What it does not mean is that the Protestants ' and Catholics ' described here are regular church-goers and believers in the particular doctrine of the Churches . Rather it points to the fact that , in the west of Scotland 151 Part Two there are two distinct communities which , in most cases , are organised virtually along the consociational lines described by Lipjhart . " They are educated in separate schools , they support different football teams and , until recently , there was little intermarriage . Until 1939 at any rate it was very difficult for a Catholic to get a job in an establishment run by Protestants and vice versa . On top of this , most Glaswegians over forty have memories if not direct experience of the bitter gang fighting that used to take place on a basis of religious identification , though hardly on one of religious practice . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestants hold sympathies with the Protestant cause in Ireland and there are still many Orange Lodges in towns like Glasgow , Paisley and Greenock . Their members in the past voted solidly Conservative since this was the party of Unionism . The Catholics , almost all of them descended from Irish immigrants , look on the Labour Party as their natural home both because their ancestors were poor working class immigrants and because Labour was not identified with the bitter opposition to an independent Ireland which characterised the Conservatives . 152 The findings shown in Table 10.8 throw light on the distribution of the Nationalist vote over Scotland as a whole . Although they have won two seats in the industrial Clyde valley at by-elections ( Hamilton 1967 and Govan 1973 ) , that part of the country has not been good for them in general . An explanation is suggested by the figures in Table 10.8 . Clydeside has a much higher proportion of Catholics than has the rest of Scotland . It is they who are the backbone of the Labour vote and , up to 1974 anyway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalist attack . The situation among the Protestants is quite different . This point is the most important one in terms of the effect of religion on politics in Scotland as a whole . Scotland is overwhelmingly a Protestant country . The last reliable figures showed 72 per cent Protestants and only 20 per cent Catholics.12 The significance of the data shown in Table 10.8 is that in areas where there is a large Catholic population , the Nationalist proportion of the vote is likely to be lower than elsewhere . We would expect a relatively low SNP proportion of the vote in places like Glasgow and other parts of the industrial south-west where there is a large Catholic , originally Irish immigrant , population , around 33 per cent according to the Glasgow survey . One must conclude that religion has an effect on the Nationalist vote but , since the religious division is limited to one part of the country , this is not an important factor in explaining the rise of the SNP in Scotland as a whole . It is clear from Table 10.8 that the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote Nationalist and secondly that , while the Protestants moved to the SNP the Catholics moved much more slowly . 153 Part Two The fact that the relation between religion and political affiliation is based upon the community rather than religious practice is brought out if we look at the relationship controlled by whether or not the respondent goes to church ( see Table 10.9 ) . In other words , it is clear that among practising members of the Church of Scotland or the Roman Catholic Church there is virtually no difference in the proportions voting Nationalist . Whereas among non-churchgoers the difference is almost three times as great . Religious belief itself is not the effective factor . Scottish identification Up to now we have been dealing with groups within Scottish society . Their character and activities do not provide much help in explaining the increase in Nationalist support . They do not represent cleavage lines which would cause a strain resulting in national consciousness . It may be , however , that the group to be represented by the SNP is not some group in Scottish society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the Nationalists have mobilised this Scottish identification , this might account for the rise of the party . First we must ask , how strong is this Scottish identification ? There is information which shows that it is very strong . Budge and Urwin 's study Scottish Political Behaviour reports a study in Glasgow in which the respondents were asked to say how much they had in common with different social groups . Fifty-six per cent of them said that they had more in common with a Scotsman of a different class from their own as compared with an Englishman of the same class . Only 19 per cent said they had more in common with an Englishman of the same class.13 This is rather striking illustration of the power of ethnic rather than class identification . There is widespread and consistent evidence that a considerable majority of people living in Scotland consider themselves to be Scottish rather than British . Other data were reported in the Glasgow Herald from a series of 154 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions polls held in medium sized towns in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 78 per cent identified themselves as Scottish rather than British . It is , of course , possible to query whether Scottish identification is any more important than the feelings which English people have towards the regions of England they belong to . This is a task which was undertaken in Research Study No. 7 for the Commission on the Constitution . The investigators asked , What do you think of as your region of the country ? what would you call it ? ' and then some questions later , they were asked , If someone called you a . . . ( Regional name ) , would you accept it as reasonable or would you want to correct them ? ' The investigators report : ' In comparison with this picture of regional definition in England , it is perhaps surprising to find that Scotland and Wales , which are separate countries with traditional boundaries are only a little more clearly defined by those who live in them . . . In Scotland only 45 per cent defined their region as Scotland , a further 15 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising at all . The idea of Scotland as a region is certainly not common to Scotsmen and there is a great deal of doubt whether most respondents knew what they were being asked . We have to take it that there is a strong sense of Scottish identification and that there is a great deal of evidence to show that when people are given a choice between a Scottish and a British identification , there is a consistent majority in favour of the Scottish one . 155 Table 10.10 , based on the Glasgow data , shows quite clearly that feeling oneself to be Scottish has a considerable effect on propensity to vote Nationalist . Even more interesting is the developmental feature of the table . Where for the 1970 election the increment in Nationalist voting given by Scottish identification was only some six per cent , this increment has gradually risen until , at the general election in October 1974 , it represented an increment of 23 per cent . What is also notable is the distinct effect this has had among Labour voters who considered themselves to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percentage and it is difficult to see any other explanation than that these voters voted Nationalist . The Conservatives among the Scots identifiers also declined in proportion when one compares the 1970 results with those of the February 1974 election . In the October 1974 election the Conservative proportion of this group had increased again but it had not gone back to the 1970 level . It seems consistent with the evidence , then , that the sense of Scottishness is coming to have a political connotation . The debate on devolution Scottish support for self-government goes back some way in modern 156 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions history as we have seen . A Bill to introduce a type of federal Parliament passed its second reading in the House of Commons in 1913 with the virtually unanimous support of the Scottish members . After the war had killed this plan , there was another indication of majority support for a Scottish Parliament when straw polls were carried out by the Daily Record and the Scottish Daily Express in 1932 . There was more solid evidence after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed the Scottish Covenant ( see below , Chapter 13 ) . If there has been fairly consistent support for some sort of devolution of powers to a Scottish legislature , there have until recently been few votes for complete independence . Since the beginning of the 1970s , however , this policy has been placed firmly on the agenda of British politics . It is important to outline the options that are open . They consist of proposals which have been made at one time or another by the political parties and are ranked in order of their departure from the existing situation . The first option is for the retention of the status quo with no more devolution . The second is for some kind of Assembly which would have limited powers relating only to Scottish domestic affairs and even then not covering all Scottish domestic affairs . The third option would be for an Assembly which would cover all of this and in addition would have considerable economic powers including possibly some powers over the oil revenues . Finally , there is complete independence . Some complicating factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Scottish legislature to the Westminster Parliament , and the questions have been phrased in different ways . The question used by the Kilbrandon Commission research in 1970 was : For running ( the region ) which of these five ( Scotland as a whole ) alternatives would you prefer overall ? i Leave things as they are at present . ii Keep things much the same as they are now but make sure that the needs of ( the region ) are better understood by the ( Scotland ) government . iii Keep the present system but allow more decisions to be made in ( the region ) ( Scotland ) 157 Part Two iv Have a new system of governing ( the region ) so that as many ( Scotland ) decisions as possible are made in the area . v Let ( the region ) take over complete responsibility for ( Scotland ) running things in ( the region ) ( Scotland ) The results shown in Table 10.11 were obtained and the report deduces from them that Scotland was really very little different from other regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative although it had the highest percentage under such a choice . The problem is that the political situation in Scotland and Wales was quite different from that of other areas . In Scotland and Wales there were organisations dedicated to making the countries independent and there was a fair chance that Scottish respondents would interpret the fifth option in this way . To ask English people whether they would like a regional government to take over complete responsibility for running affairs in the region is quite different . There is not the presumption of a Declaration of Independence from Westminster . It is likely that a very large proportion of the people who answered yes ' to this had in mind some kind of powerful local government . 158 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions With all its faults it is interesting that about a quarter of the Scottish respondents to this questionnaire answered in favour of the strongest option which was probably seen by them as opting for complete independence . In subsequent research by other organisations the remarkable thing is that this proportion remains fairly steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the results of the Kilbrandon survey are put together with the series of ORC surveys published in the Scotsman . This shows that support for complete independence has remained fairly consistent over the years . // If we put this together with another question containing devolution options which the ORC devised when the different party proposals began to crystallise in 1974 we get more or less the same result ( see Table 10.13 ) . 159 Part Two It is interesting that , over the admittedly short run from April 1974 to 1975 , there has been a gradual increase in the proportion of people who chose the option of a Scottish Parliament to which would devolve most powers including those over the Scottish economy . 160 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions More important , since at least 1970 , there has been a core of about 20 per cent of the Scottish people who would choose complete independence . The first poll in the series , done for the Kilbrandon Commission , was conducted in July-August 1970 just after the general election and at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet after this , when the SNP was doing better and indeed even at the time when , in early 1976 , two polls found it to have the highest proportion of votes in Scotland , the proportion of the population opting for complete independence does not change much . The implication seems to be that there is not much of a relation between voting for the SNP and agreeing with its main policy . This argument certainly has a great deal of weight but the situation needs to be examined rather more carefully . In Table 10.14 we show the percentages of people from each party who chose the various devolution options among the Glasgow 1975 respondents . 161 There has been a fair number of people in the past who were in favour of independence but did not vote SNP . In the more recent surveys these people seem to have become concentrated more and more in the SNP . From this point of view it appears that the SNP has become more and more characterised by the support of those who agree with the main policy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Survey show a clear relation between the devolution option selected and party choice . We are justified in saying that the choice of devolution option seems to be related to voting for the SNP . This is borne out both by the Glasgow data and by the material in the ORC and some other opinion polls . As Butler and Stokes have shown , issue voting is not a common feature of British politics.15 Perhaps Pomper 's comments in relation to the United States are significant , Confused voters 162 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions reflect confused parties ; clarity among the voters follows from clear-headed parties . ' 16 All this is not to argue that all or even most SNP voters are issue voters on the issues of independence or devolution . Mixed up with the question of independence is the issue of putting Scotland first ' . In other words a vote for the SNP is a vote for Scotland . In terms of the various approaches which I described , this is a group ' explanation of the vote . One suspects that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue of Scotland are mixed up together . This comes out very clearly if we look at some data from the Glasgow Study . Respondents were asked why they voted as they did . The results are shown in Table 10.16 . First it becomes clear that , in every party , very few mention their agreement with a particular policy of the party . We have to remember that respondents were not asked about their support for a particular policy and it is quite feasible that a large number of Nationalist supporters who did not mention it as their first reason for voting Nationalist might have been in favour of complete independence for Scotland . What these data bring out is that the idea is not as salient as are some others . In exactly the same way we do not get Labour supporters mentioning support for , let us say , nationalisation of industry . Instead we find that Labour supporters are such because they see this as the party of the working man . In other words , in the eyes of the largest group of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the same way it is significant that the SNP is seen as the party for Scotland . What is 163 Part Two important and is different from the previous situation is that Scotland is seen as the political entity which is worthy of electoral support . How are we to sum up the findings about the relation between the demand for some form of self-government in Scotland and support for the Scottish National Party ? If we look at the data over time , support for the issue of Scottish independence does not rise and fall with support for the Scottish National Party . What has changed is the proportion of people supporting far-reaching devolution options short of independence . The SNP has successfully made this an issue . In doing so the political debate has been defined in Scotland and all parties have undoubtedly taken their supporters with them . Devolution and even independence have become respectable . What is even more important is that the political significance of being Scottish has become more important . It is the result of the general modernisation of Scottish consciousness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was collected in the Glasgow survey . Respondents were asked , If you had to choose between these two alternatives , which do you think is the more important : to preserve Scottish traditions or to improve the standard of living for people in Scotland ? ' It is quite clear that the Nationalists are no different from the other parties in their desire to create a modern Scotland . There is no question , for the majority of their supporters , that the SNP is not a party for the re-creating of a kind of folk society ' . These data confirm quite starkly the fact that the basis of the support for nationalism comes from a deep worry on the part of Scots about their living standards . Finally , in this attempt to examine survey data for evidence to support hypotheses suggested by more impressionistic data let us look at some rather different material . I suggested at the beginning that part of the explanation for the move to Scottish nationalism lay 164 The SNP Vote : Some Relations and Conclusions in the general feeling of distrust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over Europe and in North America . Can it be demonstrated that SNP supporters are any more distrustful or in any way more alienated than the supporters of other parties ? In the Glasgow survey respondents were asked , How much do you trust the government in Westminster to do what is right ? Do you trust it just about always , most of the time , only some of the time or almost never ? ' This is a question which is always difficult to deal with in view of the confusion between the government in general and the specific party in power . It is difficult to get respondents to think of government in general . It must be said , therefore , that the question was asked during a time of Labour government and one would expect that the Labour supporters would display more trust in their leaders than would the Conservative or Nationalist voters . To some extent this comes out in Table 10.18 but not too much of a party effect ' is visible . What is remarkable is that none of the parties seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In each case the modal category is that which trusts the government some of the time . Looking at the results for Nationalist supporters it becomes clear that they are the respondents least likely to trust the government and this would fit with our original hypothesis . In a recent article Miller also brings some evidence from the British Election Survey of 1974 which also seems to demonstrate the importance of distrust in government for raising the Nationalist vote . " Conclusion The data given in this section have brought out some of the comments 165 Part Two made in the earlier chapters concerning different aspects of Scottish life . The starting point of the argument was that the SNP vote was related to a general feeling of alienation with politics . This relationship has just been illustrated from survey data . On the other hand it was argued that , while this might explain a movement from the major parties it would not explain why the SNP itself had benefited . These survey data have shown that a connection between national feeling and Nationalist voting can be demonstrated . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline in class alignment . It is clear that various other characteristics of Scottish life have also contributed , among them the Protestant community and the younger age group . In the earlier chapters I have shown that these groups had particular reasons for identifying with Scotland . 166 The Beginnings of the Modern Movement The purpose of this part of the study is to analyse the events leading to the founding and development of the SNP . In it we shall relate the story of the transition from a small , hopeless fringe organisation to a modern mass party . In terms of Smelser 's approach we may look at these chapters as the study of political mobilisation . ' Under what circumstances was it possible for a political party to be organised ? What kind of an organisation is it ? How effective has it been in mobilising Scottish electors ? In many studies of social movements the importance of organisation is ignored . In a great deal of Marxist writings there seems to be an assumption that the working class will be revolutionary by its very nature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crucial role of the party in activating the proletariat , so for the Scottish people it is difficult to understand their turning to the SNP other than by the efforts of the party itself . We shall see that the party was not active in organisation at all times but that once they started to build up their organisation there were real returns for them . Apart from the changes in political climate , the presence of organisational talent was one of the crucial differences between the 1930s and the 1960s . We can look at the data in a different way . In previous chapters I have described how events in Scotland impressed or failed to impress a new sense of Scottishness on different sorts of people : the young , the business community , the Churches and so 169 Part Three forth . In the chapters which follow I shall be interested in the impact they had on Scottish people as voters and as potential members of a political movement . The major emphasis of these chapters will be historical but there are several themes which will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end review their importance in view of the data that have been gathered . One of these themes concerns the type of nationalism we have in Scotland . In Chapter 2 I discussed some theoretical work on nationalism and referred to a distinction made by Kohn . This concerned the difference between the sort of nationalism that originated in the countries of the developed west and that which came from eastern Europe . Western nationalism was deeply concerned with parliamentary traditions and the freedom of the individual . The other concentrated on the mystical traditions of the folk and on the values of peasant culture , since these nations were outside the great traditions of the European Enlightenment . It has become obvious that no such clear distinction can be drawn in relation to Scottish nationalism . A movement such as the Scottish Covenant which did not recommend a greater change than a measure of devolution , used many of the arguments of the mystical ' school of nationalism . Those who demand sovereign independence for Scotland as a natural right , use economic and administrative arguments . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( complete independence being demanded for Scotland ) and the use of particular sorts of arguments . A second important theme is that of modernisation . Briefly , I shall argue that the nationalists saw themselves as responding to certain new trends in the social and political life of Scotland . This was true at the foundation of the organisations immediately after the First World War : the Scots National League and the Scottish Home Rule Association . It was also true after 1945 and especially in the 1950s when the credibility of the traditionalist Labour Party in Scotland had begun to sag . In other words , the main stream of nationalism in this country was not concerned with a lost Utopia and a return to it . Far from this , the nationalists recognised that the economy and society of Scotland were changing and that something had to be put in the place of the old economic and political institutions if Scotland was to regain its prosperity . One of the problems the nationalists faced was that there was an alternative movement and party which was also modernising but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different way . At the same time as the nationalist movement was finding its feet in the 1880s the Labour Party or its immediate forerunners were established . It is evident that socialism was more successful . While it is not appropriate to go into much detail about this , it is clear that a number of factors helped to bring this about . First the Labour movement was Britishwide in a country where there was a tradition that this should be so . The Conservative and Liberal Parties had both set the pattern . Secondly , from its earliest days the Labour movement had the support of established organisations : the trade unions . The nationalists had no similar bases of support . Finally , the leaders of Labour simply seem to have been more able than those who served nationalism . For all his later fall from grace , Ramsay MacDonald had great political talent . So had Robert Smillie , Emanuel Shinwell and Keir Hardie . It is significant that each of these Scottish Labour leaders were also Home Rulers at one time or another but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One reason for this may have been the chance for Labour leaders to work full-time in politics through the trade unions . Even for the most dedicated nationalist , politics had to be a part-time job . Whether for this or for any other reason the quality of leadership in the rival movement appears to have been better . Whatever the disagreements of the two approaches they were at one in regarding themselves as modern movements . One respected Nationalist , Oliver Brown , who habitually wore the kilt , told the story that , as a young man about to fight a parliamentary by-election , he was called over by R. B. Cunninghame Graham . The President of the National Party of Scotland suggested that wearing the kilt was not the thing for a Nationalist candidate to do . In the early photographs of nationalist rallies there were always a few kilts worn , by Oliver Brown , for example , or J. L. Kinloch , but the vast majority were very soberly clad . For most Scottish people , and for the nationalists , the wearing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To wear a kilt was , and is , somewhat eccentric and this was precisely the image the nationalists wanted to avoid . Their aim was to present themselves to the electors of Scotland as a serious and viable political party ? a party to deal with the modern world . There is one final theme which can be re-emphasised here . It concerns the pressure of British and world events upon the development of Scottish nationalism . Some commentators on this subject 171 Part Three have written as if the SNP 's success was almost entirely due to external events . ' Certain external factors did affect the success of nationalism . The presence of a vigorous and well-led Labour movement was , as we have seen , of central importance . As we have also seen , from the mid-1930s onwards the international situation was such that the domestic affairs of Scotland seemed very small beer compared with the struggle of the Dictators . After 1945 the opportunities and failures of class politics formed the essential conditions for the rise of the SNP . It is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the context of British politics as a whole and , indeed , in the context of world politics . 172 11 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism The roots of Scottish nationalism go far back , even into the eighteenth century . ' The historical evidence shows that the Union of the Parliaments in 1707 was unpopular . ' There is evidence to show that anti-Unionism was the creed of some of the Jacobites in 1715 and 1745 . ' It has been the conventional viewpoint of historians that this was not so and recently the risings have been represented as the extensions of clan wars.4 Other evidence seems to show that this is not the whole explanation . It was in the 1880s that patriotic societies were founded which began to press for Scottish rights . ' In 1886 , partly as a result of Irish politics , the Scottish Home Rule Association was set up . Later came the Young Scots , a youth wing of the Scottish Liberals , who were dedicated to Home Rule and who were the spearhead of the attack which forced the Liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was this movement that , as we have seen , a Bill to establish such a system passed its second reading in 1913 . I shall not try to cover the period before 1918 . It has already been analysed by Professor Hanham in considerable detail and , in any case , my major interest is the modern movement . I shall , therefore , start with the position at the end of the First World War . In order to look at the various organisations and cross-currents it will , however , be necessary to refer to earlier events . In 1918 , the position of Scottish Home Rule in British politics was determined by pre-war events . Perhaps the most important of them was that immediately before the war it had seemed that self-173 Part Three government was about to be established in Scotland . Largely as a result of what had happened in Ireland the idea of giving some measure of Home Rule to the constituent nations was fairly central in British politics . The interests of the major parties in this topic soon faded . In 1918 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had Scottish Home Rule as a part of their programmes . An organisation pressing for this was not in any way eccentric . One of the two major organisations which later merged in the National Party of Scotland ( NPS ) was the Scottish Home Rule Association ( SHRA ) which was in the mainstream of British politics . The other was the Scots National League ( SNL ) . It represented an entirely new and significant element . The Scottish Home Rule Association For various reasons the pre-war SHRA ( founded in 1886 ) had collapsed but some of its members were to be active in the post-war organisation . It should be noticed , however , that the bulk of the membership of the pre-war organisation was quite different from that of the post-war organisation . Before the war the SHRA had been made up of the Scottish Liberal establishment : there were several Liberal peers and virtually all the Liberal MPs . In effect , the name was used to create a new body after the war and this was to be almost wholly based on Labour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eugene Muirhead , the owner of Gryffe Tannery at Bridge-of-Weir . This man devoted all his life and a not inconsiderable fortune to the cause of Scotland . Up to his death in 1964 at the age of ninety-two he was to take a tireless part in the movement . He was a humourless man and no charismatic leader . He was an idealist whose ideals sometimes spilled over into utopianism . To the end of his life he was a socialist as well as a nationalist . With all these qualities working either for or against the future of the movement , Muirhead was absolutely central to the developments in the 1920s and 1930s . Apart from the well-known fact that he was the financial backer of the nationalist movement right through to the 1950s , his importance for the SHRA is peculiarly evident . It was he who called the meetings , he who managed the correspondence . The Association was housed in rooms belonging to his brother 's business ( a private college ) and in 1929 , after he left it , the SHRA collapsed . 174 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting was held in the Central Halls , Bath Street , Glasgow . A resolution was passed:6 That this meeting , representing all shades of Scottish opinion and industrial activity , being convinced that the present centralised system of government from London is inefficient and inconsistent with national sentiment , resolves to form itself into a committee for the purpose of organising and focusing the Scottish demand for self-government in respect of Scottish affairs . It was at this meeting that the post-war SHRA was set up . Its policy was ' to secure self-government for Scotland ' but this was to be in regard to Scottish affairs only . In order to gain this ' the Association shall work . . . by means of ( a ) public meetings , ( b ) press correspondence , ( c ) the securing of pledges from Parliamentary candidates , ( d ) distribution of literature , ( e ) the holding of a National Convention ' . Two important points emerged from this resolution . The SHRA did not see itself as a political party . On the contrary it intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates and by putting pressure on Ministers . It was a pressure group . The second interesting point is the reference to the holding of a National Convention . This was not a wholly new idea and it was to be repeated several times in the history of the movement . The idea was that , as a nation , Scotland required a Parliament and one way of emphasising the massive and serious nature of the demand for a Parliament was to set up a Constituent Assembly . An important feature of the SHRA already referred to was its political colour . The man who called the 1918 meeting and who was to remain its Secretary was Muirhead , a member of the ILP . The man who was elected President and who retained this position until 1928 was Robert Bontine Cunninghame Graham who was a founder member and President of the Scottish Labour Party in 1888 and had been a well-known radical MP . Others involved were William Gallagher of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society and Robert Smillie of the Scottish Trades Union Congress . The Association was based both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous efforts were made to recruit town councils . It was felt that if these democratically elected bodies could be persuaded to join this would be an impressive proof of the Scottish desire for Home Rule . Many councils debated the issue but 175 Part Three came up against the problem that the law apparently forbade them to use public funds ( to meet the affiliation fee ) for a political purpose ( which the aim of the SHRA was seen to be ) . The culmination of this process was the debate in Glasgow Corporation where the resolution to join was defeated by fifty-two votes to forty-three . The largest group of organisations which took out organisational membership in the SHRA were ' working class ' in character . In 1920 , for example , after its first full year of operation , out of 138 organisational members , 47 were co-operative societies , 38 were trade union branches and 24 were ILP branches . ' There were also some ' national ' trade union affiliations such as the Scottish Horse and Motormen 's Association , the Scottish Farm Servants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scottish Trades Union Congress . This bias was to remain fairly constant throughout its history . It was inevitable that the Liberal Party should be less prominent since it was at this time less prominent in the whole of the country . On the other hand the SHRA became associated quite firmly with the ILP despite its declared objective of putting pressure on all parties for devolution . The Marquis of Graham , a prominent supporter of Home Rule and a Conservative , refused to speak at one of its meetings because he considered it too ' Communistic ' and even R. E. Muirhead admitted that some Labour members had left because of the fiery nature of speeches delivered at its meetings by the Clyde Group of MPs and especially by Maxton . ' In its journal , the Scottish Home Rule Association Newsletter , founded in July 1920 , it is clear that its speakers and propagandists operated very largely in the context of ILP meetings . It is important to recognise the relation of the left-right issue to the Home Rule organisations . The relation of the Labour movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give a flavour of the situation , it is worth quoting a resolution passed unanimously by the Scottish Divisional Conference of the ILP in 1925 : In view of the failure of the Government to pass a Scottish Home Rule Act during the last session of Parliament , we demand that , without delay , power shall be given to the Scottish People to select a Constituent Assembly so that the Scottish Nation may themselves sic determine upon a scheme of self-government suited to their own needs . The idea of a Constituent Assembly and , indeed , the whole resolution was precisely the policy of the SHRA . It is not hard to see 176 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism why there was such a close bond between the organisations . The journal of the ILP in Scotland , Forward , was founded in 1906 by R. E. Muirhead and Tom Johnston . Muirhead remained a director of Forward until its collapse . For his part , Johnston was a familiar speaker at the SHRA annual rallies at Elderslie , the birthplace of Sir William Wallace . Another important characteristic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recruited predominantly in the Glasgow area . Glasgow is , of course , the major Scottish centre of population but even allowing for this , there still seemed a preponderance of Clydeside representatives . At the first AGM on 29 March 1929 , for example , the office-bearers were as follows : President , W. Gallagher of the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society in Glasgow ; Vice-President , Mrs Crossthwaite , Chairman of the Eastwood School Board , near Glasgow ; Second Vice-President , Peter Fyfe , Chief Sanitary Inspector of Glasgow ; Secretary and Treasurer , R. E. Muirhead , whose family business , as we have mentioned , lay a few miles from Glasgow . Practically the same group was re-elected to the offices year after year . As far as the Executive Committee was concerned , in 1923 , nine of the sixteen were from the Glasgow area , six were from elsewhere in the south-west of Scotland and one was from Edinburgh . It is worth while bearing this point in mind in any future discussions of the Diffusionist ' versus Internal Colonialism ' theories or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows the rate of increase of the organisation . As its name makes clear , the object of the SHRA was to secure self-government for Scotland for those functions of government which were specifically Scottish . On the other hand , the Association 's 177 Part Three interpretation of this was rather broad and became even broader as time went on . On 22 March 1922 , for example , to a large rally , the General Council proposed that Scotland should have not less power than the Dominions or the Free State ' . The meeting turned down this resolution which was supported by its leaders but it did agree that : ' ? Scotland has a . . . right of self-government and that whatever agreements may have been entered into by our forefathers , it lies with the people now alive to decide as to the continuance with or without modification or the dissolution of these agreements and the substitution of others . At all times the SHRA would have included fiscal powers for a future Scottish Parliament . It is also interesting to notice in these early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nations ' rather than just on administrative or democratic need . The same idea comes through again and again : " that the Scottish people being a nation in the full sense of the term ought to have means of organising , formulating and giving effect to its national will and that a Scottish Parliament democratically elected and sitting in Scotland is essential for this . What were the programmes and activities of the SHRA ? At the very beginning , a lot of attention was paid , in the Newsletter and in Council meetings , to the inadequacy of parliamentary arrangements for Scotland . In the September 1920 edition of the Newsletter , for example , there was an article about the lack of discussion of Scottish Estimates and another about the problem of legislation applying to English but not to Scottish conditions . In view of the large numbers of clergymen who were individual members , it is not surprising that some time was spent discussing attacks on the independence of the Scottish Church . There is a great deal of criticism of government neglect of such things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiencies showed the need for Home Rule . To press this object the Association conducted meetings all over Scotland . Being in an established tradition of politics , it had an entree to many organisations , not all of them left-wing . The Newsletter mentions speakers at Burns Clubs and other local societies . The Association also put a great deal of effort into open-air speaking tours in the style of socialist agitators and started the 178 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism tradition of rallying at Wallace 's house in Elderslie , Renfrewshire , to commemorate his death . This remains a major nationalist occasion . The Association was particularly vigorous in the lobbying of MPs , parliamentary candidates and candidates for local elections . It was , after all , an association formally pledged to political neutrality . It would work through any representative who declared an interest in Home Rule . It can not be said that there was a great deal of keen parliamentary support . On 9 September 1922 a meeting was called with the Scottish Members of Parliament . Thirty ignored the invitation altogether and only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Members were usually found to support Home Rule when they had to answer a question before an election . The SHRA Newsletter for December 1922 listed forty-four MPs who answered favourably and similar percentages were to be found at other times in the history of the organisation although after 1924 the proportion fell . As the 1922 meeting showed , however , this was not a keen support . A constant theme in the Newsletter was criticism of the Members of Parliament who claimed to be sympathetic but who achieved very little . The second joint conference of MPs and the SHRA was somewhat more successful with eighteen MPs present . ' Z It was also a meeting at which the political bias of the Association became clear : sixteen of the eighteen were Labour Members . It was there that two critical ideas came to be aired fully for the first time : the setting up of a Scottish National Convention and the establishment of a Scottish parliamentary party . It was proposed by some members of the Association that the Imperial government should call a Convention of the Scottish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be persuaded to do this and the initiative passed to the SHRA which called the first National Convention on 15 November 1924 . Between these two meetings in 1923 and 1924 there was an important event . One of the Glasgow Labour MPs , George Buchanan , had been successful in the ballot for Private Bills . He agreed to bring in a Home Rule Bill for Scotland and was offered the services of the SHRA in drawing it up . Although he did not altogether agree with the Association 's draft , the Association regarded this as the opportunity to achieve Home Rule . The Labour government expressed sympathy but , as we have seen in an earlier chapter , allowed the Bill to be lost in the debate . This brought home to many , including Muirhead , that Home Rule 179 Part Three would be achieved only by strong pressure from Scotland . They could not trust a Labour government . Great hopes were raised by Buchanan 's Bill , much greater than those raised by the more famous Bill introduced by Barr in 1927 . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of a Convention and of a separate party began to gather support . The Convention was attended by eight MPs and 116 members of the SHRA . In a rather desultory way it discussed the principles of a Home Rule Bill and remitted the details to the committee . The draft Bill before the Convention envisaged a Joint Council of England and Scotland to look after matters of shared concern such as Foreign Affairs and Defence . On demand of the Parliament of either nation , however , the responsibility for these subjects could be separated . In short , the SHRA , for all its modest title was proposing a scheme of devolution far more radical than any that came up in the early 1970s . The second session of the Scottish National Convention met on 30 October 1926 . The Rev. James Barr , MP , a member of the Association , had been successful in the Private Members ' ballot and undertook to introduce the SHRA Bill which became ' Barr 's Bill ' . Plans were made for an extensive series of meetings and demonstrations all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite this , the Bill was unsuccessful . It received even less parliamentary discussion than Buchanan 's Bill and a third meeting of the Convention on 19 November 1927 discussed once again the setting up of a Scottish party . There were some in the leadership of the SHRA who discussed the idea at a very early stage . As early as February 1921 a leader in the Newsletter asks how long it would be credible to work through MPs of the existing parties . It comments , Patience is a virtue only when it is not a crime . ' At this time , however , the Scottish party was spoken of in terms of an ad hoc alliance of MPs from the other parties , who would unite to achieve Scottish Home Rule . By 1925 the foundation of a regular party was widely discussed . In October 1925 the Newsletter carried an article canvassing the possibility again . The December issue carried a report of a debate in which R. E. Muirhead , the Secretary , discussed the case for a separate party since the existing parties would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again in the Newsletter prominently in a long article in August 1926 by Dr R. F. Muirhead , Roland Muirhead 's brother . Finally , at the third Convention , R. E. Muirhead declared that he 180 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism had lost faith in the traditional way of working through the existing parties when Buchanan 's Bill had failed in 1924 . In February 1925 the Convention passed the following motion by fifty-seven votes to thirty-four : That this meeting of the Scottish National Convention believes that the passing into law of the Bill for the better government of Scotland depends on the creation of a National Party and decides forthwith to consider how best to create such a party . Although the Association 's AGM did not endorse such a motion the idea of a separate party was well on the way . Various factors contributed to this decision but there were two predominant ones . It had become very clear to a significant group in the leadership of the Association that working through other parties was getting them nowhere . The position was nicely illustrated when a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the SHRA which became Barr 's Bill . The Conservatives refused to send representatives . The Liberal Party claimed to be sympathetic but no representatives were appointed and , while the Parliamentary Labour Party appointed a committee of six to discuss the Bill , they could come to no firm conclusions . Among MPs there was no enthusiasm for a Home Rule measure and even among the membership of the Association there was an ambiguous attitude . The Falkirk Mail reported the meeting at which delegates of the first National Convention were chosen.13 The Provost asked the members what suggestions they had to make . After a significant silence Councillor Adam said they might at least send a representative to that particular function . Baillie Logan : Hear Hear ? an interjection which was followed by loud laughter . Councillor Adam : I am very glad to hear the Hear Hear ' . Councillor Dillon : Hear Hear ? renewed laughter . Provost Muirhead : Is there not a seconder ? Councillor Dillon : Just a Hear Hear ' . Another member : No , two Hear Hears ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar meeting of Cambuslang Parish Council . " A communication was read on the Scottish Home Rule Demonstration to be held on Glasgow Green on 25 August . The Council was asked to send representatives . 181 Part Three Chairman : We might allow the matter to lie on the table . Councillor Smith : I do not agree . Let us be represented . Councillor Malon : In kilts ? ? laughter Agreed that Messrs George and McWhannel attend . We get the impression that even those organisations which were represented did not take the matter very seriously . In other words , the Association was regarded as worthy but faintly ridiculous . Despite its apparently large paper membership , it could not be said that the majority of the members were single-minded and enthusiastic . On the other hand a minority was enthusiastic and the granting of Dominion status to Ireland seems to have had some impact . It was from this time that a demand for more militant action developed . A manifesto issued on 13 January 1922 congratulates His Majesty 's Government on an epoch-making settlement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refrained from pressing our claims as actively as we might have done because of our belief in the priority of the claims of Ireland for self-government.15 Now that this had been achieved , however , the Association claimed a form of Home Rule for Scotland which would be at least as wide as that granted to Ireland . In short , it seems that the ideas of the leaders of the Association were becoming detached from those of the majority of members . For the latter , Home Rule was a traditional radical posture . They might attend demonstrations and keep up their subscriptions but there was no intention of expending a major effort . This seems to have been true from the level of Cabinet Minister ( at the 1924 Wallace Commemoration at Elderslie , Walter Adamson , the Secretary of State for Scotland , was the main speaker ) to the ordinary rank-andfile members . It was these factors which finally'convinced R. E. Muirhead , the founder and Secretary , to abandon the original idea of an association and stand as a parliamentary candidate . Since Muirhead was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and money to it , it collapsed on his departure . We must now look at the new allies whom Muirhead and his colleagues found . The Scots National League These new allies came from an entirely different tradition of nationalism . Where the SHRA was in the tradition of Liberal-Labour radicalism , the Scots National League ( SNL ) was descended from , if 182 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism it did not embody , the traditions of Gaelic cultural independence movements . It was clear that a great deal of the inspiration was Irish . In a striking article , Dr James Hunter outlines the relationship between the Highland Land League and Scottish nationalism . ' 6 He shows the parallels between the peasant economies of Ireland and the Highlands of Scotland as well as their sufferings from the same sorts of exploitative landlords . He shows the way in which this situation was brought home by the activities of John Murdoch , a Scot who had worked in Ireland in the middle of the nineteenth century and who retired to edit the Highlander from Inverness . This paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all things Celtic . Both of these were themes quite familiar in Ireland . Just as Sinn Fein grew out of the activities of the Gaelic League and other cultural societies , so Murdoch was to advocate Scottish self-government for a Scottish ( or Gaelic ) Scotland . The cultural awakening of the Highlands was to be the basis of a national awakening for Scotland . When the Highland Land League was founded and its MPs elected , they took a strongly Home Rule line . It was from this background that the link emerged between the Gaelic cultural movement and the demand for self-government . The two key figures were Ruaraidh Erskine and William Gillies . The Hon. Ruaraidh Erskine of Marr was the second son of the fifth Lord Erskine . He was born in Brighton but learned Gaelic from his nurse who came from Lewis . About the beginning of this century Erskine became extremely interested in Gaelic culture . He founded a number of journals which seem to have had some - circulation among the Gaelic-speaking or Gaelic-sympathising intelligentsia . The best known of these is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published partly in Gaelic and partly in English . It was founded in 1904 and ran until 1920 . At the end of the first year of publication the editor sums up Guth na Bliadhna as a Catholic bilingual periodical ' . " In other words Erskine does not describe it in political terms but in religious and linguistic ones . He goes on to say that the two causes that are closest to his heart are the spread of the Roman Catholic Church in Scotland and the strengthening of the Gaelic movement . As far as the first cause was concerned , the emphasis came out in the very first article to be published , ' On the progress of the Roman Catholic Church in the Highlands ' . Later he says Nearly every great evil , religious , political , social and commercial which Alba labours 183 Part Three under , owes its existence or its continuance to Protestantism . ' 18 Sentiments like these were not likely to find wide support among ordinary Gaels who were overwhelmingly Protestant . As to the cultural interest , the journal is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or history but politics is not entirely absent and Erskine comes out as a distinct antiimperialist. 9 The English are making frantic endeavours to enlist the sympathies of the young people of these islands on behalf of their overgrown Empire . But the trend of modern politics is , fortunately , in exactly the opposite direction to that in which the friends of expansion ' would like us to oblige the minds and consciences of our children to proceed . The general point that comes out of these three positions ? religious , cultural and political ? is that Erskine owed a tremendous amount to Ireland . This was his primary inspiration . It was characteristic of Irish thinking at this time , or perhaps a little earlier , that the precise form of self-government was not clearly specified . At the beginning it appears that Erskine was some sort of Federal Home Ruler but he seems to have always believed that whatever decision was to be taken should be taken by the Scottish people and not by leave of the English . By the end of the First World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position for the rest of his life . Erskine was the intellectual and propagandist for the movement through the written word . He has his journals as witnesses of his place in history . It is much easier to overlook the great importance of William Gillies in the building-up of this side of Scottish nationalism.20 Gillies was the first editor of the journal of the SNL , the Scots Independent , and he wrote Gaelic plays which , though once popular , appear to be forgotten now . His real importance was as a political organiser . He had become a propagandist for the Highland Land League through his - friendship with John Murdoch . Gillies spent some time in Ireland and had had close contacts with the nationalist movement there . He was among the few non-Irish to support the 1916 Rising . Returning to Britain to earn his living in London as a businessman , he worked continuously and consciously to infiltrate Gaelic and Highland organisations with his ideas and to distribute political literature . He spoke at countless meetings in Scotland and England and finally , in 1921 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the organisation of the first meeting of the London branch of the SNL on 26 February . With its membership drawn from Gaelicspeaking expatriates , its bagpipe recital and Jacobite songs , it was a different animal from the SHRA . This is the first definite record of a public meeting but there appear to have been activities before this . There is a reference to an earlier Scots National League ' in 1909.21 The journal Liberty refers to the SNL in its issue for June 1920 . The SNL seems to have organised a public demonstration in Arbroath in September 1920 at which the socialist leader , John Maclean , took the chair . This was in opposition to an official celebration which was distinctly less nationalist . In October of the same year , the SNL sent an open letter to all candidates at the Scottish council elections asking them whether , if elected , they would bring forward a resolution that the ancient liberties of Scotland should be restored . The London centre of the SNL initiated most of this activity . The people concerned , Gillies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Highlanders , and the inaugural meeting of the London Branch was attended by representatives of the Highland Land League.22 Inaugural meetings in Glasgow and Edinburgh were held in February and March 1922 and the first National Congress was held in Edinburgh on 23 June.23 The League was never a large body . At the most it seems to have had a membership of about 1,000 with perhaps seven branches ( Edinburgh , Glasgow , London , Dunfermline , Liverpool , Dalkeith and Hamilton ) . On the other hand it was active and , when the Scots Independent was founded in 1926 , it seems to have had a circulation well in excess of the membership.24 The object of the SNL was not Home Rule but the resumption of Scottish National Independence . that Scotsmen acting nationally have the sole right to formulate and finally decide upon what scheme of self-government for Scotland should be adopted ' .25 In short , the tactic by which the League was to secure independence was not to be through pressure group tactics upon Members of Parliament in order to get a Bill which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even a Bill for the resumption of full independence . As in the philosophy of Sinn Fein , the future of Scotland was the responsibility of the Scottish people . If one remembers the radical newness of these ideas , it is not surprising that the founders had not spent much time thinking about tactics . They placed a great deal of emphasis on the political education of the people but the mechanics of victory were not 185 Part Three discussed . The belief which they held passionately was that they could not get Scottish independence through English political parties.26 The possible advent of a Labour government . . . would not give Scotland freedom . The English Labour men would predominate and , being Englishmen with a national gift for interfering in what does not concern them , would now and again , as long as the Union lasts , prevent the development of Scottish aspirations . As time went on , however , it became clearer that some thought would have to be given to tactics . For the SNL , as for the SHRA , the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major part in fashioning that new instrument seems to have been taken by T. H. Gibson . The idea of the Scots National League as a party independent of other parties is closely associated with him . In 1924 Gibson was working in Glasgow . He was then a lawyer 's clerk but his great business abilities , which were later to be recognised when he was appointed Secretary of the Iron and Steel Federation , were already apparent . At all times he was single-minded and a down-to-earth individual . He had been appointed to the SHRA General Council but resigned on the issue of the Association being too closely linked with the ILP which was not fully committed to Home Rule.27 Only a party devoted to Scottish independence could win full independence . The fact that Gibson was in the SHRA while a believer in full independence for Scotland is important . It is true of several who later became prominent in the independence movement including Dr Archie Lamont and the poet Hugh MacDiarmid . For all of these people there was a link between their previous association with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the SNL had no such previous links . They were in the more explicitly and exclusively nationalist tradition but they did not , by any means , have the monopoly of those dedicated to complete independence . This was one factor which made the subsequent fusion of most of the membership of both groups somewhat easier . Gibson 's proposal for a parliamentary party was not unanimously accepted by the SNL . At its conference in Edinburgh in October 1922 it had issued a manifesto against contesting the General Election.28 186 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism The SNL has an alternative , namely that the men and women of Scotland work toward the objective of a great Scottish National Convention in which Scotland 's right to complete national independence should be re-affirmed and re-established , that the sovereign Scottish people take into their own hands all the public powers of the country and administer them for and on behalf of the Scottish Nation . Erskine seems to have been suspicious of the idea of a political party preferring to take a Sinn Fein position . The London Branch , or most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were several branches in Scotland . With the coming of Gibson , the centre of gravity of the League seems to have moved to Glasgow and various other characteristics of the League changed . At the annual conference on 19 June 1925 , it was resolved that:29 the policy of the Scots National League is , by means of the existing electoral activity , to obtain a majority of Scottish representatives pledged to remain on Scottish soil and to resume the powers of Government in Scotland and that National candidates independent of all political parties be put forward at the next General Election . In short , a decision was taken that the League should operate in the parliamentary field . It is worth noticing that it was from the SNL that the present-day SNP policy of withdrawing from Westminster came . Once a majority of Scottish representatives in favour of independence was elected they would come to Edinburgh to convene a Scottish Parliament . The idea was not new . It had been used by the Irish and Hungarians and in Scotland it had been recommended by Lockhart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journals of the League , Liberty and The Monthly Intelligencer had virtually no articles on the economic state of Scotland . The Scots Independent , which appears to be largely Gibson 's brainchild was heavily biased in this direction.31 The early editors , as we have seen , were William Gillies and his son Iain but , compared with Liberty or its successor , the Scottish Standard , the articles on Gaelic culture and historical topics were very much reduced . As time goes on the concentration of economic subjects becomes more and more marked . In short , the SNL moves from a tradition of nationalism which is rather withdrawn from the main stream of British politics to one which is rather closer 187 Part Three to it , at least in the sense that it plans to participate in elections . This made co-operation with the Scottish Home Rule Association easier . The reasons for this change are not , of course , far to seek . When both the organisations had been set up immediately after the war , economic conditions were not bad . In the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very serious state and considerations of Scottish culture and Scottish rights on parliamentary time very soon gave way to economic necessity . It would be stupid to ignore the features which made the SNL very different from the SHRA . The emphasis on Gaelic culture has been mentioned but there were also politically radical elements in the SNL . There are many references to the Irish situation and the atrocities committed by the Black and Tans . Gillies was a republican and even a traditionalist like Erskine seems to have toyed with the idea . In 1920 Gillies wrote in the Scottish Review : The Scottish Republic is an idea , long live the Scottish Republic that is to be . ' 32 There is also the relationship with the great Marxist agitator , John Maclean , who was a nationalist . It is difficult to find evidence that Maclean was a founder member of the SNL as his daughter believes.33 What is undeniable is that , as we have seen , he was at the Arbroath demonstration in 1920 and that he wrote an article in Erskine 's Scottish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maclean 's paper , the Vanguard.35 These relations were somewhat outside the world inhabited by the SHRA . It should not be thought , however , that the League condoned violence in pursuit of its aims . In Liberty for June 1921 William Gillies wrote : Supposing some of the wilder spirits amongst us followed the example of such eminent exponents of law and order as Edward Carson , Birkenhead and other Imperial Stalwarts . Well then they would be exterminated at once . ' This was a counsel of prudence rather than of principle . There were several Irish members who might have recommended other means.36 It was also important that the SNL was not able to rely on even the moderate sympathy which the SHRA was able to enjoy from institutions in Scottish society . Whereas there were Presbyterian ministers in the SHRA , many League members felt that the Church had betrayed the people both during the clearances and at other times . Thus Gillies echoes Erskine in saying , When Scotland was Catholic , Scotland was free . The Catholic Scotsmen kept her so even when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 188 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism The Scottish National Movement One further group should be mentioned . On 1 February 1926 , following personal disputes in the Edinburgh Branch of the SNL , the poet Lewis Spence set up the Scottish National Movement ( SNM ) at a meeting in Edinburgh . Spence was born in 1874 and lived until 1955 although he dropped out of nationalist politics in the 1930s . He came from a middle class family living in Broughty Ferry , near Dundee , and was sent to school in England and then to the University of Edinburgh . With his education complete he worked as a journalist for the Scotsman and then moved to London to the staff of the British Weekly . By 1914 , however , he had returned to Edinburgh to work as a freelance . Spence had enough financial resources behind him to develop his own interests and he did so in two directions . One was in the occult and the supernatural . His other interest , mentioned in Chapter 6 , was , of course , the revival of poetry in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal details that Spence , although a very gifted man , was not an outstanding organiser and did not establish vigorous branches . On the other hand , he had the journalist 's ability to publicise what organisation there was . He seems to have had an understanding with the editor of the Edinburgh Evening News who published frequent reports of the Movement 's activities . Spence had two further assets . Apart from himself there were a very few dedicated workers who toiled enormously hard holding open air meetings all over the Lothians and Fife . Secondly , Spence was able to attract the interest of a wealthy backer , Mrs Linton , who virtually financed the whole operation . One might thus sum up the activities of the SNM by saying that it was a small group of people in and around Edinburgh who , because of enthusiasm , some financial backing and the sympathy of some newspapermen , were able to present themselves in the most impressive light possible . The aims of the SNM ( like that of the Scots National League ) were the re-establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and history . They were summed up in a pamphlet.38 1 . The restoration of Scotland to her rightful place in the community of nations and her recognition as an independent state within the British Commonwealth . 2 . The re-establishment of an independent national parliament sitting in Scotland . 189 Part Three 3 . Dissemination of propaganda regarding such questions of importance as the land , agriculture , afforestation and fisheries . 4 . The revival of national sentiment , the study of Scottish history , the advancement of Scottish art , literature and music . 5 . The preservation and restoration of the Scots language . This is clearly a more culturally oriented movement than either of the two other organisations . It is also worth noticing that Spence , although a romantic , was not as extremist ' in his attitude to Scottish independence . He wrote , I am bound to say that I believe the idea of complete separatism is much more compatible with sentiment than with reason . ' " For most of its existence the Movement was not in favour of sending MPs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of them seem to have been inflated . Meetings were held in Fife and the Lothians and several branches set up but they had a life of their own and the history of the Movement is marked by bitter personal quarrels.40 From the Minute Book of the Movement , it appears that the regular practice seems to have been to count as members all those who expressed an interest at meetings . These were the days of large public meetings and it was possible to put together impressive membership figures if one counted those who had accepted a membership card at a meeting without paying a subscription . It was principally these three bodies along with the Glasgow University Student Nationalist Association , to be described later , which came together to form the National Party of Scotland . The move towards amalgamation started in 1925 . We have already seen that , by this time , there was a group of people within the SHRA who were in favour of complete independence for Scotland and who believed that this could only be achieved by the agency of a national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected had had a very serious effect and the credibility of Labour 4s a Home Rule party was seriously questioned . Of great importance was the fact that the Muirhead brothers were in this group . In February 1925 a meeting was held between representatives of the Association and the League . Muirhead wanted to persuade delegates from the League to sit on the SHRA 's Council but this was rebuffed.41 By October they met again , without results , and League representatives refused to attend the Convention organised by the SHRA to discuss the projected legislation prepared for the Associa-190 The Beginnings of Modern Nationalism tion . This was to become Barr 's Bill . " By March 1927 , however , a meeting of three representatives from each side resolved : ' that this meeting of citizens calls upon the Government to desist from passing any further legislation dealing with Scottish affairs ; further declares its opinion that all legislation in reference to Scotland should be placed in the hands of a Scottish National Parliament and that the administration of all Scottish offices should be placed under the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Bannockburn Rally . The picture which emerges is of increasing contact among the nationalist organisations . The League and the Movement came around to the idea that an educational and Sinn Fein ' programme was not enough . An independent parliamentary political party was necessary . For its part , the Association was , as we have seen , disillusioned by the treatment of Buchanan 's , and later , Barr 's Bill . In the Association , of course , the move to a new party was extremely difficult because of the loyalties the Association already had , mainly to the Labour Party . Up to the end of 1927 co-operation among the organisations had been on an ad hoc basis . On 29 November , however , they were brought together by A. L. Henry of the Scottish Nationalist Party Group ' . This was a small breakaway from the Association determined to set up the new party . Not much is known about this group but it appears to have played rather a major role at this stage of the situation . It was at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Third National Convention . All at the meeting were agreed on the necessity for a party but many Scots National League members not present at the meeting doubted whether Muirhead and his colleagues would really cut themselves off from the English-dominated parties ' . Their argument , which became the argument of the National Party of Scotland , was that any British party would have a majority of English members who would not legislate in the interests of Scotland . Only a party completely and primarily dedicated to the aim of Scottish national independence could achieve this . Despite the agreement on principle of certain leaders , there was still hesitation . It seems inevitable that there would have been a National Party sooner or later but the entire process was speeded up by the intervention of a new body . 191                     