@@774177

txt  | a strong feeling of unity . Some 72,200 , almost 3 per cent . of the national total , live in the region . Thirty per cent . live in rural areas . Invercargill , the regional capital , has a population of 44,900 which is steadily growing . Its flat site and orderly layout of wide business streets make it one of the country 's best-planned cities . Nineteen miles to the south wharf facilities at Bluff have been greatly extended and improved by the construction of an artificial island in the harbour and the installation of bulk-loading equipment for meat . Except for the coal-mining townships of Nightcaps and Ohai , the other urban centres serve as shopping , marketing and processing centres for the surrounding farms . Gore is the largest . Exercise 6 : Location and Nature of Mining and Manufacturing Industries ( a ) With the aid of topographic maps , more detailed texts and such annual reports as the Mines Statement and the List of Creameries , Factories , Private Dairies andPacking Houses draw a map showing the distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lime works and factories on the Southland Plain . ( 6 ) Which are the largest works ? To what extent does their nature reflect the type of farming on the Plain ? ( c ) What huge new industry is to be built on Tiwai Point near Bluff ? Why has this site been chosen ? WESTLAND , A REGION OF EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES The mild , very wet climate , the importance of extractive industries , gold , coal and timber and the minor role of farming , all help to make Westland one of New Zealand 's most distinctive geographic regions . It is a land of much torrential rain , dense bush , fast-flowing rivers , magnificent mountain , lake and glacier scenery , desolate stretches of " pakihi " bog and cut-over , fire-blackened forest , dangerous bar harbours , dismal piles of gold dredge tailings and sluiced gashes in hill-sides . Location and Isolation Westland extends for over 300 miles along the West Coast of the South Island . Its average width is twenty-five miles . Even today it is isolated ; with only four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbours and one rail link , through the five-and-a-quarter mile Otira Tunnel . Fortunately the remoteness in the south has been reduced by the recent completion of the road over the Haast Pass and up the coast linking Wanaka and Weheka . This new highway , which is going to enable tourists to make a more comprehensive circuit of South Island scenery , passes through extremely difficult road-building terrain . Along one Footnote  | four-mile stretch , south of Paringa there are nearly sixty river crossings over culverts ranging from two 25-feet wide giants to reinforced concrete pipes two feet in diameter ; a million cubic yards of spoil , over 160,000 truck loads , had to be moved . Physical Geography The three main physical units are the narrow coastal lowland , the northern mountains and the western slopes of the Southern Alps , whose crestline rises everywhere to over 6,000 feet . Ten miles west of the main divide , the snowy peaks end abruptly along a great fault line , sometimes regarded as the regional boundary . The lowland is not a true plain , but consists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet high or arranged in flights of terraces . The very moist climate reflects the region 's location on the exposed west coast backed by high mountains in the path of eastward-moving moist air masses . The high annual rainfall increases towards the south and further inland ( Karamea 72 inches , Greymouth 100 inches , Jackson Bay 188 inches and Otira 198 inches ) , yet Hokitika sunshine totals are higher than those of Palmerston North or Dunedin . There are no long spells of cloud or drizzle . Winter temperatures are milder than those of most South Island districts . The continual wet weather can be most depressing and causes many difficulties . In most homes clothes drying has to be facilitated by the use of wooden rails hung from ceiling pulleys . Fortunately , coal is cheap . Exercise 7 : A Climate Graph for Greymouth . Using graph paper or a rubber stamp grid , construct a temperature and rainfall graph using the following statistics . Table Natural Vegetation and Soil This region was once a vast expanse of forest . The lowland forest was crowned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees as kamahi and rata clothed the mountain slopes , with beech forest common north of Greymouth . With such a large area of highland the areas of potentially fertile soil are small . Unfortunately , most lowland areas , apart from a few pockets of river silt , are underlain by impervious , iron hard-pans . Although it supports thick stands of timber this infertile , acidic , swampy muck , known as pakihi , is almost valueless for farming .  | History of Settlement The 1864 gold rush brought the first European settlers . Primitive cradle and dish methods were followed by sluicing in the 1870 's and dredging about 1900 and since 1930 . In the 1880 's the coal fields were developed and by 1900 large-scale timber milling began . Coal Westland 's chief extractive industry , coal-mining , gives the region much of its distinctive character , despite its unobtrusiveness . However , the keen observer notices the aerial ropeways , smoke puffing from minemouth steam plants , trains made up entirely of coal wagons and groups of cottages almost hidden in the rain-drenched hills . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , freighters would venture across the river-bars far less frequently and there would not be the strong community spirit , developed where group safety depends so much on careful team work . The three West Coast fields make this the South Island 's chief coal-producing region with 27 per cent . of New Zealand 's annual output . The Grey and Buller fields are the country 's only sources of high-grade , bituminous coal used for gas and coke making , South Island express trains and industry . Most of the Buller coal is found near the top of a bleak plateau 2,000 feet above sea-level . The Grey field has no opencast workings and many faults dislocate the seams . The Reefton mines have only become important producers of sub-bituminous coal for South Island household use since 1943 . The relative importance of the various fields is illustrated in Table 9. 1947 was the peak production year for West Coast coal-mining . Table Footnote  | It will be noticed that the greatest decline since then has been in the Buller district . Much of this has been due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Zealand and the corresponding drop in production from the Stockton opencast mine , which had an output of 94,239 tons in 1954 and a mere 6,533 tons ten years later . The pattern of consumption has changed since 1910 , when 60 per cent . of the national output of 2,200,000 tons came from West Coast underground mines . Exercise 8 . Write a brief report : ( a ) Accounting for the declining demand for West Coast coal . ( b ) Explaining why it is unlikely to cease altogether . ( c ) Stating a reason for the Government reducing output from the Stockton opencast mine but continuing to recover coal from more expensively-operated underground mines . Gold Dwindling resources and lower prices have led to a decline in gold recovery . During 1964 the country 's only gold dredge , an electrically powered one , continued working along the north bank of the Taramakau River near Kumara , recovering nearly 9,450 ounces of gold . Forty-four men were employed . Despite its past importance in opening up the region , the chief significance of gold-mining today is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lowland , much of which had some farming value , being left covered with heaps of sterile tailings . Timber Because of its slow rate of regeneration , the uncontrolled milling and /or clearing of Westland 's rich indigenous timber stands is a form of extractive industry having similar effects on regional development to mining . Some thirty years ago over a quarter of New Zealand 's annual timber production came from this region ; nowadays it has fallen to one-tenth . However , this comprised a quarter of the national output of native timber . The industry used one-eighth of the regional male labour force , half the proportion engaged in coal-mining . The chief milling ares are near Karamea , along the Inangahua and Grey Valleys , near Lake Brunner and between Greymouth and Ross . Mills are larger than the New Zealand average but smaller than those on the Volcanic Plateau . Nearly four-fifths of the timber cut is rimu , most of the remainder being red and hard beech or kahikatea . If present cutting rates are maintained , in another fifty years a visitor to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see small locomotives pulling loads of logs along ramshackle tramways . The steeply-sloping mountains will still be clothed in protection forest but the morainic ridges and terraces will be denuded of millable trees . Hence the need for a stricter conservation policy and more research into methods of cutting to a long-term , sustained-yield system . Rimu is a  | shy seeder and the rainy climate does not suit exotics which thrive elsewhere in the Dominion . Farming Now that the timber and mining industries of Westland seem to have passed their peak farming needs greater development . This will not be easy . The region contains barely 1 per cent . of New Zealand 's livestock and 1 per cent . of its sown grassland . ' Very small areas of crops , mainly swedes , are grown and most pastures are of inferior quality . The farmed land is scattered in small pockets , along the coast or in the valleys . It is mainly on relatively free-draining alluvial soils . Dairying is the chief type2 but sheep farming is predominant on the upper Grey River flats and beef @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5,000 acres . Most farms are only partly cleared and many are poorly fenced . Exercise 9 . After consulting the West Coast Region survey or more detailed geography texts write an account of the problems of farm development in Westland and how they could best be overcome . Population and Settlement Of Westland 's total population of about 39,000 people , 80 per cent . live in towns or townships of more than 100 people . The typical unit of settlement is the small township , a cluster of houses grouped near a coal mine or sawmill . The larger towns , Greymouth ( 8,877 in 1961 ) , Westport ( 5,464 ) and Hokitika ( 3,005 ) are the commercial and transport centres . This was the only major region where the population decreased during the 1956-61 inter-censal period . Transport Transport and communication services employ 20 per cent . of the workers , twice the national percentage . Railways and coastal shipping are the chief means of goods transport , the roads acting mainly as " feeders " . " No other New Zealand region has such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inward goods " .3 Lack of return cargoes increases freight charges . Conclusion In its degree of dependence on extractive industries , Westland is unique amongst New Zealand 's geographic regions . However , very few payable gold deposits remain , the demand for coal is declining and the supply of millable timber is being rapidly depleted . Already Footnote  | many families have shifted elsewhere . Future prosperity is. going to depend increasingly upon the development of better farming , new manufacturing industries and to a minor extent , catering for tourists ' visits to the spectacular alpine , lake and forest scenery of southern Westland . EXAMPLES OF RECENTLY DEVELOPED REGIONS NORTHLAND Two centuries ago the bush-clad hills and many harbours of New Zealand 's northernmost region were the home of at least a third of the Maori population . It was here that the mild , humid climate most closely resembled that of the Maoris ' former Pacific Island homes and made easier the introduction of such crops as kumara , taro and yams . With goods to sell , ships to revictual and pagans to convert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracted to this region , but it soon lost its importance in European eyes , because its farmland and transport network proved so hard to develop . However , due to the needs and large-scale mechanized methods of development in the mid-twentieth century , it has now become a land of great promise and rapid growth . Physical Geography It is a long region of peninsulas and islands with a long and , on the east , irregular coastline and many large harbours . The central , rugged , granite or greywacke hills rise to over 2,000 feet , but most of the region is low , hill country studded with a few scoria cones and many small alluvial flats . Sand dunes border the west coast , onto which surf pounds almost unceasingly . Its climate is mild , with only 12 ? F. between the average temperature of the coldest and warmest months , and moist , with adequate rain every month , but a winter maximum . The lower levels have very few frosts and no snow . These features are related to its northerly location and peninsular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a tropical cyclone results in flooding and other forms of damage . Primitive Vegetation and Soils Apart from the west coast dune plants and the mangroves on tidal flats , the region was once covered with sub-tropical rain forest dominated by kauri and taraire trees , manuka scrubland and swamps of raupo and rushes . The patches of contrasting soil types form a complex pattern . Most of them reflect the chief factors in their formation ? the low relief , the warm , moist climate and the forest and scrub cover . Most are strongly-leached , warm , heavy clays with thin topsoils and low subsoil fertility . ) Footnote  | Figure  | Land Use A long period of exploitation , which began with the pre-1840 trade in kauri spars , flax and pork was followed by more systematic sawmilling and gum digging . It has only recently been replaced by improvements in communications and by land development schemes . At least two-thirds of Northland 's farms are predominantly used for dairying , the chief districts being the fertile valleys and river flats surrounding Whangarei , the Maromaku Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the narrow plain which extends for thirty miles along the banks of the Kaihu and Lower Wairoa Rivers , between Mamaranui and Ruawai . Further south , the Kaipara flats near Helensville are important . On the better properties in these areas annual butterfat production per cow may be as high as 300 to 350 lb . However the average butterfat production per farmer is less than in the Manawatu district where herd sizes ( nearly 60 cows ) are similar . Despite the lush paspalum-dominant pasture , several factors reduce average yields from dairying . Many farms still have part of their area in bush or scrub and there is less hay and silage made and a smaller proportion of pasture top-dressed than in Taranaki and the Waikato . However , the number of cows in milk has increased during the past 30 years at a faster rate than in any other area of equal size . Future marked increases are now unlikely . The comparatively few sheep reared on the hill lands are fattened on many dairy farms , but there are fewer lambs to fatten than in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of running beef cattle on many dairy farms , when they provide a way of suppressing second growth and rough grass , thus extending the area of pasture . These features emphasise that Northland is still a " pioneer " farming area . The increased dairy production mentioned above reflects the Statecontrolled land development schemes over the past thirty years . This region 's range of problem lands could only be broken in by use of heavy machinery on a larger scale than individual farmers could attempt . The complexity of soil types has resulted in the development of smaller blocks than on the Volcanic Plateau . Exercise 10 . With the aid of the Northland Region surveys write a brief account of land development in Northland . As a result of these schemes and the reorganization of many small properties owned by Maori families and mainly used for dairying on an uneconomically small scale , the importance of extensive sheep and cattle farming in Northland is likely to increase . The area in dairy farms could shrink but total dairy production should rise as pasture quality improves . This should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Whangarei works . Footnote  | The mild , moist climate favours the growth of sub-tropical fruit . The Kerikeri district is one of New Zealand 's chief sources of citrus and sub-tropical fruit . Some 130 trim holdings each sheltered by hakea hedges , have an average size of five acres , grapefruit , navel oranges and Meyer lemons being the chief crops but mandarins , tree tomatoes and Chinese gooseberries also being important . Population and Settlement This region has a total population of about 105,000 . Maoris form a larger proportion of the total than in any other New Zealand region and most live in rural areas on their own land . Northland contains most of New Zealand 's people of Yugoslav descent ( Dalmatians ) . The Highland Scots who began farming at Waipu in 1852 and the Bohemian farmers of Puhoi form two other distinctive settlements . The population is unevenly distributed ; most live near the coast , because early access was by sea . Whangarei , the largest urban area , has recently become a city . Only seven other towns contain over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as surrounding farmland is more fully developed . However , more than half the region 's inhabitants still live in rural areas . Manufacturing Industries Until a few years ago the processing of farm produce and cementmaking were the only important types of manufacturing carried on in Northland . Milk is processed in eleven combined butter and milk powder factories and one cheese factory , butter exports comprising over a fifth of the national total . Both cattle and sheep are killed and packed for export at the Moerewa freezing works . Local limestone is used at Portland to produce almost 40 per cent . of New Zealand 's cement . However , important new industries are being established , all near Whangarei . The Dominion 's only oil refinery , built at Marsden Point , went " on stream " during 1964 and is now the region 's largest factory , some 150 men being permanently employed . Exercise 11 ( a ) With the aid of the excellent booklet published by the New Zealand Oil Refinery Co.l account for location of the refinery at Marsden Point and find out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works near Whangarei opened within the past few years and briefly account for their location . Transport Until forty years ago coastal shipping was the chief form of transport . Road and rail transport facilities are now much better on main routes , but secondary metalled roads could be still further improved . The Bay of Islands port of Opua has been rebuilt and its approaches dredged Footnote  | to handle overseas freighters . Coastal steamers remain important north of the Bay of Islands . They carry such bulk cargoes as farm produce , timber , cement and glassworks sand . The construction of wharves at Marsden Point and at Port Whangarei two miles south-east of the city , and the dredging of deeper channels completed since 1960 have prepared the port for handling the huge tonnages needed by the oil refinery , the glassworks and the fertiliser works . This activity epitomizes recent development in the Northland region . VOLCANIC PLATEAU ? BAY OF PLENTY Forty years ago this region was known mainly for its tourist and sporting attractions ? Rotorua 's geysers , lakes and tonic baths , Taupo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's exhilarating skiing grounds . Its economic importance was negligible , dairy produce from the small coastal flats near Katikati , Te Puke , Whakatane and Opotiki being the chief source of income . In recent years , it has been greatly transformed . Railway , road and harbour construction and the growth of such new towns at Tokoroa , Kawerau and Murupara , can barely keep pace with the rapid development of forests , farmland and power resources . No other New Zealand region has expanded so much during the past twenty years . Physical Geography This region comprises the central upland core of the North Island fringed on the north by a discontinuous series of small , swampy , alluvial pockets and the long , sandy beaches of the Bay of Plenty . The altitude of the undulating , volcanic ash-covered plateau varies between 1,000 and 2,000 feet . Several volcanic peaks and cones , a few still active , protrude above its surface , especially in the National Park and Rotorua districts , the former containing Mount Ruapehu , highest mountain in the North Island . ' Exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulletins2 and New Zealand encyclopedias write a concise description of eruptions on the Volcanic Plateau during the past century . Even a glance at a geological map reveals the domination of volcanic rocks , especially ignimbrite ( a usually grey , pink or cream rock of varying hardness ) , and of vast accumulations of dazzling white pumice . There is a block of dissected hill country in the north between Putaruru and Rotorua and a similar 15-mile wide belt along the region 's western boundary . With the fairly high elevation , 10-degree frosts and temperature Footnote.  | Inversion are common in winter , when there are also heavy snowfalls in the south . Summer temperatures at Rotorua range between 60 ? F. and 70 ? F. with maxima about 85 ? F. However , with the relative humidity seldom over 80 per cent . this region has a bracing climate with cold nights and warm days . Most of the region receives between 45 and 70 inches of rain a year . With an average of 2,300 to 2,400 hours annually , the Bay of Plenty , due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the country . Its chief drawback is the occasional flooding from heavy rain brought by northerly winds preceding the passage of a depression . ' Primitive Vegetation and Soils Because volcanic eruptions and resulting fires have prevented forest regeneration , most of the surface has a manuka , fern or manoao scrub cover , with tussock at higher levels in the south and rain forest mainly on the hills in the west and north . The pumice ash weathers to form a whitish , powdery , cobalt-deficient soil which also needs dressings of fertiliser to establish good pastures . Farming As one motors or flies southwards from the lowlands of South Auckland over the Volcanic Plateau it is the bare newness of the farm landscapes which catches the eye . Lush green pastures sub-divided by neatly-battened fences , rows of young trees still of little use for shelter , and a sprinkling of pine trees are some of its features . Others are the freshly-painted bungalows and pre-fabricated cottages . The recent growth is easily recognized . Adjacent stretches of scrubland suggest that further growth is likely . Apart from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bay of Plenty and on the Reporoa and Ngakuru Development Blocks , the growth of farming was retarded by soil poverty , " bush-sickness " among stock , and remoteness . It was not until cobaltised super-phosphate and good grass seed became available after 1936 that stock numbers began to increase . More rapid progress since the close of World War II has been due to : ( a ) State-organized farm development schemes aimed particularly at helping ex-servicemen . ( b ) The use of heavy machinery for breaking in the land . ( c ) The introduction of aerial topdressing . The area of farmland is now increasing much faster than that of the exotic forest . However , even today it is typically insignificant over much of the region . Each year , 20,000 acres of virgin waste is cleared and cultivated by State-planned , mechanized schemes . In its second stage of " breaking in " , mobs of sheep and beef cattle are used to consolidate the pasture and keep down the weeds . The final stage ' See pp. 21-22.  | consists of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erection of fences and buildings and the establishment of the new farmers . Exercise 13 . With the aid of more-detailed texts or government reports write a comprehensive report on the development of farms in the Volcanic Plateau-Bay of Plenty region . The increase in livestock numbers has been quite spectacular . Between 1923 and 1960 there was a more than threefold increase in the number of dairy cows and the number of sheep increased by over 500 per cent . Today , dairying remains the chief type of farming and the region supports a tenth of the country 's milking cows . With only 3 per cent . of the national total , sheep are less important . ) Exercise 14 . Preferably using Map C of the Bay of Plenty Region survey draw a map showing the chief dairy and sheep farming areas in the Volcanic Plateau-Bay of Plenty Region . The character of dairy farming on the coastal lowlands closely resembles that on the plains of South Auckland . Each district has its dairy factory , the largest , at Edgecumbe , having a production in 1963 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Bay of Plenty is also New Zealand 's leading citrus and subtropical fruit-growing area , and in 1960 produced over 45 per cent . of the national citrus crop and 51 per cent . of the subtropical fruits . Its specialities are standard lemons , New Zealand grapefruit , mandarins , Chinese gooseberries and passionfruit . Most of the orchards have been established within five miles of Tauranga . Like those of Kerikeri , many growers are elderly . Receipts from fruit-growing supplement their superannuation and other fixed incomes . Forestry For more than half a century this region has been an important source of native timber , mainly rimu , matai and tawa . The ring of axe-blows , the crash of tumbling trees and the whine of saws have become familiar sounds . More recently , however , it is the harvesting of extensive exotic softwood plantations which has transformed forestry from an extractive industry into a self-perpetuating one , capable of retaining a leading role in the regional economy . In 1961 it supplied three-fifths of the nation 's exotic timber and nearly a third of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the hills on the eastern edge of the King Country and the Mamaku Plateau west of Rotorua . The largest exotic forests are on the Kaingaroa Plains in the east and around Kinleith in the north-west . The annual total tonnage of exotic wood products is approximately twice that of native timber Footnote  | milled . The milling of native timber throughout the country is rapidly declining . The planting of exotic conifers , which today cover over 800 square miles , began in 1898 at Whakarewarewa , most being planted from 1924-39 . Compared with other world forestry areas , the rate of growth is very rapid , especially of Finns radiata ( insignis pine ) which covers four-fifths of the planted area . The forestry landscape has the following distinctive features : orderly rectangular blocks of trees separated by firebreaks and private roads , sawmills with their piles of sawdust and slabs and stacks of timber , mill-camps with their lines of uniformlybuilt cottages , fire lookouts and huge timber trucks . The State owns almost 270,000 acres of the region 's 565,700 acres of exotic forest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national acreage . Serious forestry problems are : ( a ) The dominance of radiata pine . ( b ) The trees ' bad age distribution . ( c ) Poor quality stands . ( d ) Difficulties of natural regeneration . ( e ) Effects upon soil composition . ( f ) Animal , insect and fungal pests . Exercise 15 . With the aid of the Bay of Plenty Region survey , write a concise report on the nature of the problems listed above and possible solutions to them . There are over seventy timber mills in the region , more than half being exclusively or dominantly concerned with indigenous timber . However the largest , at Kawerau , Kinleith , Waipa , Whakatane and Putaruru , process exotic softwoods . The related production of pulp and paper was developed once it was realized how profitably it could use the large quantities of surplus and inferior wood which could not be absorbed for use as sawn timber . Subsequent growth has resulted in the construction of three large mills each with its own special products , at Kawerau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printing and writing paper and kraft pulp ) and Whakatane ( cardboard ) .2 Subsidiary plants in Kawerau and Auckland are dependent on partly-processed material from Kawerau and Kinleith . At Kawerau , the Tasman Pulp and Paper Co . Ltd. ' s integrated timber , pulp and paper mills , opened in 1955-56 , draw their raw materials from the 260,000 acre Kaingaroa State Forest . The logs are taken by articulated trucks to Murupara , then railed forty miles along a track laid in 1953-54 . At Kinleith nearly 2,000 acres are cut yearly from 176,000 acres of forest to supply New Zealand Forest Products Limited 's pulp , paper and timber mills . Logs for the Whakatane Board Footnote  | Mills Ltd. are cut at the company 's forest at Matahina and sent to the mills along a private railway . Power Development " From Lake Taupo to Karapiro , a distance of 117 miles , the Waikato River falls through more than 1,000 feet , normally has an adequate water flow and for the most part flows along an entrenched course suitable for holding dammed-up water " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the North Island . Eight stations have been built : Karapiro ( 90,000kw ) and Arapuni ( 158,000kw ) just outside the regional boundary , Waipapa ( 51,000kw ) , Maraetai ( 180,000kw ) , Whakamaru ( 100,000kw ) , Atiamuri ( 84,000kw ) , Ohakuri ( 112,000kw ) and Aratiatia ( 90,000kw ) . A second station at Maraetai is to be completed to help supply peak loads . Further stations are being built at Matahina ( 72,000kw ) on the Rangitaiki River and near Tokaanu ( 182,000kw ) south of Lake Taupo . After several years of intensive testing , a power station using geothermal steam was built at Wairakei , its initial capacity being 69,000kw . This has since been increased to 192,420kw and further extensions are planned . Not so long ago this area was a quiet tourist resort , the silence occasionally punctuated by a geyser playing . Now it is a jumble of giant caterpillar-like pipes , drilling gear and wisps of water vapour , dominated by the endless roar of escaping steam . Tourism Despite the rapid expansion of other activities , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Rotorua district is New Zealand 's leading resort . Other tourist and holiday " playgrounds " include the beaches at Mount Maunganui and Ohope , the Wairakei geysers , trout fishing and swimming at Lake Taupo and the volcanoes and winter sports grounds near Chateau Tongariro . Exercise 16 . After using tourist pamphlets and hearing personal reports , write a concise summary of tourist and holiday attractions and amenities in this region . Transport The mushrooming of transport services very clearly reflects the speedy growth of farming and forestry during the past twenty years . Before 1945 the Bay of Plenty and Rotorua branch lines were the only railways serving the region . Even the main roads , which provide through transport services rather than local access , were just dusty , corrugated pumice strips . Chief developments since have included the Footnote  | construction of a major port at Mt . Maunganui ' ( Plate 6 ) , new branch railways from Putaruru to Kinleith and from Hawkens to Kawerau and Murupara , better aerodromes at Rotorua , Taupo and Whakatane and the conversion of most main roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway tunnel through the Kaimai Range will still further strengthen the transport network . Population and Settlement In 1961 the region had a population of almost 140,000 , about 6 per cent . of the national total , an increase of more than 26,000 over the previous five years , a clear indication by itself of the speedy development of farming , forestry and other activities . About three-fifths of the inhabitants live in urban areas . Both Rotorua and Tauranga have recently reached city status . Three Bay of Plenty towns , Te Puke , Opotiki and Whakatane , are growing steadily . Taupo , Tokorca , Murupara and Kawerau have sprung up very quickly to serve the nearby large paper and timber mills . The last two did not exist fifteen years ago and have been completely laid out by town planners . Most of the rural population is scattered in groups on farm development blocks or near sawmills , forestry depots , power stations and tourist resorts . Maoris make up nearly one-quarter of the population , most still living in rural areas . Exercise 17 : Interpretation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the aid of a cross-section and precis maps , write a concise description of the area shown on the map . ( b ) To what extent is the landscape typical of the Volcanic Plateau-Bay of Plenty Region ? Exercise 18 : Photograph Interpretation ( Plate 6 ) . This recent aerial photograph of Mt . Maunganui wharf and environs shows many features of the North Island 's most rapidly-developing port . ( a ) What wood products are probably stored in the sheds and under the tarpaulins in the middle distance before being exported ? ( b ) Part of a flour mill is shown on the left edge of the photo and a fertiliser works in the centre background . From these and other photographic evidence name three likely important imports . ( c ) What differences in layout and operation do you note between this port and Auckland or Wellington or Lyttelton ? ( d ) Draw a labelled sketch-map of the area shown on the photograph . Draw it inside a quadrilateral frame with the bottom edge only half the width of the top edge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mid-latitude location and huge expanses of lowland , Australia has a lower population density than any other continent except Antarctica . In 1964 this 2,974,581 square miles of land mass supported only 11,000,000 people , fewer than live in Greater New York . The aim of this chapter is to study relationships between population distribution and trends in Australia and the relief , climate and economic development of the country . Exercise 1 ( a ) After carefully studying a textbook or atlas map of Australian population densities , draw a map in your notebook showing the distribution of the four chief density categories : ( i ) less than 1 person per 8 or 10 square miles ; ( ii ) from 1 person per 8 to 10 square miles to 4 per square mile ; ( iii ) from 4 to 16 per square mile ; ( iv ) over 16 per square mile . ( b ) Write a sentence about each state , outlining its general pattern of population distribution . ( c ) Write a one-page account of the Australian aborigines , mentioning their total numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Australians of European descent . This introductory assignment highlights the very small segments of the country with a density of even four people per square mile and the huge extent of almost uninhabited land in the centre and tropical north . The Northern Territory , five times the size of New Zealand , has a smaller population than the city of New Plymouth . An estimated 85 per cent . of Australia 's population live south of a straight line drawn through Brisbane and Whyalla . When current statistics for the state capitals are studied , an even greater concentration of population into small areas is disclosed . Exercise 2 . Rule up a table in four columns and , with statistics from the latest Australia Official Handbook , use each column as follows : ( i ) State name ; ( ii ) State population ; ( iii ) State capital population ; and  | ( iv ) percentage of ( ii ) in ( iii ) . When this exercise is complete it will be noticed that : ( a ) four capital cities contain more than half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one Australian in every three lives in Melbourne or Sydney . At the 1961 census just over 56 per cent . of the population lived in capital cities , nearly 26 per cent . in smaller urban centres and almost 18 per cent . in rural districts . When one studies maps of road and railway networks , the leading importance of the state capitals as commercial foci is quickly realized . Their dominance as industrial centres is not so obvious . Both Sydney and Melbourne contain over 12,000 factories ; there are at least 1,000 in the other state capitals . Even a casual glance at a map of Australian physical features is sufficient to see that the extent of land of high elevation or rugged terrain can not place many restrictions on the density and distribution of the population . A mere 5 per cent . exceeds 2,000 feet in elevation compared with at least seven times this proportion in New Zealand . On the other hand a rainfall map discloses much more serious limits to settlement . Over one-third of the continent averages less than 10 inches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be studied before that of relief . Climate Australia is the driest of the world 's hot continents . The inadequate rainfall and mild to hot temperatures are a reflection of its sub-tropical latitude , compact shape and subdued relief . Exercise 3 . Australia 's Climate Controls . ( a ) The Australian continent extends between latitudes 10 ? 41 ' and 43 ? 39 ' S , one-third of its area lying north of the Tropic of Capricorn . After carefully studying relevant atlas maps of pressure systems , winds , temperatures and rainfall , write a two-page account of the effect of Australia 's position on climate patterns . Use simple sketch-maps to illustrate your answer . ( b ) After comparing a map of Australia 's annual rainfall south of the Tropic of Capricorn with a similar one of Europe , write a short paragraph on the effect of continental shape on rainfall patterns . ( c ) Carefully compare a map of Australia 's relief with others of seasonal isotherms and rainfall . Write a paragraph on the influence of mountain ranges on the temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern Great Dividing Range , mainly in the Australian Alps , winter temperatures do not fall low enough to retard plant growth . Thus the varying incidence of rainfall is mainly  | Figure  | responsible for the regional variety of farming and the density and patterns of most rural settlements . Indirectly it must affect urban settlement , too . From time to time news reports of devastating bush fires or photographs of prone sheep lying in a dusty , gum-studded waste remind us that droughts can result in fatal tragedies . Occasionally , on the other hand , we are puzzled by news of rampaging floods along such East Coast valleys as the Hunter or the Macleay . To understand the nature of Australian rainfall we need to consider not only the pattern of the average annual fall but also the seasonal distribution and the high variability . The map of average annual totals ( Figure 25A ) shows the small area , about 11 per cent. , on which over 40 inches fall , enough to maintain intensive grassland farming . Another 22 per cent . receives between 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stock farming ; a further 30 per cent . with 10 to 20 inches is fit only for extensive pastoralism . Unfortunately farming is a year-by-year business , so variations from the mean annual rainfall can seriously affect yields . Figure 25A indicates the 20 per cent . variability line , calculated by plotting the location of places where the variation each year averages 20 per cent , of the annual rainfall . The widespread unreliability is better understood when a comparison is made with New Zealand . In this country only two small localities , one north of Napier and the other north of Whangarei , have a variability exceeding 20 per cent . It is less than 16 per cent . over most of the Dominion . Roebourne , on the north West Australian coast , provides examples of high variability . During 1891 a mere 0.13 inches was received ; in 1900 , 42 inches fell . The mean is almost 10 inches . It is little wonder that droughts alternate with floods and stock-carrying capacity over wide areas is so limited . Where more intensive farming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safeguard . Over vast expanses of Australia the rainfall is not only meagre and unreliable , it also falls almost entirely during one season . Seasonal rainfall types are shown on Figure 25B . It shows that at least two-thirds of the continent is either continually arid or experiences regular prolonged seasonal drought . Of course , even the south-east , which on average receives a comparatively even seasonal rainfall , is frequently beset by droughts due to annual variations . Throughout the tropical north , rainfall effectiveness is greatly reduced by the high evaporation rates , especially in summer when nearly all the precipitation occurs . Research workers at the Waite Institute in South Australia have calculated a general precipitation effectiveness ratio for Australia . This shows that a month 's rainfall is effective for farming only if it exceeds one-third of the evaporation from an open water surface . The northern Kimberleys , Arnhem Land , Cape York  | Peninsula and the north-east Queensland coast are the four districts in tropical Australia receiving at least five months ' effective rainfall , the minimum needed to grow most crops . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are too rough or too infertile to be useful . Reasons for the sparse population of northern Australia become more obvious . Relief Exercise 4 . A Map of Australia 's Chief Physical Features and Landform Regions . Using a whole notebook page , draw a sketch-map of Australia . On it show the larger rivers , lakes , plateaux , ranges and coastal features . Preferably with the aid of a map of structure or geology , use broken red lines to show the boundaries of the three landform regions described below . Number the regions and add their names to your map key . Landform Regions 1 . The Western Plateau . The largest of the three regions , this vast tableland extends as far as the eastern edges of the Arnhem Plateau , Barkly Tableland , Mount Isa , the Musgrave Ranges , the Flinders Range and Broken Hill . Its surface , which lies mainly at an elevation between 600 and 1,500 feet , is generally flat or gently undulating and featureless , except where the ancient rocks have been folded , like the steep-walled Macdonnell Ranges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hamersley Range . Because most of its surface experiences a desert climate and it contains huge tracts of uninhabited land , the detailed relief pattern of this region is of little concern to us , except in the extreme south-east and south-west , where intensive farming and urban settlements are found . In the south-west , the fault-scarp edge of the tableland is called the Darling Range . This scarp has been fretted by a series of deep gorges cut by short rivers and has a narrow coastal plain at its foot . The " shatter belt " of the south-east is a series of horsts and grabens , the former consisting of the Yorke Peninsula and the Mount Lofty Ranges , the latter submerged by the sea to form Spencer and St. Vincent Gulfs . On their shores stand Adelaide , Port Pirie and Whyalla. 2 . The Central Lowlands . This geologically ancient , immense geosyncline or structural depression is a flat , featureless plain with an elevation generally below 700 feet . For hundreds of miles no hills line the horizon . The Central Lowlands are divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Selwyn Range in the north and the Barrier ? Grey Ranges further south . The summer seasonal run-off in the north uses watercourses like the Flinders and the Norman to reach the Gulf of Carpentaria . In the centre , the Lake Eyre Basin is one of the world 's largest areas of interior drainage . About one year in four a particularly rainy season fills the  | channels of the Georgina , Diamentina , Cooper 's Creek and their tributaries and floods across the silt plains of the Channel Country . Lush pastures appear like magic , but quickly wither . Perhaps once in 20 years enough water flows into Lake Eyre to fill its 100-mile-long bed to a depth of several feet . However , in a few months it becomes a huge , dry salt-pan again . The Murray ? Darling Basin in the south is the only one of the three containing some perennial streams . The Darling is often little more than a string of waterholes . The Murray contains more water because it is fed by the melting snow and ice of the Australian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sluggish due to the very slight gradient , a mere three inches to the mile over the last 600 miles to the sea . Apart from its general lack of hindrance to settlement , the most important feature of the Central Lowlands from the point of view of population support is its structure . Almost horizontal , impervious shales overlie sandstone aquifersl which outcrop in the well-watered Eastern Highlands.2 Water percolates down and westward through the sandstone , its weight providing the pressure for the world 's largest artesian water supply . Although most of the water from the 1,900 free-flowing and 8,000 sub-artesian2 bores is fit for stock supplies but not domestic use , it reduces the disadvantages of high rainfall variability . Exercise 5 . Australia 's Artesian Water Supplies . ( a ) With the help of the description given above and other information you can gather , draw a sketch cross-section illustrating the rock structure of the Great Artesian Basin . ( b ) Using atlases and more detailed texts , draw a map of Australia showing the limits of the various artesian basins and name them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . The Eastern Highlands . Of the three chief landform regions , the Eastern Highlands is the only one containing considerable areas where the climate could support intensive farming and dense rural settlement , but the terrain is too rough . There are two major subdivisions , the Great Dividing Range and the fringing narrow coastal plains . The name " Great Dividing Range " has proved quite inappropriate . " Great Dividing Plateaux " would have been a more suitable choice . Although it extends for 2,000 miles from north to south , it is really a row of tablelands and hills and contains very few jagged mountain ridges . The highest point , Mount Kosciusko , has an elevation of 7,316 feet , lower than those of Ruapehu , Egmont and Ngauruhoe and at least 223 named peaks in the South Island . It is the only highest " peak " Footnote  | of a continent which can be reached by road or climbed easily on foot.l The Great Dividing Range is made up of complex systems of igneous , sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.2 The present uplands are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ folding during the same geological period when the Alps , the Rockies and the Southern Alps were formed , some thirty million years ago . The highest upthrust block is the Australian Alps , of 5,000 to 6,000 feet elevation . Others include the Atherton Tableland and the New England Plateau , both of which also exceed 5,000 feet . The Blue Mountains is the eroded remnant of a gentle upfold . Along much of its length , especially in Queensland and western Victoria , the main drainage divide has an elevation of less than 2,000 feet . It is usually nearer the western edge of the uplands , an area of gentle slopes which merges gradually with the Central Lowlands . The steepest scarps are mostly found along the eastern edge of the plateaux where headward erosion by vigorously flowing streams has formed forbidding perpendicular cliffs along valley sides which gash the otherwise flat or undulating summit surfaces . This pattern can be clearly seen at Katoomba , the chief town within Blue Mountains City , which has a total population of 30,000 . Despite the spectacular canyon scenery of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are relatively flat and the city combines its function as a tourist centre with that of outer dormitory suburb for Sydney 60 miles and little more than an hour 's electric train ride away . The only section of the Great Dividing Range with their surface modified by Ice Age glaciation were the Kosciusko Plateau and the Central Plateau of Tasmania . Hollowed-out cirque basins , U-shaped valleys and Tasmania 's deep-floored lakes partly dammed by moraines , are evidence of the gouging and transporting power of the ice . Exercise 6 . The Distribution of Rough Terrain in Eastern Australia . On a full notebook page draw an outline map of Eastern Australia showing the chief rivers . Keeping in mind the information given in the description above of the Eastern Highland and with the help of detailed atlas or wall maps , shade in the areas where the relief is likely to be too rugged for all but sparse rural settlement . Economic Development The climate and relief patterns outlined above have already indicated several limits to the distribution of Australia 's population . Some of these limits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while others result from the intensity of land use which is practicable . Footnote  | A few examples of inter-relationships between annual rainfall and farming type have been discussed above . ' Many of the chief relationships between Australia 's population distribution and the pattern of economic development may be recognized by the careful comparison of maps . Exercise 7. ( a ) Closely study as many maps as you can find showing the distribution of Australian farming types , irrigation areas , and important mining centres.2 On a full-page notebook map of Australia plot the following types of land use : ( i ) extensive sheep and cattle grazing ; ( ii ) intensive cattle and sheep grazing and wheat-growing coupled with sheep farming ; ( iii ) very intensive farming , viz. irrigated cropping , horticulture , sugarcane and dairying ; ( iv ) chief mining areas ; and ( v ) principal industrial areas . ( b ) Compare this land use map with one of population densities drawn for Exercise 1 ( a ) and any available maps of urban population sizes and write a two-page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous sections of this chapter it has been shown that physical limitations of climate and relief have hindered rapid economic development . In 1881 the country 's total population was 2,250,000 . This number doubled by 1911 , trebled by 1933 and nearly quadrupled by 1954 to reach 8,986,500 . Since then the growth rate has substantially increased , reaching 11,000,000 in November , 1963 . If the present net growth rate of more than 2 per cent . is maintained , this total should double in 33 years . The rate of natural increase , the excess of births over deaths , is higher than before World War II but the faster population growth is also due to much immigration . Between 1945 and 1963 the net total immigration was 1,382,000 , half of whom received government help . Exercise 8 . Immigration . ( a ) Only about one-third of Australia 's immigrants between 1947 and 1961 were of Commonwealth nationality . Find out the chief nationalities represented amongst the remainder and what caused them to emigrate . ( b ) Outline the chief reasons for the Australian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( c ) Non-Commonwealth immigrants are usually referred to as " New Australians " . Find out their chief occupational preferences in Australia and any problems which have resulted . ( d ) What is the origin and nature of the " White Australia " policy ? What has been its effect on the ethnic composition of the population ? In the first section of this chapter the concentration of a large percentage of the population in state capitals was noted . During the past twenty years the proportion living in metropolitan and smaller urban areas has continued to increase . To quote two examples , the percentage of urban dwellers in 1954 and in 1961 increased from 82.7 to 85.0 in Victoria and from 76.2 to 79.4 in South Australia . Exercise 9 . Urban Drift . After collecting material from Chapters 9 and 10 , as well as outside sources , concisely discuss the reasons for the continuing urban drift of Australia 's population . Exercise 10.1 ( a ) Draw two sketch maps of Australia . On one show the major climatic regions and on the other the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greater influence on the distribution of the rural population in Australia , landforms or climate ? Discuss this question by relating these physical elements to land use , and land use to the distribution of population , in specific areas . ( c ) What other factors , besides those mentioned in your answer to ( b ) above , have influenced the present distribution of population in Australia ? Footnote  | AUSTRALIAN FARMING AND ITS PROBLEMS Droves of sheep raising clouds of dust as they pass under scattered gums , aboriginal stockmen branding cattle in a rough corral , a combine harvester in a huge wheat field , a team of muscular cutters , their torsos glistening with sweat and filthy with soot as they slash down the tall cane ? these scenes crowd into our minds when we think about Australian farming . Spectacular increases in the output and production range of Australia 's factories , which have doubled in numbers and manpower since 1939 , mask its continued importance and steadilyincreasing output . Like New Zealand , the Commonwealth is still very dependent on farm produce exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the broader relationships are shown in Table 10 . Farming employs barely 10 per cent . of Australia 's work force . // Percentage Values of Australian Primary and Secondary Industries , 1961-19621 Production Exports Farming .. .. 29.6 73.8 Forestry 1.5 Fishing and trapping .. 0.6 1.2 Mining 4.0 6.9 Manufacturing ? ( Added Value ) .. 64.3 8.2 Unclassified .. .. 9.9 100.0 100.0 The many serious climatic limitations to widespread intensive farming in Australia have been discussed in Chapter 8 . As a result , wool , wheat and meat , mainly produced on large properties using a small labour force , are the leading farm exports . Less important but still substantial quantities of dairy produce , fruit ( fresh , dried and canned ) , sugar and rice are also sent overseas . Other crops , still supplying only a fraction of domestic needs , include tobacco , cotton , groundnuts and linen flax Footnote  | The Use of Water Resources Ever since the first European settlement in Australia was established at Port Jackson in 1788 and Macarthur introduced the first merino flock nine years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ingenuity of Australian farmers . Fortunately most sheep and cattle ranchers found that large quantities of artesian or sub-artesian water could be tapped to supplement the stock water supply which failed Figure 26 . Irrigation and water supply districts inthe Murray-Darling Basin . during the frequent droughts ? On the other hand , because there are few catchment areas with reliable rain or snowfalls to build up the storage , the installation of irrigation schemes has proved difficult . The best storage area is in the Australian Alps , and to get the maximum benefit , the Snowy Mountain Scheme ? one of the world 's most complex ? is being built . The period of construction will extend over forty years .2 Footnote  | At the present time over 90 per cent . of the country 's irrigation storage has been provided along the Murray River and its tributaries . The largest reservoirs are Eucumbene ( 3,500,000 acre-feet ) , 1 part of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme , Eildon ( 2,750,000 ) on the Upper Goulburn River , Hume ( 2,500,000 ) on the Murray and Burrinjuck on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief types of water supply are provided , ( i ) full irrigation for crops and pasture , and ( ii ) drinking water for stock and domestic needs . The only other sizable irrigation schemes outside the Murray ? Darling Basin are the Keepit ( 345,000 acre-feet ) on the Namoi River near Gunnedah in northern New South Wales , Tinaroo Falls ( 330,000 ) on the Barron River near Mareeba , North Queensland , and Glenbawn ( 293,000 ) on the Hunter River near Scone . In Western Australia a string of smaller storage reservoirs , the largest of which is Wellington Dam , have been built where several streams cross the west-facing scarp of the Darling Range inland from Bunbury . The construction o - several widely-dispersed dams , some partly built and others still being designed , will in a few years reduce the concentration of the total irr igated area in the Murray ? Darling Basin . The largest of these projects will be the 6,584,000 acre-feet Burdekin Falls Scheme near Townsville , North Queensland , and 3,500,900 acre-feet Ord River Scheme near Wyndham in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the initial stage will result in the irrigation of 30,000 acres ; ultimately 200,000 acres will be supplied with water . Experimental farming has been carried on for some time . In 1964 c , 200 acres of cotton and 800 acres of rice were grown.2 SHEEP FARMING Although well beyond the range of Jason and the Argonauts of Homeric Greece , Australia could well be called " The Land of the Golden Fleece " . Sheep farming has a special importance . During the nineteenth century the pastoralists rather than the gold fossickers helped to open up the country . It was wool which provided most of the money needed to develop the six young colonies . Even today , wool remains the country 's most valuable single export , making up over a third of the total value of all exports in recent years . This is not surprising , because Australia was the home of 158,000,000 sheep in 1962 , over 15 per cent . of the world 's total . They yielded over 25 per cent . of the world 's wool , including at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . of the clip is exported overseas . Japan has now replaced the United Kingdom as the best customer . In Australia , the best sheep-grazing lands are found between the 15 1 One acre-foot of water is enough to cover an acre of land to the depth of one foot . It contains some 270,000 gallons . Footnote  | and 30 inches isohyets south of 20 ? S. latitude . The actual limits are : ( a ) towards the desert ? aridity and intense summer heat ; ( b ) in the north ? rank tropical grasses and the continuous heat suit cattle better . Watering facilities , in the absence of succulent herbage , are too widely spaced ; ( c ) East coast ? trouble from such diseases as foot-rot and worm parasites is more likely and high development costs favour the use of the land for a more intensive type of farming than sheep-grazing . ' Interior Stations These carry about a quarter of Australia 's sheep . As farming on these properties is entirely dependent on the use of natural pasture , some understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will help . Exercise 1 . Australia 's Natural Vegetation . ( a ) Onto a notebook page copy an atlas or textbook map showing the distribution of Australia 's chief vegetation types . ( b ) Write brief notes on the nature of the various types . Some facts about the less-well-known ones are given below : Note. ? Mallee is a dwarf eucalyptus with a bole ( short trunk ) from which grow several limbs up to 10 or more feet high . Mulga scrub comprises several wattle species from 10 to 40 feet high with leaves and seed pods which stock find edible . Mitchell and Flinders grasses are similar to New Zealand tussock species . Bluebush and saltbush are short , succulent , perennial shrubs . The stations are between 10,000 and 150,000 acres in area with flocks of 2,000 to 50,000 merinos . Stocking rates vary considerably from 1 sheep to 3 acres on the Mitchell grass downs of central Queensland and northern New South Wales to 1 sheep to 20 acres on saltbush country , and 1 to 100 or more acres on the mulga @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a few store sheep in good seasons . The natural pastures range from Mitchell and Flinders grassland with scattered brigalow ( a tall Acacia ) and eucalypt trees . The stations are subdivided into several huge blocks , e.g. 7 for a 15,000 acre property , each with a natural waterhole or " tank " , a scooped hollow blocked by a low earth dam . The homestead block comprises a house raised high and surrounded by wide verandahs , a wind-pump and tank of artesian or sub-artesian water , a garage , a woolshed and yards , shearers ' huts , a storeshed and Footnote  | a rain-gauge . Each year gangs of itinerant shearers are employed . Hand feeding or agistment is necessary during droughts . Wheat ? Sheep Farms Most are located between the winter isohyets of 8 and 20 inches . The Wheat ? Sheep Belt supports two-fifths of the national sheep total . Flocks of 300 to 1,000 are run on 600- to 3,000-acre properties where English rams are crossed with merino ewes to produce cross-bred fat lambs , besides the wool clip . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crops as wheat , oats and lucerne in rotation with temporary pasture . Some superphosphate is applied and many farms have some irrigated paddocks . Most have artesian or subartesian bores . Tractors and header harvesters are widely used . Large areas have been damaged by sheet and rill erosion . The homestead block is more pretentious than that of an interior station . Its additional buildings include an implement shed , a grain shed and silos for storing forage . Fat Lamb and Cattle Farms These properties of 200 to 1,000 acres are common in forested areas ; with reliable rainfall , which have been cleared and grassed . Fat lambs are bred from English rams and cross-bred ewes and the sheep are often run with beef or dairy cattle . Supplementary fodder crops are varied , e.g. oats , rape and turnips in Victoria , and Sudan grass and millets further north . During the past thiry years these farms have experienced a greater increase in sheep numbers than either of the other two types . This trend is probably due to the use of better farm techniques , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Sheep Farm Studies . After carefully studying two of the many surveys of sheep farms published in periodicals2 or textbooks on Australian geography : ( i ) copy the farm maps and stock statistics into your notebooks , and ( ii ) write a concise report on the similarities and differences between the two properties . Exercise 3 . Problems of Sheep Farming . After a class discussion led by those who have read commentaries in Australian publications , 3 briefly set out the nature of the following sheep farming problems : ( i ) over-stocking ; ( ii ) soil erosion ; ( iii ) faulty breeding ; Footnote  | ( iv ) increasing carrying capacity ; ( v ) pests and diseases ; and ( vi ) competition from other fibres . WHEAT FARMING Wheat is the most important single crop grown in Australia , both in value and in area ? in recent years over 14,000,000 acres . Although only 3 per cent . of the world 's total is grown , the proportion exported represents about 10 per cent . of the total exported , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S.S.R. Australian wheat is popular with overseas millers because it can be mixed with that from other countries to produce first-grade flour . It usually ranks third amongst the Commonwealth 's exports , the chief buyer during recent seasons being Mainland China . Some seventy or more years ago when commercial grain-growing was being developed in Australia , wheat farming was mono-cultural , few growers planting any other crop or also keeping a few head of stock . They found the best areas for wheat were where the winter rainfall totalled between 8 and 20 inches , but temperatures were mild enough to permit growth . Each moist , warm spring was followed by a dry , hot summer which reduced weed growth and favoured ripening and harvesting . The grain was so dry that it could be stored for more than a year , if necessary . The fiat land surface facilitated the widespread use of machinery and reduced labour needs . This allowed each farmer to manage an area big enough to yield a reasonable income , despite a yield per acre less than half that in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erosion , especially where land on the arid margin of cultivation was broken in or continually-cropped land was left in bare fallow to recuperate . Wind whipped off much topsoil and muddy rainwater created deep gullies . As a result marginal land has reverted to rough pasture and small merino flocks have been introduced on nearly every property , so that a three-year or even longer rotation can be used . The land is not left n fallow ; instead it is used to grow wheat , then oats or barley , followed by subterranean clover pasture . This rotation is only one of many similar ones used . A brief description of a typical farm has been given on the previous page . Chief Wheat-Growing Districts The Darling Plateau . Situated at the south-western end of the Great Western Tableland and inland from Perth , it is divided into large properties of about 3,000 acres . This large size is unavoidable because patches of good soil are intermingled with large areas of infertile sandy waste . The Gulflands of South Australia consist of cleared mallee country , much of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Wimmera of Victoria is one of Australia 's two best wheat-growing areas , despite its light sandy soils . Yields of 30 bushels or more to the acre reflect efficient husbandry . The Mallee derived its name from the original vegetation , removed by rolling and burning . The invention of the stump-jump plough facilitated its immediate cultivation . A series of drought years ruined many farmers but the installation of a stock and domestic water supply scheme has enabled the rest to change over to mixed farming more easily . The Riverina , the district centred on Albury and Wagga Wagga , resembles the Wimmera in productivity . The fertility of its red-brown soils has been maintained by rotational ryegrass-clover pastures . The Western Slopes of New South Wales north of Dubbo and the Darling Downs of south Queensland have their special problems , because summers are wetter , bringing more risk of storm and rust damage . Exercise 4. ( a ) On a full-page notebook map of Australia shade in and name the wheat-growing areas mentioned above . Use symbols to locate the following important wheat-exporting ports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Geelong , Sydney , Newcastle , Brisbane . ( b ) After referring to the Australia Official Handbook and other sources , briefly discuss the efforts made to stabilize the price of wheat . CATTLE FARMING The immense tropical stations , including one the size of Belgium , provide the most unusual feature of Australian cattle farming . However , the value of their output is less than that of other branches . Altogether there were 18,500,000 cattle of all kinds in 1963 , nearly three times as many as in New Zealand . Of these , there were just over 5,000,000 dairy cattle and nearly 13,500,000 being raised for beef production . ' The total value of all dairy products is usually greater than that of beef . But as the demands of Australian urban dwellers for fresh milk , butter and cheese have increased so much the proportion available for export is small when compared with beef . Dairying The chief areas are south-east Queensland , the coastal lowlands of New South Wales and in the western and Gippsland districts of southern Victoria . The irrigated pastures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Adelaide Plain and the coastal lowlands south of Perth are less important areas . Although Australian dairy farms resemble New Zealand 's in a few respects , e.g. the lack of winter housing for stock , several major differ-Footnote  | ences can be noted . Carrying capacities are lower , and methods are less intensive and efficient . Average yields per cow in milk and butterfat are lower , there is less labour per acre and fewer machines are used . Even on the best farms in the Hunter Valley , paddocks are larger and planned layouts , with races giving easy access to all paddocks , do not seem to be used . Large stockpiles of baled hay bought before prices soar during the drought season are evidence of the less suitable climate than in New Zealand . The chief pasture grasses ? paspalum , kikuyu and perennial ryegrass ? are all introduced species . The major supplementary fodder crops are maize , sorghum , lucerne and some oats in the summer rainfall areas . Further south lucerne , oats and barley are predominant . Nearly half of Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Victoria . Nearly one-quarter of the whole milk is produced in New South Wales but so much is needed for city supplies that only a small proportion can be processed for export . As prices received overseas are less than those paid by home consumers , the prospects of increasing dairy production seem very slight . Beef Cattle Because they can tolerate nearly all the climate and other physical conditions found in Australia outside the true desert areas , the 13,500,000 beef cattle are widely dispersed , being found wherever it is economic to run them . Well over half are reared north of the Tropic of Capricorn , mainly in Queensland . However , beef production south of the Tropic is greater , because the better pasture growth permits a faster turn-off rate . ' In these southern areas cattle farming is usually combined with such other activities as sheep farming ( to control rough grazing ) , dairying ( to rear baby beef and vealers ) and mixed irrigation farms ( prime young beef and vealers ) . As Australia 's largest cities and industrial areas provide a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the north . Cattle ranching in tropical Australia west of the Great Dividing Range has a special importance because , apart from the widely-scattered mining areas , it is the only economic use for this third of the continent . The tremendous size of the stations , a few being bigger than Northland and many comparable in area to the whole of the Southland or the Hauraki Plains , is hard for us to realize . Pedal wireless and the Flying Doctor Service have proved the answer to the challenge of the great distances between stations.2 Alexandria Station , on the Barkly Tableland , the largest property of all , covers 11,000 square miles , on which 70,000 cattle and 900 horses are carried , a capacity of 1 cattle beast to every 100 acres . It is not Footnote  | surprising that all but the small properties in Queensland are owned by companies ; even they try to control several stations as a chain , thus reducing problems of drought and transport . When we read accounts of the almost insurmountable problems on these stations ? devastating floods alternating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ donkeys and overlanding " stores " many hundred miles to markets ? we wonder how these " super king size " commercial farms survive as profitable concerns . Their colourful character and challenging difficulties justify investigation from at least one of several detailed descriptions published during the past few years.l Exercise 5 . Tropical Australian Cattle Farming and its Problems . ( a ) Concisely describe tropical Australian cattle farming , mentioning the breed and type of cattle , the type of labour , classes of property , e.g. rearing and fattening , climate and seasonal activities . Include a sketch-map of station headquarters buildings . ( b ) Fully discuss the difficulties of marketing fat stock from these stations and recent attempts to reduce them , e.g. road trains and the now-unnecessary " Air Beef " scheme . SUGARCANE Cane-growing has a special significance in the north-east coastlands of Australia . About 200,000 people , including a seventh of Queensland 's population , is directly . or indirectly dependent upon cane sugar production totalling over 1,500,000 tons a year , two-thirds of which is available for export . Nowhere else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the use of European labour . It is just a hundred years since cane was first grown on a commercial scale near Brisbane . The industry gradually moved northward into the tropics , reaching Cairns by 1880 . These warmer areas were soon found to suit the cane best . Today , four-fifths of the Commonwealth 's output comes from north of the Tropic of Capricorn , only five per cent . being produced on small floodplains along the north coast of New South Wales . Exercise 6 . Changes in Cane-Growing Labour.2 ( a ) Before 1900 the cane was mostly grown on plantations worked by labourers called Kanakas . Who were the Kanakas and why were they originally recruited ? Footnote  | ( b ) Why were the Kanakas repatriated after 1900 ? ( c ) What changes were subsequently made in farm and mill organization ? ( d ) Which south European people have taken up cane farming since 1900 ? Exercise 7 . List five essential climate and soil needs for successful Australian sugar farming.1 From Nambour north to Mossman , " landscapes with checkerboard divisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or dirty yellow of a crop burnt for harvesting . . . stand in striking contrast to the eucalypt forest or vine scrub that surrounds them " .2 Most farm houses lack chimneys and are raised on high piles to facilitate ventilation . Most specialized cane farms are little more than 70 acres in area , three-quarters of these being in cane and the rest in a legume crop like velvet beans , or left fallow . Some 15 acres every year are planted in rows of " setts " or cuttings . The time taken by the crop to mature , from 12 to 18 months , depends on how far north the farm is located . Much machinery is used , e.g. for ploughing , planting , manuring and cultivating . The high labour costs encourage the development of mechanical harvesters ( Plate 7 ) but so far 90 per cent . of the crop is still cut by hand . The cutters work in gangs , each man slashing down 8 to 10 tons a day . They often later buy their own farms . During the harvest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 34 mills , half of which are co-operatives , by light 2-foot railway . Bulk-handling methods are now used when the raw sugar is sent to refineries in the state capitals or to Bundaberg or Auckland . Exercise 8 . Cane Growing and Processing . ( a ) Find out why sugarcane is set on fire just prior to harvesting . ( b ) Briefly define each of the following terms used in Australian cane growing or processing : Ratoon , assignment , farm peak , bagasse ( or megass ) , molasses , tariff protection. $ Exercise 9 . Regional Contrasts in Cane Growing . ( a ) Discuss the chief contrasts between sugarcane farming in the Cairns ? Innisfail district and in northern New South Wales . ( b ) Name a cane-growing area in tropical Queensland where irrigation is needed , account for this and briefly describe the method used . Australia 's sugar industry benefits from efficient production methods , high yields per acre and a high recoverable sugar content . These have Footnote  | been achieved through scientific cane breeding , disease control and skilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by other tropical sugar-producing nations . The chief limiting factor is the inability of overseas markets to absorb further increases in production . Exercise 10 . Trade in Australian Sugar . From such sources as the Australia Official Handbook , find out the latest production and export statistics , total export value and chief purchasing countries of Australian sugar . HORTICULTURAL AND SPECIAL CROPS A wide range of horticultural and special crops are grown in Australia . The reason can be accounted for by the varied needs of the population and the diversity of climates and soils found in different parts of the continent . The locations of the more important growing areas for each crop are shown on Figure 28 . Investigations of their chief distinctive features can best be made the subjects of individual research assignments followed by brief oral reports and the compilation of a summary by the class . Exercise 11 . Research Assignments on a Special or Horticultural Crop . Crops to be investigated : Pineapples , bananas , cotton , tobacco , groundnuts , rice , citrus fruit , grapes , deciduous fruit , hops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) any noteworthy reasons for its present location and planned new locations or extensions of area ; ( b ) whether it is usually the speciality of the grower or combined with other types of farming , e.g. cotton and dairying ; ( c ) distinctive features of its cultivation and harvesting , especially the use of machinery and picking gangs ; ( d ) where the crop is processed and/or marketed and the nature of any export trade ; ( e ) the nature of any serious problems . Useful reference material will be found in : 1 . C. J. Sale : The Island Continent and Its Smaller Neighbours . Shakespeare Head , 1965. 2 . J. Andrews : Australia 's Resources and Their Utilisation , 1965 edition , University of Sydney Department of Adult Education , esp . pp. 68-70. 3 . Australia Official Handbook , Australian News and Information Bureau . 4 . D. C. Money : Australia and New Zealand , Pt. 1 : Australia , 2nd edition , University Tutorial Press , 1962 , esp . pp. 90-96.  | MINING AND MANUFACTURING IN AUSTRALIA Sixty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Riverina musterer rounding up his flock for shearing or a wheat farmer guiding his " stump jump " plough over the freshly-cleared mallee ; today , there is twice as much chance that he would be helping to assemble Hoidens in Melbourne or welding plates on to the hull of a 32,000-ton tanker in a WhyaIla shipyard . Both mining and manufacturing industries are making an increasingly important contribution to Australian development . Their present status compared with other primary industries has been partly shown in Table 10 on page 126 . However , these figures are deceptive . Mineral output , both in the past and recently , has helped the Australian economy in general and its manufacturing industries in particular much more than this table suggests . The influence of mining has been strong for more than a century . In 1851 , within a few months of each other , many large gold nuggets found in both Bathurst , New South Wales , and Ballarat , Victoria , drew thousands of diggers from overseas . Production from 1851 until 1860 totalled nearly 25,000,000 fine ounces , 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became farmers . One of these former miners , while boundary riding on a station north of the Darling in 1883 , recognized ore samples which later led to the discovery of Broken Hill 's rich lead-zinc-silver lodes . As the more accessible of these were worked out , one of the mining firms , Broken Hill ( Pty . ) Ltd. , decided to invest capital in a full-scale iron and steel works . The subsequent blowing in of the first blast furnace at Newcastle in 1915 initiated the development of the heavy industrial base on which rest so many light processing and fabricating industries . The predominance of manufacturing amongst Australian industries began about thirty years ago . As indicated in Table 10 , its added value is now more than twice that of farm production . It has also been responsible for an increasing concentration of the country 's population in metropolitan centres . Mining In 1961-62 mining and quarrying produced only 4 per cent . of Australia 's industrial output . A little over 1 per cent . of the national work force , 54,000 men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vital activity . Black and brown coal is extracted in sufficient quantities for them to probably remain the Common-  | wealth 's dominant energy source into the 1980 's . ' Sufficient high-grade iron ore is mined for Australia to be self-sufficient in the production of all but a few special steels and to be New Zealand 's chief source of supply . Several non-ferrous metals are mined in sufficient quantities for substantial overseas exports to be made . Lead output ranks second only to the U.S.S.R. amongst the world 's producers ; the country 's other rankings are fourth in zinc , fifth in gold , and seventh in silver . Copper ore and bauxite are also mined in large quantities . Exercise 1 . Australia 's Chief Mining Centres . On to a full page in your notebook , trace as large an outline map of Australia as you can . Using differently coloured and/or shaped symbols for each mineral and a reference atlas , plot on to it the location of the following centres , naming each neatly . ( Note : The centres are listed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the map . ) : Collie ( coal ) , Kalgoorlie ( gold ) , Yampi Sound ( iron ) , Rum Jungle ( copper ) , Tennant Creek ( gold ) , Mt . Isa ( silver-leadzinc ) , Leigh Creek ( coal ) , Middleback Ranges viz. Iron Knob , etc. ( iron ) , Herberton ( tin ) , Moura ( coal ) , Blair Athol ( coal ) , Mt . Morgan ( copper-gold ) , Ipswich ( coal ) , Broken Hill ( silver-lead-zinc ) , Maitland ( coal ) , Newcastle ( coal ) , Wollongong ( coal ) , Yallourn ( lignite ) , King Is. ( tungsten ) , Rosebery ( zinc-silver-lead ) , Mt . Lyell ( copper ) . A comparison of this map with those of annual rainfall and population distribution shows that : ( 1 ) Coal or lignite mining centres are situated reasonably near Perth , Melbourne , Sydney and Brisbane.2 ( 2 ) Considerable distances separate coal and iron ore mines . ( 3 ) Several important mining centres are located in arid or semiarid areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Large-scale electricity generation using coal-burning , steampowered stations compensate for the difficulties of hydroelectricity development . Metallic Minerals Apart from the iron ore quarries in the Middleback Ranges near Whyalla and on islands in Yampi Sound , the largest metallic ore mining centres at present are Broken Hill ( 30,850 ) , Kalgoorlie ( 21,760 ) and Mount Isa ( 14,000 ) .3 Footnote  | Exercise 2 . Choose two of the centres named above and : ( a ) Find out when ores were first discovered , how they have since been recovered and what processing is done near the mine mouth . ' ( b ) Briefly describe the adjacent town or city and its amenities , e.g. water supply . Since 1950 the potential of Australian mining has been greatly increased by a series of spectacular discoveries . Their locations are shown on Figure 29 . They include three huge bauxite deposits , six Figure iron ore fields , including one of the world 's largest ranges , a rich copper ore deposit , located below the Mount Isa silver-lead-zinc lode and southern Queensland 's small oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mining industry is very bright . The thick red surface deposits of high-grade iron ore found in Western Australia during 1960-61 are so immense , the Pilbara area  | alone having an estimated 8,000,000,000 tons , that several contracts have been finalised for exporting huge quantities to Japan . The largest of these involves the mining of 100,000,000 tons of ore over a period of about 22 years from 1969 . A 259-mile railway is to be built from the mine site at Mt . Newman to Port Hedland . This is the biggest raw material deal yet made by both Japan and Australia . Exercise 3 . Australia 's Bauxite and Aluminium Industries . ( a ) Write a paragraph briefly describing the processes used to recover aluminium metal from impure bauxite. ( b ) After reference to one or more of the publications listed below , ' sum up the various schemes which will soon turn Australia into one of the world 's chief bauxite and alumina exporting and aluminium producing nations . Mineral Fuels In 1962 black coal production totalled 24,500,000 tons , of which 19,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons was exported , mainly to Japan and New Caledonia . Another 1,000,000 tons was shipped interstate . However , these statistics give no indication of the serious problems confronting coal-mining , especially in the lower Hunter Valley , over the past decade . ' Exercise 4 . Coal Mining in New South Wales . Write a concise account of coal-mining in New South Wales and its problems . Illustrate your answer with a sketch-map of mining areas and a cross-section showing the structure of the coal measures . ' Victoria 's black coal resources are limited to the steeply dipping seams of the Wonthaggi Mine , which is expensive to work . Fortunately , in the Latrobe Valley , ninety miles south-east of Melbourne , are found the largest known continuous deposits of lignite ( brown coal ) in the world , totalling at least 54,700,000,000 tons . Too soft and moist to be directly used in the raw state , 17,000,000 tons of this 200-foot deep seam were excavated in 1962 for power , gas and briquette production . Exercise 5 . Write a short essay , illustrated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Latrobe Valley as an energyproducing region.l Petroleum and its products usually rank second in value on the Commonwealth 's list of imports . There was widespread delight when oil in recoverable quantities was found at Moonie , 190 miles west of Brisbane , in 1961 . Since then , a ten-inch pipeline to Lytton on Brisbane River has been put into use , another fourteen wells have been drilled near Moonie , oil has been struck at Alton , and natural gas at Roma.2 The oil yield from this field can satisfy only a fraction of Australia 's needs but its discovery has greatly encouraged further exploration . Manufacturing Australian manufacturing received its first boost during World War I when iron and steel works and machinery production , plus a wide range of high-grade products , extended the variety of industries . However , growth did not mushroom until during and after World War II . By 1961 , the number of factories and factory workers was more than twice that in 1939 . In 1964 more than 1,100,000 people , over onequarter of Australia 's work force , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II , the composition of manufacturing has changed considerably . The greater predominance of the metals , machinery and transport group shows the country is becoming more economically self-sufficient , with a greater proportion of heavy industry . Table Footnote  | Location of Manufacturing ' . Although , as would be expected , industries supplying local needs such as bakeries , motor repair shops and printing works , are widely dispersed in Australia , the chief locational factors are the attraction of the huge metropolitan markets and easy access to raw materials . The concentration of about three-quarters of both the total number of factory workers and the total value of output in New South Wales and Victoria illustrates the importance of the first of these factors . These states contain only 64 per cent . of the country 's total population . Exercise 6 : The Location of Groups of Industries . After carefully studying Andrews ' concise accounts , 2 write a brief report suitable for reading to others , on the location of one of the following groups : ( a ) Processing of farm and forest products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Fabricating industries , e.g. plastics , rubber goods , paints , motor vehicles and textiles . The Australian Steel Industry In many respects the growth of the steel industry epitomizes the general development of Australian manufacturing . For the past thirty years , however , it has been dominated by one company , the Broken Hill Proprietary Ltd . Its initial expansion has already been outlined on page 139 . An American consultant chose a swampy waste on the south bank of the Hunter River for the site of B.H.P. 's first steelworks because it was : ( i ) close to a good coking coalfield , ( ii ) near a good labour supply in Newcastle and ( iii ) on a sheltered tidewater anchorage . Iron ore quarried at Iron Knob was shipped 1,100 miles from Whyalla . During the inter-war years the small steelworks at Lithgow was replaced by a larger plant at Port Kembla but the demand for steel fell during the depression . Australian Iron and Steel Ltd. at Port Kembla became a subsidiary of B.H.P. , which also acquired coal mines and finishing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , B.H.P. in 1965 had steelworks at Newcastle ( 4BF + 2B0 + 60H ) , 3 Pt . Kembla ( 4BF + 130H + 2E ) and Whyalla ( 2BF + 2BO + 1E ) , iron ore quarries at Iron Knob and Cockatoo Island in Yampi Sound ( Plate 10 ) , limestone quarries at Rapid Bay and Marulan and collieries near Newcastle and Port Kembla . Fifteen ocean freighters were used to ship ore to Newcastle and Port Kembla and coke back to Whyalla . Total pig iron capacity was about 4,000,000 tons . Steel production in 1965 reached 5,000,000 tons . Footnote  | Exercise 7 . With the aid of an atlas plot the information in the preceding paragraph on to an outline map of Australia . Current expansion of the Australian steel industry is so rapid that the information supplied for the above exercise will almost certainly be out of date by the time it is used . Exercise 8 . With the aid of the latest edition of the Australia Official Handbook and Steel in Australia : ' ( a ) Bring the map drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concise account of the latest developments in the Australian steel industry . ( c ) Outline the range of products made by B.H.P. and its subsidiaries . Exercise 9 . With the aid of Steel in Australia write a short essay entitled " Whyalla ? Product of Australian Steelmaking " . Other Heavy Industries Steelmaking is by no means the only branch of heavy industry well developed in Australia . Exercise 10 . Heavy Industrial Development . ( a ) With the aid of the latest Australia Official Handbook and other references ' on a map of Australia plot the location of as many of the following as you can : shipbuilding yards building freighters and tankers , automobile manufacturing and assembly works , oil refineries , ' paper mills , copper and zinc smelters , chemical works . ( b ) Choose two of the above industries and , with help from the same sources , write a brief account of its . distribution and recent development . Power for Industry As in New Zealand , electricity predominates as a source of power for Australian manufacturing . Nearly three-quarters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , water-power being the source of only 26 per cent . Although , as has already been seen in studying the Yallourn and Morwell power-stations , some aspects of thermal power generation are quite impressive , the immense Snowy Mountains Scheme4 is the most spectacular . The aim of this project , apart from yielding enough water to irrigate 3,500,000 acres , is to supply Footnote  | the extra power needed during short periods of peak demand , steam plants being used to generate the base power load . Exercise 11 . With the aid of a recent issue of the Australia Official Handbook , write a short report on electric power sources in New South Wales and Queensland . Add a note on any extensions being made in the near future . Manufacturing in Sydney and Melbourne Nearly a quarter of Australia 's factories are located in Sydney and over a fifth in Melbourne . Their nature and distribution contributes much to the character and importance of both cities . Exercise 12 . Choose Sydney ' or Melbourne2 and : ( a ) Draw a sketch-map showing its chief industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their contribution to the character and importance of the city . Footnote  | THE COOK ISLANDS AND FIJI The mere mention of the words " Pacific islands " is enough to awaken many pleasant thoughts of limpid lagoons fringed by crazily-leaning palms , surf crashing on to jagged reefs and care-free , hibiscus-decked islanders not too busily occupied around their thatch-roofed homes . To most of us , such scenes seem quite remote , yet a glance at an airline distance table shows that Auckland is a few miles nearer Nandi , Fiji , than Sydney , just under two and a half hours ' flying time away . We are only now realizing that , not only is New Zealand surprisingly close to her nearest tropical island neighbours , but also how inadequate are our impressions of the lives and problems of their inhabitants . With their rapid population growth , economic under-development and recent achievement of varying measures of self-government , these islands represent the tropical world in miniature . There are 11 island groups north of the Tropic of Capricorn , within a 2,000-mile radius of Wellington . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are New Caledonia , Fiji , New Hebrides and Western Samoa . ' Their collective area , nearly 23,900 square miles , is slightly more than half that of the North Island . The total population , 820,000 in 1963 , was greater than that of the South Island . Comparatively few live in towns , Suva ( 44,000 ) and Noumea ( 35,000 ) being the two largest . Population density per square mile is not high . Density per acre of cultivated farm-land would mean far more but would be very difficult to calculate . However , in several groups , notably the Cooks , the Tokelaus , Western Samoa , Fiji and Tonga , it is becoming critically high , because the area of near-flat land is surprisingly small . Physical Geography t Some features of the structure of the Pacific borderlands and the larger western islands have been discussed in Chapter 2.2 Generally speaking , the islands indicate belts of mountain building . They were all originally volcanoes . Some are still active , the most famous probably being Nivafo'ou or Tin Can Island in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger high ones with their steep slopes , narrow coastal flats and fringing coral reefs and the low islands or atolls . Many of the latter rise little more than ten feet above sea-leve Footnote  | and are made of a mass of coralline limestone . It forms long narrow islets or motus which almost completely encircle a central lagoon . Exercise 1 . With the aid of atlases and more detailed texts : 1 ( a ) Draw pairs of maps and cross-sections to show the contrasting structure of high and low islands . ( b ) Find out all you can about coral polyps and their building of reefs . ( c ) By diagrams and/or maps show the nature of raised atolls and raised almost-atolls . The persistent south-east trade winds dominate the climate of the tropical South Pacific area . Blowing off the sea , they relieve the constant heat and are the chief source of precipitation , more of which falls as orographical rain2 on the high islands than by chance as convectional showers on the atolls . Temperatures remain mainly in the seventies throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summer or dropping into the sixties in the winter . During the summer and early autumn tropical cyclones or hurricanes , similar to those of south-east North America , 3 can cause much devastation . These violent storms originate a few degrees south of the equator and move erratically along a generally south-western track , sometimes bringing flooding rain to eastern Australia or the North Island of New Zealand . Lush tropical rain forest or scrub and tall grasses still clothe the unused parts of the high islands . On the islets of the fringing reefs and the low-lying atolls vegetation is much less varied , coconut palms predominating . Human Geography Although it is difficult to generalize about Pacific Island cultures , racially three groups of people can be broadly recognized ? the darkskinned Melanesians , who inhabit Fiji and the island groups westwards as far as New Guinea ; the brown-skinned Polynesians and the copperhued Micronesians . The Polynesians ' homelands are more widely dispersed than those of the other two groups , being found as far apart as Hawaii , New Zealand and Easter Island . Micronesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the Gilberts ? vividly described by Grimble4 ? the Marshalls and the Marianas . Exercise 2 . Pacific Cultures . ( a ) Find out the origin of the terms " Melanesia " , " Polynesia " and " Micronesia " . ( b ) Preferably after observing a museum display , write a concise account of the traditional material culture of the Melanesians and the Polynesians.  | Magellan 's expedition in 1520 was the first European one to visit the Pacific Islands . However , it was not until the nineteenth century that greater numbers of Europeans came to trade , settle and evangelize . The changes they initiated have been profound and not always in the best interests of the islanders , whose numbers greatly declined until quite recently . Their simple subsistence economics , based on cropping , collecting coconuts and fishing , have been modified by the development of specialised crops for export , the importation of indentured Asiatic labourers and the islanders ' need for money to buy a wide variety of manufactured goods . An understanding of these changes and the resultant problems can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cook Islands and Fiji , as set out below . THE COOK ISLANDS The 15 islands of the Cook Group have a total area of about 93 square miles , and a population of just over 19,000 ( 1963 ) . These islands are found scattered over some 850,000 square miles of ocean extending from Penrhyn ( 8 ? S. ) to Mangaia ( 22 ? S. ) and from Mauke ( 156 ? W. ) to Pukapuka ( 167 ? W. ) . The Tokelau , Samoa , Tonga and Niue Islands lie to the west and the Society Islands ( Tahiti ) to the east . Rarotonga , which is the seat of the Cook Island Government , is 1,634 nautical miles north-east of Auckland . The islands may be divided into two groups . The eight islands in the Southern Group consist of six volcanic islands and two atolls , while the seven in the Northern Group are all coral atolls . They were discovered by Europeans over a period of 230 years commencing in 1595 . Captain Cook discovered six of the eight southern islands on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while mutineers from Captain Bligh 's ship , the Bounty , are said to have visited Rarotonga in 1789 . During the 1880 's most of the northern islands were individually annexed by ships of the Royal Navy . In 1888 the southern islands were declared a British protectorate and in 1901 both the northern and the southern groups were included within the boundaries of New Zealand . In 1965 the Cook Islands gained full internal self-government but with the islanders retaining their New Zealand citizenship . The new government has a membership of 22 , all elected by universal suffrage . A Premier has been elected and a Cabinet chosen . The New Zealand Government and the Queen are represented by a High Commissioner appointed by the GovernorGeneral of New Zealand . Northern Group The seven low coral atolls ? Penrhyn ( 2,432 acres ? 650 people ) , Manihiki ( 1,344 ? 756 ) , Pukapuka ( 1,250 ? 746 ) , Nassau ( 300 ? 113 ) , Palmerston ( 500 ? 106 ) , Suwarrow ( 100 ? 1 ) , ' each has its reef and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 square miles Footnote  | in size . Their total land area is only 15 square miles and the total population 2,676 . These atolls are only a few feet above sea-level and can suffer severe hurricane damage . Soil is almost non-existent . In the main there is only coral rubble and sand . Coconuts are the principal crop and with fish , turtles , crabs , sea-eggs , edible seaweeds and octopuses , obtained within the lagoon or outside the reef , form the staple diet . The islands have been little changed by European influences and receive infrequent visits by local schooners . Penrhyn , which also has a coral airstrip , is the only island in the entire Cook Island Group where small vessels can anchor safely within the lagoon . Pearl shell is obtained from Manihiki , Penrhyn and Suwarrow , when the lagoons are open for diving . In relation to their resources these islands carry a very large population . They export about 75 per cent . of the Cook Islands ' copra and almost all of the pearl shell . Southern Group The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of about 78 square miles and a population of 16,537 ( 1963 ) . The islands are large enough for both subsistence and commercial agriculture . Although hurricanes are less frequent in the Southern Group , precautions are taken by coastal dwellers and by the trading vessels during the months of December to March , which are known as the " wet " or " hurricane season " . The weather at this time can be steamy and very oppressive with day temperatures in the eighties , night temperatures in the seventies , humidity over 80 per cent . together with violent tropical downpours . The winter or " dry " season is characterized by slightly cooler days , night temperatures which occasionally drop to below 60 ? F. , low humidity and a steady trade wind of from 10 to 30 knots . The rainfall is much more reliable than in the Northern Group where , although water is stored in concrete tanks , seasonal shortages do occur . The annual rainfall varies from 70 to 90 inches , e.g. Rarotonga 72 inches . Much of the land unused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees , coconut palms , a scattering of food trees and in places , particularly at higher levels , fern and scrub . Some reafforestation with albizzia trees and Cook Islands pines has been attempted on Atiu and Mangaia respectively . The intention is to prevent erosion and to provide timber for fruit cases and local building . Mangaia ( 12,800 acres ? 1,817 people ) , Atiu ( 6,654 ? 1,212 ) , Mauke ( 4,552 ? 722 ) and Mitiaro ( 5,500 ? 267 ) are all raised atolls formed when an atoll has been raised clear of the water by an upward movement in the ocean floor or a lowering of the sea-level . Rising almost straight from the lagoon is a plateau-like area of limestone called the makatea which rings the islands . The makatea was formerly the floor of a shallow lagoon . Mangaia is the largest of the raised atolls and here the makatea is the most imposing , rising to a height of 100 to 300 feet . With some difficulty an access road has been cut into the interior . The  | principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sea . Behind the makatea the land falls away and is characterized by discontinuous taro swamps . From these the land then rises again to a series of low dissected hills which reach a maximum height of 554 feet . Mangaia , 110 miles south-east of Rarotonga and almost astride the Tropic of Capricorn , has the most temperate climate of the group and is well-suited to the growing of pineapples in the deep , rich , red soils . It is the only island to supply pineapples to the commercial market and in 1963 the output was 6,150 cases exported to New Zealand and 15,700 cases sent to the canning factory at Rarotonga . Other products grown and exported include tomatoes , coffee , and oranges . Atiu , 116 miles north-east of Rarotonga , has a much lower makatea . From the taro swamps immediately behind the limestone plateau the land rises to low volcanic hills , an extensive area of which has been planted with albizzia trees . The island has two experimental farms where many crops , but especially peanuts and coffee , are being grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of tropical fruit and food . In recent years some 7,000 new citrus trees have been planted . The principal export crops are copra and oranges ? 10,500 cases in 1963 ? all of which were sent to the cannery . Mauke , 150 miles north-east of Rarotonga , has a makatea which is almost imperceptible when seen from the lagoon . The best soils are in the centre of the island . Since 1960 over 100 acres of scrub have been broken-in and planted in peanuts , and in 1963 18 tons were exported . The island is participating in the citrus replanting scheme and over 5,000 trees have been established . In 1963 , 6,300 cases of oranges were sent to the juicing factory . Mitiaro , 142 miles north-east of Rarotonga , has its makatea standing but a few feet above the level of the lagoon . Large parts of the interior are very swampy and there is very little good soil . Agriculture is entirely subsistent and the economic level of the people is the lowest of any island in the Southern Group . In recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pepper and allspice . Manuae ( 1,524 acres ? 18 people ) and Takutea ( 302 acres ) are both coral atolls . Manuae ( Hervey Islands ) is a twin-islet atoll which produces more copra than any island in the Southern Group except Aitutaki . Takutea is an uninhabited island , 13 miles north-west of Atiu . The Ativans visit it annually and obtain copra . Rarotonga ( 16,602 acres ? 9,768 people ) is a high volcanic island with peaks reaching to over 2,000 feet , while Aitutaki ( 4,461 acres2,726 people ) , although a high island , is unusual in that it is a chain of islets , one volcanic , round a beautiful lagoon . Aitutaki , 140 miles north of Rarotonga , has most of its area taken up by a dissected volcanic island which reaches a maximum height of 390 feet . This island is in the north-west corner of a roughly triangular lagoon with a series of motus on the eastern part of the reef . Most of the people live in  | villages in the west . The island has both a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lagoon at Akaiami . It is a calling point on the Polynesian Air Lines ' DC ? 3 service which links Faleolo , Western Samoa , with Aitutaki and Rarotonga . The island has good soils and agriculture is being extended and improved . To increase citrus production , over 9,000 new trees have been planted , while investigations are being made into extending the copra industry by fully utilizing the motus . In 1963 the principal exports were 24,850 cases of oranges , 250 tons of copra and 17,060 cases of tomatoes . Figure 30 . Rarotonga . Rarotonga has a magnificent skyline of volcanic peaks reaching to a height of 2,140 feet at Mount Te Manga . There are twelve peaks over 1,000 feet . The island is encircled by a fringing reef which may lie as close inshore as 25 yards in the north-east ) r as far away as 800 yards in the south-east . The two chief boat passages are in the north of the island , at Avatiu and Avarua . The people either live on the coastal strip , which varies from a quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few narrow valleys such as those of Avatiu , Tukuvaine or Tupapa in the north . The largest settlement is Avarua Village . Here is found the seat of government , the chief post office , central cool store and packing shed for the islands ' perishables , the " Raro " fruit juice factory , RAROTONGA  | a clothing factory , and the government-owned Rarotonga Hotel , which is the only tourist accommodation in the whole group . It also contains the Union Steamship Company 's offices and wharf sheds , the four largest retail stores , the hospital , dental clinic and , at Ngatipa , the Residency of the Nigh Commissioner . The other villages of Matavera , Ngatangiia , Muri , Titikaveka , Arorangi and Nikao are strung along the 22-mile tar-sealed coastal road . At Nikao is located the coral airstrip , meteorological office , radio station , Teachers ' Training College and Tereora College , which is the principal secondary school . Housing in the villages varies from the kiekau huts made from coconut thatch with sticks from the purau tree for walls to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron roofs . Others are made from old boxes or flattened tins . In most places the houses and surrounds are meticulously clean and regular inspections are made by the Health Department " mosquito boys " . In and around Avarua Village there is overcrowding and the houses are not so well kept . Those mainly living here are Maoris who have come from the outer islands to work for wages and later obtain a passage by sea or air to New Zealand . Rusty corrugated iron roofs are not always a sign of dilapidation , as the salt air rusts iron very quickly , and new motor vehicles often have holes in the bodywork within twelve months . The bulk of the farming , both plantation and subsistence , is done between the main road and the foot of the steep volcanic slopes , which are covered in bush , second-growth scrub or fern . It has been estimated by the Department of Agriculture that out of a total land area of 16,602 acres , only 5,317 are suitable for cultivation . In Rarotonga there are over 500 acres planted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing and the Department of Agriculture is supervising the spraying , cultivating , pruning and harvesting procedures . Annual citrus production is increasing throughout the islands . In 1963 , 54,450 cases of oranges and 17,250 cases of grapefruit , mandarins and tangerines were exported to New Zealand , while 100,000 cases of oranges and other citrus fruit were supplied to the canning factory . This represented an increase of nearly 17 per cent . on the total number of cases produced in 1962 . There are a few large plantations of bananas and in 1963 3,985 cases were exported . The quantity of tomatoes exported each year varies greatly , but in 1963 , 89,340 boxes were sent to New Zealand . They are essentially a " catch " crop and are often interplanted with bananas or coconuts . The tomato growers make use of the cool store until shipping is available . Since the fruit juice factory became operational in 1961 there has been a steady increase in its exports . The factory can process all the citrus , pineapples , passion fruit and pawpaws the islands can supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to New Zealand , but this increased to 306,800 gallons in 1962 and 401,350 gallons in 1963.  | While the area devoted to citrus and bananas is expanding , every family owning land still grows subsistence crops . It is not shifting agriculture . The grower simply rotates his crops over the land he owns or leases . Crops of tomatoes , kumaras , cabbages , lettuces , arrowroot and pineapples are jnterplanted with such tree crops as coconuts , citrus , bananas , pawpaws , or avocado pears . Where a grower owns or can afford it , a hand rotary hoe or a tractor-drawn plough turns over the soil ; elsewhere it is the horse and plough . Taro is grown in irrigated swamps and on some lower valley slopes using an elaborate system of terraced beds to make the maximum use of the water . Taro is probably the most important staple food on Rarotonga although it would be followed fairly closely by bread and tinned meat . Transport and Problems ' . The very scattered and isolated location of the Cook Islands , together with their distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition . The New Zealand Government 2,750-ton , 134-knot M.V. Moana Roa maintains a monthly service to Rarotonga , with occasional round trips to include other islands in the Southern Group . Near-maximum use is made of cargo space on voyages to the islands , but on the return trip the vessel is very often nearly empty . Nowhere can the Moana Roa enter a lagoon and only at Rarotonga and Aitutaki can it anchor in a roadstead . Goods and passengers have to be carried from wharf to boat by lighters sometimes towed by small motor launches which negotiate the reef passage . At other times the cargo and passengers are brought off in rowing boats which , from time to time , are capsized in crossing the wave-swept reef . If no reef passage is available the surf boats must " shoot the reef " ? both an exciting and dangerous experience ( Plate 11 ) . If the weather is too bad , delays result with the ship having to put to sea for several days at a time . This adds to the cost of shipping . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually to pick up a catch-crop of tomatoes for the New Zealand market , while two or three times a year freighters en route to New Zealand call to unload supplies of oregon pine and other goods from the North American coast . The tourist liners Monterrey and Mariposa call every three weeks on the outward journey to Auckland . Inter-island transport is provided by three small motor vessels of about 300 tons which have both passenger accommodation and cargo space . Except for Mitiaro , Manuae and Takutea , the other islands in the Southern Group are served regularly by these ships . Visits to islands in the Northern Group are more infrequent and are usually to pick up pearl shell or copra . The trading vessels are operated by merchants in Rarotonga and economic operation is difficult because of the small cargoes offering , the great distance between the islands , the difficulty of loading and unloading where there is no anchorage outside Footnote  | the reef and the fact that during the hurricane seasons they either go to New Zealand , Fiji or Tahiti for a refit or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , the development of air transport as an economic proposition has been difficult . When Tasman Empire Airways ceased calling at Aitutaki in 1960 there was no regular air service until 1963 , when Polynesian Airlines Ltd. commenced a fortnightly , then a little later a weekly , service between the Cook Islands and Western Samoa . It connects with the international link at Pago Pago , American Samoa . Moves are afoot to up-grade the coral strips at Rarotonga and Aitutaki to take jet aircraft . There is no shortage of passengers who wish to fly to New Zealand . All the islands in the Southern Group have coral roads while on Rarotonga the main road is completely tar-sealed . There is no regular public transport , but private truck owners on Rarotonga maintain a service between the outer villages and Avarua . In recent years there has been an increase in the number of islanders owning cars and motor cycles , while most families have one or more bicycles . Economic Future The most valuable resources of the Cook Islands are the volcanic soils of the Southern Group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In recent years a great amount of time and effort has been taken in educating the people how best to use these resources . Coconuts occupy the largest land area ? over 28,000 acres . This is the staple of the Northern Group . However , many islanders are reluctant to cut out old trees and replant so as to maintain the quantity and the quality of the copra . In recent years there has been a steady campaign to encourage methodical replanting . There is great scope for this in the Southern Group , but except in Aitutaki , Maori co-operation as yet has not been great . Currently there are over 1,000 acres in citrus fruit and planting is continuing . The establishment of the juice factory in Rarotonga has greatly reduced fruit wastage from any of the southern islands . This has encouraged growers to plant more trees and to care for the ones they already have . A greater acreage devoted to tomatoes has been encouraged and with improved practices of manuring and spraying , yields are increasing . In the season , special shipping calls are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They reach New Zealand in the winter months , when the demand is high . The surplus is sent to the juicing factory . Mangaia is the only island at the moment which grows a significant acreage of pineapples . There is less wastage now as those that can not be sent to New Zealand are pulped or made into juice . Extensive pineapple plantings have recently been made on Rarotonga while on other islands in the Southern Group experiments are being carried out with  | promising varieties . Although there has been an attempt to encourage increased planting of banana shoots , export returns have not been encouraging especially when the cost of boxes and freight has been taken into account . Pearl shell is a very valuable export obtained from the lagoons at Penrhyn , Manihiki and Suwarrow . However , the income is not steady as the lagoons have to be closed periodically for conservation reasons . Industry is becoming more important . Two clothing factories are employing an increasing number of women each year . They make garments for the New Zealand market . Two firms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wooden artifacts for sale in New Zealand . The " Raro " canning factory has considerably boosted farming in the Southern Group and there is little or no wastage of fruit crops . The revenue from the export of canned citrus , tomato and pineapple juice , fruit salad and crushed pineapple is increasing . Now that the Cook Islands have attained internal self-government , those who have received advanced education in New Zealand , Fiji or Western Samoa have an important role to play in the future development of their country . Emigration to New Zealand , by about 300 Maoris a year , makes room for others on the already limited fertile land . However , a more serious problem is the movement of outer islanders to Rarotonga and an increase in those who are landless and must work for wages . It is difficult to foresee the time when the Cook Islands will be economically independent of New Zealand . However , the last ten years has been a time of heartening economic progress . Important factors have been a revival of the citrus industry , the establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , the growing of tomatoes and pineapples and experimentation with such crops as coffee , pepper and peanuts . The establishment of new or the extension of existing manufacturing industries could also help the economy . The planned introduction of a jet air service could also bring increased revenue through the development of tourism . FIJI With its considerably greater area , 7,055 square miles , and much more numerous population , over 440,000 , Fiji has a far broader and more buoyant economy than that of the Cook Islands . However , a population made up of almost equal numbers of Indians and Fijians , each with their distinctive interests and attitudes , is giving this British Crown Colony the problems of a multi-racial society . The group is located almost due north of New Zealand , some 1,300 miles from Auckland and nearly 1,750 miles north-east of Sydney . Such a favourable position has let it become the focus of the airways and shipping routes of the south-west Pacific . There are about 320 islands ,  | the two largest being Viti Levu , 4,011 square miles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slightly larger than the South Auckland Lowlands and the latter is bigger than the Southland Plain . Both have rugged , low mountainous interiors with peaks exceeding 3,000 feet . The next ten largest islands have high points 1,000 feet above sea-level . Some 105 islands are inhabited . Most are tiny wave-swept mows , not even colonized by coconut palms . The elevated interiors of both Viti Levu and Vanua Levu lie across the path of the trade winds and partly shield their leeward sides from moist air streams . As a result both islands ' south-east slopes are covered with dense tropical forest ; tall tropical grasses and scrub cover extensive north-western " dry " zones . Land Use and Settlement Although the Indians outnumber the Fijians , the latter are more widely dispersed . They predominate on all the smaller islands , on the coasts and along the river banks in the forested wet zone of Viti Levu . More than 85 per cent . live in villages or koro which hold between 20 and 600 people . " The average village has about 150 inhabitants living in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The occupants of each village form a closely-knit community , held together by wider family groups then are generally recognized in European society , clan land ownership syatems , respect for the high chief and the Fijian Regulations , a code of laws binding only on Fijians.2 The continued existence of these communities represents the faithful preservation of many traditional customs and practices by the British authorities as a result of official guarantees made in the deed of cession signed by the paramount chiefs in 1874 . Because most Fijian villagers have retained so much of their traditional way of life , including the provision of most of their own food supplies , the introduction of a money economy has influenced them in varying degrees . These mainly depend upon the location of each village . Those nearer to the towns or cane-growing areas have been more affected than others in the mountainous interior of Viti Levu or on outlying atolls . Payment of the Provincial Rate , really a poll-tax of about ? 410.0. a year , levied on all males between 18 and 60 years old , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs for Fijians to earn some money . Many villagers living in inaccessible interior valleys grow yagona , from which kava , the ceremonial drink , is made . Two or three times a year they gather and dry the roots , and carry them down to the coast for sale.3 Villagers on the banks of the Rewa 's navigable Footnote  | tributaries find bananas a lucrative crop . They are poled downstream on bamboo rafts for subsequent export to New Zealand . Copra is the cash crop harvested by coastal villagers . It is the only source of income for the people on the smaller islands . Villagers living in the dry zone on Viti Levu or Vanua Levu near sugar mills either lease their land to Indians or grow some cane themselves . The principal Fijian food crops grown on family land , using slash-and-burn methods to prepare the plots , are yams , taro , and sweet potatoes . Cassava and rice replace them in the dry zone . Bananas , breadfruit and other tropical fruit trees are found near most villages . Exercise 3 . Village Life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's vivid account ' . or Ward 's interesting book2 describe village life in Fiji , noting especially modifications in the traditional way of life resulting from Western influences . The importation of Indian labourers , bound by a four-year indenture system , was the result of the need for labour on short-lived Fijian cotton plantations . When cane replaced cotton in the early 1880 's Indians provided the work force on the fields and in the mills . Between 1879 and 1916 , when the scheme was abandoned , 40,000 Indians elected to remain in the colony after their contracts had expired . Today , their descendants grow the cane on small leased sections of about ten acres owned by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company , which supplies advice and cheap fertiliser . Each farmer has one-third of his property in " plant " cane , a third in " ratoon " or second crop cane and a third left fallow or planted in dryland rice or vegetables . In addition , he has a separate half-acre plot of padi rice . Tractors are being increasingly used instead of oxen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other at harvest time . The Problems of a Plural Society Most Fiji Indians still speak Hindi and little English . They are practising Hindus or Moslems ? progressive , hard-working individualists , interested in education , many being university graduates . Besides growing nearly all of the colony 's chief export crop , worth more than three times the value of copra and bananas combined , they run retail and tailoring businesses.3 Many are lawyers while others own bus and taxi firms . They resent the Fijians ' ownership of 85 per cent . of the land . The Fijians have a distinctly different way of life in which there is far more emphasis on sharing wealth and helping other members of the clan . Each family can obtain most of its own food supply . With comparatively little effort copra , bananas or minor crops like yagona Footnote  | root can be marketed to provide the cash for the family 's other needs . English is taught in all Fijian schools as well as the official Bauan dialect . They respect education , but very few have attended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while others work on coconut plantations , at Nandi airport or in the three gold mines near Vatakoula . Most are fervent Christians . Through their chiefs they have a considerable share in local and national government . The islands now contain over 185,000 Fijians and more than 220,000 Indians , besides such minority groups as 11,000 Europeans and 5,000 Chinese . Much land is too hilly or infertile to be used for farming . Some areas of poorer soil have already been spoilt by over-cropping and over-stocking . ' With a rapidly-increasing population to support and limited alternative sources of income , good farm-land should not be left idle . Meanwhile a generation of young Indians is growing up , only some of whom can take over their fathers ' small leasehold cane fields . They have ready access to a mere 9 per cent . of all land . Although the Government feels committed to a policy of predominantly Fijian land ownership , it seems only fair that more attractive leasehold terms for Indian farmers should be permitted . This , coupled with more freedom of action for individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the 1960 Burns Commission , would do much to improve race relationships . Links with New Zealand As Fiji is a British Crown Colony , it has no close official ties with this country . However , as one of our nearest neighbours , considerable trade is carried on . New Zealand is the source of approximately 7 per cent . of Fiji 's imports and provides a market for 12 per cent . of her exports . These are mostly raw sugar and bananas . In the educational field , many teachers in Fijian schools are New Zealanders . During recent years a growing number of young people from Fiji have attended the University of Auckland . The improvement of tourist services in Fiji and more frequent air services are strengthening the lure of a tropical holiday for many New Zealanders . Exercise 4 . An Additional Pacific Island Study . Using information from books noted earlier in this chapter , write a concise account of the geography of New Caledonia or Western Samoa mentioning changes resulting from Western influences . Particular attention should be given to the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and links with New Zealand . Footnote  | REGIONAL CONTRASTS IN THE RELIEF AND CLIMATE OF NORTH AMERICA RELIEF In beginning the study of the North American Continent , the first problem , and a hard one for us to understand , is that of size . With a total area of 7,400,000 square miles , the United States of America , excluding Hawaii , and Canada are nearly seventy-four times larger than New Zealand and almost two and a half times the size of Australia . It will be worth our keeping these facts in mind as we consider regional contrasts in relief . In view of the size of the continent , it is fortunate that its general pattern of relief , like that of Australia and South America , is a fairly simple one . A clearer idea of this can be obtained by drawing the map described below . Exercise 1 . Using a full-page ( preferably quarto size ) atlas map as a base , trace an outline of North America into your notebook and on it draw the " generalized " 1 position of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pencils lightly tint areas under 600 feet green and those over 1,200 or 1,500 feet brown . Then colour the remaining areas yellow . Show and name the following physical features : Highlands . Coast Range ( West Coast ) , Great Basin , Sierra Nevada , Rocky Mountains , Appalachian Mountains , Mount Whitney , Mount McKinley . Coastal features . Pacific Ocean , Bering Strait , Arctic Ocean , Baffin Island , Hudson Bay , Newfoundland , Florida Peninsula , Atlantic Ocean , Gulf of Mexico . Drainage . The five Great Lakes ( each named ) , Great Bear Lake , Great Slave Lake , Lake Athabaska , Lake Winnipeg , Great Salt Lake , Yukon River , Columbia River , Colorado River , Mackenzie River , Saskatchewan River , St. Lawrence River , Missouri River , Ohio River , Mississippi River , Arkansas River , Rio Grande . Once you have completed this map , you will have begun to understand some features of the relief and drainage pattern of North America . It shows that on a very simplified basis , the continent can be divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highlands region , a much smaller strip of eastern highlands and an immense central lowland , which extends all the way from the Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic Ocean . However , this broad sub-division assumes that river erosion has been Figure the chief agent of denudation throughout the continent . Such is not the case . The surface of middle and high latitude North America was greatly modified by the action of continental ice sheets and gigantic glaciers during the Pleistocene period , a geologically very recent one which lasted from 700,000 to only 20,000 years ago . The limits of the areas affected are indicated on the map ( Figure 33 ) . It also shows the  | extent of former lakes , formed by the ponding of melt-water , and their chief overflow channels . As can be seen , the area affected by ice erosion and deposition is a very big one . Now that the role of ice in the shaping of North America has been explained , a division of the continent into major physiographic or landform regions can be made . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plains . This extensive lowland , which reaches 300 miles inland in Texas , extends all the way from the Rio Grande to Long Island , where it disappears under the sea , reappearing to form Martha 's Vineyard and Nantucket Island , two islets which are little more than sandbanks off the New England coast . These plains are formed by a series of beds of geologically young , soft material which dip gently down towards the coast . They are made up of shingle , sands and mud and slope so gently to meet the sea that the coast is lined with sand-bars behind which are lagoons and swamps . Evidence of changes in the coastline is provided by the presence of old beaches forming terraces up to 270 feet above the present sea-level and the drowning of the lower Susquehanna and Delaware valleys to form the long Chesapeake and Delaware Bays . In Texas the surface outcropping of the strata is marked by a series of low , inward-facing scarps . All the rivers which meander lazily across the plains are flood-prone , the most dangerous being the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a silt load of 750,000,000 tons . The peninsula of Florida was once a separate plateau area which has since been raised and joined to the mainland . Nowhere higher than 325 feet , much of its flat surface is underlain by limestone , which has corroded to form solution hollows and sink holes , mostly now filled by swamps and small lakes . In the south the Everglades swamps are only a few feet above sea-level . The Appalachian System . Although having few summits exceeding 6,000 feet and being far less mountainous than the Rockies , the Appalachian System of low mountains , hills and valleys formed a barrier difficult for the American colonists to penetrate . Even today , the railways follow the gaps made by the few larger rivers . The nine sub-regions are shown on the map ( Figure 35 ) . The Hudson ? Mohawk Gap divides them into two groups . The four sub-regions south-west of the Hudson ? Mohawk Gap are arranged parallel to each other . Some of their character and interrelationships can be seen in the cross-section ( Figure 35 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Piedmont . The boundary between the latter , with its undulating surface , and the Coast Plain is imperceptible except along the rivers , where it is marked by falls or rapids , hence its name , the Fall Line . Several cities , e.g. Washington , Richmond , Raleigh and Augusta are located along this boundary  | Figure  | because the falls , while imposing a limit to navigation , provided a source of easily-developed water power . In the Great Smoky Mountains the Blue Ridge sub-region widens out and reaches nearly 7,000 feet . In the north it is much narrower and is pierced by several easily-negotiable water gaps . Immediately to the west of the Blue Ridge there is a wide lowland corridor , drained by several rivers arranged end-on , known as the Great Valley . Each segment is also named , e.g. the Lehigh Valley and the Shenandoah Valley . North of Knoxville it is bounded on the west by a series of longitudinal ridges and valleys formed by the denudation of intensely-folded and faulted sedimentary rocks . The Appalachian Plateau to the west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata are almost horizontal and contain many easily-worked coal seams . However , the various streams have cut into it so deeply that many areas are very rugged , except in the north near the Mohawk Valley , where Ice Age glaciation has rounded off the hills and broadened the valleys . During Pleistocene times ice sheets also covered all the sub-regions north-east of the Hudson ? Mohawk Gap , including the Adirondack Mountains . Much of the surface of the mainly-crystalline rocks was scraped bare by the ice , which also gouged out fiords on the Newfoundland coast and U-shaped valleys and water-filled hollows on the mainland . Other areas are covered with coarse morainic material and hundreds of drumlins . ' The New England ? Maritimes Lowland subregion has a " drowned " coastline , with many capes , bays and sheltered anchorages . The Canadian Shield . This huge , shallow , saucer-shaped region , made up of very ancient , crystalline , metamorphic rocks , has an area of nearly 2,000,000 square miles . The oldest part of the continent , it reaches its greatest elevations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north of the St. Lawrence Valley rise to over 2,000 feet and the Superior Upland of Wisconsin and Minnesota exceeds 1,500 feet . Its highest points are the 5,500-feet Torngat Mountains of Labrador . From its outer limits , the surface slopes gently downwards , usually only one or two feet per mile , towards Hudson Bay . " From a distance , the skyline looks monotonously even , but closer inspection reveals an undulating surface with low rounded hills rising 100 feet to 200 feet above the general level of the land . " 2 Much of this ancient rock mass which is mainly granite , has been compressed and contorted , so that its zones of disturbance now contain areas of rich and varied mineral wealth . However , the surface shows no signs of this activity . After several cycles of uplift and peneplanation , it was buried and gouged by Pleistocene ice sheets which in places were thousands of feet thick . Evidence of this today is seen in the mainly Footnote  | bare and deeply-scratched rock surfaces and the chaotic drainage system . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of long , sinuous eskers , which aerial photographs show , cover a greater area than was previously realized . So many thousand hollows were left to be occupied by lakes and muskegs , it has been estimated that a quarter of the surface is covered by water . ' During the retreat of the ice , temporary lakes of impounded melt-water were formed . The sites of these are marked by layers of clay and silt , the largest area being the Clay Belt of Ontario , formerly the bed of Lake Ojibway ( Figure 33 ) . The Arctic Slope . The chief difference between these featureless plains and the adjacent shield is the continuous covering of gravels , silts and clays above the crystalline base rock . Lack of relief explains the difficulties of drainage . Much of the surface is swampy in summer and frozen hard in winter . The Interior Lowlands . Uniformity of structure and lack of relief are the two features which unify this immense lowland stretching nearly 1,500 miles between the Appalachian Plateau and the foothills of the Rocky Mountains . Thick deposits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a former sea and etched away by the huge drainage systems of the Missouri-Mississippi , Saskatchewan and Mackenzie , give this region its homogeneous structure . Altitude can vary surprisingly over its vast distances , some areas adjacent to the Gulf Coastal Plain being less than 500 feet above sea-level , while the western edge of the High Plain near Denver has an elevation of over 5,000 feet.2 In Canada the plains have three levels . The lowest , the South Manitoba Lowland , containing Lakes Winnipeg , Winnipegosis and Manitoba , besides the fertile Red River Plain , is bounded on the west by the low Manitoba escarpment from the Central Prairie Plains of Saskatchewan . These in turn are separated from the High Plains by the Missouri Coteau , anotherdow scarp which continues southwards into the United States as the discontinuous " Break of Plains " cuestas which reach almost to the Mexican border . The Coteau ? Break of Plains boundary is shown on Figure 34 . Exercise 2 . With the aid of information given in the paragraph above and of any other texts at your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Canadian Prairies . See that it is fully labelled . The Ozark ? Ouachita Uplands . In several respects this smaller region is an outlier of the Appalachian System . Its parallel ranges have eastwest axes . In the north the Ozark Plateau is an anticline of ancient sedimentary rocks with the top strata eroded away to expose the underlying crystalline rocks of the St. Francis Mountains . These reach over It is not surprising that a metalled road joining Ottawa and Winnipeg was not completed until 1942 . Footnote  | 1,700 feet . Farther south , beyond the Arkansas Valley , the Ouachita are denuded fold mountains similar in structure to the Appalachian Ridge and Valley sub-region . Their highest points rise to 2,800 feet . The Rocky Mountains . The rugged highlands of this region provide striking evidence of the tremendous forces which , over a long period of time , have folded and broken the rock strata of the western third of North America so effectively that mountain-building processes have kept pace with the destructive effects of weathering and denudation . As large-scale atlas maps show , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a formidable obstacle to railway engineers . It is a fact that only eleven lines cross the 3,300-mile-long main water divide . Although the western edge of the High Plains is 5,000 feet above sea-level , the easternmost Front Range of the Rockies rises abruptly another 4,000 to even 9,000 feet . There is much evidence of ice sculpturing , especially north of the United States ? Canadian border . Jagged peaks are flanked by ice-fields , the largest of which feed immense glaciers . The small ones , often perched on steeper slopes , provide material in the spring for the avalanches which thunder into the valleys below . Associated with the more mechanical forms of mountain-building are many signs of vulcanicity . The rugged granite mountains of Central Idaho and the lava flows capping mesas and buttes in New Mexico are evidence of past activity . Even today a Wyoming valley containing hot springs , boiling mud pools and 3,000 geysers shows that future violent action is not unlikely . A more detailed impression of this region can be gained by attempting the following assignment : Exercise 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material , briefly answer the following questions : ( a ) Name the most north-westerly extension of the Rockies in Alaska . ( b ) Name the two highest peaks in : ( i ) the United States ; and ( ii ) Canada . ( c ) Name the Wyoming National Park noted for its thermal activity , and its most famous geyser . ( d ) Locate the only low-level gap in the United States Rockies . ( Followed a century ago by the Oregon Trail , it is now used by the Union Pacific Railroad. ) ( e ) Name the three passes used by railways in the Canadian Rockies . ( f ) Locate the 900-mile-long Rocky Mountain Trench by naming two rivers flowing along parts of it . How is it thought to have originated ? ( g ) What is the significance of the Lewis Overthrust Fault ?  | The Intermontane Basins and Plateaus . Seemingly abysmal canyons , bizarre desert landforms and miles of bare jagged mountains combine to give this region a world-wide reputation as a tourist attraction . Understandably , much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is mostly made up of a series of plateau steps , some almost as high as the Rockies on its eastern border and almost all above 3,000 feet . In the south-west United States these " steps " descend fairly regularly for about 500 miles in a westerly direction , to reach Death Valley almost on the edge of the region . Its floor is 276 feet below sea-level . Farther north in British Columbia the region is no more than 100 miles wide . The chief sub-divisions of this region and a cross-section of its southern part can be seen in Figure 36 . However , the nature and origin of the larger sub-regions are too interesting to be given in summary form and deserve your active investigation . Exercise 4 . With the aid of textbooks , glossaries and general reference books , answer the following questions : ( a ) Describe the Grand Canyon of Colorado and briefly explain how it developed into its present form . ( b ) The Great Basin of Nevada and the adjacent smaller Mojave Desert of California is a huge outdoor museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pediments , wadis , playas , mesas and buttes . Write a sentence , in turn , about the nature of each of these . ( c ) Find out two differences between Great Salt Lake and prehistoric Lake Bonneville. ( d ) Describe the distinctive structure of the Columbia Plateau . How did the coulees originate ? The Pacific Coastlands . The varied landforms of this region provide some of North America 's most spectacular scenery , including the continent 's highest peaks and its only recently-active volcanoes . The basic structure consists of a double line of mountains over 3,000 miles long separated by a discontinuous structural depression . Comparable in size and grandeur to the Rockies , the inland ranges include , in turn , the Sierra Nevada of California , the Cascades of Washington and Oregon , the Coast Range of British Columbia , the Alaska Range , which includes Mount McKinley , 20,460 feet , the highest peak in North America , and the volcanic Aleutian Range . Evidence of both past and present ice erosion can be seen . Yosemite National Park on the western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waterfalls tumbling over the edge of hanging valleys . Further north , large glaciers are still active in the British Columbia section . They drain the ice-fields of both the coastal and inland ranges of Alaska . The location of the various sub-regions of the Pacific Coastlands is  | shown on Figure 36 . The coastal ranges of California are separated from the Sierra Nevada by the Great Valley , the southernmost part of the structural depression . ' In Oregon and Washington this depression reappears as the Willamette ? Cowlitz Valley between the Cascades and the Coast Range and Olympic Mountains.2 Further north the depression is submerged to form the Inside Passage , the outer range becomes the Vancouver , the Queen Charlotte and other islands , and the western edge of the inner range is deeply fiorded . On the south coast of Alaska , rugged Kodiak Island and the high mountains of the St. Elias Range form part of the outer line of ranges , the Matunuska Valley being the only unsubmerged section of the long depression . The Yukon Basin . This comparatively large but little-known region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Region . However , its elevations are much lower , the eastern half comprising dissected rolling hills of 2,000 to 3,000 feet elevation , falling away towards the west to become a low-lying , swampy plain drained by the Yukon , Tanana and Kuskokwim Rivers . Numerous ponds , muskegs and lakes show that normal soak-in is hindered by the permanentlyfrozen sub-soil . Conclusion . The landform regions of North America contain a wide range of landform types , including the various stages of river valley formation and mountain building , desert landforms , vulcanicity , glacial action and coastal landforms . The following exercises should facilitate revision of some of the more striking regional differences . Exercise 5 . Compare and contrast the landforms of the Appalachian System and the Pacific Coastlands . Exercise 6 . Contrast the character of the relief of the Canadian Shield with that of the Central Lowlands . Exercise 7 . Briefly examine the relationships between the Ice Age glaciation of North America and the human geography of the continent . Exercise 8 . Write a concise account of the chief landform features of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commercial aviation and the increasing intensification of farming , leading to expensive research into the need for costly irrigation schemes , are but two of the many reasons for the continuing interest in the character of North America 's climates . Insurance companies and the sales divisions of firms making central heating and air conditioning plant are two other business groups vitally interested in climatological research . Much money has been spent and a good deal is now known about regional contrasts in climate . Further details of California 's relief are given on page 206 . Footnote  | In this section , a brief survey of the importance of the various climate controls precedes a discussion of important aspects of North America 's chief climate regions . CLIMATIC CONTROLS Latitude . The immense size of the North American continent ' stretched over 60 ? of latitude ( more than twice that of Australia ) by itself explains the reason for some climatic differences , especially the range in the amount of insolation ( sunshine ) received on the edge of the tropics and inside the Arctic Circle . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temperatures . The Continent 's Considerable Breadth . With a longitudinal extent averaging nearly 3,000 miles , many places far from the sea experience a high range of seasonal temperatures and low precipitation . The Fluctuating Influences of the Chief Adjacent Semi-Permanent Air Masses . In the middle latitudes of both hemispheres , day-to-day weather and the resulting climates are due to the varying influences of a number of huge air masses . Most are anticyclones . Above and around North America , most of these anticyclones exist semi-permanently because the western highland barrier , stretching meridionally for 3,000 miles across , their otherwise eastward path , obstructs their movement . They can not displace one another as easily as the migratory anticyclones over the southern ocean . The position of the more important air masses and their chief characteristics are shown on Figure 37 . The polar air masses may move further southward in winter when their influence is stronger . In summer , their centres weaken and retreat northwards , the polar continental air mass in particular moving across the Arctic Circle . This gives the tropical air masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominate the weather in the United States and Southern Canada . When two air masses with different characteristics of temperature , moisture content and stability confront and impinge upon each other , a frontal surface develops which usually leads to moisture condensation and , frequently , precipitation of rain , snow or hail . Waves often develop along these frontal surfaces , leading to the formation of depressions , and increased frontal activity , until each occludes . ' Over North America , depressions are more frequent and more intense in winter , when the air mass contrasts are greater . Most originate over the Pacific Ocean but some develop above the Great Plains . They follow curved tracks , which usually bend towards then away from the equator , across the continent . Nearly all pass over the north-eastern United States before occluding over the western Atlantic Ocean . The Relief Pattern . The mountains of the Pacific coastlands and the Rockies impede or check air movements to the east or west , especially the penetration inland of moist air from the Pacific Ocean . On the Footnote  | Figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no major obstacle to air moving north or south across the Canadian Shield and the Interior Lowlands . As a result bitterly cold air from the north can flow quickly almost to reach the Gulf of Mexico . Ocean Currents . Above the coastlands of a continent the size of North America , the nature of offshore ocean currents can have quite noticeable effects on regional climates . Exercise 9 . Trace or sketch an outline map of North America in your notebook and using climate and/or ocean currents maps  | in your atlas as your source of information , use coloured pencils to show : ( a ) Two warm currents , the North Pacific Drift and the Gulf Stream ( red arrows ) . ( b ) Two cool currents , the Labrador and the California ( blue arrows ) . ( c ) The 50 ? F. and 70 ? F. July isotherms ( in red ) . ( d ) the 32 ? F. and 50 ? F. January isotherms ( in green ) . ( e ) Briefly contrast the ocean current and seasonal temperature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east coast . CLIMATIC REGIONS Before studying regional contrasts in North American climate , some knowledge of the pattern of annual and seasonal rainfall can be obtained by drawing the map described below : Exercise 10 . On an outline map of North America traced or sketched in your notebook , insert the following information obtained from your atlas : ( a ) The 10-inch , 20-inch and 40-inch isohyets . Using light brown for the under-l0-inch areas , colour in the various gradations according to the , following sequence : yellow , light blue , dark blue or purple . ( b ) After carefully studying the atlas maps of seasonal rainfall distribution , neatly print in , where applicable , the labels , " mainly summer " , " mainly winter " , " always dry " , and " always rainy " . A simple division of North America into nine climatic regions is shown on Figure 38.1 In the , section below , there is a detailed treatment on only four regions . Mere outline accounts of the other five are given , because they are described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to which page references are given . 1 . The Arctic Coast . With the most inhospitable climate in North America , this region supports a very small population . Much of it , both inland and towards the North Pole , bears permanent ice sheets . Little is known about these deserts of snow and ice , where average monthly temperatures never rise above freezing point . Inside the Arctic Circle , when the sun is constantly below the horizon , excessively cold weather prevails . Probably all the meagre precipitation falls as snow made more unpleasant by the furious gales which may rage during any month of the year . Footnote  | Figure  | Further south summer monthly temperatures rise above freezing point , but do not exceed 50 ? F. It is this part of the region which is known as the tundra . Vegetation is limited to hardy dwarf willows , birches and alders often less than a foot high , squat perennial shrubs , grasses , sedges , mosses and lichens . Exercise 11 . With the help of graph paper or a special rubber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in monthly temperatures and precipitation at Point Barrow on the North Alaskan Coast . Table Write a paragraph describing the climate disclosed by these statistics . Comment on the lengths of summer and winter , the seasonal temperature range and the chief precipitation season . Even during the brief summer , frosts may occur at any time and due to the permanently-frozen subsoil the widespread swamp harbours myriads of mosquitoes and flies , making life almost unbearable . Along the coasts depressing fogs may last for days . Annual precipitation is usually less than 15 inches , mainly in the form of summer rain and drizzle , as a result of the northerly tracks of some eastward-moving depressions . The scanty winter snowfall is dry and powdery . It falls mainly during strong blizzards , which heap it up in depressions and on the lee sides of hills , simultaneously sweeping bare the exposed surfaces . 2 . Central Canada . The long , bitterly cold winters of this region , like those of the Arctic Coast , are too severe for large-scale commercial farming . However , the brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as spruce , larch , balsam fir and jack pine . The high seasonal range of temperature is the most distinctive climatic feature . Exercise 12 . With the help of graph paper or a rubber stamp , use the statistics given below to show seasonal changes in monthly temperatures and precipitation at Dawson on the Yukon River ( 64 ? N. ) . Table Write a paragraph similar to that required for Exercise 11 . For most of the year the dominant climatic control is the huge polar  | continental anticyclone of cold , stable , subsiding air centred on Keewatin . Winter is the longest season and starts early , six to eight months having mean temperatures below 32 ? F. Nearly all the meagre winter precipitation falls as snow which continually covers the ground two to three feet deep for five to seven months . During the short summers , the days are long and maximum temperatures often exceed 80 ? F. , although nights remain cool . Most of the annual precipitation of 15 to 20 inches falls during this season when depressions can more frequently penetrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continental air mass . In addition , some convectional rain is derived from occasional thunderstorms . However , in some seasons insufficient rain falls to supply the few hardy crops like cabbages , which can mature during the brief growing season of 50 to 90 days , despite the risk of frost . 3 . Central Pacific Coast . The dominant controls in this narrow coastal region are the frequent invasions of cool , moist maritime polar air from the northern Pacific Ocean increasing the moderating influence of the adjacent warm North Pacific Drift . As a result , summers are cool , winters are very mild for the latitude and there is much cloudiness and coastal fog . Within very short distances , according to altitude and exposure , there is wide variation in annual precipitation , much of which falls in winter . 4 . California . ' Most of the lowland of this region experiences the hot , parched summers and mild , rainy winters of the typical Mediteranean climate . In summer the tropical maritime air mass over the South-east North Pacific moves north-eastwards to give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the polar maritime Pacific air mass moves south-eastwards to dominate the climate , bringing conditions resembling those of the adjacent Central Pacific Coast . The climate is thus a transitional one , with marked seasonal alternation , high sunshine totals and summer moisture deficiencies as its chief traits . 5 . The Western Interior . With its complicated arrangement of mountain ranges , plateaux , basins and valleys , this region inevitably experiences a complex pattern of climate . Variations in the annual total precipitation are considerable , some of the exposed western slopes of the Rockies receiving between 30 and 80 inches , while less than 10 inches falls in the basin " rain shadow " areas . Similarly there are considerable differences in temperature pattern , depending on latitude , altitude , exposure and aspect . However , most districts share some common features . Continental air masses are dominant , tropical in summer and polar in winter . Hence , everywhere seasonal and daily temperature ranges can be considerable . In winter , temperatures can fall very low . Snow caps the highlands continuously for months and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statistics and additional information on page 228 . Footnote  | not unusual . Pools of stagnant cold air , trapped in the basins , can result in a series of heavy frosts . Most areas have inadequate and ineffective precipitation due to the greater rates of potential water loss by evaporation prevailing for the greater part of the year . In other words , far less rain or snow falls than the amount of water lost by evaporation when there is no limit to the supply of water available to be evaporated . Where the total fall is from 10 to 20 inches , there is a mid-latitude steppe vegetation dominated by 2 to 3-foot-high sagebrush , with very long roots and silvery leaves often dropped during a long drought . The vegetation in the arid parts of the Great Basin , with only 5 to 10 inches precipitation annually , is even more sparse because mid-latitude desert conditions are experienced . One of the chief features and most serious problems of the climates of this region is the wide variation , from year to year , in the total rainfall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall in a series of consecutive years is known as the variability and , as is the case over most of Australia , it is so great that few crops can be grown . Stock-carrying capacity is low except where irrigation can be used . 6 . Sonora . Nowhere else in North America is the climate so constantly warm or hot and dry . Apart from the transitional strips of tropical steppe , most of this region has a tropical climate resembling that of the Sahara , Arabia and Central Australia . Several of its features may be discovered by making a climate graph for Yuma ( 33 ? N ) Exercise 13 . On graph paper or a rubber stamp impression show seasonal changes in monthly temperatures and precipitation . Table Write a paragraph similar to that needed for Exercise 11 . The two dominant controls are the warm , moist , stable tropical maritime Pacific air mass and the tropical continental air mass which descends below its usual base height of 10,000 feet in summer and can mix with the tropical maritime air to produce very unstable conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bare desert slopes and flood the canyon floors . In a few minutes there can be more changes in the landscape than occur during centuries of weathering and wind action . It is little wonder that , as in the Western Interior , the variability of rainfall is more significant than the mean total fall . Yuma has received less than 1 inch of rain one year and as many as 11 inches in twelve months a few years later . With at least 80 per cent . of the possible sunshine per year and only  | 20 to 50 days of cloud , the clear skies bring intense heating in summer and the rapid loss of heat by radiation in winter . The dry air and absence of cloud also result in large daily temperature ranges , especially in summer when a difference of 35 ? F. is not uncommon . It is not surprising that most desert plants have special structures to reduce transpiration . 7 . The Great Plains . Climatically , this is a transitional zone between the semi-arid to arid Western Interior and the humid eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 20 inches on the east to about 12 inches further west . Its high variability resembles that of the two regions just studied . Summer is the wettest season , the winter precipitation in the north being mainly snow . The blizzards are so severe that open-sided sheds are needed to shelter the stock . There are wide variations in monthly temperatures both between the hottest and coldest seasons and from north to south within the region , which extends through more than 20 ? of latitude . The latitudinal difference in winter , more than 30 ? F. , is greater than that in summer . The spring then is hastened by the chinook , a warm foehn wind blowing eastwards across the Rockies . Exercise 14. ( a ) Briefly account for the rapid weather changes on the Great Plains. ( b ) Why is the chinook a warm dry wind ? ( c ) What is a tornado ? 8 . Great Lakes ? Atlantic Coast . As it is the home of more than half the population of North America , the chief features of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central North American Region are of particular importance.2 There is more frontal and cyclonic activity above this region than any other in North America . This is due to the constant meeting and mixing of polar continental air from Central Canada and tropical maritime Atlantic air originating to the south-east of Florida . Compared with most lowland areas in New Zealand , summers are warmer and winters are much colder , with several heavy snowfalls and many severe frosts . Seasonal temperature ranges are thus greater , the only similarities being the changeability of weather and the annual rainfall of 30 to 50 inches . Important features of the region 's special weather types can be obtained by completing the following investigation . Exercise 15 . Find out the chief features of ( a ) a blizzard ; ( b ) a cold wave ; ( c ) a hot wave , and ( d ) an Indian summer . 9 . The South-east States . " Humid sub-tropical " is the climatic label Footnote  | often given to these south-eastern states.l Summers are hot and very muggy while winters are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which decrease in number and severity along the south coast and are seldom felt in southern Florida . Annual rainfall increases from 30 inches in the west to over 60 inches in the south-east . It is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year . The chief climate controls are the tropical maritime Atlantic air mass with its source region over the ocean south-east of Florida and the warm Gulf Stream current flowing east then north off the coast . It is the tropical maritime air mass which in autumn is the source of the region 's chief drawback , the hurricane . Several of these rapidlywhirling , circular , frontless depressions originate every year over the Atlantic Ocean north of the West Indies . Their track is usually curved , at first westwards , then polewards , when they reach a long coastline ; they seldom penetrate far inland . Their gale-force winds reaching over 100 miles an hour , accompanying giant seas , and torrential rain inflict tremendous damage , nowadays somewhat mitigated by costly warning systems . Conclusion . Due to its compact shape and , except in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climates are distributed in quite a conventional way . On the west coast , from south to north , tropical desert is replaced in turn by Mediterranean , marine west coast and tundra climates . On the east , the humid sub-tropical climate of the Gulf Coast is replaced northwards by areas of mid-latitude continental climate , taiga and tundra . Further inland an extensive western region with a complex arrangement of highland climates and an eastern plains region of sub-humid continental climate give way further north to taiga and tundra . From the point of view of farming , water availability and human comfort , the absence of extensive east-west highland barriers across the eastern half of the continent is probably an advantage . It aids moist air penetration and seasonal temperature changes . On the western side conditions are different . High mountains bordering the coast hinder the eastward movement of moist air . Quarrels over the use of limited supplies available for irrigation and urban use draw attention to limits water shortage could place on further settlement in the western states . Exercise 16 : 1:250,000 Topographic Map @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain why the area shown on Map 4 is typical of mountainous desert landscapes . Footnote  | THE AGRICULTURAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE MIDWEST AND THE GREAT PLAINS Introduction . The American Midwest is usually understood as extending as far north as the edge of the Canadian or Laurentian Shield , east to the Appalachians , as far south as the Nashville Basin and the Ozark Uplands and west to the Great Plains . The Plains in their turn reach west to the edge of the Rockies and north to the Canadian border . On the south they extend between the Rockies and the Cotton Belt as far as the Mexican frontier . This huge composite region , covering a quarter of the United States , includes no mountains and very few hilly tracts . With its suitable relief and climate , coupled with fertile soils , and energetic population , this region produces a greater surplus of farm produce than any other in the world . In fact , in good seasons , the storage and eventual disposal of surplus food can become quite a problem . By studying its agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors which have helped this " heartland of American farming " to develop into one of the world 's largest areas of commercial farming and the problems which have resulted . The Land and its Climate . Apart from the vast plains of west-central Russia , there is no comparably large area of near-flat , potentially good farmland anywhere else in the middle latitude areas of the world . With the exception of the Black Hills of South Dakota and the Badlands of Nebraska , which are both small areas , gently undulating lowlands provide a monotonously similar relief pattern for hundreds of miles in any direction . Their smooth surface is notched by the wide flood-plains of the Mississippi , the Missouri and their tributary rivers . These plains have proved a mixed blessing . Although providing some rich farmland and ponding areas for several recently-built irrigation reservoirs , the large cities which grew up at crossing places along the rivers in the early days , occupy low-lying sites that are dangerously flood-prone . In the west the very gently-sloping terrain of the Mississippi Basin merges into the Western or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 ? West , which is very hard to define . The Great Plains form an area of plateau which rises gradually westwards from a height of 2,000 feet to reach over 5,000 feet at the base of the Rocky Mountain foothills . The plateau-like character is emphasized by the deeply-entrenched valleys of the many rivers , e.g. the North Platte , the Arkansas and the Canadian , which drain the Rockies ' eastern slopes before joining the Missouri and the Mississippi .  | Even this brief summary of relief would be incomplete without mentioning the effects of ice sheet erosion and deposition . The extreme southern limit for these sheets in North America appears to have been near the present courses of the Missouri and Ohio Rivers . When the last one finally retreated , the surface of the northern section of the region was covered with terminal moraines , eskers and drumlins ; further south a more even thickness of till was deposited . This till varies from boulders to fine loessic clays but on the whole has developed into excellent soils for farming . Exercise 1 . Further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a dictionary , glossary of geographical terms or textbook , find out the nature of terminal moraines , eskers , drumlins and loess . ( b ) Write one sentence each about the physical character of the Black Hills of South Dakota , the Badlands of Nebraska , the Staked Plains ( Llano Estacado ) of North Texas and the Driftless Area of Wisconsin . Variations in climate rather than relief impose limits on the nature and intensity of farming throughout the region . Although all parts receive abundant summer sunshine , thus ensuring the ripening of crops , and most precipitation falls in summer , the length of the growing season lessens considerably from south to north and the annual precipitation decreases from 40 inches in the south-east to less than 15 inches in the far west . Exercise 2 : Variations in Climate . With the help of graph paper or a special rubber stamp , use the statistics tabulated below to show seasonal changes in monthly temperatures and rainfall at Cincinnati , in the eastern Corn Belt , and Denver , on the western side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These graphs illustrate two other important general climatic features , the wide seasonal range of temperatures and the relatively small amount of summer rainfall available for plant growth . The potentially high  | evaporation rates , due to the hot summers , place limits on crop yields which vary each season . It is above this region that the greatest conflicts occur between the two air masses which dominate the weather of eastern North America . They are the continental polar air from Canada and the maritime tropical air from the Caribbean Sea . The resulting fronts and depressions are responsible for the region 's precipitation and rapid weather changes . Occasionally only one of these air massses dominates the weather . In summer this can lead to depressing heat waves , with temperatures of over 90 ? F. for several days on end ; in winter , the corresponding cold waves can lead to the roads becoming glassy death-traps . West of Chicago the " twisters " or tornadoes cut swathes of destruction from time to time . Despite its fluctuating position each year , the most important climatic boundary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the sub-humid to semi-arid Great Plains . Although very difficult to define in terms of a single feature , the 20-inch annual isohyet north of Kansas and the 25-inch southwards are usefully reliable indicators of its location . West of this boundary , rainfall is so low and unreliable that most crops will not grow without irrigation , so most farm-land can be used only for grazing . Several other climatic boundaries help to separate the various cropping sub-regions of the humid Middle West . Each of these will be mentioned later . Natural Vegetation and Soils . As could well be expected over such a vast lowland , the pattern of natural vegetation and soils is related to the distribution of annual rainfall . On the wetter areas east of the Mississippi there was an original cover of hardwood forest , including oak , elm , beech , hickory and walnut with , in the north , an intermixture of such conifers as hemlock and white pine . Remnants of this forest survive as woodlots on Corn Belt and Dairy Belt farms . West of the Mississippi , tall-grass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grass growing five feet high , extended as far west as the 100 ? West meridian where it in turn gave way to the shallower rooted , short-grass prairie . It reaches only two feet in height , the chief species being grama grasses in the north and buffalo grass further south . ' It is the turf of this short-grass prairie which has provided basic feed for generations of ranch cattle . The zonal soils are arranged in a predictable " copybook " fashion . Grey-brown podzolic soils , with slightly-acidic upper horizons and colloids and bases mainly in the " B " horizon underlie the hardwood forests in the east . When first cleared for farming , their initial humus reserves made them quite productive , but this soon had to be maintained by careful manuring and management . Towards the west under the tall grass prairie , these soils are replaced Footnote  | in turn by prairie soils and chernozems . The former are dark in colour , have a granular texture and their plentiful humus makes them very suitable for agriculture . Chemozem soils with deeper and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the surface are the world 's most fertile zonal soils . They can be cropped for many years without the use of artificial fertilizers . The chestnut soils of the short grass prairie also have plentiful humus but , owing to the lighter rainfall , their horizons are thinner , so the lime accumulation is little more than a foot from the surface . Although easily cultivated , they are found in areas where the rainfall is too low and unreliable to be worth farming , unless irrigation is possible . The History of Settlement European settlement in this seemingly very favourable area had to await three events , the achievement of American independence in 1783 , the Louisiana Purchase of 1803 and the arrival of a flood of migrants during the nineteenth century drawn by the lure of cheap land . Migration was hastened by the building of railways and the associated land companies ' activities in the Atlantic seaboard cities and in Europe . As a result of the Land Ordinance of 1785 the whole area was surveyed in sections , bounded by roads , one mile square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acres . As a result of this initial survey , the Middle West and , to a lesser extent , the Great Plains today have a landscape , as seen from the air , with a checkerboard pattern of fields , fences and roads , made more attractive by the varied crop colours alternating with the dark browns and greys of freshly-ploughed land . Regional Sub-divisions The sub-divisions of the Midwest and the Great Plains used in this chapter are shown on the map opposite ( Figure 40 ) . The significance of the various boundaries will be discussed as each sub-division is described . The Corn Belt , by far the most important section , will be dealt with first . It is quite important to note that no international boundaries subdivide the entire Midwest and Great Plains Region into independent political units as is the case , for example , on the North European Plain . Hence the boundaries between the various farming belts are solely physical and/or economic ones . They thus provide good examples of the effect of physical factors , especially climate and soil types , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Make a copy of the map of farming belts and , as you study the rest of this chapter , record on it the limits of the belts . Once your map is complete , see whether you can recognise any sequences of limits across the map from ( a ) north to south and ( b ) east to west . The Corn Belt . One of the world 's largest intensively farthed-areas ,  | FARMING BELTS OF THE MID-WEST AND THE GREAT PLAINS 7 ' Miles I The Corn Belt . 2 Southern Mixed Farming and Tobacco 3 The Hay and Dairy Belt 4 The Spring Wheat Belt 5 The Winter Wheat Belt soo 6 Cotton Belt Margin . 7 The Ranching Belt ? Orchards and Vineyards Figure 40 . Farming Belts of the Mid-West and the Great Plains. the Corn Belt is the source of half the entire United States maize crop which in most years accounts for 50 per cent . of the world 's total . However , more than 70 per cent . of the corn leaves the farms only indirectly because its main use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent . of the Corn Belt 's farm income .  | It comprises the states of Iowa , Illinois , Indiana and parts of South Dakota , Nebraska , Kansas , Missouri and Ohio , as shown on the map on page 187 . Its northern boundary is variously defined as a growing season of 140 days or the 66 ? F. isotherm for the summer three months . The summer eight-inch isohyet is the western limit . Towards the south , beyond the areas affected by Pleistocene glaciation , less fertile soils and summers which are too hot make tobacco and cotton growing more profitable . In the Ozarks hilly relief and the presence of less progressive farmers have hindered the growth of commercial , highly-mechanized farming . Towards the east , in the valleys of the Appalachian Plateau , dairying becomes a more suitable type of farming . Sheep are grazed on adjacent steep slopes not still under forest or used for subsistence crops . Other important features of Corn Belt farming are : 1 . Its flat to undulating surface is covered with a rectangular pattern of fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmed . Woodlots are few and small but there are some shelter belts and hedges , especially surrounding farmsteads. 2 . To make the use of machinery more economical , most farms now have an area of 200 acres and many properties exceed 300 acres , irrespective of their position in the Belt ? The farmstead includes a two-storey painted wooden house , a huge red barn to store feed and house animals during the bitter winters , tall cylindrical grain silos , hog pens , " chicken " runs , machine sheds , a garage , a garden and a wind-pump. 3 . Corn occupies only about 25 per cent . of the farmland each season and grows on about 40 to 50 per cent . of each farm 's cropland . It is thus the leading crop in a rotation which comprises one or two years of corn followed by a small grain ( winter wheat , oats or barley ) , a legume ( soya-beans , lucerne or clover ) and a feed crop ( timothy and red clover ) grown for hay and temporary pasture . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the limited supply of labour , mainly the owner and his family , over a longer summer season . The total area in soya has greatly increased during the past twenty years . It is a popular crop not only on account of the increasing demand for its heavy crop of beans , from which cooking oil and stock meal are obtained , but because of the lack of acreage restrictions and marketing quotas , its value for hay , silage and pasture and its higher cash return than that obtained from small grains . Moreover , it has few diseases and is not attacked by pests . 4 . Farming is highly mechanized . Not only does almost every farmer have a tractor , a truck and a car , but more than half have a Footnote  | mechanical corn-picker and a great number use such aids as sprayers , hay-balers and hydraulic loaders . Automatic conveyor-belt feed dispensers and egg gatherers are used in many poultry-houses . Mechanization reduces production costs and manual labour needs . It also encourages the building up of larger properties . 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock farming is more important than cash-cropping and provides three-quarters of the total farm income . All the hogs and poultry and two-thirds of the beef cattle are both reared and fattened within the Belt , usually on the farm where each is born . The rest of the young cattle are bred on the Great Plains , then sold for finishing on farms within a day 's journey of the packing houses ( meat works ) . A high oil content gives corn its fattening value . One pound of beef represents the consumption of eleven pounds of corn and one pound of pork five pounds of corn . The animals often do their own harvesting , i.e. " hogging down the corn " . 6 . Corn Belt farming is becoming increasingly scientific , with more and more farmers practising soil conservation , trying to control pests , taking advantage of plant breeding and using supplementary irrigation . The menace of soil erosion , with clean-tilled crops grown on undulating terrain , has been largely overcome by the use of strip-cropping , contour ploughing , sloping and sodding ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and diseases as the corn borer is likely to remain a continuing one , there is every chance that it will not be lost , thanks to new pesticides being developed and the new methods used to spread them efficiently . Greater corn yields per acre over the past twenty years result from the use of hybrid corn , which also has a greater resistance to lodging , plant diseases and insects than ordinary corn grown from seed kept from the previous season 's harvest . Further boosts to crop yields are the heavy yet carefully measured application of large quantities of artificial fertilizer and the recent , rapid spread of supplementary irrigation aimed at overcoming the otherwise serious effects of variations from the average of seasonal precipitation needed for uninterrupted growth . The chief method used is by sprinkler from lightweight aluminium pipes using any available water supply . This is expensive to operate but may result in the output of corn per acre being doubled or even tripled.l 7 . Such a fully-integrated system of commercial farming as the Corn Belt 's depends vitally on efficient transport facilities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are linked by excellent roads with the many scattered villages which in turn are tied to the cities by a fullydeveloped railway network which focuses on Chicago . 8 . As would be expected from the nature of the farming , meat packing is the chief type of food processing industry , Omaha now being the Footnote  | leading centre . Other prominent ones are Chicago , South St. Paul , Kansas City , Waterloo , and St. Joseph . Flour milling is the other important food-processing activity , Minneapolis and Kansas City being the chief centres . The Corn Belt supplies only a fraction of the wheat , most of which comes from the Great Plains . Other related industries include the manufacture of starch , cornflour and breakfast cereal foods . 9 . Surprisingly enough , despite its appearance of progressiveness and prosperity , the Corn Belt farming does not lack problems . Flooding , especially along the course of the Missouri or " Big Mu idy " River poses a perennial threat to flood-plain farmers especially during MarchApril and May-June . Federal government engineers are trying to devise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the erection of stop-banks . But the huge cost is a major drawback . As might be expected in an area with so many natural advantages for farming , over-production is the chief problem . The only solution to the threat of unstable prices has so far been a series of government controls , including acreage allotments , marketing controls , price subsidies and the provision of storage for crops , valued at over ten billion dollars ( Plate 15 ) . It seems rather paradoxical that financial help from American taxpayers is needed to write off the value of much of this food so that it can be sent to help feed hungry people in under-developed countries . Rapidly-rising land values have been another unfortunate result of guaranteed , subsidized prices for farm produce and the growth of a seller 's market for land . This has been aggravated by the increased use of machinery and the purchase of farmland by food processing companies , both of these leading to a demand for larger properties . Farming in the South . To the south of the Corn Belt , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . West of the river , on the Springfield Plateau , the most northern part of the Ozark Hills , there is more woodland and a greater proportion of farms are under pasture . There is some dairying ; pigs and cattle are raised but many have to be sent to the Corn Belt for fattening . Grapes and apples are special crops . Further south , subsistence farming is practised by the " hillbillies of the Ozarks " . South of the Ohio River , in west Kentucky and north-central Tennessee , less smooth relief features have developed on slightly folded sandstone strata overlying limestone . Woodland and waste cover much of this infertile land but on two anticlines ( upfolds ) erosion has stripped away the sandstone cover to expose the limestone , which weathers to form a much more fertile soil . The resulting Bluegrass Basin of Kentucky and Nashville Basin of Tennessee are both rich farming districts . Many stud farms can be found in the lush grasslands of the former which support racehorse breeding , dairying and beef cattle . The latter is famed for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Nashville Basins are also the chief tobacco-growing areas west of the Appalachians . Their limy , silt loam soils , rich in phosphorus , give high yields of the white Burley variety which is aircured and blended with other tobaccos for the manufacture of cigarettes and pipe-smoking mixtures . Because of its considerable labour needs , much tobacco growing is done by share-croppers who rent 5 to 20 acres of land according to the size of their families . The Hay and Dairy Belt . As in the Corn Belt , farms in this region are highly commercialized , but as the growing season is often too short for maize to ripen and a greater proportion of most farms is poorly drained or infertile , it has developed into the United States ' leading commercial dairying area . The infertile wastes of the Canadian Shield mark its northern boundary . On the west there is a gradual transition into the Spring Wheat Belt and on the south into the Corn Belt . Lakes Huron and Erie provide a physical barrier to the east but a similar type of farming is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dairy farms are about 100 to 150 acres , highly mechanised and well run by descendants of Yankees , Scandinavians , Germans and Swiss . Typical farms have extensive areas of good and rough pasture , a considerable area shut off for-hay and one or two fields of maize ( cut green ) , wheat or rye and oats or barley . The two most distinctive buildings are the large cow barn , in which the stock are housed in winter , and the cylindrical silo . Oats , barley and maize are widely used for cattle food . Pigs are kept on many farms and fed on whey and skimmed milk , and large poultry runs are to be found near all the cities . Both peas and potatoes are important cash crops . The proportion of tenancy is low . However , the dairy farmer is a specialist and few beef cattle are kept . The chief products in the eastern part and near the cities are fresh milk and cream . In the more remote western areas in Wisconsin , cheese , butter and dried milk are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of pasteurized whole milk sent away is increasing fast . It is partially dehydrated and pumped into glass-lined steel tank cars , attached to passenger expresses and sent regularly as far as Boston , Chattanooga , Dallas and Miami . At the destination , water is added to form reconstituted milk . Present prosperity has been the result of much skill , hard work and university and government research , e.g. Professor Babcock 's work , but is now menaced by competition from such butter substitutes as oleomargarine , which has a higher nutritional value . Near the shores of both Lakes Michigan and Erie , within the Dairy Belt , are to be found the Midwest 's chief areas of orchards and vineyards . Mainly hardy deciduous fruits are grown , especially peaches , apples and cherries . Important locational factors are the well-drained soils and the presence of the Great Lakes which warm more slowly than adjacent land areas in the spring . Cool air from above them is  | swept south-east across the orchards , delaying blossoming until there is less risk of frost damage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spring Wheat Belt is much smaller than the adjacent Canadian section , which occupies the more densely populated areas of the Prairie Provinces of Manitoba , Saskatchewan and Alberta . It occupies the north-eastern parts of the near-flat Great Plains , the only break in terrain being the low east-facing scarp of the Missouri Coteau , which continues north across the border to separate the Second and Third Prairies in Saskatchewan . On the east and south this region is bounded by the Hay and Dairy , and the Corn Belts , respectively , where the climate is more humid . To the west lie the ranching lands of the High Plains where the rainfall is too low to permit the growing of crops . It can thus be seen that the Spring Wheat Belt and its southern counterpart , the Winter Wheat Belt , occupy areas with rainfall too meagre to support commercial crop and livestock farming and more suitable for the more " extensive " commercial grain farming . With only one or two sources of income this specialized agriculture yields a more uncertain income than mixed farming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many farmers are now trying to combine dairying with grain growing . The Belt has a sub-humid , continental climate with an annual precipitation , falling mainly in summer , of 30 inches average in the east and only 12 inches in the west . Winters are quite cold , snow continuously covering the ground for at least four months . Winter blizzards make movement difficult but the warm foehn " chinook " blows across from the Rockies in spring to help thaw the ground and facilitate the spring planting of wheat in the deep , black chernozem soil . It was the construction of a railway network in the late nineteenth century which made grain farming possible . Many of the first settlers were North and East Europeans . Nowadays most farms are highly specialized , with only one or two crops , and mechanized , there being a universal use of tractor-drawn ploughs , drills and combine-harvesters . They vary in area from 400 to 1,200 acres with widely-spaced farmsteads , a small wooden house , red-painted barns , sheds , a wind-pump and a garden protected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varieties of hard red wheat as Kubanka and Marquis are the chief cash crop , oats , barley , hay , linen flax and corn ( for silage ) are grown as rotation crops . Where the rainfall is only 12 to 15 inches and droughts are frequent , dry farming is practised by leaving alternate strips fallow for a year , so that the rested land can be tilled to prevent water loss by transpiration and turn the weeds into green manure . Most of the harvesting is done by teams of migrant workers who work northwards through the Winter and Spring Wheat Belts during the season and either return to their homes and families , usually in  | Texas , for the winter or work as lumbermen in the northern forests . Combines are fitted with headlights and often work day and night . Most farms are within ten miles of a railway , along which the number of tall elevators grouped at each station indicates the importance of the adjacent township . Nowadays there is usually a row of " kingsized " , government-built , cylindrical aluminium , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later railed to Minneapolis , the chief milling centre , or by rail and " whaleback " freighter on the Great Lakes to centres farther east for milling or export . For many years wind-borne soil drift has been a serious problem . It is now being reduced by plouging furrows at right angles to prevailing winds and stubble-mulching , i.e. leaving plant trash on the fallow strips . Other hazards include droughts , hailstorms , late frosts , rust ( a fungal disease ) and grasshopper plagues . The Winter Wheat Belt . The cattle-grazing lands of the Sand Hills of Nebraska separate this region from the Spring Wheat Belt . Most of it is located in the state of Kansas and adjacent districts of Nebraska , Colorado , Oklahoma and Texas . To the east there is enough rainfall for corn growing but on the west less than 20 inches annually is not enough , even for wheat . In the south , cotton becomes a more profitable crop and the higher humidity makes the wheat more prone to fungal diseases . Hard winter wheat planted in the fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly in the spring for harvesting in June . Relief , soils , mechanization and the farming landscape resemble those of the Spring Wheat Belt but the growing season is much longer ( 150 to 200 days ) and the annual rainfall is slightly heavier although less reliable . Methods of grain disposal and markets are also similar to those of the Spring Wheat Belt . It was the marginal western sector of this region which was badly over-cropped thirty years ago and after several years of drought became the huge " Dust Bowl " . Wind stripped off much of the soil and carried it away for hundreds of miles , some even being dropped on ships off the Atlantic coast . The 16,000,000 acres of devastated land has since been reclaimed and the farmers are using soil conservation techniques similar to those of the Spring Wheat Belt . More farmers are trying to practise diversification . They are running beef cattle and growing their wheat in rotation with such fodder crops as lucerne , corn ( in the east ) and grain sorghum ( in the south ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , where no stock is kept , the high degree of mechanization now allows many owners to visit their holdings only during sowing and harvesting times . " Sidewalk farmers " live and work in a nearby town , while " suitcase farmers " live in another state , may winter in Florida and spend the summer moving with their machinery at planting and harvesting times between properties in both the Spring and the Winter Wheat Belts . Ranching on the High Plains . Ranching is the chief type of farming  | on the parts of the Great Plains which are too hilly or too dry for wheat , sorghum or cotton growing . It became highly profitable towards the close of the nineteenth century with the increased demand for meat in distant industrial regions and the construction of a linking railroad network . The introduction of barbed wire , the wind-pump and the six-shooter also helped . Most ranchers run cattle but many are now finding sheep more profitable . Properties vary in area from less than 2,000 to more than 800,000 acres . They are the most " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals to the size of holdings is low and the ratio of cropland ( mostly hay ) is even lower , but scientific methods result in a fairly high return per animal . Near the ranch house and its windbreak are grouped branding " corrals " , dipping vats and chutes for " cutting out " cattle from the herd for shipment . In the south , tree clumps and broken terrain protect stock from cold winter winds , but in the north sheds with an open side are needed for shelter from the severe blizzards . Water is piped to a dirt tank or trough some distance from the well or spring . Most large ranches supply their cowboys with horses and equipment . On the larger unfenced ranches the annual or semi-annual round-up is a big job , for which neighbouring ranchers often combine their cowboys . Herds are usually culled in the autumn and surplus stock sold to Corn Belt buyers . Some ranchers fatten their own stock . North of Texas , snows necessitate supplementary feeding of hay and cottonseed cake for varying periods during winter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be provided to prevent widespread starvation . Under normal conditions , maximum use is made of native pastures . Sheep ranching is mostly concentrated in south-west Texas and northern Colorado . In Montana , where it is also important , flocks are often sent to mountain pastures in summer . They need constant care during the cold , snowy winters . The shearing is usually done during the late spring or early summer after the frost danger has passed . Wool is the chief product , there being little demand for mutton . The United States is the world 's chief source of mohair . More than 90 per cent of it comes from the goat ranches on the Edwards Plateau of south-west Texas where scrub oak and other small trees supply feed for browsing . The annual rainfall of 15 ? 25 inches falls mainly in the summer three months , with much loss due to high evaporation , and is very unreliable . Over-grazing during a series of drought years in the 1930 's helped to create the western part of the " Dust Bowl " . Much has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rockies has its irrigation scheme , many of which supply water for crops of lucerne ( for winter feed ) , cotton and sugar beet , of which the pulp and tops are used for stock feed .  | Conclusion . This large region probably has a consistently greater annual surplus of farm produce than any area of comparable size elsewhere in the world . Its various sub-divisions , besides illustrating all the major types of commercial farming except commercial tropical agriculture , provide examples of the various degrees of intensity of farmland use . The two chief problems common to all parts of the region are difficulties with soil erosion and flooding and finding markets for farm produce not needed in the United States . As might be expected , the former being an internal problem on which much money and effort has already been expended , seems easier to solve than the latter , which depends more on the complexities of international relations . Exercise 4 . Tabulate the chief differences between a Wisconsin dairy farm and a Texan cattle ranch . Exercise 5 . Write a short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wheat Belt . Exercise 6 . Outline the chief methods of soil and water conservation used in various parts of the Midwest and the Great Plains . Exercise 7 . Photographic Interpretation ( Plates 13-14 ) ( a ) Try to identify the chief farmstead units shown in the background . Which one shows this is probably a Corn Belt scene ? ( b ) What misuse of the land probably caused the gullying shown in Plate 13 ? ( c ) What improved land management will be needed to retain the reclamation shown in Plate 14 ?  | NORTH AMERICAN REGIONAL STUDIES I ( A ) NEW ENGLAND Introduction . As the home of the true Yankee , the six New England states have provided many features regarded as typically American . Massachusetts , Connecticut , Rhode Island , New Hampshire , Vermont and Maine were originally settled during the seventeenth century by English Puritans , very independent in outlook , sincere and most industrious . These tenacious , sturdy folk , who later provided much support for American republicanism , soon discovered the physical limitations of their new environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sound economy , based on manufacturing and commerce , by becoming skilful sailors . In this , they were aided by local supplies of spars for their fast sailing ships , the abundant fish from nearby " banks " for export overseas , many sheltered anchorages and freedom from the trade restrictions of the British Navigation Acts , once they were politically independent . Meanwhile , they developed a cultural landscape so picturesque it still inspires many Christmas card designs . The white , plank-built , tall-spired Georgian churches , the two-storied , steep-gabled , wooden houses and the covered bridges have a distinctive charm which attracts tourists from far afield . This region occupies barely 2 per cent . of the total area of the United States but contains nearly 6 per cent . of its population . Relief . In many respects , the structure and physical features of New England resemble those of several other eastern North American regions . The underlying rocks make up a north-eastern extension of the hard , crystalline ancient ones of the much larger Appalachian region . Initial folding and faulting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has developed a landscape of rounded hills and low mountains , interpenetrated by narrow valleys . The present-day pattern of relief , including much broken terrain , ungraded stream channels with many rapids and waterfalls , huge piles of boulders and sterile patches of sandy wasteland , are all evidence of ice sheet movement from 20,000 to 70,000 years ago , very recent time from a geological point of view . In the north such signs as rounded , bare-rock hills and a pitted surface with many lakes and swamps are signs that ice erosion was dominant , whilst in the south and east , large moraines , clusters of drumlins ( oval-shaped hillocks of boulder clay ) and outwash sands are evidence of deposition . The hundreds of capes ,  | Figure inlets and islets are partly the result of recent " drowning " of the coast and partly due to deposition of gravels and sands along the outermost edge of the ice sheet to form many sandspits and a few large islands , especially Long Island , Martha 's Vineyard and Nantucket . The main pattern of relief can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the northeast , where broken country gradually increases in elevation further  | inland , ranges of hills and low mountains , with almost due north ? south trend , alternate with long valleys which facilitate access between the Atlantic seaboard and the St. Lawrence Valley . The west-to-east arrangement is as follows : Hudson Valley ? Lake Champlain lowland ; Berkshire Hills ? Green Mountains ; Connecticut Valley ; White Mountains ; coastal lowlands . Climate Exercise 1 . A Graph of the Seasonal Temperatures and Rainfall of Boston . With the aid of a small piece of graph paper , or a special rubber stamp , use the statistics quoted below to show seasonal changes in Boston 's monthly temperature and rainfall : Table If comparisons are made with New Zealand statistics , it will be found that Boston 's summer is warmer than anywhere in this country and that the winter is several degrees colder than the Hermitage . Yet the city 's latitude ( 42i ? N. ) is similar to that of Greymouth . Location on r the eastern margin of a huge continent , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrasting character , accounts for a seasonal temperature range more than twice that of any New Zealand or British station . It will be noted that it is the cold winters , rather than the warm summers , which result in this high range . Precipitation has an even seasonal distribution , but includes heavy winter snowfalls , very deep in inland areas . In summer , coastal fogs are frequent while south-east winds from the warm Gulf Stream blow across the cold water of the Gulf of Maine . Natural Vegetation and Soils . About 90 per cent . of the region was once covered in mixed hardwood and coniferous forest , the only treeless areas being the dunes , swamps , meadows and exposed mountain-tops . The chief hardwood trees were the maple , yellow birch and beech , while the most numerous conifer types were the fir , hemlock , spruce and white pine , the last-named being the best timber tree . Most of the soils are varieties of the acidic and fairly infertile grey-brown podzolic group . Farming . Ever since the founding of European settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been hampered by physical obstacles , aggravated for the first few decades by native hostility . Steep wooded slopes , thin infertile soils and boulder-strewn flats , coupled with intermittent raids by Indian war parties , made development difficult . However , growth did not stop until communications improved in the 1850 's because the rapidly-growing industrial cities near the coast  | needed large supplies of locally-produced food , especially meat , vegetables and dairy produce . As supplies of cheap grain and meat from the Middle West flowed into the region more easily , two major changes occurred in local farming : ( 1 ) farms on the poorer and more remote land were abandoned and allowed to revert to scrub ; ( 2 ) increased specialization took place , with more emphasis on town-supply dairying and poultry farming . It was a pity that farm abandonment was unplanned . If the unwanted land had been planted back into forest , its value would have increased , because forestry and tourist hotels bring in greater returns than marginal farming . The widespread growth of part-time farming has been an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Either the farmer does other work during the slack season or city dwellers have occupied farms mainly as summer homes . The presence of adjacent large urban markets has encouraged farmers to concentrate their efforts upon specialized farming on the better land . Town-supply dairying is the most important type , Vermont being the leading state . Because of soil and climate limitations , New England dairymen rely on simple grass feeds to an extent unusual in U.S.A. and resembling that in New Zealand . However , it is for a different reason ; the crop-growing season is too short . Yields per acre are often low , because pasture growth is less lush than it is here . Poultry farming is more important on the more valuable land near the cities of the , south-east , but it is also a most welcome secondary income source on many remote dairy farms . It provides a use for buildings no longer needed for other purposes . Egg production and the rearing of table birds are both found worthwhile . A roast Vermont turkey takes pride of place on the table for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several districts farmers have found it worthwhile to specialize in other types of agriculture , some being unusual or even unique . Details of the more important are given below : 1 . Cranberries are harvested from the boglands of Cape Cod by seasonal workers , who use wooden-toothed scoops and move on their knees through each bog in a " duck-line " combing the bright red berries off the low-lying vines . However , thousands of berries fall to the ground underneath . These are usually recovered by flooding the freshly-harvested bog and floating them to the surface . 2 . Blueberries are the first colonizers on the infertile podsolic " blueberry barren " soils of the east Maine coast once the forest is fired . Similar methods have to be used on the regenerating scrub every two or three years . Nine-tenths of the crop is canned . 3 . Sumatran wrappers and cigar binders are the valuable tobacco varieties grown by large companies in the lower central Connecticut Valley . Large areas have a canopy of cheese-cloth on a permanent framework to diffuse the sun 's rays , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some protection from overnight temperature changes . 4 . Potatoes are grown by the farmers of Aroostook County on the Maine ? New Brunswick border , " with a single-minded zeal that amounts to dangerous monoculture " .1 They produce about one-eighth of the national crop , using large-scale , mechanized methods on the easilycultivated silt-loam , glacial soil . Seed potatoes are sent to truck farms on the Atlantic Coastal Plain . The main crop helps to supply states as far west as the Mississippi River . Fishing . Rich adjacent fishing grounds provide some compensation for the difficulties of farming in New England . Offshore , between Newfoundland and Cape Cod , the waters of the cold Labrador Current and the tepid Gulf Stream mingle above the Banks resulting in huge areas of shallow water . Tremendous numbers of fish frequent the banks , because sunlight penetrating the shallow water permits the prolific growth of algae and diatoms , microscopic plants , providing the base for the food chain on which the fish depend . The banks have been the popular haunts of French , Canadian , and Yankee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks second to California as a fish-landing region . Boston and Gloucester are the two leading ports and have large freezing and packing plants . Frozen fillets for internal consumption in U.S.A. are now more important than the export of salted cod to the Catholic countries of Southern Europe . From many sheltered harbours of the " drowned " coast , both inshore and deep-sea fishing are carried on . Small launches with crews of two or three men are used for the inshore or coastal fishing . The chief fish landed are cod , haddock , mackerel and herring , but the lobster catch , with artificial egg hatching and care of the young in ponds , has become increasingly important . Oysters and other shellfish are also harvested in large numbers . On the banks , other trawlers are now more efficient than the traditional schooners , each with its seven to ten dories manned by a crew of two using hand and trawl lines . Many trawlers have complete refrigerating plants . Cod , haddock and flounder are the chief demersal ( bottom ) fish caught . Minerals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minerals which are being worked at present , but the quarrying of such building stones as granite , slate and marble is important in Vermont and Maine . One of the largest granite quarries , the " Rock of Ages " near Barre in Vermont , covers more than 45 acres and is nearly 400 feet deep . The considerable hydro-electric power resources are already well developed and are some Footnote  | compensation for the lack of a coalfield . Most is generated in the highlands of New Hampshire , Vermont and Maine . Manufacturing Ever since the arrival of the first Puritan settlers over three hundred years ago , manufacturing has been one of New England 's leading economic activities . Today , despite increasing competition , the region remains the most highly industrialized in the United States . In 1958 two-fifths of its labour force were employed in manufacturing . However , as will be shown , it has serious problems . The many early advantages of New England as an industrial area included the following : ( 1 ) Many of the earliest immigrants were English artisans more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempting obviously difficult farming . ( 2 ) Before the Industrial Revolution , small iron ore deposits , the surrounding forest and the farm animals provided many essential raw materials , viz. metal , timber , charcoal for smelting , hides and wool . ( 3 ) Many swiftly-flowing streams provided power for water-wheels and water soft enough for textile processing . ( 4 ) By successfully running trading , fishing and whaling concerns , . the Yankee entrepreneurs built up the capital for financing early industries . ( 5 ) The market for manufactured goods to supply the rapidlyincreasing American market was constantly expanding . Because of these advantages , the region retained its lead as the nation 's chief industrial area until the late nineteenth century , when its lack of resources for heavy industry , especially large-scale steel-making , resulted in its having to give way to the Pittsburgh ? Lower Lakes region . However , it remained very important for diversified light industries , producing high-quality goods , using non-bulky or imported raw materials and skilled labour . The best-known products were cotton and woollen textiles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , like many of the oldest British industrial regions , the past forty years have seen some of New England 's industries decline in importance and many factories close down . The following factors have helped to cause this : ( 1 ) A considerable reduction in the output of the textile industries . ( 2 ) High fuel costs . The original water-power was cheap . Even local hydro-electricity is more expensive than the coal and natural gas supplies used in other regions . ( 3 ) The introduction of mass-production and automation lessened the importance of a skilled labour supply .  | ( 4 ) Metals and synthetics have become more important raw materials than the locally-available cloth , wood and leather . ( 5 ) Strong labour unions have had a restrictive influence . ( 6 ) Much of its long-used plant is now out of date . Despite these drawbacks , both local ingenuity and maintenance of high standards of craftsmanship ensure that New England is likely to remain a major industrial region for a long time to come . Today , on an employment basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's manufacturing . Except for a few paper mills , nearly all the factories are located along the coastal plain between Portland and Bridgeport and in the lower Connecticut Valley . Distinctive features of the chief industries are set out below : 1 . Machinery and Metal Goods . The production of machines and metal goods , including electrical machinery , has become the leading type of manufacturing , with more workers than textiles and footwear combined . " Machinery is the leading industry in both Massachusetts and Connecticut , " 1 the chief towns being Boston and Hartford . Other metal products include such diverse items as typewriters , cutlery , radios , clocks and firearms and are particularly important in Connecticut . Bridgeport is noted for its brassware and Providence for its jewellery . 2 . Textiles . Once the leading cotton textile region in U.S.A. , New England is now the source of only 15 per cent . of national production . This decline is due to failure to keep the mills as modern as those in the Southern Piedmont where labour is cheaper , unions are weaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Firms now specialize in high-grade fabrics and those containing mixtures of cotton , rayon and silk . Most United States woollens still come from New England , which is the style centre and is located where winters are colder . The decline in the manufacture of woollens has not been as drastic as that in cottons . Boston is the nation 's chief wool-importing port . The textile mills are grouped in two main areas : ( a ) in the Merrimack Valley and adjacent to Boston , e.g. Lawrence , Lowell and Concord ; and ( b ) in or near northern Rhode Island state , e.g. Providence , Fall River and New Bedford . Both woollens and cottons are produced in the two districts , but the former is more widely-known for its woollens and the latter for its cottons. 3 . Leather Goods . This industry is only the third largest in the region yet it still accounts for 30 per cent . of the country 's output . Most foreign hides and skins are imported through Boston . Internal raw leather supplies come from the western states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston and adjacent small cities . The chief footwear manufacturing centres are Lynn and Beverley ( mainly women's. shoes ) , Brockton and Haverhill ( mainly men 's ) and Boston . Abundant Footnote  | skilled labour was the initial locative factor , but mechanization , high labour costs , high rents , heavy taxes and disputes with trade unions have encouraged the dispersal of the industry into many regions . 4 . Pulp and Paper . Along the larger rivers of the north-east the chief industry is pulp making , using the abundant forest resources , water and hydro-electric power . Such other needs as sulphur , clay and soda are cheaply shipped in . Holyoke is noted for its quality paper . 5 . Other Industries . These include the rapidly-growing clothing industry ( mainly shirts and cotton dresses ) of southern New England . Exercise 2 . With the aid of the map on page 197 , the information above and your atlas , draw a map showing New England 's chief manufacturing towns and , by symbols , one or two important industries of each . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Englanders have become increasingly aware of their states ' wealth of holiday and tourist attractions . They include coastal and woodland scenery ; good inland and coastal fishing and boating facilities on sheltered water ; winter skiing , skating and tobogganing and many historic shrines . The building of fully-equipped winter resorts , boating marinas and motels and much advertising are drawing many vacationists from nearby Atlantic Seaboard cities . Tourists come from other parts of the United States and overseas . Urban Geography For more than a century now , New England 's population has been highly urbanized , providing the labour force for the region 's manufacturing and commercial activities . Boston has been the regional capital since colonial days . With a total population in its metropolitan area of 2,500,000 people , it is much bigger than Providence ( 810,000 ) , the next largest New England city . Although Boston is closer to Europe than is New York on the great circle shipping route , it soon lost any advantage from its better location by the equalization of freight rates from all Atlantic ports and the greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gap for shipment from New York . Today only one-third of its trade is with foreign ports , and its export trade is negligible , most of New England 's manufactured goods being exported through New York . However , it remains the commercial capital of New England , the chief wool and leather market of the United States and an important manufacturing centre for leather goods , woollen textiles , clothing , metal goods , refined goods and chocolate .  | Even nowadays the town centre retains a very European appearance with much brown stone and red brick used for offices and houses , narrow winding streets and the State house and Town Hall flanking the Common , an extensive grassed area . As the home of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , a worldrenowned scientific research institution , it retains its creditable reputation as an educational centre . Apart from Boston and Providence , the other metropolitan areas of over 150,000 population are : Springfield-Holyoke ( 502,000 ) , Hartford ( 382,000 ) , Bridgeport ( 367,000 ) , New Haven ( 280,000 ) , Worcester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is noteworthy that 25 other cities have populations between 50,000 and 150,000 . Most of these are manufacturing centres . Conclusion . Although it is endowed with few physical advantages , the New England region has a distinctive geographic character resulting from both its picturesque scenery and its proud , industrious population . With their industrial and commercial skills and careful accumulation of capital for investment , the Yankees have made a substantial contribution to American economic and cultural life . Patterson has aptly summed up their present position . " Less and less does the New England tradition represent the American norm , yet the region occupies in the United States a position not unlike that of the senior member of some club , overtaken in accomplishments and sometimes outvoted by the younger members but still wielding the influence that his prestige warrants over the conduct of business . " 1 B ) CALIFORNIA If one asks a young New Zealander which American state he or she would most like to visit , the answer is invariably " California " . When pressed to justify their choice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luscious peach groves , the huge cities throbbing with activity both by day and night , the scenic grandeur of three hundredfoot redwoods and the golden sandy beaches thronged with movie starlets toning up their deep-tanned skin . Of course , there are many far more important features of the prosperous " Golden State " . So far this century none has shown such spectacular growth in population and economic output . From ninth rank in 1920 with nearly 3,500,000 inhabitants , it now has a population estimated at over 17,000,000 , which could exceed that of New York State , for many decades the most populous in the Union . California is already the leading state in value of both farm and fishery products and is second to Oregon in lumber production . In mineral output and value added by manufacturing , it ranks third . Despite the state 's rapid development , average living standards are Footnote  | Figure among the world 's highest . This is illustrated by the total number of registered motor cars . In 1962 there were over 7,000,000 , 500,000 more than in Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although Californian development has been impressively rapid , it has required the solution of serious problems . One of the greatest has been providing enough water to supply not only a large urban population but also the world 's most extensive area of commercial horticulture . A succinct summary of the position states " California receives sufficient rainfall as a state but the moisture does not fall in the right places at the right time in the right amounts " ) . Footnote  | Relief . With an area of nearly 159,000 square miles , California is over half as large again as our country . Only Alaska and Texas are larger states . As shown on Figure 42 , its relief is dominated by the huge structural depression of the Great Valley , 400 miles long with a maximum width of 50 miles . To try to visualize the size of this immense basin , we New Zealanders need to imagine a lowland extending from Auckland almost to Wellington with a width similar to the distance between Hamilton and Te Kuiti or Wanganui and Palmerston North . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their tributaries , have poured thick layers of alluvial material on to the valley floor . The Great Valley separates the coastal ranges and longitudinal valleys from the massive tilted block of the Sierra Nevada which towers 5,000 to 10,000 feet above sea-level , its steep eastern scarp facing the basins of the Intermontane Region to the east . Its highest peak , Mount Whitney ( 14,495 feet ) is taller than any other in U.S.A. outside Alaska . It contains Mount Lassen , the country 's only active volcano , and Yosemite Canyon , which attractively displays the perpendicular walls and high waterfalls resulting from Ice Age glaciation . Southern California comprises a number of smaller tilted blocks with a general east-west trend , enclosing the small alluvial Los Angeles coastal plain . Climate . Parts of California experience a wide variety of climates , from cool wet on the northern Sierras to hot arid in Death Valley . However , it is the reasonably pleasant climate of most lowland areas which continues to attract retired people , tourists and industrialists . Some distinctive features will be recognized after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Graphs of the Seasonal Temperatures and Rainfall of San Francisco and Sacramento . With the help of graph paper or a special rubber stamp , use the statistics tabulated below to show seasonal changes in monthly temperatures and rainfall at San Francisco on the coast and Sacramento in the Central Valley . Table  | It will be noticed that summers are very warm and dry while winters are mild and moist . A long growing season of 240-340 days and high sunshine totals are two additional traits of a climate usually called " Mediterranean " . Further graphical study discloses San Francisco 's much cooler summers , partly due to the effect of the adjacent cool Californian current , which results in a large number of foggy days annually , understandably not mentioned in tourist literature . Coastal fog , industrial pollution , motor-car exhaust gases and sunshine combine to form " photochemical smog " , which sometimes lasts for months of Los Angeles 's summer . It sickens trees , irritates noses , makes eyes smart , cracks rubber tyres and on its worst days can lead to official radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The heavy , mainly orographic precipitation on the Sierra Nevada falls mainly as snow , a total of over 400 inches being recorded in some years . It forms a most valuable winter storage for spring irrigation ( Plate 16 ) . Short , heavy , summer rains can cause much flood damage . In the rain-shadow areas east of the Sierra , e.g. the Mojave Desert , and the Salton Sink , total rainfall averages less than 5 inches , and consists of infrequent heavy downpours . Summer shade temperatures are very high , reaching 134 ? F. in Death Valley in 1913 . Vegetation . The wide range of vegetation types found throughout California reflects the varied climates studied above . The cool wet climates in the north stimulate the growth of redwood , yellow pine and Douglas Fir forests on the Coastal Ranges and on the Sierra Nevada , the famous sequoia ( redwood and " big tree " ) and pine forests which thin out with ascent and are finally replaced by alpine scrub . ' The Southern Coastal Ranges were originally clothed in chaparral and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and desert areas of the south-east still have a cover of such distinctive xerophytic vegetation as bunch grass , sage-brush and cactus . Exercise 4 . With the aid of geographic and general reference books write a page of explanatory notes on sequoia forest , chaparral and xerophytic vegetation . History of Settlement . After 1769 the Spanish established a string of forts , missions and cattle ranches . In 1848 California became a U.S. state , gold was discovered and the population greatly increased . In 1869 the first trans-continental railroad was completed and gave an outlet for farm produce , especially wheat . During the 1880 's the development of orcharding , viticulture and trucking followed the introduction of canning and the refrigerated boxcar and the Americans ' changing food habits , e.g. desire for salads . Agriculture and Irrigation . The keynotes to California 's agricultural predominance are the very wide use of irrigation , high individual farm Footnote  | incomes and the great variety of farm types . Commercial horticulture is the most important . In 1960 the total irrigated area exceeded 7,000,000 acres , representing nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land is , however , used for cotton growing . In fact , in recent years the state 's farm income has come almost equally from cotton , fruit and vegetables and livestock products . The area in cotton has increased so much since 1939 that its output ranked second only to that of Texas in 1962 , and it had become the state 's leading single crop . Mostly grown in the central and southern Great Valley , it has displaced fruit , vegetables and pasture used for dairying and sheep . Favourable factors for cotton farming , are the long , hot growing season , the plentiful irrigation water , freedom from rain during the picking season , the absence of the boll weevil and the flat land . High yields , second only to Arizona 's , are achieved with the aid of state laws restricting farmers to growing a high-yielding , superior variety and the use of much machinery . More than two-thirds of the crop is mechanically harvested . ( Plate 17 ) . Nevertheless , it was commercial horticulture which first created a need for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its various forms , very important in most irrigation areas . The chief reasons for its growth are : ( 1 ) the Mediterranean climate suits many crops and aids the sundrying of raisins , apricots , peaches and prunes ; ( 2 ) the relatively easy provision of irrigation ; ( 3 ) the fertile , alluvial soils ; ( 4 ) the large internal market within the U.S.A. ; ( 5 ) the effective road and rail network giving access to markets in the more densely populated eastern states ; ( 6 ) the adjacent good ports facilitating overseas trade ; ( 7 ) the development of co-operation for irrigation , insect control , marketing and advertising ; ( 8 ) little shortage of unskilled labour . Mexicans are brought in temporarily if any shortages occur . Apart from those implied in the above list , Californian horticulture has the following distinctive features : ( 1 ) it is very commercialized , e.g. many orchardists do not grow their own vegetables ; ( 2 ) it is highly specialized , with individual growers and even districts growing only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Joaquin Valley ; ( 3 ) There is a surprising degree of mechanization even in harvesting , including walnut shakers , tomato pickers and lettuce harvesters . ) However , most picking is still done by hand , itinerant gangs moving from one district to another as the different crops ripen ; Footnote  | ( 4 ) it employs scientific aids , e.g. in pest control and scientific research ; ( 5 ) it is increasingly coming under the control of farm corporations , which buy up large acreages and adapt big business methods to farming , e.g. they use much machinery , specialized labour and sub-contracting . The specialization of Californian horticulture can best be understood by drawing a map . Exercise 5 . On to an outline base map of California measuring at least 8 inches by 5 inches , show the following crop-growing areas , using suitably coloured symbols and a key : oranges and lemons ? central San Joaquin Valley , Los Angeles ; walnuts ? Los Angeles ; grapes ? central San Joaquin and Napa Valleys ; peaches near Fresno , Merced and Sacramento ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley ; asparagus ? Sacramento , San Joaquin delta ; early potatoes ? Salinas Valley and Imperial Valley ; prunes ? Santa Clara Valley ; apricots ? Santa Clara Valley ; dates ? Imperial Valley . Further noteworthy features of Californian farming can be discovered by using school library reference books to answer briefly the questions in the next exercise . Exercise 6 . Trends in Californian Farming . ( 1 ) Outline the cultivation methods in Californian rice-growing. ( 2 ) Briefly discuss the methods used to avoid fruit losses due to late frosts . ( 3 ) Account for the decline in fruit acreages in the Los Angeles district and mention the districts now becoming more important . ( 4 ) Briefly describe American date-harvesting methods . ( 5 ) Briefly describe the unusual features of dairying near Los Angeles . Irrigation schemes using surface or underground water have been developed since the 1880 's but it was only in the 1930 's that the first large co-ordinated plan was prepared . Its aim was to redistribute the water supplies available from the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The chief difficulty was that the San Joaquin Valley has twice the area of irrigable land available in the Sacramento Valley but only half the quantity of irrigation water regularly available . By the spectacular Central Valley Project , those obstacles were overcome . Sacramento River water is stored in Shasta ( 4,500,000 acre-feet ) and Keswick Dams for power generation and release downstream for local irrigation and transfer by the Delta Cross-Channel for pumping 80 miles up the Delta-Mendota Canal to irrigate the northern San Joaquin Valley . Thus , much San Joaquin water stored in the smaller Friant Dam can be diverted by the Friant-Kern land for irrigation in the southern San Joaquin Valley .  | Salt-water intrusion in the Delta is prevented by the release of some water from the Cross-Channel . The project has succeeded so well that the American Bureau of Reclamation already has the local users ' approval for an even more ambitious scheme.l Fishing . From their bases at San Francisco , San Pedro near Los Angeles , and San Diego fishermen in well-equipped vessels venture as far across the Pacific as Alaska @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breeding grounds for a wide variety of fish including tuna , mackerel , sardines , anchovy and crab . In most years the total value of fish landed exceeds that of any other state . The most important and valuable species caught is the tuna , which usually grows to a length of 5 feet with a weight of 1501b. , much larger than our snapper or even hapuku or groper . Until recently the crew-men used rods and lines but the development of power blocks and strong synthetic fibre seine nets is halving the time a vessel takes to catch a capacity load . Sixty per cent . of the tuna is landed at San Pedro , most being canned for internal and export markets . Forestry . The chief lumbering areas are the northern Coast Range and the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada , total output ranking second to Oregon in the United States and far more than that of British Columbia . Winter snowfalls are so heavy that the loggers work mainly during the summer . The variety of timber uses include fruit packingcase timber and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled " in the interests of soil conservation , irrigation water supplies and recreational activities " .2 Mining and Power . Ever since the fabulous gold rushes of 1849 mineral recovery has aided regional development . Today its continuing importance is shown by the clatter of the bucket-chains on the gold dredges working Great Valley alluvium , and the forest of derricks surrounded by a typical oilfield aroma along the coast around Long Beach . For the past forty years oil has been the leading mineral and the fields in the south-west of the state still rank third in the country , producing an eighth of the national output . The most productive fields are to be found near Bakersfield in the San Joaquin Valley and the Los Angeles Lowland , especially near Wilmington . Huge refineries are located near Los Angeles and at Richmond on San Francisco Bay . Other important minerals are tungsten , from the Rand Mountains , mercury , gold and iron ore , from the Eagle Mountain open-pit mine , 150 miles east of Los Angeles . The chief water and power sources are shown on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are remarkable for their length , 338 miles for the Owens Valley one and 242 miles for the pipeline from the Colorado River . The largest hydro-electric power station serving Southern California , the 1,800,000kw Boulder or Hoover Dam is much Footnote  | bigger than the 375,000kw output of Shasta Dam , the chief of several power-stations in the Sacramento Valley . Hydro-electricity supplements the power supplied by oil and natural gas and compensates for the lack of coal . Manufacturing . Very rapid growth , the high output per worker during the past 20 years , and a group of distinctive types , including aircraft and missile manufacture and motion pictures give Californian manufacturing a distinctive character . Before 1942 food processing was the chief industry and motion pictures the one most widely known . It took full-scale war with Japan to create a need for much more heavy industry and the additional labour force needed to maintain it . As a result , industrial activities are now more important in California than farming and mining . In value added by manufacturing the state now ranks third in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the eastern states , has more than quadrupled . Distinctive features of the more important industries are set out below : 1 . Aircraft . The manufacture of aeroplanes , missiles and space vehicles is California 's leading industry . Confined mainly to the Los Angeles and San Diego areas it accounts for a third of the United States ' output and is in fact the world 's chief centre . Locational advantages were the continuously good test flying , mild temperatures permitting outdoor assembly and parts storage throughout the year and the fortuitous presence of enterprising businessmen and available capital . 2 . Clothing ranks second , the chief types made being women 's apparel and sportswear , the latter stimulated by local outdoor living . 3 . Motion Pictures . This region leads the U.S.A. in motion picture making and the related production of television films . The original studios were attracted to the Los Angeles district by the sunny climate and the great variety of local scenery and the industry remained there , although many films are now " shot " indoors or on location in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ India , Italy and Japan , Hollywood is no longer the source of two-thirds of the world 's films but it retains its eminence as a source of cinema ideas . 4 . Food Processing . This is the leading industry near San Francisco and is also significant in the Los Angeles area . It includes fruit packing and canning especially of apricots , peaches and pears , wine production , the quick-freezing of vegetables and fruit , citrus juice making and the processing of such imported tropical crops as cocoa , cane sugar , coffee and copra . For local crops , work in the many small factories is seasonal , lasting from 6 weeks to 8 months . 5 . Other Industries . These include automobile assembly ( second to Detroit ) , tyres ( second to Akron ) , metal fabrication , furniture and steel . The Fontana steelworks located 50 miles east of Los Angeles , is the only completely integrated plant on the Pacific Coast of North America .                  @ @ @ 