@@773412

txt Too Explanation of Human Behaviour If the front axle of a car has a certain bias as a result of a previous accident and this bias is causally related to present difficulties in steering or a recent accident , the bias is , in a temporal sense , contiguous with the present incident . When , however , previous learning is claimed to be causally related to present performance , no such structural modification is discernible . Other features of the cause-effect relationship , such as antecedence and consequence , and functional dependence , expressed in the relationship between the amount of training and the present standard of performance , are apparent in many cases though they are not the same for each individual . If some form of continuity is insisted upon ( i.e. , contiguity , simultaneity , or part over-lapping of cause and effect ) , then recourse must be had to some notion of traces or of structural modification . Otherwise , as Johnson has pointed out , T0 the non-existence of the cause may be regarded as a necessary condition for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past experience to present experience is not a simple one . The recall of learned material does reveal a diminution with the passage of time , but significant experiences are better retained and for a short time at least , as Browne has shown , the retention of what were regarded as real experiences may progressively improve , whereas the retention of unreal experiences progressively declines . There are , however , a wide range of individual differences . 7 . In respect of the mode of recurrence of states . If we observe an internal-combustion engine in motion , a definite cycle of movements is discernible in the sense that particular states are observed to recur . If we wish to be meticulous , it might be claimed that precisely the same state does not recur even in this mechanical example . But to ordinary observation there are recurrent states . In the case of an insect there is a definite series of non-identical states which comprise the lifecycle of the organism and its death provides a convenient , though possibly arbitrary , end-point for the process . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the tree for many years increases in size . For some time a cyclical change is associated with a progressive change . The detection of the cyclical feature in a series of non-identical states naturally depends upon the period of time for which the Differences in the Nature of Processes for series of changes is studied . There are theories , for example , to the effect that long-range weather cycles are super-imposed or function simultaneously with those of shorter range , and it is possible that the period of observation has been too brief for these to be recorded . Again , it is possible that the movement of shoals or sand-dunes is subject to certain broad aspects of recurrence over a very long period , but it may be possible that some of these processes , like erosion , are entirely progressive and without recurrent features . A rough classification would thus distinguish : ( a ) Processes of the progressive type which do not involve recurrent states . ( b ) Processes in which , among the several non-identica states , something approximating to the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular . ( c ) Processes in which cyclical changes are causally associated with progressive changes . These considerations and those of 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 are related to another way in which processes may differ , namely : 8 . In respect of the characteristic features of equilibria or states of comparative quiescence . The state of equilibrium of a process may be broadly described as that condition which , with the relationships operating , would be most likely to endure and which would change only as a result of a variation in the existing relationships or the intrusion of other relationships . The equilibria of processes may differ in a number of ways , some of which are : ( a ) Stability , in the sense analogous to that of inertia , that is , as indicated by the energies required to change the state of equilibrium . These energies may vary in strength and form . Apart from the intrusion of considerable mechanical energies , a heavy grinding mill at rest would be immune from disturbance . The equilibrium of a chemical balance may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the street . A galvanometer is susceptible to slight electrical and mechanical disturbances . In an analogous way a man of strong convictions or prejudices may not be disturbed by certain experiences but profoundly and readily disturbed by others . His adjustment to a particular environment may be conducive to freedom from psychological 1 02 Explanation of Human Behaviour tension or instability ; but the same convictions may , in another environment , predispose him to extreme tension . ( b ) The actual form of the equilibrium . It may be static , as when the many moving parts of a piece of heavy machinery come to rest . It may be more dynamic , as when a heavy governor is kept twirling for some time at the same level by the pressure of escaping steam . ( c ) The successive equilibria may be similar in form or they may differ . A pendulum in motion will return to the same position of rest , the time taken depending upon the amplitude of the original displacement . A change in the current passing through one of several electro-magnets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be followed by readjustment and the formation of a different field . By analogy , a man , after a provocative experience , may have an entirely different attitude to life in general . In the exercise of military strategy , periods of relative stabilisation may be achieved as a result of move and counter-move . Each position of stability or equilibrium is , however , different from the previous one . As scientific technique and accumulated knowledge advance , the explanations which will reduce tension or promote psychic equilibrium are different . ( d ) The successive equilibria may or may not be periodic with respect to time . ( e ) In those processes which involve relationships which extend across from one field of knowledge to another , a disturbance may involve a departure from many previously existing equilibria , as for example , within the human body . Endocrine equilibrium would be an example . Compensations reflecting trends towards the attainment of different states of equilibrium will be reflected in the relationships within the separate fields of subject matter and extending across or between the several subjects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconciliation of the relationships already involved within the process . A simple pendulum or a system of weights , connected by strings arranged over pulleys in the manner of a parallelogram of forces , will come to a position of equilibrium which reflects the relationships already involved in the process . Expressed in another way , it may be claimed that equilibrium is attained from the resources of the process . There are some processes , however , which require the // importation of resources from beyond the process in order that equilibrium can be attained . The introduction of a catalyst may permit a chemical reaction to go forward to the attainment of another equilibrium position . The deficiency of moisture or salt within the body is associated with states of disequilibrium which can only be changed by the importation of these substances . This feature is typical of the particular co-ordinated group of processes which are found to operate in living organisms . Certain conditions of deficit and excess arise and it is only by processes of importation or elimination that chemical , physiological and , at least in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attained . In human beings at least , and possibly in some higher animals , some analogous " needs " may be acquired . But whether innate or acquired , the attainment of equilibrium by importation , elimination or transposition , reflects certain characteristics which provide yet another form of distinction between processes . 9 . In respect of the presence or absence of teleological features . As indicated at the beginning of this treatment of processes , the minimum requirement for the existence of a process is spatial or qualitative non-identity in time and processes differ in the number and possibility of recurrence of these non-identical states and the determinables under which they are apprehended . When an animal seeks a goal , or when a man solves a problem , it is possible to observe that the sequence of non-identical states has certain features , namely : ( i ) That the sequence of non-identical states can be traced back as far as some condition of disequilibrium which may be one of several forms , such as : ( a ) A condition of deficit ; such as deficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of movement or unfulfilled ambition , or desire , or provocation . ( b ) A condition of excess ; such as those which in higher animals lead to activities of elimination or the exercise of sexual functions . ( ii ) That , unlike many other processes , the number and the nature of the successive non-identical states is difficult to prognosticate without a full knowledge of the resources of the 1 04 Explanation of Human Behaviour situation ; but one feature is assured , namely , that the number of non-identical states depends upon the attainment of one particular state or form of equilibrium . There is no prescription as to the length or nature of the sequence . It may terminate with the passage of a few non-identical states or it may be prolonged . The essential feature is that at any point in the sequence of different states , the attainment of one particular state will temporarily at least , bring the sequence to a halt . Several different sequences may be observed of the same animal on different occasions and of different animals ; but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can mark the temporary cessation of the sequences . It is quite possible to arrange that a mechanical process will have this feature in its sequence of non-identical states . A sorting machine using cards with holes punched in them , or employing an arrangement of photo-electric cells , can be so designed that several cards or objects of uniform size but different colour can be passed through it until one corresponding to the particular " set " of the machine appears , and this is then placed in a separate receptacle or , if desired , may stop the machine to permit examination . It could be the first card in a series , the thousand and first or any other . This would correspond to the machine being set to receive certain features or to the fulfilment of a condition of deficit ; but devices could be constructed to operate on the principle of the dissipation of excess . There is no difficulty in principle in designing mechanical , electronic or hydrostatic systems which will reveal the above features of a teleological sequence , and the successful application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that practical difficulties can also be overcome . Again , complicated computing devices have not infrequently produced solutions which their designers had not completely foreseen . Such results could be regarded as implications or consequences from a design conceived by man . The operation of the machine has drawn attention to the hitherto overlooked consequences . Those who would have difficulty in conceding that the machine had accomplished some constructive thinking may reflect with Broad 1 that all artificial machines have ultimately been made by organisms , but no organism has yet been made by an artificial machine . In this sense , organisms are causally prior to artificial machines . // The virtuosity displayed by modern cybernetic devices and the present rate of development make it difficult to draw any hard and fast distinctions between teleological sequences exhibited by organisms and by artificial machines . At Birkbeck College , London , Dr. A. D. Booth has devised a machine which can make a recognisable translation from French to English . Differences which half a century ago would have been exclusive now tend to be only differences of degree ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teleological sequence can be attained on different occasions by radically different steps or stages such as compensation between relevant stages or a change to another environment . Again some higher organisms can become habituated to conditions which once provoked a teleological sequence to achieve an adjustment , and goals may alter . The cyberneticist could very well smile at this and claim that both these forms of reaction could be built into the design of a machine . After all , Howard9 and Deutsch3 have designed machines which can " learn " to eliminate mistakes in mazerunning and thus acquire the correct solution and these are , in terms of structural complexity , relatively simple devices . If differences are described in a behaviouristic way , that is by reference to events " out there " and the operations which the devices can perform , the distinction between the behaviour of living organisms and cybernetic devices has now become much more difficult . In a work dealing with the explanation of processes in which attention has been drawn to the attitudes of the person making the explanation , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the organism and its environment . G. F. Stout has argued , by reference to feeling and awareness , that the awareness of active tendencies in ourselves , or of ourselves as agents , involves that other factors which are associated with our own active tendencies in any sequence of actions must be of the same order . " Awareness of our own agency , " wrote Stout , " is indivisibly one with awareness of a correlated agency other than our own , within a primary process which includes both in interaction with each other . If the first is not illusory , the second is not illusory . They stand or fall together . " 12 The onus probandi , as Stout later remarks , is upon those who do not accept this view . Refutation , however , would be either very difficult or impossible . It could be remarked that even though xo6 Explanation of Human Behaviour our experience when we push against the wall or lift a heavy weight , or bowl a cricket ball , is of some force resisting our effort , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is no reason to conclude that the force in this setting derives from tendencies or sources which are in every way , or even partly , akin to our own . Again , the refutation is at least very difficult and very probably impossible , because it is possible to maintain that no matter what occurs , whether it is described as good , bad , chaotic , convenient , exasperating , expected , unexpected , progressive or cyclical , it could still be described as part of the expression of a wider purpose . As the earlier chapters on the animistic thinking of children have shown , the motivational type of explanation can be extended to any occurrence ; but possibly for reasons relating to control and the readiness with which , as Bergson has emphasised , the human intellect apprehends discrete things , explanations of a mechanical and naturalistic type emerge . Without offering a refutation of Stout 's animistic position , therefore , it remains merely to remark that science has come a comparatively long way in the direction of both control and understanding since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animistic and teleological conceptions of explanation will linger in association with physical processes for reasons intimately associated with the development of the human mind ; but explanations in terms of present context and discernible relationships do placate provocation and are in the tradition of science which is essentially a public operation . Teleological characteristics , as indicated above , are associated with some processes as we observe them . It remains to indicate how these and the differences in processes indicated above are related to the problem of explanation . REFERENCES 1 . BROAD , C. D. , " The Mind and its Place in Nature , " Routledge , 1925 , p. 87. 2 . BROWN , J. F. , " Ueber die dynamischen Eigenschaften der Realitats  - -  and Irrealitatsschichten , " Psychol . Forsch. , 1933 , 14 , 2-26. 3 . DEUTSCH , J. A. , " A Machine with Insight , " Quart ... Exp . Psychol. , 1954 , 6 , 6-11 . CHAPTER V Difficulties in the Explanation of Various Processes It has been suggested in previous chapters that processes differ in nature and that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In view of these findings , some of the difficulties in explanation are further discussed . i . Difficulties in applying the causal pattern explanation . In Chapter III , the causal relationship was found to have the properties of spatial and temporal continuity of the states invariably associated and some form of functional dependence where the states conjoined were susceptible of variation . One of the obvious difficulties of applying this type of explanation to macroscopic physical events is the common practical one of detecting the actual states which are conjoined in this way . In some experimental situations it is possible to hold all other relationships constant and to vary the one state in which the experimenter is interested ; but in actual life many situations are not so " manageable " and recourse must be had to a statistical form of association by using some appropriate technique of correlation which will indicate the degree to which the association is greater than would be expected from chance alone . It is possible for a statistical association between two properties to be filled in later by one or more causal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The obvious difficulty in applying this pattern is associated with the establishment of a law . Even a generalisation of limited range can allay human provocation in the sense that the subsumption of a particular instance thereby relates that particular instance to a wider body of knowledge . A generalisation in the form " In my experience , all black snakes are venomous " may derive from io8 // a small number of instances and appear to an enquirer to be a very imperfect source of reference when the bite of a particular black snake is under discussion ; but it does give the questioner something if only a direction for further enquiry and the knowledge that the particular event is within the limits of the observation of his informer , not an isolated instance . To the enquiry " Why does oxygen expand on heating ? " , the answers can be much more satisfying because the law involved has greater generality , namely , all gases expand when heated . This law , it will be noted , is also a statement of causal association between the heated state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has pointed out , a law-like statement does acquire greater standing when it forms part of a deductive system because then it gains indirect support in addition to the evidence of its instances . But a system of knowledge would normally be very well advanced before its laws could acquire this degree of support . Statements like , " All women in that society marry with a dowry , " can have some explanatory and predictive value for the particular society ; but the difficulties are that we would require assurance that no exceptions had occurred . From our general knowledge of the variability of human behaviour we would find this hard to accept and it is difficult to see how the statement could be fitted into a rigorous deductive system in which it could be deduced from a higher level hypothesis and mediate further rigorous deductions. 3 . Difficulties applying to the giving of reasons for human behaviour . As indicated in the previous chapter , these may attain a high probability of accuracy in well defined social contexts . The milkman 's statement that he climbed the stairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be accepted as true by an interrogator and only a rigorous cross-examination referring to the context of his other activities and a psychoanalysis , which might determine whether or not his sincere statements were mistaken , could dis-establish his explanation . A somewhat difficult problem arises when reasons given are suspected of being only part of the explanation . For example , a man goes to his room very conscious of the need to complete a piece of work . In spite of his best efforts , however , he finds that he is making poor progress and finally he leaves his work and goes to the theatre . His own reason could be , " I felt I was getting ' To Explanation of Human Behaviour nowhere and decided that I might as well go to the theatre . " Subsequently , he is found to be suffering from a virus infection of a familar kind which makes it seem very probable that at the time of his poor progress and of his decision , the infection may have been related to anything that he did . His explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valid . An independent investigation might confirm his poor progress ; but in such cases an independent observer not infrequently reports more favourably than the worker himself . On the other hand , cases could be imagined in which apparent failure at work and the attraction of the theatre could be considered together and it is possible that the attraction of the theatre might militate against progress . With the statement , " I felt I was getting nowhere , " however , it would be difficult to decide upon either the form or the content of an explanation of this state . If the virus infection is suspected to be " the cause " or " a cause " of the state , then presumably application of the causal pattern of explanation might reveal the features of spatial and temporal continuity and some form of functional dependence between the severity of the infection and the intensity of the state . But cases have been recorded of people achieving difficult solutions when infected . Although infections are usually associated with indisposition and reduced efficiency , the association is not invariable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be one of the familiar periods of delay that are experienced in intellectual work from time to time and it is possible that the worker may just have encountered a difficult stage in his work . Perhaps all three factors , infection , temporary indisposition not causally associated with the infection , and the intrinsic difficulty of the current stage of his work could be involved and their functional relationship to the feeling of futility would be very difficult to determine . In simpler cases such as reduced efficiency or hyper-activity or even states of feeling such as elation or depression , association with the injection of drugs into a human being , the application of the causal pattern of explanation would appear prima facie to be defensible . This involves conjoining the presence of the drug in the body with states of experience , that is qualitative discontinuity between cause and effect or in G. F. Stout 's phrase , a lack of " generic likeness " between cause and effect ; but a familiar difficulty arises , namely that different persons respond differently D i ff i c u @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f Various Processes I I I to the same dosage of the drug so that if individual persons be regarded as individual instances , the functional dependence is not consistently maintained . With some drugs reactions of individual persons can be strikingly atypical so that further classification is necessary and the range of the generalisation of " law " reduced . Nevertheless , the reference of the individual case to this reduced generalisation does have some explanatory force , and it frequently happens that further research indicates factors which prevent the injection from taking effect , so that causal statements of reduced generality but greater exactitude can be made and the individual instance subsumed under them . 4 . The determination of whether or not teleological considerations apply . It is self-evident that an intact body and nervous system are necessary conditions for complex and co-ordinated behaviour . They would be necessary conditions for climbing a mountain , dancing , sprinting as a sport and sprinting in fear ; but the mere statement that a person has an intact nervous system is not a full or sufficient explanation of his persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race . Failure of limbs to function due to lesions in the nervous system could be explained on the causal pattern but as indicated in the chapter III , this pattern does not afford complete explanations of purposive behaviour . A problem arises in explaining apparently purposive behaviour by organisms and particularly lower organisms which of course can not state reasons for behaviour . In so far as the behaviour is purely reflex behaviour , or some form of tropism , or instinctive in the sense of some definite innate response to a particular stimulus associated with some definite innate neural organisation , the causal pattern would appear to be applicable ; but in so far as the animal may be claimed to act purposively , a problem arises . As indicated in Chapter IV teleological processes can be described in behaviouristic terms and presumably the only statement with explanatory value in such cases , if anthropomorphism is to be avoided , would be a statistically defined tendency to which individual instances may be referred . // 5 . The large number of events which fall without the patterns of explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many cases have been recorded in which a broken home has been followed by delinquent behaviour ; but the sequence is not invariable . No law of invariable association could be derived from observation . Many cases are also recorded of children who have surmounted the difficulties of a broken home and had distinguished careers . Neither the causal pattern nor the deductive pattern of explanation could thus be applied and children 's reasons for their delinquent conduct are frequently confused . However , techniques of relating delinquency to other conditions are available in many forms of statistical association and where significant correlations are established , statistical prediction and social provision are possible . A pattern of correlations associating say failure of students at university examinations with performance in respect of a number of criteria can have the same useful practical application as well as placating some human provocation by relating the phenomena to a body of data . It should nevertheless be remembered that any apparent functional dependence deriving from a correlation , say between scores on a test of general ability and results of university examinations , is derived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the function precisely . Statistical prediction , as Meeh12 has shown , nevertheless tends to be better than clinical prediction based upon personal interviews with individual cases . A related issue is suggested by this result . 6 . The value of the " verstehende " approach . It is a common observation that literary authors succeed in presenting data to their readers or audiences which makes possible a high degree of understanding . There is apparently sufficient in common between states of feeling in different persons in similar situations to afford a basis for language , poetry , drama and mime and it is not infrequently possible to recognise from the data presented in a poem or play that we have felt or would feel like the person in the cirumstances depicted and very often to experience the conviction that we " understand just how the other person is feeling or would feel . " There is no doubt , in the words of the old saying , that " fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind " and that experiences of this " verstehende " type can provide a basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many clinicians would confirm that the conviction on the part of the patient that another person can appreciate what he is feeling and how he came to be feeling as he is and moreover can feel for him , is an appreciable aid to recovery . In appreciating how another person came to be feeling as he is , a form of explanation analogous to the causal pattern has been achieved ; but it would be difficult to maintain that two or more states of feeling conjoined in the experience of the observer were precisely the same as those occurring in the experience of another . However , assuming that the two states of feeling both in the observer and the observed person were sufficiently definite to be recognised , a " verstehende " experience , such as the above , only indicates that an observer has in the past experienced a similar conjunction . This enables him to recognise the conjunction as a possible one ; but several repetitions of the conjunction of two definite states would be necessary before the experience of one state could be regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is doubtful if " verstehende " experiences involve conjunctions of adequately precise states and with sufficient frequency to make this possible . It must be remembered , too , that the claim to know " just how the other fellow is feeling " is often wrong and often enough to be the topic of amusing stories . Nevertheless , observation of human behaviour , introspection and familiarity with stated motives does make possible some approximate forecast or prediction of human behaviour and often is recognised in social legislation . WHAT CAN BE EXPECTED OF A SYSTEM ? In the physical sciences , the aim of co-ordination of observations with a view to prediction , control and explanation would appear to have been attained in respect of many phenomena and the fact that some persons may use these findings for purposes of destruction of human life is a separate consideration for ethical discussion . Similar considerations apply in the social sciences where again the power to predict a particular result could be used with a variety of motives ; but there is also the possibility that the power to predict // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be associated with better social provision and tolerance . In appraising any system dealing with human and animal behaviour , some important considerations which emerge from the foregoing analysis would appear to be : 1 . The range of behaviour which is co-ordinated within the system . As indicated above , there are some aspects of behaviour , such as reflex behaviour , which could be explained on the causal pattern ; but this after all could be regarded as a limited view of behaviour . There are systems which attempt to explain additional aspects and a point of interest would be the manner in which this is done . 2 . The value of the system as an aid to prediction . Here again the range of behaviour covered by the system would be a relevant consideration . 3 . The position of the system in regard to instigation . As indicated in the foregoing chapters , teleological considerations are associated with a great deal of animal behaviour and this does direct attention to the problem of the instigation of many aspects of behaviour . In the deductive type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " why " is subsumption under a law of wider generality . When teleological explanations are offered , the question " why " can , on occasion , be asked to absurd limits ; but there would be some satisfaction for an enquirer in knowing some of the factors both of a general character and specific to the instigation of the behaviour in which he is interested . 4 . The possibility of the system in providing new insights and testable hypotheses . At this juncture in the history of Psychology , confirmed empirical data is so urgently required that the fertility of the system in suggesting testable hypotheses is a relevant consideration and would be a point of value even if the integration of concepts within the system was not satisfying . Subsequent chapters will present a review and appraisal of a number of well-known systems in Psychology which have in some way contributed to the many aspects of the problem of explanation . CHAPTER VI The System of Wm . McDougall A CAREFUL survey of the synopsis of McDougall 's position ( p. 182 ) will reveal that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common sense approach . The distinctive features are the emphasis upon the hormic or purposive point of view and the hypothesis of a number of relatively distinct instincts at the human level . If it could be established that several instincts , as McDougall defined them , are in fact a fundamental part of animal nature , then a basic point in psychological theory would be established and McDougall 's conception of instincts , which have never had more than hypothetical status , would place the student in possession of information which he could not obtain from ordinary experience . The argument thus examines McDougall 's justification for his postulation of several relatively distinct instincts . This involves a consideration of his general method and the possible bases of differentiation . The order of treatment is : 1 . Instinct as an explanatory concept . 2 . What was McDougall trying to do ? 3 . McDougall 's system appraised. ( a ) His general method . ( b ) The problem of differentiation . The changing neurological picture ? increasing reference to sub-cortical structures . The role of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the brain stem . Differentiation on the basis of observations of behaviour . ( c ) The Ethological approach ? Evidence for specificity of reaction . Displacement activities . Vacuum activities . Imprinting. ( d ) Impact and criticisms of the ethological approach . 4 . General appraisal of McDougall 's system . * Biographical Note. ? Wm . McDougall ( 1871-1938 ) studied at the Universities of Manchester and Cambridge and at St. Thomas 's Hospital , London . His medical studies , as with those in anthropology , biology and many other subjects , were part of a general plan of preparation for the study of animal behaviour . His teaching appointments included a lectureship in Experimental 119 Izo Explanation of Human Behaviour I. INSTINCT AS AN EXPLANATORY CONCEPT IT was noted in earlier chapters that even experienced scientists , who were pledged to the " descriptive " or " legal " treatment of science , could not always suppress the tendency to have recourse to some metaphysical construct which in some way suggested how the observed conjunctions could occur as they do . The simple facts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Species reproduce . Many build some form of shelter , act aggressively on some occasions and aversively on others . David Lack 104 reports , for example , that the male robin will attack another male robin or a model with a red breast which he finds within his territory during the mating season . The purely empirical attitude would presumably be quite consistent with the recording of such conjunctions as the beginning of a research which could lead to the statement of laws ; but the natural tendency in most observers is to insert , between the observed stimulus and response , some intervening construct , which renders the response more understandable or at least a probable consequence of the stimulus impinging upon the inserted construct . The conjoining of " red " and " attack " in a law is not enough . Ordinary people like to know " why " and " how " the animal so behaves . Instinct in one important sense in which it is used , namely , the structural sense , is an inserted construct of this type . As the introductory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at University College , London , the Wilde Readership in Mental Philosophy at Oxford ( 1904 ) , a chair of Psychology at Harvard ( 1920 ) and at Duke University ( 1927 ) . His chief works were " An Introduction to Social Psychology " ( 1908 ) ( now in the 32nd edition ) , " Body and Mind : A History and Defence of Animism " ( 1911 ) , " The Group Mind " ( 1920 ) , " An Outline of Psychology " ( 1923 ) and " Abnormal Psychology " ( 1926 ) . While many others have written on the topic of instinct and motivation generally , McDougall 's system is remarkable for a number of reasons . The vigorous presentation of the hormic or purposive conception , the postulation of distinctive neurological correlates for the different instincts and the provision for the influence of the environment by way of the hierarchical organisation of sentiments and selves make the system the most comprehensive in outline in the recent history of Psychology . Within the scope of the system , several fields of Psychology and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in greater detail , are involved . Consideration of the system is thus a convenient method of becoming acquainted with many of the problems involved in the explanation of behaviour . Yet another reason is that in the light of more recent work , McDougall 's general position still remains plausible . // several authors , not only involved an innate neural mechanism , but also the possibility of felt tendencies to specific types of activity and the instigating and sustaining energy for specific activities . Again , as viewed by many of the symposiasts whose views were discussed , this hypothetical neural organisation functioned in the most intimate association with intelligence and foresight . In several senses , therefore , it is an unusual construct , and with all of these various functions which have been associated with it , there are naturally a variety of opinions as to its nature and mode of operation . Nevertheless , in the attempt to explain any series of nonidentical states which reveal teleological features , the value of such a construct is obvious , provided , of course , that its nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes other than those which it is employed to explain . Freud , for example , concedes that " there is no more urgent need in Psychology than for a securely founded theory of instincts on which it might be possible to build further . Nothing of the sort exists , however , and Psycho-analysis is driven to make tentative efforts towards some such theory . " 61 As indicated in Chapter III , there will always be a methodological difficulty in indicating just those features or conditions of the organism which are spatially and temporally continuous with observed behaviour ; but clearly there would be some advantage in knowing just what they could be . The reader may now care to peruse the synopsis of McDougall 's system ( pp. 182-183 ) , before reading the more detailed exposition . 2 . WHAT WAS MCDOUGALL TRYING TO DO It is submitted that McDougall was trying to provide Psychology with an account of the innate data of animal nature which , in the manner indicated by Freud , could form the basis of a system in which the contribution of experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sincere philosophical convictions , which were on the whole consistent with the observations that he was able to make . He assumes , " that psychic activity is always and everywhere teleological , a striving towards some end or goal ; and that teleological or purposive causation is in no sense a disguised form of the mechanistic causation postulated by the // physical sciences . " 142 He distinguishes between the hedonist conception and the hormic conception of teleological activity and points out that in his view , the hedonist conception is inadequate for the behaviour of animals and young children . His view always has been the hormic one , namely , that what is desired or striven for is not the pleasure that comes with the attainment , as the hedonist position asserts , but the actual object itself ? the view which asserts , " that each animal species is so constituted that it seeks or strives for certain natural goals , the attainment of which satisfies corresponding needs of the animal . Since these needs and the tendencies to satisfy them , to strive towards the corresponding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , are inborn and transmitted from generation to generation in all members of the species , they are properly called instinctive . " 143 He goes on to remark , " Such inborn tendencies are often spoken of as instincts ; but since this word can not be used without provoking controversy and needless difficulties , it is perhaps better to avoid it ; and perhaps the best word to use here is the good old word " propensity . " 144* It may be noted , however , that the list of propensities set out in " The Energies of Men , " with the exception of the propensities to rest or sleep , migrate , appeal , seek comfort and food , agrees with the list of instincts set out in " An Introduction to Social Psychology " and with the list of instincts in " An Outline of Psychology , " which also includes the appeal and food-seeking instincts . The conception of horme , indeed , permeates the whole of McDougall 's writing so thoroughly that he could write that , " the * Op. cit. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means by the term " propensity . " A " tendency " is defined as " an active energy directed towards a goal . " A propensity is described as , " the name given in these pages ( in accordance with an old usage ) to any part of the innate constitution whose nature and function is to generate upon occasion an active tendency . " 4 This is distinguished from an ability which has no motive power and needs activation from beyond itself . This would scarcely distinguish the propensity from the instinct which does imply some ability or capacity to react . As defined in " An Introduction to Social Psychology , " z3rd ed. , p. 25 , instinct involves that the animal should act in regard to the perceived object in a " particular manner , or , at least , to experience an impulse to such action " ; or , " An Outline of Psychology , " p. r ro : " an impulse to action which finds expression in a specific mode of behaviour in relation to that object . " McDougall always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intelligent properties which the hormic theory attributes to all animal life would ensure that once an active tendency arose , it could be put into effect . // hormic theory holds that where there is life there is mind ; and that if there has been any continuity of the organic from the inorganic , there must have been something of mind , some trace of mental nature and activity in the inorganic from which such emergence took place . " 151 The conception of a form of energy so potentially adaptable in manifestation is supplemented by the further postulation of a number of relatively specific instincts , defined as " an inherited or innate psycho-physical disposition which determines its possessor to perceive or to pay attention to objects of a certain class , to experience an emotional excitement of a particular quality upon perceiving such an object , and to act in regard to it in a particular manner , or at least to experience an impulse to such action . " 148 Another definition concludes with the wording , " and an impulse to action which find expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object . " 129 The importance of the perceptual phase is stressed by likening the " particular object " to the key which will fit the particular lock or perceptual organisation of the animal , 130 an analogy to be employed in the later writings of Lorenz . There are , however , certain modifications of this suggestion of the very specific nature of the instinct . McDougall points out that " the formula will hold good generally only if we take the word object ' in the very widest sense , namely , to include not only material things and organisms , but also various situations in which the creature may find itself , consisting in conjunctions of internal and external conditions : for we must remember always that a large part of the sensory stimuli that play upon the sense-organs come from within the organism ; and these constitute an important and constantly changing part of the total complex of sense-stimuli. " 131 The affinity with the position later developed by Stellar 198 may be noted . Both the cognitive and conative phases of the process of instinct are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McDougall never conceived of the motor or conative phase of the instinct as being as specific as the perceptual or cognitive phase . He discusses , for example , the question of distinguishing a " third part " of the instinct 132 and in the same work stresses that " any one instinctive impulse may make use of a variety of motor mechanisms , according to the circumstances of the moment . " 133 I24 Explanation of Human Behaviour There are , too , other significant observations which may serve to elaborate other features of McDougall 's general conception of purposive and instinctive behaviour . Some are enumerated : ( i ) The " marks " of behaviour , which include : ( a ) A certain spontaneity of movement . The animal is not a passive thing directed by environmental forces , but has some capacity to resist these forces . ( b ) The persistence of activity independently of the continuance of the impression which may have initiated it . ( c ) Variation in the direction of persistent movements , until they bring about the kind of change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( d ) The coming to an end of the animal 's movements as soon as they have brought about a particular kind of change in its situation . ( e ) Preparation for the new situation , toward the production of which the action contributes . ( f ) Some degree of improvement in the effectiveness of behaviour when it is repeated by the animal under similar circumstances . It will be noted that the features of a teleological process outlined in Chapter IV are included in this list . ( ii ) Instinct is conceived as involving both a mechanism which is capable of functioning appropriately once it has been set in motion by the appropriate key , and as having the necessary motive power to sustain this activity . McDougall has in several places conceded the difficulty associated with this concept of the nature of the energies which are brought into action . " The essence of instinctive energy , " he writes , " seems to be such liberation and direction of energy , which we may best speak of as psycho-physical energy . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversion of potential energy , stored in the tissues in chemical form , into the free or active form , kinetic or electric or what not ; and probably this view is correct . " As to the actual source of the energy , he expresses some doubt , but mentions two broad possibilities . First , as he describes it , " we might regard each instinct as containing a store of potential energy , which is liberated and directed into the appropriate channels when the instinct is excited , and which leaks or overflows in that restlessness which we have seen to be characteristic The System of Wm . McDougall i2 of Appetite . " This possibility would have much in common with the hypothesis of Action Specific Energy , later developed by the Ethologists . " Secondly , we might regard the several instincts of an animal as somehow drawing upon a common store of reserve energy . " 134 He admits that there is much to justify this latter view , but further concedes the possibility that each of the several instincts might draw upon the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The concept of instinct involves not only a structural mechanism and source of instigation for activity revealing teleological features , but as indicated in the phrase " psycho-physical disposition , " includes felt impulses as well . ( iv ) On the relationship of instinct and intelligence , McDougall is opposed to any conception of two distinct explanatory principles . " We must avoid this ancient error from the outset , " he remarks , " by recognising that all animal behaviour is both instinctive and intelligent ; that , while every act of any animal is to some extent prescribed by the inherited constitution , that constitution itself provides the capacity for adaptation , for adaptive deviation from the pattern common to the species . " 135 ( v ) The thesis of continuity is implicit or directly stated at many points in McDougall 's writings . As stated in " An Outline of Psychology , " it involves that " instinctive action rather than reflex action is in my view the key to the understanding of human behaviour . It is the teaching of this book that human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in all essentials very similar to the instinctive tendencies in animals . " 146 The more specific features of the concept of instinct may perhaps be indicated briefly . An increasingly wide range of adaptation is claimed for organisms at successively more complex levels of structural development , but as defined , the instinctive process consists in three phases : namely , the cognitive , affective and conative , and each is specific . The organism is claimed to " perceive or to pay attention to objects of a certain class , " but the considerable powers of adaptation and purposive behaviour would involve that very few objects could be consistently ignored . The same two-fold conception of a specific but potentially highly variable mode of response would apply to the conative phase . The difficult problem of reconciling the two features of specificity and adaptability and the fundamental significance // of the cognitive or perceptual phase is conveyed by a later treatment of the definition , where it is claimed that , " the instinct is not defined by the kind or kinds of bodily activity to which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the objects and situations which evoke it and , more especially , by the nature of the goal , the change in the situation , in the object or in the animal 's relation to it , to which instinct impels. " 150 The inserted " construct " or hypothetical instinct is nevertheless claimed , in the absence of modification , to be specific in both the structural and functional senses and with the additional provision that the emotional excitement is of a " particular quality . " Reference should now be made to the synopsis on pages 182-183 . In " An Introduction to Social Psychology " the classification includes a number of such specific innate tendencies , classified into major and minor groups . Each of the major instincts , it is claimed on p. 40 , " conditions some one kind of emotional excitement whose quality is peculiar or specific to it . " The seven major instincts and their accompanying emotions are , respectively , Escape ? Fear , Repulsion ? Disgust , Curiosity ? Wonder , Pugnacity ? Anger , Self-assertion ? Elation or Positive Self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The minor instincts , " of less well-defined emotional tendency , " include Gregariousness , Acquisition , Construction and Reproduction . The instinct of Laughter is added in a supplementary chapter . There are , too , the Non-specific Innate Tendencies , which are not classified as instincts on the ground that the emotional excitement , which is specific in the case of the major instincts , is with them ( p. 77 ) , " rather of a many sided and general nature . " The innate endowment is finally claimed to include on p. 75 " some minor instincts ? some minor reaction-tendencies which seem to occupy a position between the reflexes on the one hand and the instinctive responses on the other . The chief of them are the tendency to scratch an itching spot , coughing , sneezing , yawning , urination and defaecation . " Such basic data of animal nature are then moulded or organised by the formation of fused and blended emotions , selves , sentiments and the major integrating sentiment , the Self-regarding Sentiment . The system is almost architectural in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implied assumptions are granted , is capable of providing reasons for almost any form of behaviour which may be observed . If a soldier flees from imminent danger , he may be claimed to do so because of the impelling force of the instinct of Escape and the accompanying emotion of Fear . If , on the other hand , he arrests his flight and forces himself to return to the dangerous situation , he may be claimed to do so because of the operation of some sense of duty in association with his developed sentiment of Selfregard . A person may be constantly against the government because of the innate strength of his instinct of Self-assertion , which impels him to oppose all forms of authority , or because of some sentiment , established through experience , by which the fused emotion of Scorn or the primary emotion of Anger is associated with persons in the government , the procedures of government or officialdom in general . If a lowly organism behaves in a novel situation with impressive efficiency , it may be claimed to do so because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular situation provides the key . Unusual forms of behaviour , however , are equally well accounted for , because , as McDougall has remarked , " instinct is everywhere shot through with intelligence . " Again , if a man marries and reproduces his kind , he may be claimed to manifest the instinct of reproduction . If he does not marry , he may be claimed to be poorly endowed with this instinct or , on the other hand , to be sublimating the energies or energy associated with this instinct . A reason may be found for every contingency , either because McDougall has an assumption to meet the particular case or because , as indicated above , by the general assumption of the intelligent , purposeful character of all behaviour and the concept of specific innate responses , he has the situation both ways . The fertility of the system in providing reasons for all types of behaviour in this way and the ease with which the architectural conception lends itself to presentation have probably contributed to its great vogue . The value of the system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for McDougall 's several assumptions . // 3 . MCDOUGALL 'S SYSTEM APPRAISED ( a ) His general method The impression gained by the reader is that McDougall was prompted by the observation of the broad consistent features in human and animal behaviour to advance the hypothesis of some underlying feature in the structure of the organism which could be responsible , by way of prescription , for the observed consistencies . In " An Outline of Psychology " he concedes that this , in the main , was his method . He writes on p. 103 , " As I conceive it an instinct ' is a concrete fact of mental structure , which in the main we infer from the facts of behaviour and of experience . . . . I have already insisted upon the importance of this distinction between the facts of mental structure and facts of functioning or activity . The use of the term an instinct ' or such a term as the pairing instinct of this pigeon ' enables us to observe this distinction faithfully . " In answer to the obvious rejoinder that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is but the " translation into static terms of the observed facts of behaviour " or that the concept , used in this way , gives us no additional understanding of the behaviour , he has a number of reasons to urge in defence . These include : ( i ) That the instinct is not revealed entirely in any one action or in any one train of behaviour . A variety of observations on different occasions of several members of the same species is necessary . ( ii ) Further information about " this instinct " is gained , for example , by comparisons of courting and pairing in several species and these observations enable us to formulate laws about instincts in general and may serve as a basis to guide further observations and experiments . ( iii ) The existence of the instinct is further supported by evidence from studies of hereditary transmission . If it could be established that instincts are transmitted in the manner of Mendelian unit characteristics , then the use of the term " an instinct " or " the instinct " would be justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strains within a particular species reveal outstanding performance in respect of one activity , // such as in the domestic fowl , some strains are distinguished as layers , others as sitters and so on . The observations of Whitney 221 on trail barking in dogs could also be mentioned . ( iv ) It is observed that some instincts appear after a period of maturation or may display cyclical features . ( v ) There are the observations that the normal manifestation of the instinct depends upon the structural integrity of definite parts of the nervous system and may be influenced by particular hormones . " Therefore , " concludes McDougall , p. 105 , " when I speak of this instinct in this individual pigeon , ' I am not merely translating into static terms the facts of its behaviour which I have observed ; I am rather implying a large body of knowledge built up by observation and experiment in many different fields . " He further claims that his observations justify considerable powers of prediction ; but concedes that , like all scientific prediction , it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more our knowledge of instinct in general , and of this kind of instinct in particular , is enriched by further observation and reasoning . " McDougall thus clears himself of the charge that his use of the term instinct involves a superficial circumlocution ; but with regard to his suggestion that the instinct is inherited in the nature of a Mendelian characteristic , it is important to be clear as to just what is inherited . It is possible that certain consistencies of conduct may arise from a number of heritable characteristics . In some instincts , like those of Escape and Construction , features of the perceptual organisation would presumably be inherited . In others , such as those involving the hatching of eggs , heritable features in the perceptual organisation may not be so important . The bodily structure of a hen and physiological processes may make a greater contribution to a hen 's success in brooding and tendency to brood than any features in or operating through the visual or auditory organisation . It is quite possible that research would discover a number of predisposing features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility that the failure by the female cuckoo to develop a sensitive area of skin on the lower abdomen at the time of egg-laying is associated with her failure to nestle the eggs as other birds do . The whole problem of innate mechanisms and their prescriptive // influence upon behaviour is complicated by the all-pervading nature of the assumption of the purposive horme . Elephants and lions are not constructive . Their bodily structure and their typical habitat renders such behaviour apparently unnecessary , and in the case of the lion , with no prehensile organs , difficult . The amazingly intricate and consistent patterns in the structure of nests by different members of the same species of birds , for example , does suggest that some heritable factors of prescription may be operating through their perceptual organisation ; but if a common need is assumed , the purposive qualities in behaviour , the similar structure of the members of the same species and the similar habitat could conceivably be responsible for observed consistencies of behaviour and this without the inheritance of any structural features exclusively associated with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , which does frequently suggest that he is explaining the observed facts of behaviour by reference to their formal derivatives , as for example , explaining reproduction as being due to a tendency to reproduce , McDougall 's treatment of the grounds for assuming some types of mental structure as probable does place his procedure in a different category from that of the faculty psychologist . The definition of Instinct also contains , as Mace 154 has pointed out , a statement of a law . A particular stimulus is followed by a percept which in turn is followed by a particular emotional state and a particular type of action . The observed action may then be explained by reference to its invariable antecedents . But as indicated in Chapter III , something more than the experience of regular conjunction is required to achieve the full conviction that a genuinely causal relationship exists . If it could be shown that variations in the intensity or duration of the response were spatially and temporally continuous with variations in the intensity or magnitude of the stimulus , then the basis of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , as indicated in Chapter IV , some processes do not display an appreciable range of variation and if instinct approximates to the all or none type of process , this important feature of the causal relationship may not be demonstrable . Other relationships between the two variables conjoined might also be investigated , such as those operating when the animal is in a state of fatigue or when properties // of the perceptual " field " other than those of the specific stimulus object are varied. * The several difficulties indicated in Chapter V would , of course , be encountered . Several relationships may exist between the two variables conjoined . Definite points or states within the variation may be difficult to establish and there is the problem of relating changes between or across different determinables and fields of subject matter . In animals of the same species , after a known period of deprivation of food , it might be possible to establish some form of co-variation between the alacrity of response , or amount of physical work , or the minimum strength of an effective inhibiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same general procedure could in principle be followed with the Instinct of Disgust , the Instinct of Escape and the Instinct of Pugnacity , where variations in the intensity of the stimulus and the duration or energy of aversive or appetitive behaviour could be associated . Many of these relationships , however , are subject to changes with experience , and thus it would be difficult to assess the nature of the innate relationship between stimuli of various kinds and the associated responses . McDougall nevertheless indicated a number of innate associations of stimuli and response which might , with further research , be revealed as genuine causal relationships . In a sense he offered a broad plan of an hypothesis of the innate relationships which may in some way prescribe behaviour . He has conceded that there is an element of probability associated with any such postulated associations , and this raises specifically the important problems of the basis of differentiation and thus of the number of these innate relationships . ( b ) The problem of differentiation There are many difficulties involved in differentiating the several instincts which McDougall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . His insistence upon the hormic or purposive view of instinct and the notion of felt impulses , that instinct is everywhere " shot through with intelligence , " and upon the notion of evolutionary continuity throughout a wide range of species culminating in man actually add to the difficulties of differentiation . He has too , conceded the possibility of several * Also indicated by Mace. // instincts being excited simultaneously and " blending with various degrees of intimacy " ; but if distinct instincts are postulated , some attempt to verify them in relatively definite form is justified , even though there is a strong prima facie case that the nature of instincts and the overall contribution of instinct to behaviour , as compared with acquired responses or modes of behaviour , will also vary from one species to another . Again , it must be remembered that the full treatment of this problem would involve the consideration of every phase of innate behaviour for every species from Protozoa to man , in association with whatever experimental work has been done . This would be a full-length book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to consider such evidence as bears most directly on the several facets of instinct treated by McDougall . To be perfectly fair , it must be pointed out that there have been definite fluctuations in the support for McDougall 's position or indeed for the role of instinct in any form in human behaviour and in animal behaviour . Broadly , after the initial vogue of the hormic position which in the early years of the century had a salutary effect upon the subject in directing attention to problems of motivation , there was a noticeable reaction against the hypothesis of instinct . In 1921 , Kuo could write a paper entitled " Giving up Instincts in Psychology " 98 which was followed in 1930 by a paper showing the considerable contribution of experience in the responses of cats to rats.99 Lashley 's important paper , in 1938 , " The Experimental Analysis of Instinctive Behaviour " 109 while not entirely damaging , indicated much evidence which was inconsistent with the degree of specificity of response required by McDougall 's definition of instinct . In 1942 , several British psychologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instincts dead ? " 200 By 1950 , possibly under the stimulation of the work of the ethologists , which directed attention to the vast and rapidly growing literature on the experimental study of animal behaviour , the plausibility of McDougall 's position could be entertained again . Some of the reasons for this oscillation of view point may become apparent in the following pages . The changing neurological picture . A definite association of the observed consistency of response with some neural organisation is // claimed by McDougall . " Nevertheless , " he wrote , " just as a reflex action implies the presence in the nervous system of the reflex nervous arc , so the instinctive action also implies some enduring nervous basis whose organisation is inherited , an innate or inherited psycho-physical disposition which anatomically regarded , probably has the form of a compound system of sensorimotor arcs . " 148 It is difficult to present every detail of the evidence reflecting the changing conceptions throughout the last half century of the neuro-anatomy and physiology associated with the operation of instincts , but a brief sketch in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Throughout the history of science , speculation is often associated with an implicit image and many of these images are related to familar concepts and experiences . In the physical sciences , for example , the many hypotheses which conceive of complex phenomena as different arrangements of homogeneous small particles have already been noted . The vogue for hypotheses of this kind may be associated with the relative familiarity of images of this type , which derive from ordinary experience and the consequent ease of conceptual re-arrangement . Even a child can re-arrange blocks in different patterns and perform comparable operations in imagination . It is clear from most of McDougall 's writings that he had conceived of each instinct as associated with a specific " neurological correlate " and the implied image is one of specific connection between specific neural organisations . For many years following the publication of his basic work , " An Introduction to Social Psychology , " in 1908 , no definite confirmation of the existence of a number of distinct " neurological correlates " as he called them was available for the several instincts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with prevailing theories of habit formation in terms of specific pathways and the progressive reduction of the resistances of synapses with successive trials . In 1929 , however , a very serious challenge to this general conception of specificity appeared in Lashley 's monograph , " Brain Mechanisms and Intelligence . " 107 Lashley 's results indicated that the decline in performance in maze-running by rats was roughly proportional to the amount of cortical tissue removed from the cerebral hemispheres and irrespective of the locus of the lesion . These findings were summarised in the principles of Mass-Action // and Equi-Potentiality . There were too , several other experimental findings which were broadly consistent with Lashley 's findings . Beach 19 reported a decline in the efficiency and promptness of nest-building and retrieving of the young by the mother rat in proportion to the amount of cortical tissue removed . Beach also showed20 that while some male rats did not copulate after destruction of zo to 50 per cent . of the cortex , others did ; but the number of rats which copulated after the operation declined as the percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of copulation where bilateral lesions of more than 6o per cent . were involved . Davis46 has indicated that female rats with the cerebral cortex removed could not rear their young . There is some indication from these studies that the task of rearing the young may be more exacting than mating responses for the female . Damage to the cortex which drastically reduces a mother rat 's efficiency in rearing her young does not prevent her from mating and becoming pregnant . Comparable lesions appear to prevent male rats from mating . Again , several studies have indicated that mating behaviour can proceed , despite appreciable loss of afferent stimulation . Stone 199 for example , reported that lesions which excluded afferent impulses from the skin of the anterior belly wall , the ventral and lateral portions of the scrotum , the region of the groin , the vibrissx , and the visual , olfactory and gustatory receptors did not prevent sexually inexperienced males from copulating . Part of the explanation may be , as Beach23 has suggested , that some features of the pattern of mating responses are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evolutionary point of view ; but results such as those of Lashley , Beach and Stone did involve some effort of reconciliation for speculative thinkers who had grown accustomed to McDougall 's neurological framework . Further , the influence of the Gestalt school in the years between the two world wars had encouraged a certain vogue for explanations of cortical functions in terms analogous to those applied to electrical fields . The emphasis was upon changes in total patterns and changes associated with interactions between wholes rather than specific " one to one " associations . McDougall 's claim to have shown that a specific pattern of response to a particular situation ? escaping from an underwater tank by the dimly lighted instead of the brightly lighted route ? // could be established in rats by the transmission of acquired experience in some way from one generation to another , 137-40 had not been confirmed by the independent studies of Crew43 or Agar , Tiegs and Drummondl ; but other evidence was accumulating which required yet another re-appraisal . In a series of papers appearing between 1943 and 1944 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as defined by McDougall might exist and indeed with specific " neurological correlates . " Furthermore , they indicated what appears to be at least a part of the " neurological correlate . " Electrodes were introduced into the diencephalon of intact cats . In certain areas of the hypothalamic region the application of mild electric stimulation elicited the reactions of fighting , sleeping and eating according to the locus of stimulation . The behaviour appeared to be complete in the sense that it was co-ordinated and apparently purposeful . The cats not only went to sleep but also searched for a place in which to sleep . They also appeared to search for food . These studies are but a few of the many which characterise what Hebb70 has called the " new neurology . " Comparatively new techniques , such as the insertion of fine electrodes and the study of the electrical activity by the electroencephalograph have made it possible to study functions of parts of the brain more effectively . Of particular interest for problems of motivation is the hypothalamus . As reference to Figs. 1 and z @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brain , forming part of the diencephalon , lying below the thalamus and sub-thalamus , behind the optic chiasma and just above the infundibular stalk to which the hypophysis or pituitary gland is attached . Despite its relatively small size , the hypothalamus has , indirectly or directly , a wealth of functional connections with other parts of the brain . These include afferent connections from the cortex of the frontal lobes via the dorso-medial nucleus of the thalamus , from the rhinencephalic or " old " region of the cortex via the fornix , from the reticular formation of the brain stem , from the viscera and the sensory end-organs . There are outgoing or efferent connections to the cortex via the thalamus , to the pituitary , to the spinal cord and by collaterals to the reticular formation of the brain stem . In addition , the hypothalamus is a richly vascularised area and in principle , at least , capable of registering changes associated with several // chemical and physical properties of the blood such as temperature , hormone and general chemical content and osmotic pressure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypothalamus and the cerebro-spinal fluid . FIG. i . Diagram of Sagittal Section of the Brain showing major areas mentioned in the text . ( After Lindsley , D. B. Handbook of Experimental Psychology , Ed . Stevens . J. Wiley &; Sons , New York . ) Abbreviations : PIT ? Pituitary Gland . PC ? Posterior Commissure . OC ? Optic Chiasma . AMY ? Amygdala . M ? Mammillary Body . Diencephalon includes Thalamus , Hypothalamus , Posterior Pituitary . Rhinencephalon is part of old Cortex including some structures of the Temporal Lobe , viz. Amygdala and Hippocampus , and which from an evolutionary point of view , preceded the neo or " new " cortex . The stippled areas are frequently referred to as the " Visceral Brain . " The Caudate Nucleus and the Temporal Lobe lie behind the plane of the diagram . Although the functions of particular parts of the hypothalamus are still being investigated , some degree of specialisation within the hypothalamus is indicated by a number of studies . Nauta163 // working with rats and Ransonl7l with monkeys ( see also Kleitman94 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region of the mammillary bodies , there are centres which function to keep the animal awake . When they are destroyed the animal CORPUS CALLOSU I IIIPPOCAMPUS 7EML'ORAL LOBE 5EPTA MR STALK FIG. 2 . Enlargement from Fig. 1 , showing in greater detail the relative positions of Diencephalic and adjacent areas . ( After Lindsley , D. B. ) Abbreviations : AC ? Anterior Commissure . AMY ? Amygdala . ANT ? Anterior Nucleus of Thalamus . DMN ? Dorsomedial Nucleus of Thalamus . IC ? Inferior Colliculus . SC ? Superior Colliculus . M ? Mammillary Body . OC ? Optic Chiasma . PC ? Posterior Cornmissure . PIT ? Pituitary . P.O.N. ? Pre-optic Nucleus . MI-Massa Interrnedia . The stippled areas are the Diencephalic structures . appears to be unable to stay awake . In the anterior hypothalamus , in the vicinity of the pre-optic nucleus , there is a region which appears to function as an inhibitory centre . When it is removed , the animal is unable to sleep . Studies of guinea pigs by Brookhart , // Dey and Ranson33 , 34 indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a cessation of mating behaviour . There is some evidence from the work of Hetherington and Ranson81 with rats that this area between the pituitary stalk and the optic chiasma which appears to be associated with sexual activity might partly overlap the areas associated with hunger . Evidence for specific areas associated with facilitation and inhibition within the hypothalamus itself is also provided by Anand and Brobeck2 , 3 working with rats and cats and Brobeck , Tepperman and Long3o working with albino rats . 13i-lateral lesions in the ventro-medial nucleus near the mid-line are associated with excessive intake of food . Lesions within 11 to z millimeters of the mid-line at the level of the ventro-medial nucleus result in a cessation of eating . Delgado and Anand47 have also shown that electrical stimulation of these areas by implanted electrodes results in excessive eating . The essential importance of the hypothalamus in sexual behaviour has been indicated by studies by Bard 16 and Bromily32 working with cats and Dempsey and Rioch48 with guinea pigs . Spayed female cats and spayed female guinea pigs will reveal oestrous behaviour when injected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesions in the anterior hypothalamus prevent female guinea pigs from revealing sexual behaviour even when liberal injections of sexual hormones are given.33 There are too , a number of studies which indicate specific centres for a number of other basic activities . Anderson and McCann4 have shown that thirst appears to be associated with a specific area of the hypothalamus . Goats already satiated with water could be induced to drink excessively by injections of hypertonic solutions into this area . Repeated electrical stimulation of part of this area could also induce heavy drinking5 which tended to cease soon after the stimulation . Lesions in a corresponding area in the dog6 were associated with a considerable reduction in drinking but a normal intake of food . After an interval of fourteen days , the dogs appeared to recover . Again Smith 193 found that electrical stimulation of the ventromedial hypothalamus was soon followed by a marked reduction in the intake of food by hungry rats . Electrical stimulation of what appears to be the excitatory centre for hunger in the lateral hypothalamus was quickly followed by a marked increase in feeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that the basic // mechanisms of hunger do not function simply and solely as a result of stimulation of particular areas or physiological balance . Miller , Bailey and Stevenson 158 have shown that the increased food intake by albino rats following bi-lateral lesions in the region of the ventromedial nuclei did not appear to be such an effective incentive in learning situations as a comparable weight of food with normal animals . Ghent65 has shown that hooded rats which have been well fed and then deprived of food do not resume eating immediately at a level commensurate with physiological need . On the first day after twenty-three hours deprivation , the intake of food was not enough to gain weight ; but on successive repetitions of the experiment , the animals ate more . Berkun , Kessen and Miller 24 have shown that milk taken via the mouth is associated with a greater reduction in the amount drunk than comparable amounts injected into the stomach via a fistula . Miller and Kessen 159 have demonstrated too , that rats receiving milk via the mouth , either immediately or after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts through a fistula . Copulation without ejaculation also appears to function as a reward for sexually naive , male rats . There is too , the interesting unpublished study by Mahut and Havelka of McGill University . Rats offered a short and direct path to food and a long one , very often chose the longer and possibly more " interesting " route . The role of the cortex and thalamus . There are a number of studies which indicate that the cortex has among other functions an inhibitory role . Decerebrate animals appear to react violently to a number of customary stimuli . An early study by Woodworth and Sherrington , 224 for example , described such excessive reactions to nociceptive stimulation of the skin as " pseudaffective " since the reactions of the decerebrate cat appeared to mimic the usual expressions of rage such as snarling , snapping , lowering of the head with an associated rise in blood pressure . One interesting fact was that these responses ceased soon after the stimulation whereas normal responses of rage do not cease so abruptly . Such results on decerebrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 Schaltenbrand andCobb , 181 and Keller.92 Studies of decorticate cats by Dusser de Barenne , 50 and Cannon and Britton39 indicated broadly similar , and excessive reactions // to the normal and considerate handling of the animal . The chief differences appeared to be that the reactions of decorticate animals were more intense and better organised than the responses of the decerebrate animals and frequently were more easily aroused . It was to reactions of this type that Cannon applied the term " sham rage . " Later , Bard 15 was able to indicate the caudal half of hypothalamus as the area associated with the responses of " sham " rage . While the foregoing results do suggest that the role of the cortex is largely inhibitory , there are a number of more recent results which suggest some qualification . Bard and Mountcastle17 have shown that the removal of some parts of the so-called " old cortex " or rhinencephalon , especially the amygdala and the transitional cortex of the mid-line , are associated with heightened reactions of rage in cats . If only the " new cortex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bucy , 96 however , removed the temporal lobes including the rhinencephalon from monkeys and the animals , apart from apparent curiosity about their surroundings , were emotionally unresponsive . Decortication in dogs , as Kleitman94 , 95 has shown , renders the animal incapable of remaining awake and Davidson and Demuth44 have shown that restricted lesions in the cortex or in the thalamus can similarly affect human beings . Beach , 21 as already pointed out , has shown that cortical lesions have a more serious effect on the sexual behaviour of male rats than of females . Yet it has been reported that lesions within the amygdala and transitional cortex of the mid-line can be associated with greater sexual responsiveness in cats 106 and lesions of the frontal lobes of cats 106 and rats 174 can be followed by excessive eating . It appears that the cortex or parts of it may function in both excitatory and inhibitory ways in association with other parts of the brain . The full picture has still to be worked out by further research ; but it is clear that the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance of sub-thalamic structures , in particular the hypothalamus . Stellar 198 has argued most persuasively for the thesis that it is the total amount of stimulation reaching the hypothalamus that determines the level of excitability . The hypothalamus has a wealth of possible forms of discharge to other parts of the brain and being a richly vascularised area can quickly reflect any changes in the chemical and physical properties of the blood . Stimulation reaching the hypothalamus may also // derive from afferent sensory stimulation . Several experiments have shown that sometimes two or in the case of experienced animals , even three sensory modalities may be rendered inoperative and sexual behaviour may still take place . Learning could also ensure that greater amounts of stimulation reach the hypothalamus . Hormonal facilitation by lowering thresholds of response is feasible . It is thus possible to conceive of the several sources of stimulation operating jointly , and of a degree of mutual assistance or even of compensation . Increasing reference to the reticular formation of the brain stem . The position of the brain stem in relation to other parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 and 4 . The full account of the functions mediated by the reticular formation is not yet possible . Indeed , Brodal31 in a recent work while endeavouring to summarise what is known both of the anatomy and physiology concedes ( p. 74 ) that the field is " not yet ripe for a synthetic integration . " At the same time , however , it is possible to sug142 Explanation of Human Behaviour FIG. 4 . Phantom brain stem represented within schema of monkey brain to illustrate ascending reticular activating system ( arrow directed upwards ) influenced by collaterals from classical sensory pathway and by corticofugal projections from ( 1 ) temporal , ( z ) orbital , ( 3 ) frontal oculo-motor , ( 4 ) cingulate , ( 5 ) &; ( 6 ) sensorimotor , and ( ' 7 ) para-occipital regions . After French , J. D. , Hernandez-Peon , R. and Livingston , R. B. ( Y. Neurophysiol. , 1955 , i8 , P. 9z ) . gest something of the importance of this system by indicating some findings from various researches . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differentiation within the reticular formation but there would appear to be ample fibrous connections between the various regions to ensure much interaction between them . Studies by Hernandez-Peon and Hagbarth73 and Scheibel et al.182 have indicated that there are considerable , but not unlimited , possibilities for overlapping or " sharing " of reticular neurons by incoming " volleys " of activity . The understanding of the functions of the reticular formation has been greatly facilitated by the development of electroencephalographic techniques . An early study by Bremer29 involving transsection of the mesencephalon had shown that the the portion of the brain above the section was physiologically in a state of sleep . This was thought to be due to the severance of ascending sensory paths and the consequent lack of incoming stimulation . The view that sleep was due to de-afferentation of the cerebrum // became fairly generally accepted . However , encephalographic studies had established characteristic features of the wave-traces deriving from spontaneous electrical activity recorded from the cortices of man and the experimental animals commonly used , namely cats and monkeys . During sleep , the amplitude of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater , indicating a slower form of activity and the neuronal discharges which constitute the waves are more regular or " synchronous " than when awake . When the animal is aroused , as by some sudden noise , the recorded activity is found to be " desynchronised . " The large slow waves are replaced by more rapid waves of lower amplitude or voltage . Moruzzi and Magoun 162 were able to produce these results experimentally by stimulating electrically the reticular formation of the lower brain stem in the cat . They also showed that the changes in cortical rhythms associated with stimulation of the peripheral nerves were not blocked by electrical stimulation of the reticular formation ; but the rhythmic after-discharge associated with such evoked potentials was removed . Similar findings were later reported by Magoun working with cats under light anxsthesia . In the same paper Magoun 155 distinguishes two functional systems within the brain stem . There are first the laterally placed pathways for ascending somatic and auditory stimulation which , if stimulated directly as far upward as the level of the mid-brain , will result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is secondly , a system which when electrically stimulated gives rise to even more pronounced effects in the electrocorticogram . This functional system does not appear to correspond with any known anatomical pathways and would seem to consist of a series of ascending relays extending from the reticular formation of the lower brain stem through the mesencephalic tegmentum , subthalamus and hypothalamus , and ventromedial thalamus to the internal capsule . The basic importance of this system has been demonstrated by a number of experimental lesions . A cat with the ascending afferent pathways interrupted at the level of the mid-brain appears to be just as wakeful as an intact animal and the electrocorticogram reveals the usual fast low amplitude waves of a normal cortex under activation . If , however , the ascending reticular activating system is interrupted at the same level while ascending somatic , // auditory and visual pathways and descending motor pathways remain intact , the animal appears as if asleep or anaesthetised and the electrocorticogram exhibits the slow , high amplitude waves typical of the sleeping condition . The animals appear to sleep normally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somatic stimulation with the typical changes in the electrocorticogram.116 Lindsley , Bowden and Magoun 115 have also carried out transections at progressively higher levels of the brain-stem and diencephalon . Bi-lateral lesions in the hypothalamus toward the upper end of the reticular formation appeared to eliminate its influence upon higher centres completely . As progessively more of the reticular formation was eliminated by transections at successively higher levels , the pattern of electrical activity in the cortex came closer to the synchronous pattern of sleep and by recording simultaneously from the cortex and particular nuclei in the thalamus , it was established that the rhythms of the cortex and thalamus were in unison . There are many indications that spread of activation from the reticular formation to other parts of the brain may be extensive . Papez164 has reviewed some of the anatomical evidence and an indication of some of the possibilities is provided by the study of Starzl , Taylor and Magoun 197 who have found concomitant variations in the electrical potentials simultaneously recorded from the auditory cortex , the medial reticular formation , the tegmentum , the sub-thalamus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There would appear to be abundant evidence to suggest that the reticular formation can operate as an arousal mechanism , a function for which it would appear well adapted because of its central position and the wealth of afferent stimulation which may enter it via collateral neurones . Any sensory involvement of the animal would appear to have some effect upon the reticular formation and indirectly upon the cortex and other parts of the brain . It would thus seem quite plausible to argue , as Hebb70 has done , that in mediating this background of activation , the reticular formation provides an important method of facilitation for afferent stimulation which reaches the cortex by the direct sensory pathways . The state of activation deriving from the reticular formation in effect could keep the cortex and other parts of the brain in a state of readiness so that stimulation via the more // direct routes encountered lower thresholds . It may be noted too on the evidence of Rhines and Magoun 172 that the facilitatory influence may also operate in the descending direction with motor activity , so that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behaviour both by ensuring greater sensitivity in the receptive phase and readier response in the motor activity . Yet another aspect of the functions associated with the brain stem reticular formation is the differentiation of function apparent at its upper end where the system extends into the thalamus , a region described by Jasper et al.88 as the thalamic reticular system . When this region is stimulated electrically by rapid local stimulation , the electrical rhythms of the cortex are desynchronised ; but the activating influence seems to be transmitted to more restricted areas of the cortex than activity deriving from lower regions of the reticular formation . There is too , the distinctive feature , first termed the recruiting response by Morison and Dempsey161 in 1942 . Slower stimulation of the order of 5 to Io cycles per second , if repeated , tends to bring about a correspondence or unison between the rhythms in thalamus and cortex . When the frequency of the stimulus rhythms is nearly the same as the " natural " or " spontaneous " alpha rhythm of approximately 10 cycles per second , the response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series reveals an increase or " recruitment " in amplitude . By exploring the intra-laminar and adjacent nuclei of the thalamus of the cat with minimal effective stimuli , Jasper and his coworkers88 were able to give some indication of the regions of the thalamic reticular system which apparently had the most direct projection to the cortex . The mesial , rostral portions of the thalamus project to frontal regions of the cortex , the caudal and lateral portions to posterior areas of the cortex . The synchronisation of the timing of cortical rhythms with applied stimuli appears to be a property of the reticular system at the thalamic level but not of lower levels . Moruzzi and Magoun162 have shown too , that when electrical activity in the cortex is desynchronised either by direct electrical stimulation of the reticular arousal system at the level of the mid-brain or as the result of the waking condition of the animal , the synchronised and recruiting effects in the cortex can not be established by stimulation of the thalamic reticular system . The mechanism of recruiting responses has been studied in greater detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r46 Explanation of Human Behaviour Jasper.114 It appears probable that an important contribution to the nature of cortical rhythms derives from electrical activity within the thalamus ; but as indicated , this is one of several sources of contribution and at the time of writing the precise contribution of each source is not clear . One other very important group of influences are the projections downward from the cortex to the brain stem . These corticofugal projections have been studied by Jasper , Ajmone-Marsan and Stoll.88 By using local anxsthesia , these workers were able to achieve local electrical after-discharge in restricted areas of the cortex and to trace concomitant variations in electrical potential by means of recording electrodes in other parts of the brain . They report evidence for corticofugal projections from the primary visual cortex to the thalamus and mid-brain , a form of projection which appears to be more readily activated than direct forms of projection to other areas of the occipital cortex ; from the temporal lobes to the thalamus ; from the frontal pole of the frontal lobes to the intra-laminar region of the thalamus and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypothalamus and mid-brain . The authors suggest the hypothesis of a compact network of closely interconnected neurones in the upper end of the brain stem , including the thalamus , which receives impulses from widespread cortical areas and has ascending projections back into the same areas . The term central reticular formation is applied to this region and the suggestion is advanced that the region might function as an integrating centre for many specific cortical activities deriving from the occipital , parietal , temporal and frontal lobes . Further demonstrations of corticofugal projections have been provided by French , Hernandez-Peon and Livingston 60 working with monkeys and employing electrical and neuronographic* techniques . They report evidence for corticofugal pathways from the frontal oculomotor area , the cingulate gyrus , the orbital surface of the frontal lobe , the sensori-motor cortex , the posterior parietal or para-occipital regions and the superior temporal gyrus . The region to which these cortical areas project was found to be the reticular formation of the brain-stem . The demonstration of corticofugal projections to the reticular * Neuronography . Small pieces of filter paper soaked in strychnine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was systematically explored for indication of strychnine induced activity . // activating system arousal mechanism of the brain stem provides a possible neurological background for many interesting and important psychological functions . It is known for example that people can sleep through periods of considerable noise but will awaken immediately on the presentation of stimuli which are relevant to them . It is a common observation that a tired mother can often sleep through very noisy periods , but will be awaked by a faint cry from her child . Again , it is possible for a human being to exercise conscious control to prevent himself from falling asleep . The foregoing brief account will have indicated many changes from the neurological background assumed in McDougall 's writings and in general a more complicated picture , but one in which the neurological processes associated with several . aspects of behaviour have become clearer . Neurological correlates for all of the instincts in McDougall 's classification have not been indicated ; but activity in distinguishable areas of tissue has been shown to be associated with such conditions as hunger , thirst , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence does not provide a complete basis for differentiation of the several instincts , it may be noted that there is in sum rather more evidence in favour of specific neurological correlates for particular internal states which are related to motivation than was available in 1908 . Differentiation on the basis of behavioural evidence . In the years that followed the first publication of McDougall 's system many of the observations and experimental findings could be regarded as affording support to McDougall 's position ; but there were many which did not appear to be confirmatory and which may have contributed to some of the doubts expressed in the symposium " Is the Doctrine of Instincts Dead ? " 200 in 1942 . Some of these studies will now be reviewed because their association with confirmatory findings gives a better impression of the complexity of the problem and the merit of some recent work . In 1917 Watson and Morgan217 suggested that there were three unlearned emotional responses in children which can be observed at or soon after birth . A sudden loud noise or a sudden loss of support were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child 's movements were associ ted with responses of " rage " and responses of " love " with repeated stroking of the erogenous zones . Sherman 191 , 192 has indicated that several forms of strong , // sudden stimulation such as a blast of air on the face , dropping , restraint and loud noises will elicit a form of general , non-specific activity by young infants . There were no specific and consistent reactions to stroking or petting . Sherman 191 has also shown that the classification of children 's emotional responses tends to be influenced by the observer 's appraisal of the stimulus and the situation in which it is presented . There are too , other studies which indicate that the responses to the specific stimuli are not as definite as Watson and Morgan suggested . In the extensive study by Pratt , Nelson and Sun 168 restriction of the infant 's movements was not invariably followed by sustained activity . In more than half of the cases where restrictions were applied , the infants remained passive and many of them went to sleep . J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to loud noises , sudden dropping of the child and the application of restraints . Irwin87 , 87a reported only general undifferentiated activity as the response to a sudden loud noise or falling . Dennis49 did report some measure of agreement with Watson 's claims for reactions associated with restraint ; but also pointed out that many strong and persistent stimuli were associated with the same general pattern of activity and crying . The responses of sixty infants ranging in age from eight days to eighteen months to a revolver shot were recorded on film and subjected to an analysis in slow motion . In the youngest infants the reaction was thought to be a Moro reflex , a curving of the body with flexion of the arms . At about the age of four months , the Moro reflex tends to be supplanted by a startle pattern.86 , 41 The Moro reflex was not always accompanied by crying which became more frequent with increasing age . However , Landis and Hunt ' 05 as a result of a later study in much slower motion consider that the response in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observer by the Moro reflex which tends to disappear at the age of four months , leaving the startle pattern . If these results are valid , the only unlearned response of an emotional character is the startle pattern and the original claim of Watson and Morgan must be regarded as lacking experimental support . Now while McDougall claimed in his definition of instinct that the perception of a particular class of objects was associated with an emotional state of a particular quality , he was aware of I // the difficulties involved in the classification of emotional reactions . He suggests in " An Outline of Psychology " that each instinct may have its separate store of emotional energy or alternatively that there may be a common store of energy upon which each instinct may draw in different degrees . In a later work , " The Energies of Men , " he asks , " Shall we assume that each of the several instincts is activated by energy liberated within its own system ? Or do all the instincts of the organism draw upon a common source of energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is there a central power house , the propensities serving merely as the distributors of the common energy ? There is something to be said in favour of both possibilities . " 141 There are , indeed , a number of observations which indicate that the qualitative differentiation of emotional states is difficult , particularly at the human level . There is first the difficulty introduced by learning within a particular culture pattern which may influence the expression of emotional states . There are too , both in human and animal species , the phenomena of displacement , in which the activity actually displayed and regarded as indicative of emotional exitement may not be directed towards the customary object or situation . Again , it is frequently observed that emotional states which are described by different words may succeed each other with great rapidity . A mother , filled with misgiving and extremely anxious about a child who has strayed , may actually blame herself for recent unreasonable treatment of the child , but on finding him , may begin to chastise him forthwith , displaying all the outward signs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of fear but may turn and actually attack its pursuers . In human beings , unrequited affection may quickly turn to anger . There is the thesis defended by Freud62 with many illustrations , that the energy of anxiety is sexual energy . It is frequently observed and Burt38 has provided experimental confirmation that the intensities with which emotional states as commonly described by different words are manifested , are positively correlated . The person is " highly emotional " with respect to several emotions . The basis of the differentiation between emotional states that would appear to be implied by the use of different words would appear to be an interesting enquiry in itself . Most of the words used in McDougall 's classification have equivalents or near // equivalents in most Western European languages . This could suggest that among users of these languages , comparable or at least distinguishable states of experience occurred and that different labels or words could be consistently applied to them . Some interesting observations are available too , from ancient languages . Colleagues familiar with ancient Egyptian , old Turkish , ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in McDougall 's classification are recognisable in these ancient languages and frequently associated with images familiar to ourselves . Anger , for example , is not infrequently associated with heat and the colour red . In ancient Egyptian some of the symbols expressing anger derived from such images as an excited baboon , an attacking ox and a crocodile with open jaws . The recognition of some form of evolutionary continuity is implicit in such usage as well as outward or behaviouristic designations of some emotional states . Ancient peoples may have been just as prone to make anthropomorphic observations as any modern observers ; but the fact that so many words indicative of emotional states have equivalents over a wide range of languages is an interesting fact in itself reflecting perhaps , as history would tend to confirm , that there is some consistency in human behaviour and that the description and prediction of behaviour in ordinary , unspecialised language is not entirely chaotic . One possibility which might be investigated is that the distinction between emotional states which is implied by the use of different words is based more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactions than upon introspectable differences between the associated emotional states . If a situation is cognised within a given culture pattern as dangerous , many of the reactions in such a situation may come to be regarded as indicative of caution , apprehension or fear and it is by reference to a number of such common reactions that the existence of many emotional states is inferred ; but observation of human behaviour may fail to reveal the particular instinct and emotion which could be claimed to be operating . Assuming McDougall 's list to be defensible , it would be difficult to isolate Curiosity as a separate tendency from the manifestation of the Instincts of Escape , Reproduction , Self-Assertion , the Gregarious and the Parental Instincts . It would also be difficult to distinguish the operation of the Instinct of Pugnacity , the Instinct of Acquisition , the GreThe // garious Instinct and the Instinct of Construction from the Instinct of Self-Assertion . Long acquaintance with the individual within fairly consistent situations might improve the reliability of the observer 's classifications ; but again the masking effect of pathological developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the task more difficult . So too , considerable acquaintance with a particular animal species is sometimes necessary before a particular action or posture could be designated as a pre-coition display or a threat posture . McDougall frequently implied that the innate organisation of particular instincts was chiefly apparent in the cognitive or perceptual phase . In his " Outline of Psychology " and in common with Lorenz 128 writing at a later date , he applies to the instinct the analogy of a lock which a particular key , the stimulus , can open ; but for some time before the rapidly growing literature on the experimental study of behaviour became more widely known , it appeared that in many species a key of rather variable design would suffice to open the lock . Lashleylo9 was able to show in a series of experiments that the properties of the principal stimulus object could be varied within rather wide limits without an alteration in the instinctive behaviour . A mother rat will retrieve to her nest a variety of objects roughly resembling the infant . The temperature , colour , odour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be varied within wide limits but the object is still retrieved . Borovski28 has shown too , that gulls will retrieve a number of objects differing in weight , size , specific heat and texture . Small pebbles , potatoes and billiard balls were retrieved . The only requisite feature seems to be the generally round shape and possibly texture , since mud balls were rejected . There were too , a number of studies which suggested that any innate features in the organisation of the perceptual system would be of a general nature . These will be subject to comment deriving from the work of the ethologists ; but the studies of Herz76 with bees , Bingham26 with chickens and Kohler97 with chickens and chimpanzees indicated that in the majority of cases these animals in crucial trials reacted on the basis of the relationship between the patterns or sizes and shades of the discs presented . The fact that the animal reacts to the larger or smaller of the two stimulus objects and not to the one to which it has been trained to react , could suggest that // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perception . Taylor 201 it is true reported that by using a very positive method of training which involved electric shocks for " wrong " choices , 81.5 per cent . of the responses of his chickens were made to the original positive grey. * There were too , a number of studies which could form part of the nativist-empiricist controversy , as to whether or not the basic features of perceptual organisation are innate or established in the course of experience . Colour constancy in the domestic hen as inferred from the reactions of hens to grains in different lights was suggested by the studies of Katz and Revesz91 and size constancy by Gotz66 ; but the contribution of experience if any , in these forms of perceptual organisation is difficult to ascertain . Spalding 194 had shown that chickens blindfolded at birth when unhooded at the age of three days could within the period of two to fifteen minutes follow the movements of insects on a uniformly white sheet of paper , and appeared to have no difficulty in orientating themselves when moving over rough ground . Hebb 67 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ react to and transpose relationships of size and brightness with very little opportunity for training . Lashley and Russell1lo also reported that rats reared to the age of loo days with a total exposure to light of not more than ten minutes could adjust the effort of their " take-off " in leaping across a gap with almost the same skill as animals reared in normal conditions . Riesen 175 on the other hand has reported that chimpanzees reared without opportunities for visual experience are considerably retarded in their orientation to their environment . A film 166 based upon these experiments reveals a young chimpanzee requiring a surprising number of trials to learn that a white disc is associated with an electric shock . These findings along with the evidence gathered by von Senden 186 would suggest that at higher levels of evolutionary development , the establishment of basic visual orientation is more dependent upon experience than at lower levels . Von Senden gathered reports of the visual experience of patients after the surgical removal of congenital cataracts at an age when the patients were capable of describing their experience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the observa* Spence , K. W. , Psychol Rev. , 1937 , 44 , 430 ? 444 has indicated an alternative explanation in terms of learning theory . See this volume p. 273. // tions of different persons many of whom were not aware of the reports of others . Wertheimer218 has criticised the value of the evidence in view of the scattered and uneven quality of the reports ; but Hebb , 71 while conceding the various shortcomings , has insisted that it is rare and valuable evidence reflecting upon the role of experience in the development of human perception . Many of the subjects had great difficulty in recognising common shapes such as a book and only succeeded in " learning " to recognise the shape of the book over a period of several days . The presentation of the object in a different orientation was found to involve additional difficulties . One patient , after thirteen days training in differentiating a square from a triangle , still required to count the corners . However , Hebb 69 has suggested a classification of types of perception which does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assessed and reconciled . He distinguishes what could be regarded as three basic levels of perceiving ; namely , primitive ( sensorily determined ) unity , nonsensory unity and identity . The primitive unity of a figure refers to the segregation of the figure from its background . No precise properties of the figure are perceived . The figure is perceived as a whole and is " other than " the background . Hebb suggests that the segregation may be a direct product of sensory excitation . The experimental evidence indicates that such areas may be seen as a segregated whole by normal human beings , by human patients upon the removal of congenital cataracts , by normal rats 108 and at first sight by rats reared in total darkness . A non-sensory unity , later described as non-sensory figure ground organisation , is defined ( p. z1 ) , as " one in which the boundaries of the figure are not fixed by gradients of luminosity in the visual field . It is affected by experience and other nonsensory factors , and is not inevitable in any perception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field for a rugby player about to kick into touch or the " centre " of the field for a wing forward at soccer who is about to flight the ball across the goal mouth . As Hebb describes it ( p. z1 ) , " the non-sensory figure occurs in perception whenever the subject responds selectively to a limited part of a homogeneous area in the visual field . " Other examples would be the " corner of the room " or " the top of the hill , " not as geometrical points or as precisely delimited areas , but 1 54 Explanation of Human Behaviour as areas with a definite position . The two levels of primitive unity and non-sensory figure ground organisation are not intended to be rigidly exclusive but the latter is probably more influenced by learning . Identity in perception represents another level of achievement . A figure is perceived as similar to some figures and different from others . It is identifiable and having identity can be associated with other objects . A triangle or a circle may be perceived at the level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background and also as an identity having definite properties which distinguish it from an ellipse or a triangle . Many of the patients in von Senden 's report were incapable of distinguishing a triangle from a circle without laboriously searching for the corners of the triangle . They were , however , capable of distinguishing both figures as primitive unities , as would apparently members of mammalian species from the rat to man ; but at the level of identity there would appear to be differences at various phylogenetic levels . Gellerman64 has shown that chimpanzees can generalise the properties of a triangle either as a white triangle on a black background or vice versa , but rats are incapable of this generalisation even with extensive training . Rats can be trained to react to a triangle or a square when rotated to different positionss ; but chimpanzees and two-year-old children ( with some rotation of the head ) can recognise a triangle that has been rotated through 1200 . The perception of primitive unity would thus appear to be innate in many species and further powers of perception such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would appear to be associated with the level of phylogenetic development and/or learning . Such general features of organisation and capacities , clearly affect the range of adjustment of the animal and must be considered along with any forms of innate responses which can be demonstrated for a particular species ; but in the literature on instigation the emphasis is predominantly upon specific responses to specific stimuli on different occasions and here again it was possible to note , in the 1930 's , a trend in the evidence against McDougall 's position . The element of specificity was an essential feature in McDougall 's definition of instinct . In the operation of instinct , the organism was claimed 149 " to perceive or pay attention to objects of a certain class , to experience an emotional excitement of // a particular quality . . . and to act in regard to it in a particular manner , " or as stated elsewhere 136 the organism was " to experience an impulse to action which finds expression in a specific mode of behaviour in relation to that object . " One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject was the explanation of how these specific , innate patterns of response could have come into existence . To some extent McDougall reduced the urgency of this problem by his contention that " instinct is everywhere shot through with intelligence " and the general powers of response implied in the hormic position ; but he did concede 137 that he has always been inclined to a Larmarckian interpretation in this matter , namely that skills acquired in one generation , by some form of hereditary transmission , rendered members of subsequent generations more fitted than they otherwise would be to carry out a similar task . He was not alone in this view . Rignano177 had presented a broadly similar position involving the concept of " specific accumulation , " formed by the repetition of an act . This " accumulation " was thought to be established within the body plasm but eventually came to influence the germ plasm and thus hereditary transmission . W. M. Wheeler confessed to the " eighth deadly sin known as Lamarckism " or the view that " Instinct is essentially inherited habit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensive observations on termites had presented a similar view.37 His thesis was that the ever present threat of invasion of their nest by ants had resulted in the development by the termites of methods of building of increasing efficiency . He discerned a gradation from the heaps of wood-dust and pellets of dust and dung of the Calotermes and Termopsis to the more expert building with mortar formed of earth grains and saliva by Coptotermes and Termes and the cultivation of beds of fungus within the nest by Termes . The gradation was held to be due to the accumulation and passing on to a subsequent generation of some part of the relevant skills . " To sum up our observations in a few words , " writes Bugnion ( p. 31 ) " we may pass up the termite scale from the lowest to the highest and distinguish various degrees of growth in their industries , and consequently , in the evolution of their instincts , ... ( and further ) . . . . The various degrees observed in the utilisation of natural elements ( wood-debris , earth grains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by a small number of very simple                     