@@774212

txt  | Congress unless a state constitution prescribes a different day . In the interest of economy and lessened confusion in holding elections , the states gradually adopted the first Tuesday after the first Monday for election of state officials and sometimes for county officials as well . Alaska holds general elections on the second Tuesday in October but must choose presidential electors on the same day as other states . Hours of Voting . Since the voter today knows or can easily find out what day the election will be held , the only other information he needs is the time the polls will be open . Again we find that elections in our early history were not held during set hours . The polls would stay open until the officials knew that all of the voters had appeared or assumed that no more voters would appear . Then the sheriff or other official in charge would announce that the polls were closed.4 " When the states began setting hours for the polls to be open , the result was a great variety of times from state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the size of the community or upon the nature of the election , whether a direct primary general election . The earliest time for opening the polls is 6 A.M. and the latest closing hour is 9 P.M. , with the earlier hours usually followed in rural areas , the later hours in the larger cities.47 When there is a definite legal time for closing the polls , the problem arises of how to deal with those voters who arrive before the deadline but must wait their turn and are thereby prevented from receiving their ballots before the deadline . In some states when there is a line of voters waiting at the hour to close the polls , those already in line may vote , but those arriving after the closing hour may not vote . A device sometimes used to keep out the latecomers is for a policeman to get in line at closing time ; everyone ahead of him can vote , anyone behind him can not . In other states some kind of arbitrary rule is used to determine how many waiting voters will be permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers to have time off during voting hours to cast their votes . These laws lack uniformity in many respects but follow a general pattern . If an employee is qualified to vote , he " may upon prior application to the employer , absent himself from work for a specified period ( usually one to four hours ) without penalt , and without deduction from wages , the time of absence to be designated I ) y footnotehave any pertinence , and Congress in 1934 , after the adoption of the Twentieth Amend . ment , set the day for the electors to vote farther into December , further nullifying the previous reasons for selecting the first Tuesday after the first Monday .  --  Stimpson , op. ( it. , pp. 29-31 ; Edward Stanwood , A History of the Presidency from 1788-1897 ( Boston : I lough . ton Mifflin Company , 1898 ) pp. 36 if . 46 Sydnor , op. cit. , pp. 23-25 ; Bishop , op. cit. , pp. 113-114. 47 Bertram M. Bernard , Election Laws of the Forty-Eight States ( New York : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employer . . . . The laws usually also provide penalties in case an employer refused an employee the privileges conferred under the laws . " 48 Distractions and obstacles are removed from voters by law . Generally , all liquor establishments must be closed during voting hours ? a policy inspired by the revolt against the historical practice of mixing liquor and politics , especially when election polls were located in saloons . " In some states , in order to prevent intimidation , voters are exempt from arrest while going to or from the polls .5o Personnel for Elections . For the individual voter the challenge of an election is deciding how he will vote and getting himself to the polls , but this is infinitesimal compared with the challenge to those responsible for organizing and conducting an election . The general practice is to create a bipartisan state board or commission with various responsibility for the over-all conduct of elections . ( Usually the one organization operates both direct primaries and general elections , although in Southern states the political party organization operates its own direct primary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party holding the governorship or some other designated office may have an extra vote . 51 In one-party states the minority party may be legislated into a permanent minority status . State legislatures have universally ignored third parties and have either turned the entire administration over to the major parties or have provided for " nonpartisan " administration . The members of the state board have the power to select a bipartisan county board although the local authorities are sometimes designated by law ? the county clerk or some other official . Duties of the county officials include registration , transporting ballots or voting machines and supplies to the polling places , supervision of the voting , interpretation of election laws . The practice is to give these county authorities the power to appoint footnote49 Time Off for Voting , U. S. Department of Labor , Bureau of Labor Standards , Bulletin No. 138 , 1958 , rev. , p. 1 . The constitutionality of the Missouri law which is generally typical was upheld by the Supreme Court in Day-Brite Lighting , Inc. v. Missouri , 342 U. S. 121 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plentiful supplies of liquor , occasional fights , and ' drunken loungers at and about the Courthouses ' marred the assemblages of ' the good people and the industrious . ' "  --  Sydnor , op. cit. , p. 18. 50 The ruse of arresting voters on a fictitious charge or subpoenaing them as witnesses to prevent their appearance at the polls was an English practice at one time as well as American .  --  Seymour and Frary , op. cit. , p. 106. 51 In Indiana ( as an example ) the state election board is composed of the governor as ex.oflicio chairman and one person from each of the two parties ( casting the largest number of votes for secretary of state at the last preceding general election ) chosen by the governor upon nomination by the chairman of each of the two parties ' state central committers . The clerk of each circuit court is the secretary of the county election board and appoints two others who are nominated , respectively , by the chairman of the county central committees of the two patties tasting the hugest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last preceding gcncral election .  | the election officials in each voting precinct . This responsibility can be onerous because of the number of precincts and the number of officials required at each . In 1952 there was a total of 146,274 precincts or voting units in the United States . Connectitcut , because the counting is done by towns , had the smallest number , 169 ; California had the largest number , 20,746 . The precinct officials are called by such names as judges , inspectors , commissioners , and each major party is supposed to be equally represented . They take an oath before beginning their duties for the day and are required to be qualified voters in the precinct in which they serve . In many states a person is disqualified for this post if he is in any way involved in the outcome of the election by being a candidate , being related to a candidate , or having placed a wager on the outcome . These officials are assistct by clerks and are responsible for maintaining order at the polls , if necessary calling upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these precinct officials required to pass a test to demonstrate their knowledge of election laws . Their chief qualification is often political , for they are frequently recommended by ward and precinct leaders . In this way the task of finding people to serve is accomplished with much less difficulty than would otherwise be the case . The tendency is to reappoint the same officials over and over so that they do develop a great deal of know-how through experience . These officials are usually paid a fixed sum for the day 's work , ranging from $5 up , and are sometimes paid overtime for the number of hours worked after an arbitrarily fixed time in counting paper ballots and preparing the returns from the precinct . Watchers . The only other people authorized by law to be in attendance at the polls to observe the day 's proceedings are watchers appointed by the parties or candidates . The number of watchers permitted by state laws varies from one to five . They usually are required to have credcn tials to prove their right to be present . While they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election officials , including the counting or recording of the vote , they are entitled to see what goes on and to make objection to practices or decisions that they deem inimical to the interests of the candidates or parties that they represent . Preparing Ballots . For the general election the first preparation is ascertaining which candidates were nominated at the direct primary or at conventions or by petition , and are therefore entitled to have their names appear on the ballot . Local authorities responsible for preparing ; the ballots have in some cases a complicated task because of the large uciiulwr of districts from which legislators and judges are elected . Many of these districts include one or more cotcnties , while heavily populated counties  | contain various districts . Consequently the county election authorities must be sure that the ballots or machines sent to each precinct contain the names of candidates the voters of that precinct are entitled to vote for . When using paper ballots , the authorities must estimate the number to order from the printer , and depending upon the election , the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out as guides in making these estimates . Normally , the number ordered will far exceed the number of voters , so that many unused ballots will be destroyed . On those rare occasions when the number of voters exceeds the supply of ballots , any kind of available paper may be pressed into use for the emergency . When machines are used , the authorities are responsible for their maintenance , for preparing the name plates of candidates and affixing the plates to the machines , and for transporting the machines to the precincts . Generally there are two machines per precinct , permitting each party 's candidates to appear on a separate machine at the direct primary and both machines to be prepared identically at the general election . In case a machine fails to work during the election , crews of repairmen are supposed to be available for summons by the precinct officials . Sample Ballots . Whether paper or machines are used , some sample ballots will be printed and distributed before election to acquaint voters with the nature of the ballot they will be voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sample ballot is mailed to every registered voter ; in other states , e.g. , Ohio , to every fourth voter . In most states the voter must depend upon reproductions of ballots printed in newspapers . Finally , any additional supplies or equipment , including pencils , stamps and pads , forms to be filled out , ballot boxes , voting-machine models , sample ballots , must be delivered to each precinct by the county election authorities . Voting Procedure . In each precinct a place is selected for the polls . Usually , public buildings ? schools , fire houses , courthouses ? are used although private homes are sometimes chosen . In some states a movable structure is transported to a designated spot in each precinct and parked at the curb . The voter , upon entering a polling place , identifies himself with a poll-tax receipt in poll-tax states or gives his name so it can be checked in the registration book or card index . If he is discovered to be entitled to vote , he is given a ballot or told which machine to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a direct primary on the grounds of party membership ? a challenge he can overcome usually by taking a party oath . Ile is also subject to challenge on the grounds that he is not qualified , and the cicc ision then is left with the officials who determine the facts  | as best they can . The voter may be turned away or permitted to vote either without qualification or subject to future determination of his right to vote . Before casting his vote he has an opportunity to inspect a model of a voting machine or a sample ballot and can ask for instruction in using the machine or in marking a paper ballot . He can also ask for help in voting because of physical infirmity , illiteracy , etc. ; in which case representatives of both parties are entitled to be present . In some states a friend or relative , instead of an election official , may render this help , and a voter may be entitled to it if he simply requests it irrespective of any physical inability . Usually a voter is permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in marking the ballot . There is nearly always a time limit on the voter . Usually one to three minutes are allowed when voting machines are used , approximately five minutes for marking a paper ballot . If the voter makes a mistake in marking a ballot , he is allowed , as a general rule , as many as three paper ballots . In machine voting the process is over when the voter turns the master switch , thereby recording his vote and opening the curtains . When using paper , the voter returns the ballot to one of the officials , who checks the number on the stub of the ballot to make sure it is the same one issued to the voter . The official detaches the stub and drops the ballot in the box . Counting Procedure . The determination of the number of votes cast for each candidate or the number of votes cast " Yes " or " No " on referenda is simple when machines are used . At the conclusion of the voting , when the polls are closed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the officials , and returned to the county election authorities . In the case of paper ballots , the procedure is much more onerous . Each ballot is unfolded by one of the officials while others , including the party watchers , observe ; and the vote cast on each ballot is called out and marked on large tally sheets by clerks . Usually , as a double check , two clerks each keep a separate tally and the two tallies are compared for discrepancies . Various technical questions can arise in the reading of the votes . If a ballot has any other mark on it than the marks to indicate candidates voted for , the ballot may be thrown out and not counted . Most states require the voter to mark an X in the square after a candidate 's name or in a party circle , although some states will accept a check mark or a plus sign . Whatever mark is used , it must be kept completely within the square or circle ; otherwise , that one vote or even the whole ballot will be thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote by crossing out the names of candidates he does not want to vote for , and then he may or may not be required to place a mark after the names of candidates he is voting for . Ballots irr some states do not contain squares after candidates ' names ,  | and the voter makes his mark opposite the names . The difficulty with this arrangement is that the voter may be careless and put his mark ' between two candidates ' names . The election officials then must determine the voter 's intention . Whatever the ballot arrangement , the officials from time to time exercise discretion in deciding which candidate a vote should be counted for as well as whether a ballot is acceptable in whole or in part . Appeals can be taken from these decisions to the county officials or to the courts or to both , but such protests are futile unless the election is challenged and a recount is demanded . Often , counting can not begin until the polls are closed , and the workday is considerably extended if all the ballots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of greater efficiency ? to avoid the mistakes caused by weariness ? and of uniformity in exercising discretion , central counting boards are established in some cities ; all ballot boxes are taken to the one place , opened , and counted there by a special group of employees . Indictment of Election Administration . Most citizens have no contact with election administration except when they register or pay their poll tax , and when they vote . They have little if any comprehension of the machinery in operation , and they seem to be very little concerned about it . Their ire is aroused by crowded conditions at the polls , and they may carp occasionally about the officiousness in the way someone does his job . Nevertheless there appears to be considerable dissatisfaction with both the philosophy and the methods of the administration system among those who have much specialized knowledge . The main points of criticism are : ( 1 ) The election laws are too complicated , too detailed , and too conflicting and uncertain . It is impossible for an average precinct election official to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand them for his own purposes . Obscure meanings may baffle even lawyers , and it is sometimes difficult to get clear rulings from county or state attorneys. ( 2 ) State supervision is scanty or completely lacking . The state election officials do little more than appoint county officials ( assuming they have this power ) , publish the election laws , issue special regulations , and in some states , compile the state returns . Counties and larger cities become almost autonomous in conducting elections and sometimes proceed by disregarding provisions of the law . One very unfortunate consequence is t hat standards governing the whole voting process vary within the same state . ( 3 ) The appointment of personnel all the way up and down the line according to partisan affiliations is attacked for placing emphasis upon patronage rather than competence and inviting corrupt practices by officials who are more concerned with winning an election than with an honest  | election . The bipartisan system of appointment breaks down where one party is a hopeless minority and either fails to furnish its quota of officials or supinely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts intended to maintain honest elections and accurate reporting are in many respects violated , or at least nullified . Cases constantly arise revealing both loose methods and corruption , so that one often accepts election statistics with mental reservations . Errors of many kinds can be made , and it is not always possible to know if they were willful or inadvertent . The more extreme cases of fraud , however , are identifiable and can seldom be passed off as honest mistakes . Representative types of fraud and errors are : padding registration lists either by adding fictitious names or by failing to delete the name of the ineligible ; the many Mnds of corruption permitted in actual voting , such as repeating , impersonation , chain voting ; the willful violations by precinct officials as evidenced in deluding voters when giving them assistance , stealing elections by tampering with machines and stuffing ballot boxes ; errors in counting or purposely defacing ballots so as to disqualify them ; " counting out " ? stealing votes during the count by giving votes for one candidate to his opponent ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until other reports are in ; errors in the tally . It was the conclusion of the students of two Michigan recounts that most errors occurred in one-party and rural areas where officials were least competent , and that the number of errors was not related to the number of voters.53 Problems in Reform . The correction of many of these weaknesses lies in the administrative system , and increasingly the consensus favors a single state election official , independent of the legislature , governor , or other executive official , who actually has supervisory and enforcement power over a single responsible county official . These officials would have permanent tenure under a merit system , and both the state and county offices would have permanent staffs selected through examination procedure . The correction of many election errors can be realized by the use of voting machines and by improved systems of administration . However , it is at the precinct level that the frauds and errors are committed , and the chief problem is encouraging more competent people to study election laws and pass a test all for one day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily going to encourage people to accept all of this work or undergo the sometimes exhausting ordeal of conducting an election . 52 Samuel J. Eldersveld and Albert A. Applegate , Michigan 's Recounts for Governor , 1950 and 1952 : A Systematic Analysis of Election Error ( Ann Arbor : University of Michigan Press , 1954 ) University of Michigan Governmental Studies , No. 30 , pp. 22 23 . The basic work in this field remains Joseph P. ILuris , Election Administration in Ow United Stales ( Washington , I ) . ( .. : Brookings Institution , 1934 ) . 53 Eldersveld and Aiii , legate , nfr. cit. , pp. 23 21 , 119 ; ( : hap. 10.  | The final problem is not deciding that appointments will not be made on a bipartisan basis , but successfully divorcing election administration from the parties . People who are involved in the outcome of elections are concerned with all of the preparations for voting and the procedure for counting and reporting the votes . It should be borne in mind that the frequent failure to prosecute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the difficulty in persuading people to testify and in assembling sufficient evidence to make a case in court . These are the difficulties even when there is a will to prosecute , but prosecutors are themselves in politics and involved in the outcome of elections . They are sometimes loath to rouse the public 's anger by unveiling in court what has been occurring behind the scenes . If a prosecution falls particularly upon one party , its leaders will claim ? perhaps with some justification ? that they are being pilloried for partisan purposes and that the guilt lies more heavily on the other side . No nerve of the political system is so sensitive as the control of elections , for upon it may hinge the future of men and parties as well as the future of the system itself . Selected Bibliography Bernard , Bertram M. , Election Laws of the Forty-Eight States . New York : Oceana Publications , 1950 . Legal Almanac Series , No. 24 . Bishop , Cortlandt F. , History of Elections in the American Colonies . Columbia University Studies in History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York : Columbia University Press , 1893 . Harris , Joseph P. , Election Administration in the United States . Washington , D. C. : Brookings Institution , 1934.  --  - Registration of Voters in the United States . Washington , D. C. : Brookings Institution , 1929 . McGovney , Dudley O. , The American Suffrage Medley . Chicago : University of Chicago Press , 1949 . Ogden , Frederic D. , The Poll Tax in the South . University : University of Alabama Press , 1958 . Porter , Kirk H. , A History of Suffrage in the United States . Chicago : University of Chicago Press , 1918 . Price , H. D. , The Negro and Southern Politics . New York : New York University Press , 1957 . Report of the United States Commission on Civil Rights 1959 . Part II . Seymour , Charles , and Donald Paige Frary , How the World Votes . Springfield : C. A. Nichols , 1918 , 2 vols . Stimpson , George , A Book about American Politics . New York : Harper &; Brothers , 1952 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . University : University of Alabama Press , Bureau of Public Administration , 1956 . Sydnor , Charles S. , Gentlemen Freeholders . Chapel Hill : University of North Carolina Press , 1952.  | Public Opinion , Propaganda , and Campaigns Politics is an activity in which people compete for objectives by getting the support of other people . To speak of politics is to assume the existence of human beings and to take for granted that some of them are looking for followers among other beings . The processes of party politics are applied to one or another group of people with whom party leaders are concerned at one stage or another . In fact , partisan political competition follows the line of what leaders believe to be the interests and ideas of the public , or put another way , politicians are constantly searching for and trying to express public opinion . This assertion raises two immediate questions , which will be taken up in order : What is or should be the role of public opinion in the operation of government ? What is meant by public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most distinctive feature separating philosophies of government is the place assigned in the total scheme of things to the opinions of the ruled . Two extremes are found in the philosophy of authoritarian government , in which , theoretically , public opinion counts for nothing , and in the philosophy of democracy , in which , theoretically , public opinion one way or another counts for a very great deal . This antithesis in philosophy is ancient ; it is clearly a definitive difference between the thinking of Plato and the thinking of Aristotle in the field of public organization of men . Put in its simplified garb , these two approaches are revealed in assertions that some men know what is best for all men versus assertions that all men know what is best for thetaselves if they have the opportunity to grasp the necessary data.l 1 One of the most pertinent comments of this school of thought is the one attributed to the late Raymond Clapper : " Never underestimate the intelligence of the American people ; and never overestimate its knowledge of the facts . " Typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is : " It is a consoling thought that democracy is a sound device for substituting muddling for straight-line action . Experience and history have demonstrated that human beings , particularly en masse , are not capable of well designed straight-line action . It is more likely than not to be iu the wrong direction . That 's why totalitarian states , which have the powers to impose straight line action , invariably fail . They move straight ? hut go the wrong way . "  --  I ) r . E. A. Golden . weiser , quoted in Edward II . Collins , New York Times , pine 2 , 1952.  | In another view of the field , it becomes clear that arguments so extreme are completely unrealistic , since in practice government can not be operated independently of public opinion . Even the violent tyrannies of an Adolph Hitler and a Josef Stalin took some notice of their publics and made concessions to opinions . The real differences in this respect between tyrannies and free governments are the differences in degrees and in methods of consulting public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by opinion . " 2 Consent , which is a manifestation of opinion , is the proclaimed basis of representative or of free government . Yet some representatives use appeals to public opinion hypocritically as a means of ingratiation . To proclaim the sovereignty of the people may be sheer lip service . The crux of the problem , where public opinion is openly recognized and specifically sought , is to find the area of competence of public opinion . What can the people intelligently determine for themselves and what should be determined for them ? 3 Answers to this question prove that there are wide differences of opinion about the extent of the competence . Definitions . Definitions of public opinion abound . Some are similar or consistent . Some appear to be dissimilar and contradictory . Many seem to emphasize different factors , depending upon the interest and the orientation of the one making the definition.4 One way to attack the problem is to separate the phrase into its component parts . An opinion is an expression by an individual on a controversial subject . The key elements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it becomes an opinion when there is an overt manifestation by the individual through expression , and that the subject matter involved is recognized as being controversial . It can be said that before an opinion is expressed , it is an attitude ; hence , an attitude upon being expressed becomes an opinion . Public , in the sense of public opinion , is really a misleading word , for it implies everybody , the whole population . If public opinion meant an opinion held by everyone , it would mean nothing . Really , public opinion refers to group opinion , but the fixing of the word " public " in the phrase seems to have become permanent and to talk about " group opinion " as 2 Quoted in Robert B. Holtman , Napoleonic Propaganda ( Baton Rouge : Louisiana State University Press , 1950 ) page v. Mao Tse-tung put the case more crudely : " We must follow wherever the masses go . In no other way can we lead them . " 3 Harwood L. Childs , An Introduction to Public Opinion ( New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if . 4 See Walter I , ippmann , Public Opinion ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1922 ) ; Marbury B. Ogle , Jr. , Public Opinion and Political Dynamics ( Boston : Houghton Mifflin Comp ; uty , 1951 ) Chap . 3 ; Daniel Katz et al. , Public Opinion and Propaganda ( New York : ' I he Dryden Press , 1954 ) pp. 3 ff. ; Curbs I ) . MacDougall , Understanding Public Opinion ( New fork : The Macmillan Cumrpany. 1952 ) ' I ' . 12 32 . Leonaid V. Dooh , Public opinion and Propaganda ( New fork : Henry Holt and Company . 114 .. 19.111 Chan ' t  | a reform in semantics would likely create more confusion than it would dispel.5 The word public , in the sense of public opinion , is collective , at least a joining together of two or more persons . They form a public because of mutual interest through a common focus of attention . In the widest sense , a public can be any two or more , but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , those members have a common focus of attention on a subject which is controversial . Public opinion , then , is the expression by a group on one side of a controversy . Further refinement and expansion of this definition is required to clarify and isolate the phenomena . ( 1 ) A public is not a concrete thing , so a public , properly speaking , can not have an opinion . ( 2 ) A public can exist regardless of whether its members are physically together or dispersed , or whether they are all known to one another ; the test is their sense of compatibility and belonging together , not their propinquity . ( 3 ) The size of publics varies widely , depending upon the kinds of interests their members express . Generally speaking , the degree of abstraction of the focus of attention is inversely related to size . The greater the abstraction , the smaller the size , and vice versa . Where controversy is not involved , this rule would apply as well ? one would expect to get more members for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is involved , the general rule is that the more concrete the issue , the more and larger the publics that will be involved . The publics involved in the controversy of liking or not liking the New York Yankees are undoubtedly far larger as well as more expressive than the publics involved in the controversy over the question of Plato 's authoritarianism.s ( 4 ) Understanding the meaning of public as a synonym for group , the number and kinds of publics seem to be infinite ? even for those involved in controversy ? and nearly everybody is a member of various publics , some engaged in controversy and some not . In this manner we find our way back to the phenomena of pressure groups which are involved in controversy and in a specialized type of controversy called political . footnote5 The recognition of the distinction between " public " and " group " in public opinion , but the refusal to accept as a convention the established phrase " public opinion " led the late Professor Sait to one of the most outspoken denunciations in the literature in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York : Appleton-Century-Crofts , In ( . , 1952 , 5th ed. ) pp. 75-76. 6 On the New York Yankee controversy and its publics the reader probably feels the need for no citations . On the antidemocratic side of the Platonic controversy , see Warner Fite , The Platonic Legend ( New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons , 1934 ) ; R. H. S. Grossman , Plato Today ( London : G. Allen &; Unwin , Ltd. , 1937 ) ; A. D. Winspear , The Genesis ( 4 Plato 's Thought ( New York : The Dryden Press , Inc. , 1940 ) ; K. R. Popper , The 0/ten Society and Its Enemies ( Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1946 ) . On the prodemo ? cratic side , see John Wild , Plato 's Modern Enemies and the Theory of Natural far , ' ( Chicago : University of Chicago Press , 1953 ) ; John II . Hallowell , The Moral Founrhrtiorn of Democracy ( Chi ( ago : University of Chicago Press , 1951 ) ; R. B. Levinson , In 1 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , I 1 ' , , i , . , oily I'irss Irli'i ' .  | The opinion in public opinion is the opinon of the individual members of the public . It becomes a combination or average of their opinions shared jointly , but not separate or distinct from individual opinions . ' It is very quickly discovered that the opinions of members of a public are similar rather than identical . Each person is likely to have different perceptions and different motivations and to see aspects of the controversy , if not the entire controversy , in different contexts . Since the public expresses its individuals ' opinions for the purpose of effectiveness in winning the argument , the public wants to speak with unity . At this point the role of group leaders often becomes treacherous . A leader is , of course , a spokesman , and he wants to speak powerfully for his followers . They also want him to be forceful , but clashes may occur as to just what opinion he is to express . The mark of success is the ability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions of the public capable of being considered in the aggregate . The leader is constantly seeking common denominators to hold together the opinions of his followers . One way of holding down potential differences and creating greater unity is through the use of high-level generalizations , speaking in terms of the members ' objectives in abstract terms so that all will readily agree . Differences in opinions are more likely to appear within a group or public as questions for decision become more specific . Compulsion to Have Opinions . With the growth of human knowledge , the pyramiding of data , and the ever-growing perception of complexities , people would presumably be increasingly reticent to voice opinions in fields of learning in which they are laymen . The exact reverse seems to be true . Everyone appears to believe that the mark of a free man is the possession of a precise opinion on every conceivable subject . To admit that one does not know is to risk censure if not ostracism . There is probably more verbalizing by more people on matters they know nothing or little about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of this social compulsion to have opinions can be grasped by leaders and turned to their advantage . For those people who feel an obligation to have an opinion , a thoroughly uncompromising and compelling leader may appear the most heroic and attractive . If such a leader can succeed in convincing others that he actually expresses the only proper or authentic opinion , they may adopt the opinion , deluded into thinking it is their own . To express doubt or to suspend judgment or freely to admit ignorance of a mass of data is even more untenable for leaders than for followers . footnote7 " The locus of the subjective events is still individual . The Group is not a superindividual phenomenon but a many-individual phenomenon . "  --  Harold D. Lasswcll , Psychopathology and Politics , in The Political II'ril ? gs of //mold D. I.osswell ( Glencoe : Free Press , 1951 ) p. 241.  | Simulated Opinions . Another observation about people together in groups is their tendency sometimes to lose their sense of individuality . As a result , they may for the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This kind of response is most typically found in those groups called " mobs , " which are emotionally inflamed , but there are some such stimuli in all group associations . The very fact that a person is joining with others is likely to give him a greater sense of power and self-esteem . When an individual 's action becomes anonymous because of the total action of a group , the person may feel the protection of numbers and a consequent loss of his individual sense of responsibility . He may , upon later reflection , repent in humiliation for his antics as well as for the opinions he accepted and expressed . The influence of others not only shapes our opinions but also may urge us to have opinions . In these ways , opinions may be superficial and may even be pure pretense . One of the most important considerations in gauging another 's opinion is determining the intensity with which it is held and the likelihood of its being changed under stress . After all of these side issues are explored , the basic conclusion remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of having opinions . Observable Characteristics of Individuals . The process of managing people depends upon acting in conformance with people 's opinions . Yet opinions vary from person to person , so that in operations of any magnitude leaders find that they must deal with aggregates and averages , since they can not possibly solicit each individual 's opinion and attempt to relate every one to a consistent line of action . Leaders , who must be managers of others ' opinions , are reduced to the alternative of observing people irr the mass and thereby concluding how best to deal with them . It is impossible to say how many observable characteristics of people can be found , but it is possible to point out some . It should also be realized that some of these characteristics probably do not occur to a leader , but may be assumed to exist because they are so basic or because the leader himself is too immersed in them to see them as a factor in human management . We can begin with some observable limitations which are common to people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe which they accept so unquestioningly that it hardly seems like a limitation at all . Dissatisfaction with this situation may increase as people become more conscious of it and yearn to extend their activities into outer space or to other planets . Scientific developments begin to suggest that the per petual exploits of some comic-book characters may eventually become reality . For the immediate future , anyway , our actions , our thinking , uut - att ? Ave uiunlimd 10 thin eii irounicnl of the math . llonn tht !  | earth there are additional limiting factors in such phenomena as climate , upon which we depend for food , resources , and physical and mental energies . A different kind of limitation , one we are much more likely to be aware of , is the social-value system of the society . These standards are more flexible and evolutionary , perhaps , than the environment of our physical universe , but they do mark off for us in general ways the permissible area of personal conduct . A careful distinction should be drawn here . People often act and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not supposed to , and leaders normally must treat them as though they never do . This permissible area can be described as including any person , act , or thing which inspires a positive reaction in the public . What do people apparently put value on ? What do they seem to seek ? At any time there will be some confusion in discovering the answers , because people often appear to be going in different directions at the same time . These inconsistences must be expected and accepted even though they can not confidently be predicted.8 A nation which officially lionizes the homely virtues of simplicity and humility can be sold glamour and elegance to the point that a movie celebrity is not safe in public without a. police escort . Leaders of various kinds , seeing the value placed upon such glamorized persons , seek them out to be photographed with or employ their publicity value for advancing controversial issues . It is sometimes possible to get a clue to what has social value from history books and general literature ( What is featured ? What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " good " and " bad " as heroes and villains , o from slogans , from newspapers and periodicals ( Who and what is news ? How is each person or subject presented ? Which news stories are obviously expected to create sympathy or animosity ? ) . Odd and obscure facts about things unknown may be of interest to us , while we would look upon the same kind of information about ourselves as trivial.lo Irrespective of time , place , or circumstance , people have certain wants for which they demand satisfaction . All people have nutritional and sex footnote8 One is sometimes at a loss to explain , much less predict , what people will consider appropriate ; e.g. , at a time when the Bikini bathing suit seemed established as fashionable beachwear , clothing-store managers were receiving protests from irate window shoppers who were scandalized at the sight of nude manikins in the display windows . This illustra. lion may not so much reveal inconsistency as prove that the Bikini bathing suit 's technical repudiation of nudism is essential in the American scheme of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous melodramas of a bygone era , was the expectation that villains would wear mustaches . Apparently , Thomas E. Dewey ( lid not believe this stereotype either extended into the mid-twentieth century or was transferable from the stage to politics . In " ' Some Mongolian tribes put salt in their tea , ' says a filler item . Still , editors keep rejecting our article about a neighbor who puts sugar on his watermelon , probably because he is n't a Mongolian .  --  Senator Soaper , August 18 , 1953.  |p464  demands which , in the most elementary sense of human management , are assumed and exploited . More subtle types of demands are capable of more sophisticated treatment . People at some point in respect to some problems demand authoritative answers because they can not remain in permanent mental suspension . This demand includes having things explained for them , having certain immutables established for them , having reassurance that their personal worlds are in harmony and that they have definite things to look forward to . People also demand security , but not exclusively in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand too is for assurance ? the assurance that tomorrow will be like today . There is also a demand for freedom , but it is often unfathomable and is counterbalanced by other demands which restrict a person 's freedom of action . What is accepted as being freedom or regimentation is sometimes determined by habit . Denial or restriction of a particular freedom may create a tremendous uproar immediately , but may gradually be accepted as people get used to it . The nature and extent of the response depends upon the freedom and the restriction . Finally , people demand or insist upon making value judgments . To be human is to acquire concepts of right and wrong , good and bad . Value judgments are often affected by time , place , and circumstance , but the making of such judgments is universal . They are so strong that they dictate or at least restrict how we satisfy our other demands . Word Symbols . The process of forming opinions is by means of communication , i.e. , the use of symbols . The most commonly recognized symbols @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are by no means the only or necessarily the most effective symbols . In fact , words have both tremendous advantages and limitations . Their advantages are definite and quite self-apparent : They are capable of standardization in meaning , yet of infinite flexibility in use ; they are cheap and easy to use . Their limitations can be equally appreciated . While words have standardized meanings , many words have various meanings or shadings of meanings and these connotations often confuse rather than clarify when words are used carelessly . The knowledge that conflicting meanings can attach to words may be applied in two different ways : When the intention is to be cleat ? and precise , words will be selected for their exactness and meanings will be carefully described to avoid confusion . When the intention is to con fuse or to gloss over difficulties in an effort to win an argument , words may be used for their vagueness in meaning . Attempts to influence pith ! it opinion usually exhibit examples of both methods , although the second may be used unintentionally because the communicator himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ate involved in ( ( ontroersirt  |p465  inherently in or easily adaptable to the realm of emotionalism , and even those issues capable of calm discussion are frequently given emotional motivations as part of the art of argumentation . Almost the whole lexicon of the social sciences is emotionally charged in such words as " democracy , " " justice , " " the people , " " social welfare . " Even the act of teaching is complicated by the fact that scholarly analysis runs afoul of the emotional connotations attaching to the words which are analyzed or which are incidental to the analysis . At some points the communicator is baffled in his search for words with exact meanings , words which are not so emotionally charged that people will resent their being examined objectively . Although the emotionalism attaching to words is a grave problem in many kinds of situations , the recognition of the fact can be used to advantage in other situations . The very indefiniteness of such words becomes a weapon for manipulators of public opinion , in calling forth signal responses in their audiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication has a different definition or idea of what " democracy " is as long as all of them have a positive reaction to the word . Then by the use of it a generally uniform signal response is achieved . Conversely , some kinds of words have no emotional connotation and refer specifically to the phenomenon intended by the communicator.11 The words of the physical and natural sciences fall into this category , for they represent or describe particular things or ideas with no emotion or sentiment attached.l2 It would indeed be remarkable to witness a political argument over the correct formula for water or hydrochloric acid . If these formulas are to be revised , it is the responsibility of chemists . The general public is unconcerned with the symbols and even with the properties of water and acids ; most people want sufficient water for their use , and they hope that it does not have to be shot full of chemicals which make it unpalatable or hazardous to clothing in laundering . Mathematics , the symbolical language of these sciences , is nonemotional . If some one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a lack of basic learning , not an emotional conviction that 5 is the correct answer.13 It is entirely possible that footnote11 This distinction between words on the basis of the definiteness of their meaning or their referent and the basis of the degree of emotionalism attaching to them is comparable to the distinction between intentional words and extensional words , respectively , discussed in Ogle , op. cit. , pp. 70-72. 12In fact , most people understand little if any of this communication , e.g. , " Heavy Particle Detection Using an Electron Multiplier " or " Chromosome Breakage and Mitotic Inhibition Induced by X-Rays at Known Mitotic Stages of the Grasshopper Neurohlast " ? titles of university dissertations in physics and zoology , respectively . 13 A fascinating attempt at expressing political concepts in mathematical symbols and fornntlas is to he found in the two articles by Profesor Charles H. Titus , " A Nomenclature in Political Science , " American Political Science Review , Vol. 25 ( 1931 ) pp. 45-60 , 615-627 . Aside front the remote possibility that this kind of language would be accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the names of emotional concepts would be recanting . Very likely , as the association was made , people would look upon w , the symbol fur Itulitits , with the same entononal at tathment the ? s now Ic , v , ? fit ,  |p466  some symbols in the arsenal of science can produce emotional responses . Certainly the words " atom bomb " and " hydrogen bomb , " which are popular terms , are in this category , although the technical term , thermonuclear , is too scientific-sounding to acquire emotional attachments . All words can not be permanently classified as emotional or nonemotional , for many can be given either connotation depending upon the context in which they are used . The word " people " can be purely a referent when speaking of population ? 100,000 people live in a particular city ? or it can be a word of intense emotion in political language as applied to welfare or human suffering . Other Types of Symbols . The oldest means of communication in the history of man are pictorial symbols , be they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the sun 's rays . While the use of pictures or other visual appeals have limitations in their accessibility and the precision of their meaning , they are the most simple , and if used effectively , can be most powerful in their impact . The recognition of their value is revealed in the dependence upon visual aids in the learning process at all levels of instruction . The effects of motion pictures and television are almost incalculable in the kinds of influence they can exert upon attitudes and opinions . The use of the political cartoon , which is almost entirely visual , has become an intimate aspect of the party battle and has a recognized place in political chronology.14 The ability to convey instantly the idea of a party by the symbol of an animal has probably had considerable effect upon people 's political understanding , especially by the subtle presentation of an attitude in the way the animals are drawn and the epitomizing of an idea through this symbolism . Other types of symbols with more limited but highly effective use are music , color , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their lives , with sentimental attachments , with stirring emotional experiences ; national anthems are supposed to arouse patriotic fervor , and many pieces of music , as the Marseillaise , have had controversial ideological associations . The selection Marching Through Georgia , because of its associations , has limited appropriate uses in the United States . Colors have immemorially been associated with status or conditions : black for mourning , white for purity , red and purple for royalty . The simplicity and ease in being able to communicate a whole complex footnote14 The symbol of the Democratic donkey was first published in 1837.  --  Stefan Lorant , The Presidency : A Pictorial History of Presidential Elections from Washington to Truman ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1952 ) pp. 146-147 . The symbol of the Republican elephant was created by Thomas Nast in 1874 in his drawings in Harper 's Weekly . Nast also popularized the donkey beginning in 1870.  --  George Stirnpson , .4 Book about American Politics ( New York : 11m-per Sc . Brothels , 1952 ) pp. 281-284 ; letters column in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1955.  |p467  series of ideas by color is too obvious to need elaboration . Odors can remind us of food , warn us of danger , gratify our esthetic urges , and ( according to perfume manufacturers ) arouse us to passions . Symbols are far more complicated in meaning and more flexible in use than this short discussion suggests . A large part of our living is predicated upon the recognition of the meaning represented by symbols . There are symbols such as crosses associated with salvation , although the location of the cross or its form may variously suggest a church or a grave ; white crosses are symbolical of military cemeteries . Other symbols connected with religion are : an apple for Eve 's sin , a pearl for salvation , an eye in the hand for the Lord . A shock of wheat means abundance . Insignia displayed on clothing immediately convey military rank , as clothing itself is taken to represent status . Some symbols appear to be universal and standard in their meaning , while others are accepted temporarily and then their significance passes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its symbolism , but the generations following the heyday of Alfred E. Smith will never appreciate the symbol of the brown derby hat which had so much real meaning to Americans in the 1920 's . Symbols are not only inevitable but indispensable . Yet , one should realize that a symbol often stands for a congeries of things which become lumped together without regard to the differences among the units making up the totality . Furthermore , symbols stand for things but are not the things themselves , just as a map represents land and water but is itself merely a piece of paper . Basis of Opinions in Beliefs . Communication is the means for both discovering and attempting to change or influence public opinion , but the likelihood of success in the second is dependent upon success in the first . To know what opinions people hold is to know where to begin in efforts to convince them . More basic is the investigation of why people hold particular opinions , since it is highly unlikely that they will accept just any opinion presented to them . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the fact that public opinion arises from individuals sharing common or similar opinions on a given subject . Since opinions are expressions regarding controversies , there is a problem in semantics , if not in actuality , in discussing the condition and the process of opinion formation . Many subjects are capable of being controversial , but are not so because there is a general consensus among people . It can be said that theism versus atheism is controversial , but the controversy rarely flares up because most people are theists ; at the same time , there are endless religious controversies among theists . Leaders must never overlook this distinction . By adhering to one religious doctrine they do not alienate believers in opposing doctrines except where there is complete lai k of religious tolerance . I Iowever , no leader could exlcct to accomplish  |p468  much among theists if he were an atheist . He would be challenging , not opinions about religious practices , but the consensus about a Supreme Being . When a consensus exists , we often refer to it as a belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the existence of a mountain or the dimensions of a house . We can distinguish between what is accepted as a fact ( I am sitting at a table ; I am walking down the street ) and what is a matter of truth ( All free men are better off than slaves ; representative government is the best government ) . A fact has practical validity because by the arbitrary standards we adopt we can " prove " or " demonstrate " it . Truth becomes such if we accept it as truth , if we believe the substance of the assertions . That which is accepted as fact is beyond controversy . That which is accepted as truth is considered beyond controversy although the most virulent controversies have been clashes of opposite beliefs . Opinions , therefore , are products of what we believe to be true . Beliefs are distinguishable from techniques and skills employed in the physical world to harness the forces of nature , to invent laborsaving devices which increase the ease and joy of living . The beliefs by which men live give meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the cement which holds a society together.15 Our system of beliefs can not be approached in terms of good or evil , truth or falsity , since beliefs are the energizing forces behind men in relation to which they measure the value of the objectives they strive for and accomplish . Through his beliefs , a man understands the world about him , seeing his own relation to his environment , and develops his aspirations for what he considers to be " the good life . " The tremendous value of beliefs is setting up goals or ideals for which men strive even though the very sublimity of the goals precludes their being attained . Belief in authority is a prerequisite to human organization . The demands for authority and for security are satisfied by institutions of authority and by the leaders of the institutions who symbolize the authority . Government as an institution has become the central authority since the rise of the nation-state , for its leaders exercise or authorize the supreme coercive power . Yet , the power of government ultimately relies upon acceptance , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commonly identified symbols such as music , color , pictures , and words , as well as by the use of ceremony and ritual . Here is part of the secret of consent by the governed in the establishing of habitual responses and consensus toward the symbols of the authority of government . The use of legend , which itself has some basis in historical fact , is never put to more effective purpose than in bolstering belief in governmental footnote15 Robert M. Maclver , The Web of Government ( New York : The Macmillan ( : um parry- , 1947 ) pp. 3-12.  |p469  authority . In fact , history itself is legendized for popular consumption and gives the controversial values of the present greater authority by the simplified presentation of the past . Belief in authority is found in all highly esteemed institutions , churches , schools , clubs . The symbolical representation and reinforcement , even when depending upon different symbols , serves the same purpose in all institutions . Evolving Beliefs . While beliefs are not static , they normally change slowly and at any given time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by environment , they evolve even when they are not openly challenged ; but a belief is only shaken when it no longer explains phenomena , when it is no longer compatible with new experiences . People may conclude that some of their beliefs obstruct rather than facilitate the solution of problems . Even as our beliefs evolve , a great deal of the old remains with the new , so that the changes are most frequently to be compared with a slight veering in a road rather than a sharp reversal of direction . In some cases , beliefs are challenged and attacked in the hopes of speeding up the process of change . Our beliefs are not capable of being logically demonstrated like a hypothesis in geometry , and to demand this kind of " proof " would in itself be a denial of the beliefs . People will be repelled by attacks upon their beliefs unless they already are beginning to lose their validity . Beliefs are destroyed by opposing beliefs , and to overcome one system , another system must be supplied . It is in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ USSR proceeds against the system of democracy . Measurement of Public Opinion . These analyses of people stimulate a tremendous interest in going beyond the surface of the phenomena in order to explore the unknown and to measure its characteristics . The entire structure which is now being reared in the academic world under the title of the behavioral sciences is based upon the concept that at last the final mysteries of the human personality can be dispelled and that opinions can be not only measured but also anticipated . The quantification of people was applied to the world of commerce before it was systematically applied in the political realm . Manufacturers have an understandable desire to learn what consumers think about their products and are willing to pay large sums of money to find out . There is a growing industry in the field of conducting commercial surveys and telling corporations how their goods and services should be advertised . These are investigations of specific opinions about one or another commercial product . In the wider reaches of opinion measurement , universities are increasingly active . Roth party organi/ations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The demand bode in academic  |p470  and commercial fields for personnel trained in the skills of statistics , survey procedures , and quantification methodology is bringing in its wake new curricula in the social sciences and the invention of a new esoteric language in which these new concepts and measurements are communicated . Surveys are undertaken to find out what people are thinking , what their opinions are on given subjects , and why they hold those opinions . Election surveys are sometimes used as a basis for prediction , e.g. , those of the Roper and Gallup organizations ; but other surveys are more concerned with analysis and interpretation and with advancing the total area of dependable information about people . These measurements depend more frequently upon the use of open-ended questions , i.e. , questions for which alternative answers are not provided the respondent , but he is asked to answer in his own words exactly what he thinks . This kind of question is supposedly capable of bringing out both predominant opinions and the multitude of individual reactions , motivations , beliefs . A logical extension of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the drive to probe more deeply than is possible by the customary interviewing procedure.ls Limitations in Measurements . This grandiose vista of the possibilities for exploring opinion , its formation , and its roots depends upon the rigorous application of procedures which themselves are subject to constant review and revision . There is lack of agreement about methods of sampling which after all are based on mathematical laws of probability and are statistical questions . Initially , however , the concept of the entire procedure relies upon the acceptance of a sample as being representative of the group or area ? called the " universe " ? to be investigated . Admitting that in most cases everyone in the " universe " can not be interviewed because most " universes " are too large , it then follows that the sample must stand for the " universe . " A completely random sample may be satisfactory if it will give the results the investigator wants ; thus his only problem is making sure the sample is random and not inadvertently overrepresentative of one characteristic of the " universe . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is assumed that people falling in certain categories will have significantly different opinions . These purposes lead to stratifying the population within the " universe " and sampling from each stratum on an equal basis or on a proportional basis . Gallup and Roper have used the quota wherein the United States , as the " universe , " has been stratified by age , education , economic status , sex , size of community , etc. , and a predetermined number of respondents is found in each category . footnote16 For example , Harold D. Lasswell , Power and Personality ( New York : W. W. Norton Rc Company , Inc. , 1948 ) ; Else Frenkel-Brunswik , " Interaction of Psychological and Sociological Factors in Political Behavior , " American Pnlilieal Science Review , Vol. 4 ( 1  |p471  Another method is to stratify by area and then select at random from each area.17 To frame the questions for a survey requires knowing more information . Next , the most challenging problem occurs in the framing of the questions . The objective is simple and clear words which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are unequivocal in meaning . From the previous discussion of words it is obvious that this objective is never thoroughly achieved . Experimentation with questions by pretesting and rewording them is often helpful . The choice between open-ended and closed-ended questions depends upon the ambitious nature of the survey , the skill of the staff and the amount of money available . The possibilities of the openended question have already been suggested , but its limitations are found in interviewing and tabulating . The interviewer must have great skill and considerable time for his work , and he should make every effort to record the response without injecting either extraneous material or his own projection of what the respondent meant . Furthermore , the tabulating and coding of the responses is a serious challenge in capturing the essence of the opinions . While the closed-ended questions lack the possibilities of depth interviewing , they are the way to measure responses to a direct question such as , " What candidate are you going to vote for ? " Here the respondent has the choices of available candidates or saying he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are foreseen and supplied so that either the interviewer or the respondent can check the applicable answer . The interviewing is much simpler , and the tabulating is purely routine . The two kinds of questions bear some relationship to the distinction between the words " polls " and " surveys . " Polls are , properly speaking , a process of counting heads on a question . Surveys are more than a counting ; they take in depth interviewing , probing for motivations and beliefs . A survey depends much more upon open-ended questions , but of course makes use of the closed-ended kind as well . In commercial surveys , interviewing precedes or parallels the sales campaign . There is no fixed point , as there is in election surveys where everything points to the day the voters cast their ballots . In election surveys , two distinct techniques have been used . In one kind a single interview is conducted at some point before the election and the results are tabulated . In the second kind a group of respondents is selected and asked if they will agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . This is known as the panel-type interview.18 It permits the footnote17 See Angus Campbell et al. , The Voter Decides ( Evanston : Row , Peterson &; Company , 1954 ) . pp. 227-250. is The pioneer in this technique was Professor Paul Lazarsfcld , who first used it in the United States in his 1940 survey of Elie County , Ohio .  |p472  charting , so to speak , of each respondent during an election campaign , noting when he crystallized his opinions and why , when he changed his mind if he does change , what campaign events had the greatest impact , what issues predominate at one time or another or consistently throughout the whole campaign . In either kind of interview technique , much depends upon the interviewer . He should limit himself to asking just the questions provided and avoid injecting his own opinions in any way . He should be diplomatic but insistent in getting the information and should establish rapport with the respondent . The respondent must be relied upon to give truthful answers as well as genuine answers , i.e. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of answering a question . A science and a scientific method are distinguished by the ability to attain the same results under the same controlled conditions . A science of human behavior encounters special difficulties . One test of success arises in the attempts to predict , and the question to be answered is whether these phenomena lend themselves to accurate predictions.19 The trustworthiness of respondents is the first problem . Can they be depended upon to tell the truth , to remember accurately , to reproduce the same data for different interviewers in different interviews ? Contradictory findings by different survey organizations point up , among other things , this difficulty.2 " In predicting election outcomes based on polls and surveys , another troublesome decision is accounting for the total sample , including who will not vote as well as who will vote and for whom . Since the sample represents the " universe , " the entire sample must be considered . Therefore , when a respondent says he will vote for Candidate A , the investigator must decide whether the respondent will actually vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry out his announced voting intention . When a respondent says he has not made up his mind , the investigator again must decide if he will vote and for whom . When a respondent says he does not intend to vote , the question is whether he will carry out this intention or will finally decide to vote , and for whom . It becomes more understandable why investigators attempt to correlate demographic factors with voting behavior and seek to find combinations of personal characteristics , such as the Index of Poll tical Predisposition , as clues in predictions.21 The greatest aid in forecasti footnote19 One of the principal doubters has been Lindsay Rogers : see The Pollsters ( Net% York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1949 ) . Hadley Cantril et al. , Gauging Public Oputtinn ( Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1944 ) , discuss most of the problems itl this lield , but not as doubters . 20 For example , in their 1952 surveys the Survey Research Center and the Ropet organization arrived at different conclusions regarding the women 's vote in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ findings of various elution studies , see Bernard R. Berelson et al. , Voting ( Chicago : University of Chicago I'tes , 19511 ) Appendix A. 21 Sc ' above , ( ; hap. 12.  |p473  is the fact that people normally make up their minds how they will vote and actually vote that way.22 As for the exact forecast of the vote , most pollsters have conceded an error of 2% to 3% . The greatest loss of prestige for the survey techniques occurred after the 1948 presidential election when the nationally publicized polls were wrong in their predictions . Here , apparently , was an election where the voters did not behave the way they were supposed to . Not only did a substantial number of voters report that they would vote for Dewey and then change their minds and vote for Truman , but also a larger than average number kept putting off their voting decision.23 The election also revealed the ability of the pollsters themselves to be swept along with the popular assumption which their own polls had helped to create . Having been burned so badly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their figures in 1952 , predicting that the result would be close . In its way this prediction was even wider of the mark since the forecasting of a close election like that of 1948 is obviously more difficult . Even in 1956 , memories of 1948 were still fresh enough to produce hedges and extreme caution in predictions.24 Objectives of Quantification Methodology . The last question to be asked about so ambitious a movement as the behavioral sciences is , Where are they moving ? At the outset it should be noted that they are not the beginning of either an interest in or investigations of behavior , for the social sciences have generally been directed toward people 's behavior in various kinds of situations . The departures of these sciences are into new realms of techniques . They proceed from the assurance that all human phenomena can be measured quantitatively if the proper methodology is employed . If this position is not asserted , it is certainly implicit . To what ends are these measurements directed ? Dr. George Gallup insists that polls as miniature referenda or plebiscites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative government ; that they make the town-meeting type of direct democracy applicable to the twentieth century . His conclusion is based on the discovery in his polls that the people are often ahead of their leaders regarding public policy and that leaders can and should consult the polls to discover public opinion on the issues of the day . The result will be more precise and effective representation and less guessing about what people want footnote22 Robert Bower , " Public Opinion Polls and the Politician , " The Annals , September 1948 , pp. 104-107 . The experience cited here indicated about 87% in this stable category . 23 For an analysis of the polls , see Frederick Mosteller et al. , The Pre-Election Polls of 1918 ( New York : Social Science Research Council , 1949 ) . See also Ogle , op. cit. , pp. 2622 ff . 24 New York Times , May 27 , 195 ( i .. Associated Press dispatch , Nuveinher 8 , 1956.  |p474  tlone.2 ' Leaders are not likely to be surprised to find a time lag between the expression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaders like to make sure of their ground before they move , or they may cease to be leaders . Their dependence upon polls varies , although the trend toward dependence is likely to be on the increase , as we have new leaders conditioned to the acceptance of the polling techniques . An entirely different level of conception about the new techniques takes as its point of departure their tremendous contributions to civilization.26 By refinements in methodology , in testing , in examining , people can be placed in the professions to which they arc best adapted and can be more socially useful . We can learn the maximum about ourselves and finally comprehend how to live in the most satisfying and productive manner . Superstitions and ignorance can be abolished . Intelligence can gradually replace muddling , and the rational can replace the irrational in human affairs . Indictment of the Methodology . There are many questions to be asked about the future implications of these new measurement techniques , but before these questions have any pertinence , the compatibility of phenomena and the methodology must be assured . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not completely lend themselves to quantification , the techniques will in reality be limited in their usefulness . At the outset , one can ask , What is being measured ? 27 The commercial pollsters , if not the university surveyors , often speak of measuring public opinion . To ask respondents closed-ended questions and count the responses for each possible answer is a measurement of those opinions elicited from respondents . These tabulations are or arc not public opinion depending upon the definition of the term . If public opinion is a collection of individual opinions on a question where all possibilititics are foreseen in the alternative answers , this measurement is as accurate as the distribution of respondents ' answers reflects the actual distribution of answers in the " universe . " In turn , other assumptions are made ; e.g. , the opinions ( or lack of them ) expressed by respondents are their real opinions . However , not footnote25 See particularly , George Gallup and Saul F. Rae , The Pulse of Democracy ( New York : Simon and Schuster , Inc. , 1940 ) Chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be a matter of opinion itself and certainly is exceedingly more complex than Gallup 's thesis suggests . See Doob , Public Opinion and Propaganda , pp. 62-63 . An ambitious survey of both leaders and followers revealed that leaders would grant more freedoms to those working on behalf of the Soviet international conspiracy than the general public would .  --  Samuel A. Stouffer , Communism , Conformity and Civil Liberties ( New York : Doubleday &; Company , Inc. , 1955 ) . 26 For a popularly written presentation of this case , see Stuart Chase , The Proper cwdv of Mankind ( New York : Ilarper &; Brothers , 1998 ) .  |p475  everyone says openly what he thinks privately . Others have no actual opinion , but would as readily be caught without their hair combed as without an opinion . The compulsion to have an opinion may be increased by being interviewed . There is the fear the interviewer may look down upon those who do not give the " right answer . " A poll or survey reveals useful information when the respondents understand and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor deceptive . It is safer still if the questions have only a limited number of possible answers whether they are elicited open-ended or closed-ended . To poll regarding a contemplated action , like voting in an election , permits checking up on the polling after the action is taken . A great deal of polling and surveying can not be checked in this fashion . To ask an open-ended question , Why are you going to vote for candidate X ? may produce a pattern in the answers showing that certain characteristics of the candidate or the campaign predominate . However , open-ended questions establish the individuality of opinions , and the coding process may itself beg the question of why . One answer may be classified as candidateoriented and subdivided in the category that he is doing a good job in the office and should be retained , while another candidate-oriented answer may fall in the category of personal qualities of the candidate apart from the way he conducts his office . These are both outwardly and potentially meaningful differences in responses , but the possibility for different categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many categories as there are respondents in this general classification . To analyze this measure of public opinion in terms of each individual response becomes nugatory unless the objective of the survey is to demonstrate the atomization of opinions and the resulting complexity of the public reaction and evaluation . Normally , similar responses are grouped together and given an identical code number , so that a large enough number of respondents become available in each category for analysis and possible generalization . This type of question which calls out individual responses raises more annoying problems when applied to matters of public policy . Should the Government of the United States take a certain kind of action regarding a particular problem ? Too frequently such questions are closed-ended , forcing respondents to classify themselves Yes , No , Undecided , No Opinion , or with the added benefit of some qualifications of Yes or No . To ask the question open-ended risks bringing down a deluge of unrelated answers , as well as consistent answers based on mutually exclusive reasons . Nowhere does the problem of language appear Si ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key adjectives and nouns with favorable or unfavorable cottnota-  |p476  tions can virtually predetermine the side of the majority.28 Many such questions are analyzed without giving sufficient consideration to the number of respondents having no opinion . In some cases this classification may hold the key to the significance of the public 's reaction . The most unhappy evidence of the problem of polling on issues is the contradictory answers elicited to different questions.29 Americans generally back away from any proposal contemplating war but often strongly favor proposals which could readily lead to war , as long as the question refers to " maintaining peace " or fails to refer to the war potential of the proposal . On a series of small scales , people reaffirm their opinions on the major issue of economic policy : Many want more money spent for their interests but want financial solvency , less inflation , and a balanced budget at the same time . To make these discoveries is not particularly enlightening to government officials who are making decisions . The town-meeting concept of policy determination by polling is qualified by the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly from No to Yes on an issue after the issue is settled by government action ; i.e. , the bandwagon effect can operate powerfully upon people who had a weak opinion either way , no opinion , or even a strong opinion on the other side.30 This behavior is itself essential to the operation of representative government . The minority at some points must acquiesce in the majority decision , and the result , in time , may be a consensus . The function of leadership , occasionally at least , is to act contrary to the apparent opinions of the majority when the leaders have the data , the comprehension , and the perspective of a problem which the public does not and perhaps can not have . The fact of taking action may convince some that they were wrong and cause others to suspend their judgment while they wait and see . The action may also cause a tornado of verbal attacks , and government leaders usually time such actions so that the storm of abuse will have blown over and a favorable reaction will have set in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina , August 27 , 1940 , the determination of public policy was largely settled by the wording of the question : " Are you in favor of discontinuing the legal sale of intoxicating liquors , wines , beers , or other intoxicating beverages , and the imposition of new taxes to replace lost revenues as a result of repeal of present liquor laws ? " 29 See , e.g. , Thomas A. Bailey , The Man in the Street ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1948 ) : Frederick C. Irion , " Public Opinion Research ? An Opportunity for Political Parties , " American Political Science Review , Vol. 44 ( 1950 ) p. 921. 30 Rogers , op. cit. , pp. 39 ff . 31 In 1832 the opposition to Jackson injected the issue of rechartering the Second Bank of the United States into the campaign four years before the charter expired . This act illustrated the reverse situation in timing , an attempt to embarrass the Jackson Administration by Jackson 's veto of the rechartering bill . Jackson won the issue and the election , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue once and for all . Whether the bank advocates were the majority or the minority in 1832 , they eventually had to acquiesce .  |p477  This characteristic of the problem is related to another even more fundamental difference ? the intensity of opinion . Even those who actually have opinions and are willing to state them vary in the degree of intensity with which they hold the opinion . Different levels of intensity can be described . For instance , an opinion may be casual , the person maintaining it , but without enthusiasm or even deep conviction ; at this level the opinion can be modified or even dislodged by the proper amount and kind of counterpersuasion . A person may have a stronger opinion which he wishes to discuss and advance ; this can be designated the exhortatory level , and the opinion can be changed only by some fundamental experience . On a third level is sacrificial opinion , the highest intensity , for which the individual would sacrifice himself ; this is the position of the genuine martyr , and his opinion can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels are clear in theory but cloudy in application . The sacrificial opinion may be identified only by offering to put the respondent to death and then determining if he will recant . Whatever levels or degrees of opinion exist , the knowledge that there are meaningful differences in intensity is one of the first considerations in evaluating polls on issues . The problem of intensity is a perfect example of one of the indictments of the measurement techniques . To measure the state or condition of intangible factors must depend upon subjective judgments of respondents , interviewers , coders , etc . To ask two respondents to classify their political partisanship on a scale ranging from very strong Democrats to very strong Republicans is to depend upon the words having the same connotation in both cases . A person may classify himself as an independent and vote consistently for the candidates of one party , or he may classify himself as a strong partisan and be antagonistic to the party 's current leaders . A man who had once split his ticket and admitted the outside possibility of doing so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisan , although another who splits his ticket more frequently may think of himself as a pillar of granite of his party . The larger problem is confronted in attempts to be precise about subtle nuances , to be exact about the inexact , for the undertaking of such tasks assumes what is palpably not so . That these measurement techniques are adaptable and even essential for mastering some types of data 32 does not automatically make the techniques adaptable to all types of data . This is a problem of the horse and the cart ; for " measurability is an intrinsic property of the subject matter ; we can measure only that which is measurable . " 33 The largest problem footnote  --  as Irion , op. ( it. , pp. 9111-919 , ( list ' vises practical rases : utrl possibilities as %tell as conccrllug Ii iiiI iiinns. ! tit rt ? ... r .. , I in R , ' rts. rib . r ? if .. Ir . rr4 ; srr , itt venetal. ( : bans . r. ! ; .  |p478  posed by these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of methodology , to enthrone the way of doing above the peculiar substance of the thing done . By implication , then , there is no configuration in human affairs which can not be broken down completely into its component parts . The parts are those for which a method of weighing and measuring can be found . There are no other parts . All of the recognized intangibles , including psychic factors , must be as amenable to the techniques as the cranial measurements of the respondents . Finally , the entire phenomena can be presented as a series of total parts and facts arranged like a periodic table of human behavior . To seek such powers through methodology is not to seek a key to unlock hidden meaning but to pounce upon it by squirming through the crevices around the door without even bothering to pick the lock . " We should then be content to think of government rather as an art than as a science . Like every art it makes use of the appropriate sciences . . . . But no science can tell men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell men how to throw a bridge across a river . " 34 TECHNIQUES OF OPINION MANAGEMENT-PROPAGANDA Communication . Propaganda is the name given to the techniques for forming and changing opinions . Propaganda is communication . In its widest sense , communication is the use of symbols for the exchange of ideas among humans . It is difficult if , indeed , it is possible , to conceive of humans being in proximity without communicating . The problem of the definition of man is an odd one . . . . It will not do to say that man is an animal with a soul . Unfortunately , the existence of the soul , whatever it may mean , is not available to the scientific methods of behaviorism ; and although the Church assures us that men have souls and dogs do not , an equally authoritative institution known as Buddhism holds a different view . What does differentiate man from other animals in a way which leaves us not the slightest degree of doubt , is that he is a talking animal . The impulse to communicate with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deprivation of blindness and deafness can completely obliterate it . . . . There are animals besides man which are social , and live in a continuous relation to their fellow creatures , but there is none in whom this desire for communication , or rather this necessity for communication , is the guiding motive of their whole life . . . .35 Definition of Propaganda . This necessity to communicate is not always a necessity to engage in propaganda , for communication is the all-inclusive term . Propaganda is communication undertaken for a specific kind of footnotepurpose . It is the expression of an attitude relative to a controversial issue 34 Maclver , obi. cit. , pp. 1-12. 3 Norbert %'iencr , The flu juan Use of Human Beings ( Boston : Houghton Nhlllin iny. 111 , ( 1 ) 1,1 ) . 2-a.  |p479  regarding which some kind of opinion and/or action is proposed . The essentials are that the person conducting the propaganda have an opinion and attempt to persuade others to accept the opinion and act accordingly . Propaganda is really a matter of techniques as far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they can be identified with ease if a person is alert to them . To evaluate their effectiveness is much more difficult and requires a knowledge of the objectives of the propagandist . The word " propaganda " contains intrinsic propaganda value because it has come to have the connotation of lies , deception , and trickery . Used as an epithet directed at a competitor , it implies or alleges that he engages in deceit ; as such an epithet , it is often bandied back and forth in election campaigns . Because of the widespread acceptance of the evil meaning , the word 's usefulness is restricted to those who can treat it as a designation for a field of inquiry and for the application of techniques directed toward an objective . To use the word only for evil purposes in persuasion would require the choice of another word to indicate good purposes . Then disputants would have two words instead of one to argue about , and analysts would have no objective criteria to guide them in using the two words , since the moral value or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inescapably become propagandists , for they would have to rely upon their own biases in deciding which word to use . The only useful concept of propaganda is that it is a tool in the art of managing opinions and is used by leaders upon followers most consistently . As a tool it can be studied apart from good or bad purpose , since it can be used for either ; but the tool itself is amoral.36 ( Note that it is the purpose at this point in this book to propagandize the reader regarding the definition of propaganda . ) Audiences . To be more specific about propaganda , it is necessary to be more specific about those being propagandized , i.e. , the audience . In numbers it can range from one to an indefinite number . Professor Doob distinguishes audiences ranging from one influential person that a propa- footnote36 " Propaganda is a method , a device for conditioning behavior . It represents nothing new in human affairs , except a refinement of techniques and the appropriation of new instruments for exerting the stimuli . Propaganda has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as human beings contrive to formulate new goals and purposes . . . If there is a right and a wrong in propaganda , it is to be found in the relation between means and ends , methods and purposes , not in the propaganda itself . At any rate , in a relatively free society it is to be assumed that each individual or each group which has a purpose also has the right to propagate that purpose , that is , to win converts . " Introduction by the Institute for Propaganda Analysis in Harold Lavine and James Wechsler , War Propaganda and the United States ( New Haven : Yale University Press , 1990 ) pp. vii-viii . See also Ogle , op. cit. , Chap . 12 . Some of the most outstanding thinking in this field has been done by Professor Leonard W. 11ooh . See op. cit. , Chaps . I1-17 , and Propaganda ( New Yolk : Willy ! loll &; Company , 1995 ) .  |p480  gandist wishes to win over , to small groups where the communication is still informal and largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication is considered public speaking.37 The last situation Doob calls " propaganda , " the first two he calls " persuasion . " This distinction can be useful in denoting situations significantly different in size and caliber of audience and in particular techniques of argumentation employed . The distinction becomes one without a difference if the process and the objective are considered , for in each case it is the same kind of thing occurring . Nor are the techniques completely different . It is not the size of an audience per se which dictates all of the techniques to be used , but the nature of the audience which is often classified as friendly , unfriendly , or neutral . In the majority of propaganda situations the audience is partly or largely unknown because it is unselected . To communicate through newspapers , magazines , radio , and television is to reach an indiscriminate number of unspecified kinds of people . To speak personally to a large audience is to face a similar situation with the exception that the speaker knows the audience is composed of people who are interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the element of doubt about who composes the audience affects the techniques used in propaganda and leads to the so-called buckshot method of scattering appeals on a wide front . Conversely , communicating to a known group of people permits a shotgun method of straight-line development relying upon appeals found to be effective with these people . Propaganda Adapted to Audience . To be entirely uninformed of the kind of people in the audience is a rare situation . The propagandist can reasonably anticipate who some of them will be , and by drawing on his experience with people , can devise appeals for a wide cross section , first , to get their attention , and second , to impress them favorably . The more nearly he can pinpoint the kind of people he wants and expects to reach , the more precise he can be in the form and the type of appeals in his communication . For reaching the total public , the extreme in unselected audiences , the propagandist can assume that some will respond positively , some negatively , and some not at all.38 However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand , and its vocabulary is often no higher than sixth to eighth grade reading levels . Increasingly , corn- footnote37 Doob , Public Opinion and Propaganda , pp. 253-255. 38 When propaganda is widely distributed and conies to the attention of people for whom it is not intended , it may have a reverse effect . A great deal of commercial advertising is directed at people relatively less inclined to analyze or to question what they see and hear . For this reason , those whose education has given them more resistance to the claims of advertisers are repelled by a great deal of this hucksterism . One result is a widened gulf between business and teachers . See the exchange of articles : Rernald De Veto , " Why Professors Are Suspicious of Business , " Fortune , April , 1951 , pp. 11 ' 1 11. , and " Says Business to Mr. 1 ) e Vote , " ibid. , June , 1951 , pp. 99 fr.  |p481  munication is intended for specific areas of interest and varying levels of reading ability . This is one way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propagandist wants to reach , he will fashion both the content and the style . If one communicates too simply to some audiences , permitting all the members to grasp the meaning too clearly , they may conclude that the communicator is stupid . Some audiences want to be flattered with preposterous words whose meanings are often obscure and indefinite . Thcy accept technical jargon as evidence of erudition and profundity . They look upon simple language as the babbling of the multitude and therefore emitted only from fools.39 A particularly prevalent manifestation of this kind of communication is the language of government administrators called " gobbledygook , " an elaboration of simple thoughts into involved language by use of big words which cloak or soften the meaning when they do not actually obstruct it.40 In politics the use of less precise language is often cultivated consciously in self-defense to avoid an open commitment or the blunt assertion of a fact.41 One of the standard techniques of propaganda is to find words with noncontroversial connotations to refer to highly controversial subjects , e.g. , the use of the term " parenthood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basic Propaganda Techniques . The number of techniques in propaganda is limited only by the number of situations and the ingenuity footnote39 In this connection Lindsay Rogers quoted the sociologist , Louis Wirth : " The findings of social science are sometimes regarded as elaborate statements of what everybody knows in language that nobody can understand . " Professor Rogers continued , " Mr. Wirth might have added that the language is such that ' the reader frequently is unaware that what is being said is something that he already knows . " See " Notes on the Language of Politics , " Political Science Quarterly , Vol. 64 ( 1949 ) p. 490 , note 1 . 40 For example : " To eliminate internal or external illumination , obscuration may be obtained by blackout construction or by termination of the illumination . " Translation : To keep light from shining through windows , cover them or turn off the lights . See Rogers , ibid. , p. 503 , note 3 . A plumber asked the Bureau of Standards if it was all right to clean clogged drains with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hydrochloric acid is indisputable but the corrosive residue is incompatible with metallic permanence . " Translations " Do n't use hydrochloric acid ? it will eat up the pipes . "  --  New York Times Magazine , March 29 , 1953 . Patrick D. McTaggart-Cowan , assistant controller of the Canadian Weather Service : " ' There are those in our midst who have in recent scientific utterings claimed an intransigence for the developrnent of extratopical cyclones which would in perpetuity defy man 's ability to prognosticate . " Translation : " Some people say the weatherman will never be able to prepare accurate forecasts . "  --  George Dixon , syndicated column , May 23 , 1955. 41 The hate Senator Robert A. Taft occasioned considerable adverse comment when lie suggested ' ' Eat less " as the solution to a food shortage . Thereafter , thin suggestion from an administration official sounded like a st:urtnaulike utter:uue : " Fs ( ) ) ) ) ) my in Ile use of foods through personal te%traiul. "  --  ( touted in Rogers , op. of , . p. 504 . Hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orthodox or complete . Generally speaking , successful propaganda depends upon getting the attention of those to be convinced and then finding ways of reinforcing the message to convince them and keep them convinced . At the same time the kind of action desired is constantly suggested . While propaganda proceeds by repetition , there should be variation in the methods of presentation and the kinds of appeals . Repetition without variations can become monotonous , thereby lessening interest , and monotony also may hit a blind spot on some whereas a varied presentation will more likely bring home the point to more people . In addition , propaganda sometimes achieves its objective by limiting or withholding communication . The propagandist gives only his own side of the controversy . He avoids talking against himself or confusing his audience with too many things to think about.42 He prefers the simplicity of his own argument and tries to proceed with a minimum of extraneous or diverting impressions . In order to simplify , the propagandist may leave out data and rely on all-embracing generalizations ; this treatment is often used to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially in spoken communication . Simplicity of presentation can create distortion , although the distortion may be consciously achieved by selection and rearrangement of data . Both of these may constitute censorship , the purposeful and direct withholding of data . Censoring may simplify and distort ; it can certainly give an entirely different impression from the one that would be given if all the data were presented.43 As the last resort the propagandist uses fabrication in his communication , i.e. , he deceives by lying . This technique presumably would be avoided unless the propagandist is immoral or unmoral and also shortsighted . The amount of deception in a propaganda program would be expected to vary with both the degree of integrity of the propogandists and the long-term or short-term nature of the program . A fast promotion scheme may succeed with lies , but a long-range development can succeed only if its leaders create a foundation of confidence.44 footnote42 An exception to this statement is the propagandist 's objective of creating confusion in some cases in order to prevent any action being taken . To bombard an audience with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one technique that can be used to preserve the status quo. 43 Censorship is popularly associated with government , especially in wartime , but censorship is a means of enforcing taboos and is constantly present in social intercourse . For a delightful description of the use of censorship in rearing children , see " Topics of the Times , " New York Times , March 17 , 1951. 44 Several techniques have become well known by their frequent use or frequent publicity . In the study of Father Coughlin 's speeches in the 1930 's by the Institute for Propaganda Analysis , seven techniques were identified : name-calling , glittering generality , transfer , testimonial , plain folks , card-stacking and band-wagon . See Alfred NI . Lee and Elizabeth B. Lee ( eds . ) , The Fine Art of Propaganda ( New York : Harcourt , Brace and Company , Inc .. 1939 ) . Throughout the mammoth literature in the field , techniques witlh cs ; iniples ; n'e plentiful .  |p483  Predictability of Propaganda . In a sense , any propagandist begins by shooting in the dark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail to touch the responsive chord or may be elbowed aside by another who got his program in operation earlier or was more effective in presenting it . By its nature a propaganda program involves a challenge to some extent of the status quo . There is no need to organize an ambitious program supporting what already exists except as a counterpropaganda program to repel attacks upon the status quo . The initiation of a program depends for its success upon the mental state of people . When they are comparatively happy and secure , they are much less inclined to react positively to propaganda . When they arc tense , unhappy , insecure , the propagandist has much greater promise of receptivity . It is the problem of the propagandist to find where tensions exist and to play upon them . However , any program takes time , and the amount of time , as suggested above , is related to the amount of integrity . Further , the propagandist can neither foresee the future nor fully control the effects or the development of his program . There are limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has to take into account . People can not be made to believe in anything or adopt any opinion . While people at one time in designated places and circumstances will respond in one way , those people differently situated may respond otherwise . The passage of time may work for or against the propagandist , just as place may affect his success . To predict the outcome of a program involves a knowledge of people , forces , and events . Rarely can a propagandist know more than a part of each of these ingredients . Propaganda and Election Campaigns . The act of politicians campaigning for votes involves the use of propaganda techniques , since competition for public office is a constant and central source of controversy . To ask people to vote for a candidate who , if elected , will help to govern the people is one of the most sensitive processes , depending upon extensive knowledge of the particular people concerned ? upon their specific sense of values , their general beliefs , and their resultant opinions . The entire process of appealing for votes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lives to the pursuit and refinement of the techniques constituting the art . There are many kinds of political artists in the sense of novel adaptations of techniques to specific constituents , and the differences in kinds should not be confused with differences in ability . The techniques used by a candidate in Massachusetts may be so unlike those used in Alabama that from superficial observation the process may be considered to differ as much as the techniques . Of course the processes of politics are the same , since there is only one kind of politics ; but the application of specific techniques is cictcrminecl by the voters according to what kinds of conduct and presentation will dispose theta to vote one way or the other .  |p484  Campaigning for office , like all propaganda , is based on the fact , perceived by Napoleon but probably known to leaders since the beginning of social organization : " The truth is not half so important as what people think to be true . " 45 Selected Bibliography Doob , Leonard W. , Propaganda . New York : Henry Holt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Propaganda . New York : Henry Holt and Company , Inc. , 1948 . Cantril , Hadley , Gauging Public Opinion . Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1944 . Gallup , George , A Guide to Public Opinion Polls . Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1944 . Gower , Sir Ernest A. , Plain Words . London : H.M. Stationery Office , 1948.  --  - ABC of Plain Words . London : H.M. Stationery Office , 1951 . Holtman , Robert B. , Napoleonic Propaganda . Baton Rouge : Louisiana State University Press , 1950 . Lasswell , Harold D. , Power and Personality . New York : W. W. Norton &; Company , Inc. , 1918 . Lippmann , Walter , Public Opinion . New York : The Macmillan Company , 1922 . Lowell , Abbott Lawrence , Public Opinion in War and Peace . Cambridge : Harvard University Press , 1923 . Hosteller , Frederick , et al. , The Pre-Election Polls of 1948 . New York : Social Science Research Council , 1949 . Katz , Daniel , et al. , Public Opinion and Propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 . Parton , Mildred , Surveys , Polls , and Samples : Practical Procedures . New York : Harper &; Brothers , 1950 . Rogers , Lindsay , The Pollsters . New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1949.  --  - " Notes on the Language of Politics , " Political Science Quarterly , Vol. 64 ( 1949 ) pp. 481-506 . Wallas , Graham , Human Nature in Politics , 3d ed . New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1921. 45 Quoted in Holtman , op. cit. , p. v.  |p485  Candidates and Managers The word " politician " is a standard term in the vocabulary of all kinds of people . The frequency of its use actually reveals the many and often contradictory meanings attaching to it . No standardization of the word 's exact connotation is possible nor is there likely to be widespread acceptance of any one frame of reference for its meaning . In the present chapter , arbitrary meanings must be assigned to the word in order to focus attention on the discussion . " Politician " will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates or of party tickets . There may be other classifications of politicians in the sense of people in public affairs and in political party operations , but their omission is unavoidable . The concept of politicians as office seekers or as managers is both sufficiently discriminative and inclusive for the immediate purpose . The differences between them are suggested by taking up each type separately . POLITICS AS A WAY OF LIFE At one time or another , everyone is likely to express an opinion about politicians as candidates for public office . While the word is very frequently used in an unflattering sense , citizens almost invariably make it clear that regardless of their value judgments they look upon politicians as being different from themselves . This seeing of politicians as a group set apart is both implicit and explicit in popular discussion . Office seekers , despite their unceasing efforts to identify themselves with their constituents , are equally aware of their distinctiveness because they pursue a set of highly specialized objectives . They run with and against one another for office , but they know and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life is not the same as their constituents ' . Politicians live in a world apart . DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS AND PROBLEMS OF OFFICE SEEKERS It is in the nature of leadership that this strange galaxy of contradictions and tacit understandings should exist . The phenomena are easily recognized when seen in totality , yet the identification of the characteristics peculiar to politicians and their world is difficult . Many plausible distinctions are not the distinctions . It contributes nothing to say that politicians  |p486  live at a rapid pace , because almost everybody else does the same . To say that they are the holders of office is to evade the question by jumping beyond it to the result of being a politician . To say they are the seekers of office is not sufficiently discriminatory , because it includes candidates who run for nonpolitical purposes such as advertisement , stunts , and hoaxes . To say they are the ones who want to hold office is to declare that no one except actual candidates harbors dreams of office . The Lure of Politics . The distinction is , rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into politics in order to win office . At some point in this process the would-be politician senses the life of the politician and accepts it joyously , wholeheartedly . He finds in this way of life " The Lure " which Frank R. Kent described . ' If it be slightly ridiculous to contend that exceptions prove rules , it should be as readily granted that a rule is not nullified by exceptions . To discover a politician who neither has found " The Lure " nor has learned to like politics is a rare departure from the pattern . It is frustrating and enervating to live a life one does not like . Politicians have many frustrations and enervations , but they are not the result of efforts to get out of politics . Purpose and Drive . No hard and fast line separates politicians from either the hangers-on at party headquarters or the vicarious workers in campaigns who may sense " The Lure " without sharing the life of the politician . The way of life obviously depends upon other essentials , among which are ambition , ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense drive , the product is a politician , but the drive is the determining characteristic . " The Lure " becomes a kind of obsession , an affliction , or in a figurative sense , a virus infection . The control of the disease varies with politicians , but the therapy can not be prescribed by outsiders . If there is a cure , the politician must discover it and heal himself . The virus is of such a highly specialized type that the patient rarely wants a cure , much less seeks a cure . Once exposed to and infected with this virus , neither age nor physical condition deters politicians . What an ordinary mortal would consider a handicap , they consider an impertinence . They can be youthful or aged , crippled , blind , deaf or paralyzed ; 2 they can survive amputations or removal of vital organs . The footnote I Political Behavior ( New York : William Morrow &; Company , Inc. , 1928 ) Chap . 29 , 2In one of the poignant accounts of American politicians , James Kerney descrihed Woodrow Wilson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , reacting to the suggestion that he run for the United States Senate from New Jersey : " I am going to try and look at myself as though I did not exist , to just consider the whole thing in an impersonal way . From the messages I get I realize that I am everywhere regarded as the foremost leader of the liberal thought of the world , and the hopes and aspirations of that liberal thought should find some better place of expression than in the Senate . There is only one place , you know , where I could be sure of effectively asserting that leadership . "  --  Quoted in Kcrney , The Political Education of Woodrow Nilson ( New York : " I'he Century Company . 19211 ) p. 469.  |p487  only obstacle apparently they can not overcome is the loss of speech , but a weak physical constitution or chronic illnesses are a hazard to a full political career . Among men and women so completely and unquestionably dedicated , one would expect to find a distinct set of values , a particular way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards , politicians pay a price over and above the heartaches and yearnings which become transitory events in their lives . They have at best a very limited private life and are deprived of many family associations which other people enjoy as a routine of living . They have tremendous demands made upon their time and their physical and financial resources . After what most people would consider a full day 's work , politicians must still be alert and active , doing what is expected of them and avoiding mistakes in their talk and their acts . They travel a great deal both during and between campaigns . In this way they become acquainted with all parts of the country and with many politicians far and near , discussing their mutual problems and speculating on who will run for what office and who will be elected . It is all exhilarating but it is also exhausting.3 Financial Problems . In one respect politicians are like everybody else . They have to support themselves and their families , and many politicians must do so on their salaries while simultaneously saving money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects quickly call upon politicians , and the pressure to contribute money and/or time is usually irresistible . A real crisis develops for a politician who senses the loss of his office . Aside from the compulsion to remain in politics , he has the additional necessity to earn a living . If he knows he is going out of office , he pursues all possible avenues for securing employment . This is the reason certain kinds of professions , particularly law practice , arc conducive to a political career , for the politician has a job to turn to immediately when he loses office and he often has income from it even while he is in office.4 footnote3 " Think of the impromptu speeches on hot , steamy mornings on court-house steps .... Consider the evening meetings in village halls with a group of sniveling , inattentive youngsters on the front seats and a scattering of citizens . . . in the rear ? with poor lighting , deplorable ventilation , and noisy echoes from the street and slamming doors , . .  --  Raymond Moley , syndicated column , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the politician is rarely as hazardous as that of an Ivory Coast member of the French Senate , whose grassroots tour of his district was abruptly halted when some of his constituents ate him .  --  New York Times , July 12 , 1953. 4 As Franklin D. Roosevelt so aptly expressed the situation : " Either the individual should have enough money of his own safely invested to take care of him when not holding office . . . or else he should have business connections , a profession or a job to which he can rrltn'n from time to time . " ? ( Incited in Raltnond Moley. 27 Masters of Politics ( 1919 ) p. 31.  |p488  Attention and Concentration . If the form and outline of political life seem unappetizing to many , their full ramifications are still unseen . The substance of the politician 's work is ( 1 ) the handling of public affairs and ( 2 ) the constant attention to personal political affairs . The two are separable for the public but inseparable for the politician . Both of them , whether considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as with broad , general decisions . To a philosopher , a scientist or a great lawyer , the preoccupations of a politician seem to be the interests of a person too lazy to apply himself to serious things . This is a gross underestimation of the politician 's job . For beneath the surface he is applying his mental faculties to exceedingly complex subject matter , and if he is to be successful he must labor with incessant energy and meticulous care . For political genius is the capacity to give continuous , undivided and sedulous attention to matters that to most serious people seem too trivial to bother with.5 By doing this job well , he hopes to remain a politician . Thomas Jefferson 's remark that " Few die and none resigns " was a cogent observation of politicians ' living behavior , whether or not it was a correct conclusion regarding their longevity . The vast majority of politicians stay on as long as they possibly can , and when they retire , more often than not they go involuntarily . Many who are long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make their voices heard in party councils and insist upon being consulted whenever decisions are to be made.6 Publicity . Finally , the life of politicians is a life of publicity and of seeking publicity . Public affairs are news , and politicians are news . They thrive on publicity professionally as they thrive on food physically . This feature of their lives has two sides . There is no future in politics for anyone who hides his light under a bushel . Instead of being retiring or reticent , the politician needs to keep pushing himself and telling what he r. wants people to know . He can not justify his existence by being modest I footnote- Ibid. , p. - 33. 6 " The old principle that an ' ex ' in politics is truly an ' ex ' is a verity . Once power has been relinquished , it is difficult either to regain it or to exercise authority through others . "  --  Edward J. Flynn , You 're the Boss ( New York : The Viking Press , 1947 ) p. 226 . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Hermitage . . no President has willingly left the White House . There is something about the office and place that intrigues the least ambitious of its incumbents , that makes all afterlife lack that something which only the White House gives . "  --  Josephus Daniels , The Wilson Era , Years of TYar and After . 1917 ? 1923 ( Chapel Hill : University of North Carolina Press , 1946 ) p. 557 . It is doubtful if lesser officials greet retirement any differently . " Big men , of course , accept the turn of the political wheel with philosophic calm , but at heart , the President of the United States has the same feeling as the county sheriff when the time comes to relinquish his power and anthorit ) . "  --  Kent , The Great ( : ao , e of 1'olilir.s ( New York : Doubleday , Page Company , 1921 ) p. 211/ ; also Kent , rt , l , , , , , ; , , . o ! fit .  |p489  and letting others have the spotlight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would want it and seek it even if it were not necessary to his career . He delights in being the center of attention wherever he goes . This quality may appear early in the life of a politician or he may cultivate and develop a taste for it . In any event he is able to absorb publicity both in happy times and in unpleasant times and is able to say what he wishes , parry with reporters , and thrust back at his enemies . Antagonisms and Accommodations . These characteristics fill out in important respects the picture of the political way of life and help to distinguish the politican from the nonpolitician . The picture in turn explains some of the antagonism between the two groups . Because of publicity the politician is always before the public . He is set apart , not precisely because he seeks or holds office , but because he has propelled himself into the political way of life . The sum total of his existence is out of the ordinary , eventful , and nerveracking , and his composure may be only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to so much torture from envy , malice , and the inscrutable future . " Politics can lift men higher and faster than a rocket flames its way into the sky . It can also plummet them down to earth , never to rise again . Each man must learn this for himself . " 7 The public senses some of these ordeals , but mainly is aware of the exciting and stimulating elements . Frank Kent was of the opinion that there is a universal desire to hold office and that the scorn expressed for politicans is actually envy.8 One of the author 's students stated this case in an examination paper : " The average person admires the person who is able to get elected , is envious of him , proud to know him , and mistrusts him deeply . " If this were all there is in the relation of politicians and people , politics would be a deathly profession . Fortunately , there is an accommodation between them based on acceptance of mutual interest and a sense of identification . A basic fact about the politician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people like . . . . Now the common man may not himself know , but he may be able to discover who he is by the politician whom he elects . The people 's choice is the mirror of ourselves against our own backgrounds . A candidate may be elected because he has the same faults and weaknesses that we have . . . . The citizen in the United States votes for someone like himself , or as he imagines himself to be , or as he would like to be . I do not mean solely as the voter might outwardly profess to want to be , but as in his secret heart he unerringly wishes to be . Of course , this is not true of everyone in the electorate or of every politician , but the politician who is elected term after term is likely to footnote7 James A. Farley , Jim Farley 's Story ( New York : McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , 1948 ) p. 305. e Political llrlumior , p. 341.  |p490  be as descriptive of his constituency as the sidewalks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to have special markings so that he may the more readily be recognized.9 MAKING USE OF ISSUES Politicians are constantly communicating , and the bulk of their communication is propaganda . Even when they communicate on a subject not directly controversial , they are indirectly involved in controversy because they use such subjects to advance themselves in their fellow citizens ' estimation for the purpose of winning elections . To engage in communication requires something to talk and write about , and politicians communicate in the field of issues . Their selection and treatment of issues is the hallmark of their profession , distinguishing them from laymen and determining their degree of professional competence and attainment . In the selection of issues , politicians are concerned with the timeliness or popularity of issues and with their own personal association in respect to the issues . In the treatment of issues , an endless number of problems can be isolated . Flexibility in Selecting Issues . Hegel once observed that " political genius consists in identifying yourself with a principle . " The subtle truth in these words is realized only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of possessing principle is the first principle to be identified . Politicians are at pains to be on the " right " side of issues , so that in a world of fleeting issues they create the lasting impression of always standing for the " right " and the " just " on every question . The epitome of success is being considered a person of principle without regard to specific issues , so that people will listen and be receptive on all occasions . Issues change like fads , and politicians must change with them . Having a principle is not to have a fixation or dedication about any one issue . As an actual or potential representative of his constituents , the politician follows their interests in public affairs , not his own . When new interests are evidenced , the politician accepts them as the content of his communication despite his genuine concern for other issues and interests . Some people in politics who refuse to be deflected from issues in which they believe , fail to adjust to the moving tides of interest within the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the popular footnote9 J. T. Salter , The Pattern of Politics ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1940 ) pp. 115-116 . " The habits , manners , and attitudes of these men who came to the polls played a part in determining the nature of political leadership in eighteenth-century Virginia . The successful candidate was a man who understood the voters and who was willing and able to practice the arts by which their approval could be won . He was not necessarily like the men who elected him , but he had to possess dualities that they approved . "  --  Charles S. Sydnor , Cenllcn , cn Freeholders ( Chapel Hill : University of North C:uolina Press , 1952 ) pp. 27-28.  |p491  interest , but if the popular interest passes on , they very likely come to grief . This rule of flexibility in accepting current issues as the content of communication was pungently expressed by Frank Kent , " When the Water Reaches the Upper Decks Follow the Rats . " He further quoted a politician 's illuminating comparison : " Do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sea , acknowledged manly and brave , requires every sailor when the water gets to the second deck to put on his life preserver and swim for the shore . A coward deserts a ship as soon as it springs a leak ; the brave only when it is doomed , a fool never . " 10 Positions on Issues . In many cases , but by no means in all , politicians must decide not only what issues to discuss but also how they want to be associated with the issues . The political way of life would be considerably different and presumably far simpler if politicians could merely take a position for or against an issue . Instead , however , they often try to create supplementary perceptions , either to divert attention or to find stronger ground on which to stand . It is not enough to discuss a popular issue . Politicians must avoid being jockeyed into a disadvantageous position which would cost them support . Impressions conveyed to the public become all important . Unfavorable impressions are easily created but slowly removed , and most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a much happier and safer situation when a politician can be clear about which side he is on and can depend upon powerful allies to support him . Association with issues can be perplexing in another way . A position on an issue may at a later time become untenable . Faced with this dilemma , the politician may take any of several courses : try to obscure his previous opinions ; rationalize his different opinions to prove they are not inconsistent ; admit he has changed his mind and make a virtue of necessity . Methods for Handling Issues . Finally , the politician brings to bear upon the issues the actual ideas he will communicate . While he knows what impressions he wants to create , he often does not voluntarily choose the issues ; consequently , he may have little interest and less information about them . It is his business to inform himself at least superficially , and for this purpose party organizations provide research facilities . The greatest research undertaking of this nature is the Library of Congress . Some politicians can employ a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data , write speeches or statements , and keep their chiefs briefed on developments and implications . Rarely do politicians have the time to become authorities on the subjects they discuss . They rely on specialists in the various fields for facts and analyses and employ staff members to  |p492  write speeches , while they contribute to the process the ability to communicate and to popularize the data and conclusions . Not only is the problem one of what to say but also the problem of prolific communication , for politicians are constantly making speeches before various groups . A great deal of speaking is on radio and television , so the speeches have to be adjusted to fit the time limits . In order for speeches to be well covered in the press , advance copies are given to reporters . To meet all of these demands as well as to protect the speaker by having a record of exactly what he said , it is essential that the speech be written well in advance . Few politicians of wide activity and prominence can hope to do all of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less on others and in some cases have the complete speech prepared by others . People who do this kind of work are called " ghost writers . " The practice of " ghosting " speeches has grown rapidly in Washington , D. C. , but is resorted to increasingly on the state and local levels . Ghost writing , as a popular expression , usually means completely writing a speech for someone else , but how much assistance has to be given for it to become ghost writing is not clear . The practice is often condemned , and most politicians are sensitive about it . Under the existing conditions it is impossible to see any diminution of the practice whether it be popular or not.11 Some of the variety of situations for using data can be suggested . When his constituents are generally on one side of an issue , the politician has no problem in deciding his position and merely casts about for good arguments to support what his constituents want supported . When his constituents are unconcerned and uninvolved with an issue , the politician may ignore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasonable . In a majority of cases , the politician either does not know how his constituents react to the issue or knows that they are divided . This situation increases as people 's interests become more diverse and there is less unanimity of opinion within a constituency . It is this situation which has produced the classic concept of politicians ' treatment of issues . I n fact the problem may be further complicated now that the direct primary is used . This nominating procedure requires candidates to campaign , and they may have to campaign differently on the issues in the primary than iii the general election . The difference arises when the party constituency , which votes in the direct primary , has decidedly different interests from the total constituency which votes in the general election . Candidates first footnote11 On the subject of ghost writers , see New York Times Magazine , March 27 , 1949 , and August 17 , 1952 . The late Supreme Court Justice , Robert H. Jackson , in the course of one of his opinions from the bench , expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ghost-writing has debased the intellectual currents : in circulation here fi.r Washington , I ) . C.I and is a type of counterfeiting which incises no defense . " He I : lu ? Iel " oh:w im : nithots and ghost writers " as " legal h ; uuls " and " disguised authorship ? ,  |p493  must satisfy their own party 's voters in order to get the nomination , even at the risk of losing the final election . Often if a candidate wins the nomination , he can safely anticipate that his party 's voters will support him in the general election , so he is free to appeal to independents and opposite party members . Whatever else politicians do about issues , they must appear to be sincere in their utterances . To convince someone , the propagandist first creates the distinct impression he is in earnest and believes what he is arguing . By extension , sincerity is presumed to be the handmaid of seriousness ; for this reason the bulk of political communication is dry and even dull . Politicians fear that humor or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or smartaleckness.12 Because they are frequently charged with insincerity , they counteract the effects by cultivating a solemnity which in some politicians becomes pomposity . No matter what is discussed , if it is important enough to talk about , it is important enough to take seriously even if intrinsically it is so trivial as to be ludicrous . The politician wants people to believe that he is serious and not communicating purely for political purposes or expressing judgments for their calculated effect . " To eschew political motives is a first rule of politics . " 13 The politician may be forced to simulate enthusiasm and seriousness about issues which bore him . On issues which divide his constituents he has the additional challenge of developing " The Art of Seeming to Say Something Without Doing So . " He develops " a facility in the use of resonant and meaningless words , the cultivation of a style impressive , seemingly profound , but actually platitudinous , evasive , vague . " 14 The political way footnote12 There is no rule prohibiting constituents from being humorous or witty about issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epistle from back home to his colleagues : " Send our dollars to Europe , then give Asia some more ; but you wo n't get back to Congress in 1954. "  --  Associated Press dispatch dated July 22 , 1953. 13 Moley , op. cit. , p. 44. 14 Political Behavior , pp. 73-74 ; Chap . 8 . Sometimes it appears that platitudes come cheaper by the dozen . " The new law should establish beyond a doubt the basic rights of working people to organize , bargain collectively and to strike if they are dissatisfied with their wages or working conditions . I believe in those rights 100 per cent . They are part of the fundamental human freedoms in which I believe intensely and in defense of which I am waging this campaign . . . . The new law should provide for freedom of speech for labor and management alike , provided that that freedom is not used to coerce or to intimidate . "  --  From campaign speech of John Foster Dulles , Republican candidate for the United States Senate ; text in the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am familiar with the general average of men who belong to clubs like the Exchange Club . They are part and parcel of the community . They belong to the warp and woof of our society . They are law-abiding men . They occupy a responsible position in their community , not only in business . but in church , in education and in community life . They believe in free enterprise . They believe in initiative , individual initiative . " ? Front a speech of Albeit W. Ilatkley , Democratic candidate for the United States Senate ; text iu Exclmngite Magazine , January , 1955.  |p494  of life is one of realism and hard knocks for its participant politicians , but they themselves create illusions about themselves and their life in order to attract and hold a following . They have a constant struggle before them in appearing to take a decisive stand on the shifting , treacherous ground of issues . Sometimes the best they can do is cover their equivocation on the substance of an issue by conveying a precise attitude about its general nature . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forceful or descriptive in conveying exact facts and situations , but because they will produce in the minds of hearers or readers the reaction desired by the speaker or writer ... . Ultimately , the considerations of a politician are not based upon truth or fact ; they are based upon what the public will conceive to be truth or fact . This produces what is called a political mind . ' It is an adaptation enforced by the necessities of environment and survival , just as is the fur of a polar bear or the coloration of a ground-hog . A sort of natural selection operates in the political environment which promotes the survival and success of minds capable of what some may call dissimulation and others call insincerity.15 This is the feature of politicians ' way of life which most people dislike and some people clearly detect . It is the basis for the distrust , the scoffing , and the excoriation of politicians by the public in general . It is largely responsible for the odious connotation of the word " politician , " and people who respect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this person is different , is not a politician . Here is one reason for seeking other names , like " statesman , " for those politicians we want to hold in high esteem and to avoid seeing as manipulators and schemers . Yet the choice of these illusions is based on necessity , not on a free choice . Unquestionably , politicians wish they could speak frankly and give up the game of verbal fencing , but they dare not . To say directly what they think will anger or alienate some voters who may be won by the use of finesse . James A. Farley reported the universal experience of politicians when he described the wrath which descended upon him when he frankly admitted and explained how he was distributing patronage to Democrats . ' " Politics is a keenly competitive profession , and every time a politician leaves himself open by refusing either to dodge issues or to say the ingrati ating things people want him to say , his opponents magnify and exploit his words to the full . The truth may be disillusioning and discouraging , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority , security , and freedom are more surely satisfied by the familiar political methods than by brusque honesty and unadorned frankness . Political appeals take footnote15 Moley , op. cit. , p. 43. 16 Behind the Ballots ( New York : Harcourt , Brace and Company , Inc. , I93S ) 1 , p.  |p495  into account what people believe and what they want to believe . Modern civilized society produces many groups each of which has its own values and beliefs . The politician is caught in the cross fire among groups and protects himself by trying to appease all of them at once and by falling back upon the democratic doctrine which recognizes and accepts conflicting beliefs.17 Whatever the politician can do to relieve the pressure on himself , he can be expected to do . The voters themselves thus encourage their own deception and place a premium upon humbuggery in campaigns . Some politicians maintain more and some maintain less self-respect by the amount of humbug they engage in , but " there has to be some compromise with conscience , some pussy-footing , ' trimming , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of life of politicians , it is possible to see politics as a highly refined art based on great skill and constant application of the techniques of opinion influencing . Yet , unlike other artists , the politicians must be content only with the acclaim they merit in the parts they play , never as the actors who create the parts . The complete illusion of politics depends upon politicians denying or disparaging their own profession . After spending a lifetime of intense concentration becoming a master in persuading people , a politician feigns outrage or amazement if anyone publicly suggests that he has succeeded . THE MANAGEMENT FUNCTION IN POLITICS Management Distinguished from Office Seeking . Some politicians do not make their mark by running for office . In the division of specialized labors in politics , there are many other tasks to perform . Conducting an election campaign is analogous to the production of a stage play.19 Only the action on the stage is meant for the audience , but behind the scenery , outside the public view , are many workers doing their part to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unseen activities requires skill in planning and management , for one of the most highly specialized and distinct functions in politics , as in play production , is direction of the total performance . Some candidates may be effective managers for themselves , but the functions of campaigning and managing are so separate and specialized footnote17 Robert M. Maclver , The Web of Government ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1947 ) pp. 50-51. 18 The Great Game of Politics , p. 252 and Chap . 31 . Some candidates " are of real conviction and courage , but the very best of them have to go through the ballyhoo stage , playing the game of hide and seek , howling over outrages ' in which they do not believe , appealing to prejudice , straddling issues , concealing their real feelings ? to get the votes . They have to do it . There is no way out of it . It is not the candidate 's fault . It is the system ? the growth of many decades ? the price we pay for universal suffrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "  --  Ibid. , pp. 232-233 ; Political Behavior , pp. 86-87. 19 Warren Moscow , Politics in the Empire Slate ( New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1948 ) p. 51.  |p496  that remarkable skill in both is seldom found in one and the same person . Candidates , before they go very far in politics , are almost certain to find managers who can direct them either through a few campaigns or throughout their entire career . The sharpness in the distinction of the two functions is partially inherent in the roles themselves , a specialization resulting from differences in aptitudes and personality . A manager has the capacity for administrative work , which includes looking after details , organizing undertakings , and handling people . Management also includes planning , which involves anticipation and timing . The management function is , finally , coordination . Even though candidates have such abilities , they have not the time or opportunity to develop them and must to some extent depend upon colleagues who can give their full attention and energies to this function . STATUS AND PROBLEMS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infects managers as well as candidates , but the result of the infection is likely to be fatal for the manager who , not content with this role , yearns to move out from the shadows of the director 's corner and to stand in the limelight of a candidate 's publicity . The infrequency of success in changing roles is traceable , first , to the manager 's developing skills which are different from those required of candidates , second , to the suspicion he arouses in other politicians , and third , to the public 's attitude of distrust . The management function in politics has universally tended to isolate its practitioners . The frequent demonstration of this truth has been formalized in the maxim , " The kingmaker can never be king . " 20 The greater his success in behalf of his candidate , the more his colleagues , and perhaps the candidate also , distrust him and fear him . One of the ways most laymen reconcile their repugnance of politics with their acceptance of candidates for office is by a process of disassociation . Much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to managers or " bosses " or " backstage wirepullers " or some other unflattering name . The citizen sees or at least senses the management of political forces in conventions and campaigns , to the extent that he is aware of politics at all . He is told in his newspaper and by his news reporter or commentator about the juggling , the machinations , the scheming behind the events of the day . Even if managers try to break out of their political limitations , they bear the infirmity of their association with undercover manipulations , and the public can more easily be persuaded to repudiate them . footnote2000Icn9c ? s Ilickman Titus , 7'lu ' Prorrs , se.s of L.rarlrrelrifi ( I ) ulrurlur ? : willi ; un C. Brawn Cuninain. 19510 Ir . 371 ; larlri ; nrlli , " 17rr 19 lure ( luiIiin I.iliiaiv ed . ) Ir . I1.  |p497  Anonymity of Managers . The functions of management can not be performed in front of the public , and the manager both keeps to the background in doing his work and is further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The manager may be perceived dimly and can be devastated when brought to the public 's attention by his enemies because the public will quickly grasp and accept the stereotype presentations of him . Therefore the manager , in trying to become a candidate , suffers from his lack of publicity , his unfamiliarity to the voters ; and the publicity he is likely to get is not the sort conducive to his being elected . " Perfect virtuosity in the political art demands that most of its processes elude the eye and ear . . . . Such artistry demands that he the manager know Americans . It also demands that Americans know only a part of him . " To be a manager is to keep to oneself and to be relatively unknown . " Once a manager , always a manager . " 21 Preparation and Training . The preparation of a politician to become a manager follows no prescribed course . Managers possess many kinds of backgrounds and move through different channels in the organization . The common factor among them all is their experience in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization , in newspaper and advertising work , as secretaries to politicians , in business , or in labor unions . Some enter politics as candidates and then change roles . Some give their full time to politics , and others divide their time between politics and earning a living in some other activity . The direction and the occasion for a person 's entry into politics often determines whether he becomes a manager of a candidate as such or is associated with an organization as a manager of the party 's slate of candidates . Chairmen of committees in the organization structure are managers of the whole party ticket during a campaign , or are supposed to be . The primary exception is the national chairmen who specifically manage presidential candidates . Since the establishment of the manager function of the national chairman , he has been in many cases the manager of the presidential candidate who wins the party 's nomination ; but not all managers of Presidents have become national chairmen . These managers have had various backgrounds . Marcus A. Hanna came from the business world to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did in 1928 to manage Alfred E. Smith . Edward M. House , virtually the alter ego of Woodrow Wilson for much of his Presidency , but not the national chairman , came up from political management in the state of Texas . Walter Brown was never the Republican chairman , but from his long experience in Ohio politics played an important part in managing Herbert llouver into the Presidency . Some national chairmen were largely unknown footnote21 Raymond 1lutry , rip . art. , pp , 97 , 99.  |p498  and untried as managers , e.g. , George White , who managed James M. Cox in 1920 . Others , like James A. Farley , who managed Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932 and 1936 , were organization leaders with experience in running party campaigns . Managers associated with organization management usually come up through the ranks to establish themselves as leaders of the organization . These are the ones usually called " bosses . " They concern themselves with the party ticket in their own domain whether county , district , or state . They may exercise the formal power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may exercise it with greater anonymity by holding no party position . Group or Staff Management . The entire function of management is rarely delegated to or assumed by just one individual . The function is performed by various people around the candidate or organization including the candidates themselves . Generally , one man is designated or understood to be the manager , but he works in constant association with the candidate 's and the party 's organization . The planning and execution of strategy is a group endeavor , the size of the group varying according to the magnitude of the undertaking . Everyone around a candidate or the organization , ranging from personal friends to the hangers-on , attempts to take part in management . People in politics invariably fancy that they are strategists , just as spectators at football games offer the quarterbacks free advice on each play . The chief managers and candidates are always plagued with the constant forays upon headquarters by all and sundry imparting the latest piece of advice about how to win this block of votes and how to handle that issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the candidate in order to keep down the chaos and avoid following a series of strategics which go in all directions at the same time . The problem is magnified by the personal jealousies and rivalries to be at the center of power and be associated with the candidate . Managers who are not alert to this danger and deft in handling the aggressive extroverts around them may be elbowed out of their place and the whole campaign strategy brought to grief . Earning a Living . Candidates are financially able to remain in politics through the salaries they earn from the positions they are elected to or from the appointive positions they hold while waiting a chance to run for office . Managers are unlikely to hold elective office , at least while they are managing others , so their only source of income in politics is from appointive office . Some managers , like some candidates , have independent incomes or are well-to-do , but they are in the small minority . For the bulk of managers there is the problem of earning a living , and effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is earned iii an  |p499  occupation outside of politics . The management function is performed best when complete concentration can be applied to the shifting forces in the political world . The happiest arrangement for a manager is to have an appointive political office which is largely routine , demands little of his time , and whose functions can be delegated to subordinates . In this way the manager is relieved of much of the responsibility of his office and can give most of his time and attention to the problems of winning the next election for his party or his candidate . On every level of government patronage positions are necessary so that candidates can fill them with men in the party organization or in their personal organization who devote themselves to political management . Sometimes these positions are obscure , and the public misses the significance of the appointment . As long ago as the Administration of John Q. Adams , the President relied upon a fourth auditor of the Treasury Department " as a sort of ' handyman. ' " 22 Executives can appoint managers to their secretarial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress have an office staff of secretaries and administrative assistants where they place men and women who are concerned with the management of campaigns ; increasingly , with the patronage provided by the staffs of joint congressional committees , committee chairmen can find additional places for a politician they want to keep near them . The problem of managers of presidential campaigns is solved when the manager 's candidate wins the election . The practice has been followed with some regularity of appointing the national chairman of the winning presidential party to the office of Postmastexl General ? although in the Eisenhower Administration when Summerfield was appointed to this Cabinet post , he resigned as national chairman . The postmaster generalship is a logical repository for the President 's chief manager because the office makes fewer demands than others in the Cabinet and its functions can be discharged with less time and effort and with more delegation of authority . MANAGERS WITHIN THE PARTY SYSTEM Organization Leaders . Not only is the management function separate and distinct in politics but also the role and attitude of managers are different in varying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be greatest when candidates are compared with organization leaders . Men and women who become established in the organization have a continuity in their leadership and exercise influence until they die , are overthrown , or are compelled to retire . In their time they see a constant procession of hopeful office seekers ; candidates come and go , rise up and footnote22 E. M. IF:rikssr i . " ' I he I rdrial Civil Service under ( ' resident Jackson , " Mississippi 1'aUry /Historical Review , Vol. 13 ( 1927 ) p. 531.  |p500  even pass beyond into higher and higher offices . Names and faces in the news are fleeting , but the organization is eternal . The leaders of the organization , if they succeed in holding their power , often have a career overlapping two or three generations of candidates . This class of managers is not concerned solely with one candidate 's fortunes but with the fortunes of the party in holding the offices on the same level of government as the organization . As long as these leaders keep their control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and try to put together a winning combination at the next election . They can absorb defeats which are sometimes fatal to candidates . The leaders , discovering that certain candidates are not vote getters , can turn to or seek out more promising candidates . Therefore , organization leaders seldom evidence the same amount of disappointment or bitterness when an election is lost , for defeats are part of the game . In the face of electoral reverses , especially when they are anticipated , organization leaders can be philosophic and magnanimous as long as they retain the base of their own power . They seldom have any disposition to argue with election returns.23 Managers of Individual Candidates . To manage one candidate , instead of the whole party ticket , is to stand in an entirely different position in the party system . Such managers usually rise and fall with their candidates and generally see elections as their candidates do because the status and future of these managers depend upon the success of the candidates . When a manager hitches his wagon to a candidate 's star , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The manager goes up and goes out with his principal.24 Actually , he may not go all the way up with the candidate . Frictions and clashes often develop between manager and candidate , and after the latter has attained some success , he may break with his original manager and choose new ones . During the ascent other wouldbe managers are drawn to the candidate , for success is always a magnet in politics . The original manager has to be on his guard to prevent being undermined and frequently is jealous of others who share the confidence of the candidate . footnote23 For example , in 1920 Charles Murphy , leader of Tammany Hall , obviously expected the Democrats to lose the presidential election . After the returns had set the trend to the Republicans on election night , Murphy issued a statement : " Governor Cox has made a vigorous and dignified campaign . His defeat would be regrettable . However , the people have cast their votes . . . . The agitation of the campaign should now be forgotten . . . . We must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our country 's interest and repose . "  --  New York Times , November 3 , 1920. 24 An exception to this general rule was Herbert Brownell , who managed " Thomas E. Dewey and then moved into the circle of Eisenhower managers . This case itself was the result of the highly unusual situation of one roan turning his personal organization , ins hiding his press secretary , over to another man .  |p501  There is another possible source of embarrassment and frustration for managers if their candidates reach the height of the Presidency . The unique status and requirements for fulfilling this office deprive the President 's manager of full access and association with the President . Presidents themselves , with the realization of their responsibilities , arc likely to separate into tighter compartments the various roles they play . They become more and more disposed to exclude their managers from all except the political-strategy phase of their lives . This was a lesson which both Marcus A. Hanna and James A. Farley learned the hard way . A final source for deteriorating relations is the tendency of managers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " front man " or even a " stuffed shirt . " 25 That some antagonism would develop is inevitable , for the planner-director and the executor each sees himself as the more necessary partner of the team . THE POLITICIAN AS CAMPAIGN STRATEGIST Candidates make commitments to individuals and groups in order to secure support . Such agreements entail promises to appoint campaign contributors to offices , to support or oppose specified policies , to exercise favoritism in letting contracts , and so on . One of the functions of managers is to make . these commitments either directly or indirectly . Consequently , the candidate is shielded by not being present during these negotiations . He can honestly say he has made no promises , that he is not " owned " by anybody . He may even be misled himself , for his managers may have made commitments and refrained from telling the candidate about them.S6 While the candidate is protected , the result is sometimes a great confusion about what was promised . Recriminations fly back and forth , with the candidate and his supporters claiming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were double-crossed . In some cases a contributor or a representative of a large group pledging its support refuses to reach a final agreement until the candidate personally makes the commitment . In this way the candidate not only binds himself but is fully informed of the agreement . Sources of Information . Because of the continuing nature of elections , managers make it their business the year around to sound out opinion . They rely to some extent upon reports from organization leaders regarding sentiment in their respective areas and upon reports of various kinds from politicians , newspaper reporters and group leaders and inferential evidence derived from fads and current interests and reactions . From time to time managers themselves make trips to consult the opinions of the man in the footnote25 Molcy , op. cit. , p. 99. 2r0FatIcy , /on I'uricv 's . Story , p. 91 . Kent , Thr ( : rat Garet of Politics , D. 232.  |p502  street and of influential figures . The more experienced the manager , the more reliable the sources of information he has and the keener his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculties and a well-balanced sense of judgment of events and of the people who make reports to him . He will know if full credence should be given to the estimates of one informant or if this person tends to be too optimistic , while someone else tends to be pessimistic in analyses and may understate the situation.27 Managers examine and evaluate polls , both those conducted by outside agencies and those conducted through their own organization . When polls are favorable , managers and candidates give them wide publicity , hoping to stimulate a band-wagon psychology.2s When polls are unfavorable , they ignore them publicly or explain them away . Privately , however , they may be disturbed and try to counteract the weaknesses revealed by the polls . One indication of the outcome of an election is the betting odds posted by professional gamblers . While this source of information is not infallible , it is much more frequently accurate than inaccurate unless the odds are manipulated by the losing side covering bets to bring down the odds and thus reduce the band-wagon influence.29 Traditional , Marginal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ histories of voting behavior of the electorate . The traditional voting pattern of sections within a constituency can be appraised by analyzing past performances . These subdivisions , which can be roughly classified as friendly , unfriendly , and doubtful , are usually the wards of a city ; the cities , towns , and unincorporated areas of a county ; the counties of a state ; and the states themselves . In some elections , when the party organization can be depended upon to produce a given number of votes , the objective is to get an approximately even split in the remaining vote.30 Depending upon the election and the area , this kind of calcula- footnote27 One of the dramatically accurate forecasts by a manager based upon all of the available indices was James A. Farley 's prediction in 1936 that the Democrats would carry every state except Maine and Vermont . 28 Creating a band-wagon psychology is as much within the function of management as it is a function of the candidate 's campaign techniques , and every campaign organization tries to make use of it . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party headquarters , by newspapers and other sources concerned only with one campaign , can be utilized to create a band wagon , the professional pollsters deny that their polls have this effect . This question is considered at length in George Gallup and Saul F. Rae , The Pulse of Democracy ( New York : Simon and Schuster , Inc. , 1940 ) Chap . 20 , where the band-wagon thesis is refuted by the contentions that polls do not discourage voting and that the percentage of a leading candidate does not keep increasing after the results of a poll are published . The limited awareness of polls by the public is frequently given as another reason . See Moscow , op. cit. , pp. 226-233 for different views . 29 Ibid. , pp. 225-226 . In presidential elections the odds were incorrect ( luring most of the 1916 and 1948 campaigns . so See George NI . Reynolds , itlochine Polili ( s in New Orleara , I897-1926 ( slew fork : 16 , , 19361 no. 121-122.  |p503  tion may or may not be useful . Whenever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas in which the pattern of voting is a close race with either party able to win by a small percentage . These areas in congressional elections are spoken of as " marginal " and in close elections for the House of Representatives the marginal districts can determine which party has a majority.31 Doubtful or marginal areas get special attention during campaigns , for here a relatively high proportion of money is spent and the most effective campaign speakers make one or a series of speeches . Certain of these doubtful areas may get a bellwether reputation . The difficulty in putting too much faith in such areas is that from time to time some of them fail to live up to their reputations 32 Headquarters Organization . Managers , whether of individual candidates or of a party ticket , must have real organizing ability , or their success will always be qualified and their potentialities for advancement severely limited . In the midst of turmoil and confusion , managers take over a headquarters , divide up the work of the campaign into such divisions as speakers , publicity , finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so on . The number of these divisions and the elaborateness of their separately operated subdivisions increase with the larger area of the campaign , reaching the zenith in presidential campaigns.33 This challenge to administrative skills is first of all a problem in handling people , getting them to do what is required of them and to work cooperatively . The manager coordinates the several divisions so that they are not working at cross purposes or duplicating one another 's work . Delegations of authority should be clear , and as far as possible , overlapping of authority is to be avoided . Managers must constantly be prepared to deal with attempts of subordinates to intrude upon functions outside of the sphere delegated to them and with attempts of division or subdivision heads to expand their authority and engage in empire-building . Many decisions both on organization and strategy are fluid and rapidly arrived at . The pressure of time is footnote31 Malcolm Moos , Politics , Presidents and Coattails ( Baltimore : The Johns Hopkins Press , 1952 ) pp. 24 if . and 109 , classified 105 districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 55-45% range ; 40 of these 105 he classified as critical marginal because the margin varies within the 51.5-48.5% range . 32 Only five counties in the United States have returned a majority for the winner in every presidential election from 1896 through 1960 : Crook , Oregon ; Laramie , Wyoming ; Palo Alto , Iowa ; Coos and Strafford , New Hampshire . Among bellwether states in presidential elections , Louis Bean found that " Ohio is probably the one state in which more than any other the Democratic vote has approximated the actual national percentages . "  --  - How to Predict Elections ( New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1948 ) p. 106. 33 See , e.g. , Theodore Milton Black , Democratic Party Publicity in the 1940 Campaign ( New York : Plymouth Co. , 1941 ) pp. 29-31.  |p504  constant , and only during the months between elections can managers take the time to analyze problems carefully and devise workable solutions . Sharp Practices . Political management often includes meeting problems with questionable practices . The compulsion to win is sharpened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strain as Election Day approaches . In both state and federal statutes certain corrupt practices are singled out and declared to be illegal , but these proscriptions can never be exhaustively catalogued . Many standard practices can be legislated against , but the ingenuity of the mind of man , challenged and harassed , can not be fully anticipated . In fact , some practices may be unsusceptible of legislative prohibition through difficulty of either definition or detection , and the fine line between legal and illegal is always difficult to locate precisely.34 Ultimately the problem of honesty in conducting campaigns includes more than following legal practices and avoiding illegal ones . Various kinds of trickery or deception , when they appear , may be capable of being prohibited in the particular case . The difficulty is foreseeing and providing for them without unduly restricting campaigns or without leaving loopholes which nullify the legislation . The objective can be partly achieved by legislating prohibitions , but in the fullest sense depends upon making candidates responsible for the conduct of their campaigns . When these sharp and deceptive but apparently legal practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the punishment is bringing the situation to the attention of the voters . If the voters tacitly encourage or condone the practices by electing the offending candidate , the problem becomes something else entirely and undoubtedly can not be reached effectively by any kind of legislation . Corrupt-practices acts have always aimed their fire at bribery of voters , 3J and in time coercion and intimidation were included . In some cases , however , voters are deceived without being bribed or coerced . For instance , a party organization may issue sample ballots with the names of approved candidates for a coming direct-primary election as instructions footnote34 In Colonial Virginia the law prohibited giving anything , including food and drink , as inducements to voters , but actual bribery was openly carried on . If a candidate had a reputation for hospitality , he could more easily avoid the appearance of bribery , especially if he explained that refreshments were free to all men regardless of how they voted or if he had someone else provide the treats in his name . Candidates also kept open house for those citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seat to vote . "  --  Sydnor , op. cit. , pp. 51 if . 35 During the Colonial period , only Rhode Island among New England colonies had legislation on bribery , but all of the other colonies , except New York and Maryland , had such laws . Cortlandt F. Bishop , History of Elections in the American Colonies ( Columbia University Studies in History , Economics , and Public Law , Vol. 3 , 1693 ) pp. 192 if .  |p505  to party voters ; there usually is no law to prevent a group supporting a candidate not on this list from putting out a sample ballot identical in every way except for the substitution of the one name . Party voters , seeing the spurious ballot , are misled and vote for the candidate , thinking that he is endorsed by the organization . There are many variations on this practice , through instruction cards and ballots ; but its very nature makes it almost impossible to reach by means of legislation . Actions may technically be within the law , but be a violation of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually governed by rules of accessibility and central location , but local officials or boards in making the decisions on locations can follow the political rule of making the polling place convenient in friendly precincts and inconvenient in unfriendly precincts.3c Corrupt Practices . In the realm of frauds , of corrupt practices covered by statutes , the voters themselves bear as much responsibility as politicians , if not more . In poll-tax states , the practice of paying the tax for someone else is usually illegal . Nevertheless , many voters in effect require the organization to pay their tax if the organization leaders expect them to vote . Open violations of the law are sometimes tolerated to the point that the law has no real sanction in public support.37 The most common classes of corrupt practices occur in connection with registration , petitions , and the vote-casting processes . Forging names is used in padding registration rolls and preparing petitions . Standard practices in the casting of ballots have been repeating , voting those illegally registered , voting phantoms or ghosts ( i.e. , nonexistent or deceased persons ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the counting of paper ballots , corrupt practices include miscounting so as to " count out " a candidate , altering ballots , having voters identify their ballots by special marks , and stuffing ballot boxes . Some county organizations have been strong enough to prepare prearranged totals or to wait for the returns from the rest of the state and then announce their vote , which is large enough to elect their candidates . In these cases the actual voting is carried out in an orderly and legal fashion because the ballots cast are never counted . The quintessence footnote36 See D. H. Kurtzman , Methods of Controlling Votes in Philadelphia ( Philadelphia : University of Pennsylvania Press , 1935 ) pp. 116-118. 37 In 1771 in Lunenburg County , Virginia , forty men were allowed to vote even though they were ineligible ; candidates were loath to challenge doubtful voters for fear of antagonizing the public .  --  Sydnor , op. cit. , p. 21 . New Mexico law requires that voters mark their ballots with ink or indelible pencil inside a booth , but a senatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1952.  --  New York Times , May 31 , 1953. 38 Voting itt the name of the dead is commonly referred to as voting the tombstones and has led to the witticism that in some communities candidates would he well advised to make their campaign speeches in the cemetery , since that is where most of the voters ate .  |p506  in coercive corrupt practices is the use of force and violence to frighten voters and watchers away from the polls 39 Bribery . One kind of corrupt practice which election officials are not necessarily aware of or responsible for is the outright purchasing of voters . Bribery can take various forms . Paying a voter 's poll tax amounts to a form of bribery . Transporting voters to the polls is an ancient and honorable practice , but can be used as a substitute for outright bribing . The + most familiar practice is directly paying voters to vote for a given candidate or party ticket . Money is handled in two different ways and both ways may be used simultaneously . One way is for candidates or managers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a person outside of the formal party organization who can deliver a block of votes . In this case a lump sum is handed over and no questions asked , but the person receiving the money is expected to produce results by whatever means he employs . He usually parcels the money out by sharp negotiation with individual voters unless he has a very large sum , for whatever he saves he keeps for himself . Dealing with a purely venial intermediary involves the risk of his selling out to the other side for a larger amount of money . When both sides are buying , a brisk and even violent struggle may ensue in the race to carry the precinct . The second way is to deal directly with the voters without intermediaries . Buying votes is a testimonial to the culpability of some voters who refuse to vote unless they are paid.40 It also involves the problem , from the point of view of the briber , of being sure he gets what he pays for and has been solved by the chain ballot and schemes for identifying ballots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of election officials . Effectiveness of Corruption . Quite aside from the moral aspects of corrupt practices is the question of the practical effectiveness of them . In the first place , the pressure upon local organization leaders is one cause footnote39 The following sources include general and specific descriptions of the types of corrupt practices referred to : Kurtzman , op. cit. , pp. 123-136 and Appendix E ; Maurice M. Milligan , Missouri Waltz ( New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons , 1948 ) pp. 134-166 ; Dayton D. McKean , The Boss ( Boston : Houghton Mifflin Company , 1940 ) pp. 139 if . For illustrations of the more extreme practices in unreformed English elections , see Charles Seymour and Donald Paige Frary , How the World Votes ( Springfield : C. A. Nichols Company , 1918 ) Vol. 1 , Chap . 5 ; on nineteenth-century American practices , see pp. 256-265. 40 A variation of this attitude was reported in Kent , The Great Game of Politics , p. 68 : During an uneventful election , when there was no need to spend money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hello , Ben , have you voted yet ? " " No , Mr. Carey . . . " Well , Ben , here 's fifty cents . Go on and vote . " ? nir ( : a rev. if I do n't get a dollar , I'II vote my principles . "  |p507  for their using frauds , bribery , and coercion , a recognition of inadequacy at one or another point in the organization . As one leader described the problem , those who are dishonest operate upon their own initiative and at their own risk . They are either too lazy to do the practical hard work that produces the votes , and try to make up for that laziness by cheating , or they figure they can get away with crookedness and make a big showing which will bring them easilyearned recognition and power . I am dead against that kind of politics . The hard way of producing votes is the easiest in the long run.41 In the second place , the more extreme the practices on one side , the more extreme on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own reaction . While many forms of relatively petty violations can well be continued because of general acceptance , it is unlikely that the more vicious forms will be tolerated indefinitely . In the third place , the use of many and excessive corrupt practices may be superfluous . " Bribery , ballot-box stuffing , padded registration lists exist . . . and . . . swell the total vote that the party receives , but the organization , in times of tension , survives if it survives at all without these aids. " 42 Selected Bibliography See the Selected Bibliography for Chapter 21 , below , pp. 540-541. 41 Quoted in Kurtzman , op. cit. , p. 115 ; see also Milligan , op. cit. , pp. 137-138. 42 J. T. Salter , Boss Rule ( New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1935 ) pp. 50-51.  |p508  Leaders in Search of Followers Politicians must make the decision to go into politics for themselves . ' They can receive all kinds of help and encouragement , but finally the decision is up to them . Sometimes a candidate is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he must want to go on or his friends can be of no more help to him . INITIATION AND MOTIVE POWER OF CANDIDATES Many young men and women who go into public life start preparing themselves by the time they enter high school or the university . The politically ambitious are often aware of their bent early in life and begin doing those things which prepare them for their profession . The more people they know and understand , so much the better ; the more experience they have in electioneering in school , the less they have to learn thereafter . When they finally graduate , they are simply following a continuous process but applying it on a wider stage of action . Those who do not go so far in school make the same kinds of efforts to propel themselves into the political world . Those who plunge into the party organization without much real experience receive all of their hard knocks in professional politics itself . In any case the newcomer has the problem of being noticed and then accepted by the organization leaders . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations also need service and loyalty , which far more people can supply . It is give and take . The politician offers the organization something to get something in return . Progress is usually slow , but there is an escalator going up if one can get on it . Most of those who want to get on will succeed.2 Sooner or later the neophyte sees himself in a clearer light . He sees a perspective of running for offices in a continuing series throughout his career . His view may be broad or narrow , but he should have some idea of where he would like to finish . It may be enough finally to monopolize footnote1 Again , the problem of definition arises . In this chapter " politician " is used in the sense of office seeker . 2 Frank Kent , Political Behavior ( New York : William Morrow &; Company , Inc. , 1928 ) Chap . 6 . Two outstanding examples of politicians who went all the way up the escalator from the bottom were President Calvin Coolidge and Governor Alfred E. Smith . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bromage , " Running for the City Council : A Case Study , " American Political . Science Review , Vol 13 ( 1949 ) pp. 1235-1211.  |p509  a sinecure in the county courthouse , or it may be that nothing less than the panoramic vistas of the Presidency will satisfy him . The distance from the starting line to the finish should be gauged in rough calculations . The whole endeavor begins and continues with organization , whether that of the party or some other . The higher a politician rises , the more he tends to build a personal organization composed of the people he has drawn about him on the way up , people who are loyal and/or dependent upon him . The relation between a personal organization and the party organization can vary from being almost one and inseparable to being both separate and unfriendly . It is the mark of the greater man not to be entirely dependent upon the party . Governors often have personal organizations and United States senators almost invariably do . Candidates for local offices often receive the same help from what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of employment , their churches , their clubs , and their civic associations . Launching a Candidacy . This development of organization support can be called , for convenience , internal operations by the candidate . He has decided upon the office he wants and sees it in terms of two hurdles , the nomination and the general election . He consults party leaders , personal friends , business men , leaders of organized interest groups , and perhaps other potential candidates to determine how many will be in the direct-primary race and whom he may have to beat to be nominated and elected . Judging by the amount of encouragement and the kind of advice he receives , the politician decides whether or not to run.3 If he does decide to ? usually before he has decided ? he begins his external operations , which consist of preparing himself for public inspection . There are two general methods of approach to the voters at large : be eager or be reluctant . The latter method seems to be far more popular . It has the advantage of not fully exposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so he is saved embarrassment in case he decides not to . In addition , he keeps his opponents guessing and protects himself in the earlier stages from either sniping or outright attacks and coalitions by his opponents . Reluctance is also presumed to have more favorable effect upon the public . If a politician acts too eager , the voters may distrust him and turn against him . In either case he must have prepared some acceptable reasons why he should be a candidate . He develops them in his personal discussions , and directly or by inference , in the groups he is invited to address . footnote3 Of course , circumstances determine the procedures . A politician may not have much competition if the office is not desirable or if his party has little chance to win the office . As James A. Earley discovered at the beginning of his political career , it is easy to get a worthless nomination .  --  Jim l ar1ey 's Sloty ( New York : M ( Craw-Bill Book Company , Inc. , 1918 ) p. 19.  |p510  Stage-managing a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted by the voters . This mark of vanity dovetails with reluctance to appear eager . Most politicians want to simulate a draft and create the illusion they are being forced against their will to offer themselves for the office . The politician sometimes succeeds so well with his illusion that he too is taken in ? an expected side disorder for one infected with the political virus . Once let his friends or a newspaper so much as mention a man 's name as ' available material ' or the ' right sort of man for this job , ' or speak of him as having behind him ' a considerable public sentiment , ' or say that he is ' specially well qualified ' to represent the city , or state , or nation ? and from that time on he is running . He never stops . Perhaps no one but himself knows about it . Perhaps the people or paper that mentioned him have forgotten all about him . That makes no difference . He is in a ' receptive frame of mind ' for the balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulate the draft he says he is trying to resist . He finally permits himself to be quoted for publication " that he has not made up his mind ? that it is a matter requiring earnest consideration , that becoming a candidate would involve a heavy sacrifice of his time and money , that he has no desire for public office , that he hopes he will not be forced into the fight . " 5 However , there is a point beyond which it is foolhardy to be reluctant ; so eventually the politician becomes eager , if no sooner than the time he files his qualifying petitions for the direct primary . The illusions in launching candidacies should not blind us to distinguishing circumstances . Incumbents of an office sometimes can be renominated without much activity on their part . The party leaders and the candidate 's own personal advisers want to avoid the disruption of picking a new candidate , want to maintain the status quo as far as their arrangements and employment are concerned , and argue that the party will be defeated with another candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency , beginning with George Washington. ? The incumbent has only to consent to run for re-election and the wheels are set footnote4 Frank R. Kent , The Great Game of Politics ( New York : Doubleday , Page Sc Company , 1924 ) p. 218 . All manner of witticisms have been directed at the faked drafts of candidates ; one representative sample is : " If you listen carefully in the spring you can hear the buds pop open , and if your ears are even sharper you can hear what the politician describes as the public 's irresistible clamor that he run for office . "  --  Senator Soaper , syndicated , April 19 , 1954. 5 The Great Game of Politics , pp. 224-225. 6 Alexander Hamilton , among others , urged George Washington to run both in 1788 and 1792 to get the government established and to secure it from its enemies .  - -  Charles A. Beard , Economic Origins of Jeffersonian Democracy ( New York : The Mac- Company , 191 ! ) pp. 89-91.  |p511  in motion for him.7 If he is challenged for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own fight and can not rely entirely upon the efforts of his friends . Continuity of Campaigning . Once a candidate is in the open avowedly seeking an office , analysis is applied to the techniques he employs in winning the office . The period of time these techniques are applied is called the campaign , but , in the proper sense of the word , campaigning never ends once a politician begins it ? " Once a Candidate Always a Candidate . " 8 Upon entering the profession of seeking public office , campaigning for office goes on continuously . In the nature of things the situation can not be different , because the politician naturally does those things which are part of campaigning and he no sooner wins or loses one election than he begins preparing for the next . Nor would representatives of pressure groups permit him to rest if he wanted to.e No matter by what name the activity is called , generically it is the same : an activity designed to win votes from the citizens . The designation of a special campaign period is really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the judgment day at the polls . It is the climax of the electoral process , the culmination of all the preceding efforts and calculations . It is the time when candidates drop all extraneous activities of the public 's affairs to concentrate on the public 's state of mind . Neither the public nor the candidates could endure the intensity of a formal campaign for very long . Everyone welcomes the relief from the grueling routine . In between elections candidates can campaign with greater relaxation and ease and the citizens are less aware of the electioneering . Acceptance of Campaigning . The acceptance of an intense campaigning period when the candidates frankly do little else but solicit votes is now so firmly established that it is difficult to comprehend how at one time in our history it was considered undignified for a candidate to appeal directly for votes . This inhibition was part of the aristocratic tradition in footnote7 Referring to Calvin Coolidge 's refusal to indicate receptivity to another nomination in 1928 , Kent , Political Behavior , p. 13 , observed that " one of the simplest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is yours for the asking you do not risk it by appearing to back away from it . " Whether Coolidge wanted the nomination is a moot question if one confines himself to circumstantial evidence , but in the political world it would be assumed that had the convention offered the nomination , Coolidge would have accepted it . Possibly , a politician may be nominated for an office he would prefer not to have : a conceivable example was Theodore Roosevelt 's nomination for vice-president in 1900 . However , such cases arc too rare to merit more than passing attention . H 7'he Great Game of Politics , Chap . 34. n Ibid. , pp. 253 ' 25.1 , 263 ; George M. Reynolds , A1acliiie Polities in New Orleans , l897-/9.n ( New York : Columbia university Press , 1936 ) p. 127.  |p512  politics , summed up by John Q. Adams : " I never had asked , and never should ask , the vote of any person for any office . " 10 On the local level there was more open campaigning , but in seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popularization of politics made campaigning essential . The Presidency was the last office to come under the sway of the obviously eager candidate . The theme that " The Presidency is not an office to be either solicited or declined " was honored in the sense that candidates made no campaign speeches , ostensibly , but operated entirely in the background . Charles C. Pinckney of South Carolina toured New England in 1803 in behalf of his candidacy in 1804 , but this departure failed to set an immediate precedent . Candidates reached the public through personal letters , which were widely circulated and quoted . The ice was finally broken by Whig candidates William Henry Harrison and Henry Clay in 1836 , 1840 , and 1844 . The Whig candidate in 1852 , General Winfield Scott , made a " nonpolitical tour " to select a site for a soldiers ' asylum . The first Democrat to campaign actively was Stephen A. Douglas in 1860 . The first " swing around the circle , " i.e. , a carefully planned campaign trip throughout the country , was made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Party . Garfield in 1880 stumped the country in the most active personal campaign up to that time , but Bryan 's campaigns , beginning in 1896 , eclipsed anything that had been done before in both intensive and extensive appeals to the voters . The most ambitious speaking tour by a President was conducted by Truman in 1948.11 The remainder of the discussion about politicians ' problems in being elected to office can be confined to the area of general practices used by candidates to win votes ? the techniques employed in campaigns to attract and hold the voters . CAMPAIGN TECHNIQUES Elections as Instruments for the " Outs . " Elections are occasions peculiarly advantageous for the " outs . " The " ins , " meaning the incumbents , have nothing new to gain by an election campaign ; at the maximum they do no more than hold their own by keeping the office they already have . footnote10 Quoted in George Stimpson , A Book about American Politics ( New York : Harper Sc Brothers , 1952 ) p. 398 . Charles Sydnor , Gentleman Freeholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1952 ) pp. 42 , 44 , 49 , noted the problem this inhibition created for candidates in Colonial Virginia and the many violations of the code of never soliciting votes . 11 Ibid. , pp. 394 ? 405 . Theodore Roosevelt holds the record for the number of speeches in a single campaign ? 673 in 1900 ; but Bryan holds the record for the most speeches in several campaigns ? 1500 ? and for the most speeches in one day ? 36.  --  New York Times Mawr:inc . September 7 , 1952.  |p513  It is the challenger of an incumbent ( or both candidates when the incumbent is not running ) that has something to gain , and only the holding of an election permits him to gain it . When the skill of an incumbent and a challenger are approximately equal , the latter has an advantage in being able to criticize , to appeal to dissatisfactions and to make unrealistic promises . The incumbent , in these circumstances of equality in skill , needs to have large numbers loyal to him and support his record , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of satisfaction . It is difficult for an incumbent to profit from tensions and discontent unless they run against the party represented by the challenger . A man or woman with several terms in an office depends upon his constituents ' habits , their traditional voting ; and he hopes they are contented with the existing relations of organized interests . A challenger depends upon offering something new in personality and/or relations of organized interests and upon sentiments for a change . PRELIMINARY AND PREPARATORY CONSIDERATIONS Analyses of Constituency . An over-all problem for a candidate in devising the strategy of his campaign is the analysis of his constituency as a whole . What kind or kinds of people are they ? What kinds of interests do they have ? How can their interests be related to the candidate 's campaign ? This problem of analysis is somewhat simplified by the rules , either statutory or customary , requiring local residence . Before a candidate is ready to run , he often knows much about his constituents because he lives among them . His political qualifications making him available follow from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constituency affects directly the ease or difficulty of the analysis . The larger it is , the more heterogeneous and the more difficult to analyze , although there are complications and conflicting interests even in a constituency as small as a city ward or precinct . The candidate concludes , on the basis of his own knowledge and of any additional information he can get , what the predominating characteristics and interests of the constituency are . Most frequently he will find them diverse and will realize that his campaign communication goes to an unselected audience , reaching beyond the confines of his constituency.12 The result in most campaigns is for candidates to make multiple appeals to this audience . Sometimes they can pinpoint a segment of citizens and use the shotgun technique of driving home exactly the points these people are concerned with . Generally , candidates have to use the buckshot technique and hope the scattered shot will hit 1 footnote2 Because of absentee voting , a constituency is not- entirely confined to one geographical area , e.g. , in 1952 Republican canilraign material was directed at Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome .  --  New York Times , October 20 , 1952.  |p514  home in many directions . Issuing statements and making well-publicized speeches , the candidate must calculate the effects of his words upon all of the constituents . Conflicting and Embarrassing Promises . The time is long past when a candidate could make conflicting or contrary promises to different groups of constituents without fear of being called to account . The invention of the telegraph first put a damper on such conduct , and the subsequent developments in communication systems make a speech delivered in Seattle , Washington , instantly available for citizens ' inspection in Miama , Florida . Some of the contradictions in a campaign are kept out of print because candidates make secret commitments to organized groups , but the human tongue is always busy , and the deepest secrets soon begin to come to the public 's attention . The ability to straddle issues is only one feature of dealing with issues . A candidate who refused to make any commitments to constituents would likely do badly . Issues have ramifications which complicate and also ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to different interests the candidate may gain multiple support and yet avoid outright contradictions . His promises may be more or less definite . He may eventually have to admit that he can not deliver everything he promised or that his constituents misunderstood the promise.13 These efforts in about-facing seldom increase the politician 's popularity , so rationalization or diversion is usually resorted to when such embarrassments arise . In spite of all the ifs in issues , people want to hear something which sounds definite , so the candidate probes to find out what will motivate each person or each group and then appeals to them in terms of these interests and motivations.14 As a rule the candidate is in no doubt about the wishes of groups , for their leaders seek him out to get a commitment , not waiting for him to come to them . Individual v. Group Appeals . The analyses of a constituency are almost always in terms of identifiable groups of voters . It is simply impossible in most cases for a candidate to compute his strategy in terms of each individual voter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign may consist wholly of personal contacts and appeals , but even here the candidate depends more upon influential individuals and also depends upon footnote13 During his Administration , President William Howard Taft explained to some audiences that when he promised tariff revision during the 1908 campaign , he did not necessarily mean downward revision as most people assumed . 14 As the late United States Senator , Henry F. Ashurst ( Democrat , Arizona ) stated the case , " Above all things , he the politician should not forget that voters never grow weary of illusory promises . "  --  From " The Care and Feeding of Politicians , " delivered  |p515  the groups to which he belongs . Appeals in a campaign , in the full sense of the word , are to groups . In fashioning or calculating appeals , candidates think in terms of the receptivity of particular kinds of groups of people . Some of this thinking may unavoidably be stereotyped . A frequent use of stereotypes is revealed in efforts to foresee what a whole class of people thinks and how they will react @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or white-collar workers or retailers will respond to an appeal . These visions may be pipe dreams , but the more improvising the candidate must do , the more of these calculations he may be forced to make . Strategy Adapted to the Office . The kinds of campaign techniques a candidate uses depend upon the general strategy he adopts for getting himself elected . The strategy adopted is largely determined by the im= portance of the office he seeks . The voters want to hear from candidates for President , for Congress , for governor ; to a lesser extent , from candidates for the state legislature , sheriff , attorney general ; and almost to no extent at all from candidates for secretary of state , county recorder , or justice of the peace . In most states , candidates for all of these offices are elected the same day , and the voters simply have limits upon the number of candidates they can listen to during the same period of time . Candidates running for offices at the top of the ticket merit most of the general attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , issue the statements and travel extensively about the constituency . The candidates running at the bottom of the ticket appear at rallies and are introduced to the crowds but usually make few speeches . Their general strategy is to follow the head of the ticket and depend upon organization . Again , it becomes clear why good vote getters are needed at the head of the ticket to help carry it . A candidate for a lesser office can be independent of the top of the ticket only if he has his own following or a constituency that usually elects candidates of his party . The distinction is not that candidates for lesser offices utilize no campaign techniques , but that their techniques are more unobtrusive . They engage in more personal-contact campaigning and make fewer public speeches of a formal nature . They usually have less popular issues to discuss so have little to talk about except themselves or their records in office . Organization plus the standpat party voters are of cardinal importance . GENERAL PRACTICES Techniques Infinite , but Standardized . Getting to the specific question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once . First , to enter a ca's'e at , techniques can never he fully catalogued and exhaustively described . Differences in particular campaign problems and  |p516  in particular candidates preclude any final or all-inclusive treatment . The really remarkable fact about campaign techniques is that definite patterns of general practices emerge from the confusion . The discovery of these patterns attests to the basically similar character of all campaigns over time and to the possibilities for orderly approaches to the problems by politicians despite the outward appearance of haphazard and petulant responses . Only when there is a basic order in operations can there be a systematic description and analysis of what goes on . Individual Differences in Candidates . The second observation comes directly from the first . The differences in techniques and the skill in their application reflect personal differences among the candidates . No two politicians are exactly alike any more than any two individuals are . Some politicians are better adapted to the work of campaigning , finding it less of a chore and having fewer rules to learn consciously . All fish may swim with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians campaign with the same grace and aplomb . Some of these personal qualities necessary in campaigning can be learned or assimilated ; others are functions of the personality and can never be mastered by certain campaigners . Inasmuch as campaigning involves so much communication , and a great deal of that oral , personal characteristics like voice and general appearance are always important . The use of radio , motion-picture , and television media has progressively placed a premium upon these qualities . Anyone can improve his speech ( including pronunciation , enunciation , voice pitch , and resonance ) and his appearance ( including stance , posture , gestures , and facial expressions ) . The capacity for improvement is itself dependent upon the individual , his native abilities and intelligence , and the intensity with which he applies himself . No standard of excellence in these matters of voice , body , and total expressiveness can be set definitely . For each man and woman there arc the peculiar nuances of personality to be developed and transmitted through the learned skills . Everyone should be himself with modifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion , which includes the place , the purpose , and the audience . People can quickly sense artificiality and pretense , and to convey such impressions in campaigns is almost always fatal for candidates . People appreciate diversions and welcome individuality in politics as much as they do in other kinds of performance . No politician would be likely to succeed if he were a carbon copy of another . Relief from monotony is provided as much by stimulating personalities of different sorts as by variation in techniques . Showmanship . Cultivating mannerisms or employing unusual tricks individual candidate and at the same time make him  |p517  personable and his appeal unforgettable . In the middle of a speech , a candidate may remove his coat and drop it on the platform or remove his shoes or snap his suspenders or display a patch on his trousers . These gestures are not the kind taught by elocution teachers , but can be appropriate none the less . A candidate may use objects like a water pitcher , or the Bible or the flag as a stage prop for more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hokum , but they help a candidate to " give a good show . " 15 Humor itself is effective in its place for putting an audience at ease and for variety . Humor must be directed only at persons or things properly to be laughed at or about . The treatment of issues should be serious , and poking fun at an opponent can easily be overdone and actually create sympathy for him . The candidate avoids at all costs being a wisecracker or appearing smartalecky.15 Once he creates the picture of himself he wants his constituents to see , the politician should neither overplay nor underplay his part . Getting Attention The first great problem to which techniques are applied is securing the attention of the voters . This is more troublesome for new and strange candidates than for older and familiar ones , but the problem always exists for every politician . How does a man make himself stand out so that the voters become aware of him ? What does he say or do to impress them that he is worthy of their support ? Most frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say about issues , something which will sound different but sensible , something which will be associated with the candidate and no one else . Stunts of various kinds are used to get publicity and cause the voters to single out , in a favorable context , this one candidate.17 Unusual campaign techniques can be very helpful , e.g. , candidates make a personal tour of their constituency to meet voters , shake their hands , talk with them , and ask for their votes . Constituents footnote15 Kent , Political Behavior , Chaps . 10 , 14. 16 A great deal of discussion in the 1952 presidential campaign revolved about Adlai Stevenson 's use of humor . Some of it may have been lost on his audiences , and he tended to tone it down as the campaign advanced . The only time he skirted around dangerous territory was during a visit to Washington , D. C. , following his nomination . When photographers asked him to make a gesture , he replied , " If I gave the gesture that comes to mind , it would not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four , including Stevenson , get closer together , he said , " That 's close enough . If we got any closer people would think we were going to start shooting craps. "  --  New York Times , August 13 , 1952 , and Ruth Montgomery , syndicated column , August 17 , 1952. 17 As an ingenious device to get voters to read his campaign pamphlet , a candidate running in a field of twenty-two for the common council of Everett , Massachusetts , put a photograph of the voter 's house on the panphlet . The candidate finished first in the race .  --  - United Press dispatch dated October 10. 1953 . Peculiarity names can bring attention . as the case of John S. Angel filing for the Democratic nomination for trcastuer oI Paradise township in Atkansas . Associated I'IC ? ss dist , at ( lt dated June IS , 1954.  |p518  are sometimes impressed by the candidate 's interest , noting that no other candidate has actually come to them as individuals . One device formerly used far more than now is the debate between candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get their appeals over to the voters but also to bring themselves to the voters ' attention . The classic example of this device was Abraham Lincoln 's challenging Stephen A. Douglas to a debate for the United States senatorship from Illinois in 1858 . Douglas was the incumbent , a popular and powerful national politician . Lincoln was a local and state politician , a prosperous attorney and a former member of Congress , who was watching his chance to get into office again . Lincoln had everything to gain by the debates , for they would bring him to the attention of the voters , unmistakably . Douglas had nothing to gain by accepting the challenge . He needed no device to get attention and realized the benefits Lincoln might derive . To use your opponent to your own advantage is a mark of skill because the opponent will understand the maneuver and will try to counteract it . The skill is the creation of a situation the opponent can not escape . Douglas may have felt trapped by Lincoln 's challenge . If by refusing he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result could have been more disastrous than any occurrence in the debates . Candidates try to play the martyr , and should they convince the public , they may need no other issue to run on . This kind of technique , making use of your opponent , is limited because it is difficult to jockey a candidate into such a position . A prerequisite for success , even when the opponent is trapped , is knowing what to do next and doing it well . Publicity Means of Identification . Getting attention and holding it is merely an aspect of the greatest weapon in the armory of campaign techniques , getting publicity . While a candidate concentrates upon getting specific information about his constituents , they gather vicarious impressions about him from newspapers , newsreels , and news telecasts or broadcasts . Stray bits of descriptions and fleeting glimpses of a face or body constitute much of the public 's knowledge of their candidates . The more frequently they are shown or mentioned , the more they become familiar . It is highly desirable that the publicity be favorable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than none . " It is an old but a true saying in politics that ' it is better to be roasted than ignored . ' " 18 Candidates are aware of the problem of making their names and faces known . A name already well publicized is referred to as a good vote-getting name , either au-ong the  |p519  public at large or within one party or the other . " ) Names then become important , and candidates show care in which given names and initials they use.20 Nicknames can be endearing identifications as " Andy " for Andrew Jackson , " Old Rough and Ready " for Zachary Taylor , " Abe " for Abraham Lincoln , " Teddy " for Theodore Roosevelt , " Al " for Alfred E. Smith , " TDR " for Franklin D. Roosevelt , " Ike " for Dwight D. Eisenhower . Descriptive terms may be associated in a flattering sense as " The Plumed Knight " for James G. Blaine and " The Great Commoner " for William Jennings Bryan . In these ways , candidates become known and hope voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer to vote for familiar names and some haphazard voters make up their minds how to vote in some races after they get to the polls . Presidential Publicity . Some rules and conclusions in politics are either restricted or expanded when applied to the Presidency . The campaign technique of publicity requires some special attention in connection with . that office . First , the President need not worry about getting publicity , for he is always a source of news . On the contrary , some Presidents and their staffs try to avoid publicity which they think will create unfavorable impressions . Sometimes a President says or writes things that are embarrassing , and efforts are made to cover up . The subject of Presidents ' physical exercise is news but not always welcome news at the White House . As a case in point , President Eisenhower became associated with golf , and his avidness for the game was made so plain that his press secretary put a damper on this publicity . Second , the President 's news value is an asset to his political party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a rule , than anybody else . Third , the status of the presidential office is a partisan advantage . Presidents receive free radio and television time to address the nation in their capacity as Chief Executive . When does the President speak as President and when as a politician ? The distinction is meaningless , for the President plays both roles all the time , whether he wants to or not . The combination of publicity and status makes it difficult , if possible , for any opposition leader completely to counter the President as a political publicity force . Candidates and the Press . Because of their dependence upon publicity , candidates cultivate newspaper reporters , editors , and publishers . footnote19 Theodore Roosevelt first popularized that family name , and this fact was taken into account when Franklin D. Roosevelt was nominated for Vice-President in 1920 . After Franklin became President , however , the partisan association shifted quickly from Republican to Democrat . A particular name can be so popular within a party that anyone with that name will run well in the party 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name " Thornas " and Herbert Hoover allowed his middle n:mre " Clark " to fall into disuse . For a semiserious discussion of names in this connection , see Ccolge Dixon , syndie:ued column . April 18. 1963.  |p520  This is one reason for buying advertising space in newspapers , a practice generally agreed to be ineffective in winning votes . The best publicity is human-interest , personal-information stories . Those members of the newsgathering profession who interview politicians and who find out what is happening behind the scenes have a tremendous amount of information and know the candidates very well personally . There is an interdependence , in fact . Politicians confide in reporters and give them background material for stories . Otherwise the reporters would get no news . Politicians want to establish friendly relations with reporters in order to get publicity . Even more , by these associations politicians can keep their names before the public in a favorable light and can keep unpleasant references to themselves out of the papers . The reporters often have more information than they can print ; either they can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liable for suit . When a paper favors a candidate , he can be helped immensely by constant publicity of a favorable nature , having his picture printed , getting his name into the headlines , being written up on the front page . When a paper opposes a candidate , he may be ignored or relegated to the back pages as well as presented in an unfavorable light . The concentration of newspaper ownership has affected directly all news presentations . The number of independent newspapers has been declining steadily , so that many cities have access only to different editions of the same paper even though the papers may be separately operated under different names . The growth of newspaper chains and the dependence of most papers upon the wire services , except for local and regional news , increase the standardization of stories and the angles from which they are written . The selection of what to print , even without the intention of censorship , is inevitable because no paper is large enough to print all the news received from the wire services . In the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels decide what is sufficiently newsworthy to put on the wires to their newspaper customers . In the second place , each editor decides which stories and how much of a story from the tremendous mass received will be printed . In the third place , the members of chains receive certain features syndicated through the chain and editorials to be run in all of the chain 's outlets . In the fourth place , the widespread use of syndicated features by both chain and independent newspapers gives them all a similarity in content . Decisions about inclusion and exclusion are related to demands of subscribers and to building circulation , to fear of a law suit and to a sense of good taste . By these means , selection is not uniform , e.g. , a story about a United States senator may be featured in most papers in his own state and largely ignored in other states . Yet , with the growth in ownership concentration , selection tends to be more uniform in a city or an area served by  |p521  one paper . Politicians want very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of wider publicity , and they like the support of chains or of newspaper monopolies . They often make news timed correctly for particular editions of newspapers which receive the story by wire . Pressure from Reporters . On the highest government levels , reporters are under pressure to get news , and the pressure is applied in turn upon politicians and their staffs . As a result , skill in handling reporters and getting the candidate 's story across to the public varies with politicians.21 At the presidential level , relations with reporters is one of the chief problems of the office , and press relations have varied sharply with different Presidents.22 The pressure for news in Washington , D. C. , is so intense and so much material is demanded by columnists and reporters that they must produce whether there is any real news or not . Officials often find it the lesser of evils to give out news anonymously or give what is called " background , " for fear that writers will otherwise turn out stories based on hunches or scraps of information . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , and a general furor ensues. - ' 3 ' Phis side of press relations in the federal government can be called " government by news-gathering agencies . " 24 Newspapers and Partisanship . During campaigns , if not the year around , most newspapers support candidates or parties more or less heatedly . The practice of the nineteenth century of parties directly owning or subsidizing newspapers as official organs has passed . Newspaper publishers , editors , and reporters are often active in politics at the local , state , and national levels , ' and many are associated with one of the parties ; nevertheless , the support is based upon similar interests , upon local situations , or upon factors directly related to the newspaper such as circulation and advertising . The predominant partisan predilection of the press is Republican . This predominance has been turned to account by the Democrats with the footnote21 Fvarren Moscow , Politics in the Empire State ( New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc. , 1948 ) pp. 32-35 , noted that the New Yorkers ' concept of Governor Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity and lack of counterpublicity by the Democrats . Members of Congress have found that to call for an investigation is almost a sure-fire way to get publicity for themselves . See Arthur Krock , New York Tunes , December 28 , 1954. 22 See James E. Pollard , The Presidents and the Press ( New York : The Macmillan Company , 1947 ) . 23 The following explanation by a London newsman becomes more understandable : Confidential " information is shared by the British Foreign Office with the London Tittles not for direct use but to inform its editors and leader writers , and to keep it from saying things that might embarrass the government . In short , the Times is not official , but is treated as though it were , in order to prevent misunderstandings based on the euotleotS assumption that it is. "  --  Quotcd in Time , February 23 , 1918 , p . GI , note . 2*Douglass Cater , " Government by Publicity , " Rel ; orter , Dlatch 19 , 1959 , pp. 14-23.  |p522  slogan " the one-party press . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the editorial policy of newspapers , but the implication is that the bulk of newspapers support Republicans in their news columns either by featuring them and ignoring Democrats or by injecting pro-Republican propaganda into straight news reporting . The actual situation is by no means so simple . If the injecting of partisanship into news reporting is wrong in principle , a violation is as serious among the minority of papers that support Democrats as it is among the majority that support Republicans.26 Value of Newspaper Support . An equally important but different kind of question is the effect of newspapers in election outcomes . Despite newspaper opposition to Franklin D. Roosevelt from 1932 to 1944 , he was elected four times , indicating what had been known long before the 1930 's , that predominant newspaper support is not necessary for a candidate to be elected . The rule on publicity , to repeat , is to get it , and Roosevelt always was well publicized even in papers which opposed him . The Republicans inadvertently helped Roosevelt during his campaigns by emphasizing their opposition to him rather than their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized him with their constant praise , he was the featured attraction , the center of the campaign . This same situation worked to the advantage of Eisenhower in 1952 , when the Democrats by attacking him publicized him , and the Republicans ignored Stevenson as Roosevelt 's opponents had been ignored.27 The manner or the degree of support of candidates by a paper becomes more important than the counting of papers on each side in a campaign . Support may mean only editorial support , and comparatively few people read editorials . Featured or syndicated writers in a paper may differ from footnote25 In August , 1953 the Democratic National Committee began publishing through a separate corporation a monthly publication , Democratic Digest , as a " magazine that would be the answer to the One-Party Press . " Of 1773 daily newspapers in 1952 , 67.34% supported Eisenhower according to a poll by Editor and Publisher . New York Times , October 31 , 1952 . However , Stevenson conceded be had generally received impartial treatment in the news columns . Ibid. , April 8 , 1953 . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the percentage distribution of 38,000 front-page headlines for the presidential and vice-presidential candidates showed : Eisenhower 50% , Nixon 9% , Stevenson 36% , Kefauver 5 ? Jo . Ibid. , November 4 , 1956. 26 See Nathan B. Blumberg , One-Party Press ? Coverage of the 1952 Presidential Campaign in 35 Daily Newspapers ( Lincoln : University of Nebraska Press , 1954 ) . In this analysis , 18 papers evidenced no partiality in their news columns ( 15 supported Eisenhower , 2 Stevenson and one was independent ) ; in the case of 11 papers , there was no conclusive evidence of partiality ( 7 supported Eisenhower , 3 Stevenson and 1 independent ) ; there was evidence of partiality in 6 papers ( 4 supported Eisenhower and 2 Stevenson ) . Blumberg also discussed the difficulties in establishing criteria for determining partiality. 27 The fact that Eisenhower was already familiar to the general public and Stevenson was not could have been more important than the campaign publicity itself .  |p523  its editorial policy and are likely to have far more readers . The presentation of the news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the policy of papers is set by publishers and editors , reporters have some influence upon what is printed even though they angle their stories to please their employers.28 Kinds and Extent of Influence . The general reactions of people toward what they read in newspapers are by no means uniform . One long-time newspaperman was of the opinion that it often arouses sympathy to be opposed by the newspapers . Many a man has found the opposition of the press an asset instead of a liability ? particularly if their criticism is of a violent nature , and if they make a practice of denouncing him as dumb . Large , powerful and rich newspapers are always unpopular in their communities . People read them but hate them . When you consider that there is not a day in which the most decent and conservative newspaper does not have to print news personally offensive to many of its readers and which futile efforts are made to suppress , this is not surprising . And it is also easy to understand why an attack on the press by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abused , an allegation of unfairness , invariably strikes a popular and responsive chord , no matter how silly his allegations may be.29 This view , too , is probably overstated . There is not enough information available about newspaper political influence upon readers to be adamant about any conclusion . Basically , the complaint about press support is a matter of ideology more than partisanship as such . Because newspapers are capitalistic enterprises run for profit , their owners support policies in their and the system 's interest . They tend to favor the status quo and to resist reforms costly to them or their associates . The dangers from newspaper excesses lie more in this direction , for the news presentation over a period of time can affect footnote28 An example , perhaps rare , of reporters and writers clearly being at odds with editorial policy was found in the New York Times ( luring the 1952 presidential campaign . From the news columns an uninformed reader could have guessed that the paper was neutral or supporting Stevenson , for most of the Times ' writers were pro-Stevenson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announce that his paper was not going to change its editorial policy but would continue to support Eisenhower .  --  Ibid. , October 31 , 1952 . Of thirty-one reporters on the Eisenhower 1952 campaign train , twentyPour favored Stevenson .  --  Ibid. , September 11 , 1952 . The late Senator Robert A. Taft once asserted that most news writers and columnists in Washington , D.C. " tend to be antiRepublican. "  --  Ibid. , April 7 , 8 , 1953 . James Reston , Chief of the New York Times Washington Bureau , who had frequently been anti-Republican himself , gave some point to the Taft assertion by attacking the Democrats ' one-party press concept with the claim 111 ; 11 washinglon newsmen had been ahead of 1 ) cmocrats in criticizing tile I " ' isclillowel Adtninisuation . Sec his roltunn , ibid. , April 17 , 1955. 2a Frank R. Kent , Political lichavior , lt. 2711 ,  |p524  readers ' opinions even without their knowing it.30 In an election campaign , the activities of candidates are news and will generally be reported irrespective of the newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be influenced by their newspapers , but people who have already made up their minds probably can not be changed so easily . Other Media . The correction of the ills of one medium lies largely in access to other media . The powerful influence of Franklin D. Roosevelt on the radio led to a conclusion that this medium was more advantageous for the Democrats , as newspapers were for the Republicans . In part this judgment was based upon the facts of partisan strength and weakness during the 1930 's , for Mr. Roosevelt was a far superior communicator.31 To the extent that the candidates of one party speak more effectively in presenting their side of a case and in capturing people 's interest , those candidates will be able to exploit the radio and television media . Comparatively , the newspaper is impersonal , and radio and television are personal in their impact . This difference itself is variously helpful or hurtful to different candidates , depending upon their forte in communicating ; the difference is also important as an influencing factor upon individuals , singly or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another man 's poison " applies both to the candidate as communicator and to the citizens as recipients of communication . The growing reliance upon television and its expanding opportunities for publicity changes some of the established campaign techniques . Governors and members of Congress use both live and filmed presentations on television networks . The intensity and frequency of their reminders of themselves to the voters are substantially increased , and for members of Congress in particular this medium is heaven-sent as a substitute for returning to their states while Congress is in session . The potential in television was further advanced by the telecasting of presidential news conferences . The use of a " telethon " ( the candidate stays before the camera for several consecutive hours answering questions , interspersing comments ) has been accounted the difference between victory and defeat for some candidates . The conclusions about the value of a technique are often unbalanced because they are based on one or two dramatic examples . If a candidate is personable and makes a good impression , if he is experienced in handling himself under critical inspection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling and knowledge ? then such devices as the " telethon " are likely to help him . From the point of view of a candidate or of a board of footnote30 " Many of our private thoughts and personal opinions , many of our secret hopes and intimate fears can be traced back to the publishers of newspapers and to the people who write for them . In consequence , we are more influenced by the way some event is inter preted than we are by the event itself . "  --  Quincy Howe , The NeIIJ.S and Horn to Understand It ( New York : Simon and Schuster , Inc. , 1910 ) p. 3. : 11 Ai thin- Krock chatactetiu ? d this period as rcflccting " ' I he Supciiot Aid ( ulation of  |p525  strategy , the objective is to exploit every medium of communication , to be both in the headlines and on the air waves . Success in this objective is referred to as " saturation . " 32 Turning to the media of commercial advertising causes politicians to rely more upon public relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigns . There are substantial fears that getting a candidate elected will become analogous to selling a breakfast food ; that campaign techniques will take on the qualities of advertising jingles , spot announcements , and the vibrancy of a commercial in the discussion of public problems ; that the most available candidates will be those who televise to advantage and create the best image of what the voters want or think they want.33 The ad men dispute these conclusions , contending they do not make campaign policy and can not sell people simply by use of advertising techniques . Very simply , you ca n't sell a politician like a bar of soap . People wo n't elect a detergent to public office . . . . . . . People vote less for an issue than an image . TV is the greatest image purveyor of all time . But let 's be clear what we mean by image . We mean a total impression . That total impression is the result of many random , casual and not so casual impressions . What TV can do is strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TV can concentrate , focus , emphasize , but it can not create an image that is not at least embryonic already . It can not make a fat man appear thin , it can not make an inarticulate man silver-tongued , it can not create sincerity where sincerity does not exist . . . . What a man is , how he really feels , come through on the 21-inch screen . The image you see may not be one you admire . But if the voters accept it you can feel pretty certain they are getting what they want , they are n't being fooled by what they see . They may be wrong but they are not misled.34 Irrespective of who plans the campaign strategy , the objectives are the same and the most modern techniques merely permit strategists to do the same old things in new ways before audiences of millions instead of scores or hundreds . Sense of Timing Few activities requiring finesse , judgment , and artistry can be carried out fully without an awareness of when an action should or should not be footnote32 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Party Publicity in the 1940 Campaign ( New York : Plymouth Publishing Company , 1941 ) Chap . 3 . The same type of technique was used as early as 1748 in New York when letters and broadsides were employed to define the issues .  --  Carl L. Becker , History of Political Parties in the Province of New York ( University of Wisconsin Bulletin , Vol. 2 , 1909 ) pp. 19-20. 33 Vance Packard , The Hidden Persuaders ( New York : Pocket Books , Inc. , 1958 ) Chap . 17 ; Stanley Kelley , Jr. , Professional Public Relations and Political Power ( Baltimore : The Johns Ilopkins Press , 1956 ) ; New York Times Magazine , Septemher 2 , 1956 , p. 10. 34 " Tladison Arcnuc Teehniqucs in Political Campaigns . " Paper presented at a panel of the Anrctican Political Science Association , St. Louis , Septcmher ti , 1959 , by Lloyd G.  |p526  taken as well as what kind of action it should be . Success in making this type of decision is often referred to as " having a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the implication that the skill is a mysterious quality impossible of explanation , much less of being taught and passed on . The most remarkable fact about timing is its unfailing relation to experience and knowledge . Some well-known entertainers have mastered the art of timing , but no c , ne assumes that they were born with this ability as an innate characteristic o their personalities . A sense of timing in one kind of activity is not necessarily transferable to other activities inasmuch as it is a product of concentration , application , and insight . Whatever element of seemingly intuitive judgment is involved can likely be traced to a mastery of the subject and its processes even though the practitioner himself may be unable to explain how he knew what to do at the correct moment . In politics , timing has many applications . It involves , to begin with , an awareness of the audience , literally and figuratively . Candidates need to know what their constituents want to hear and how much they want to hear . Candidates also want to determine when to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They develop abilities to decide when to accept a challenge or answer a charge . The sense of timing depends as much upon inaction at the right time and place as upon action . What is sometimes condemned as indecisiveness , drifting , or lack of vigor in public officials may be a marking of time until the judicious moment for action arrives . Candidates have a sense of the public in not wanting to satiate people or wear them out . This application of technique applies both to the things a candidate discusses and to the candidate himself . Here is to be found a qualification of the rule of publicity . It is possible to be so constantly publicized that people grow bored with the same person and begin ignoring his publicity . In cases of candidates ( the President , for instance ) who always are news , it is wise from time to time to give the public a rest . After a lapse of time with little publicity , the re-emergence of the candidate in the news is a fresh note and people will perceive him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this kind of timing the periods of withdrawal will be well in between elections so that the return of the candidate to the headlines will coincide with the official start of a new campaign period . Candidates work out a timing operation for their formal campaigns . Most nominations are made in the spring or early summer , a period of strenuous campaigning except when nominations go by default through lack of opposition . Then , the nominees spend a few weeks preparing for the general-election campaign . The last big effort begins about a month to six weeks before election day . As this Gnal cam1- ; 1-clu 're ? is an increase in wiiit , o , in conccuUation , in excite-  |p527  ment culminating on the day of election . The climax is reached at the end through a careful building process.35 The nature of a sense of timing precludes its being a separate technique by itself . Instead , it is an ability which permeates the entire campaign and becomes a property of many techniques . It is applied to the formal campaign and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holding the Initiative . Although few unqualified statements are justified about campaigning , a rule of extremely high validity is that the candidate should attack rather than defend . To take the offensive is usually helpful in getting publicity , and the impression made by this publicity is more likely to be favorable than unfavorable . To be on the defensive is to be in the position of having to explain , and most citizens are impatient with explanations in politics . They also are likely to become suspicious of the explainer since his defense will reach some who did not hear of the charge he is answering , and they may very well wonder what it is all about . To begin explaining is likely never to end , because the opposition will keep fueling the fire by demanding ever more explanations . The voters will lose interest and the defensive candidate will appear as a man without any strategy of his own , without any line of attack , and without any record or positive arguments.36 He is controlled or victimized by events managed by his opponents and presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is not a picture that people want to have of the candidates they elect . Even unaggressive people are not likely to be enamored of unaggressive candidates . The use of the attack can become monotonous , so candidates will vary their approach and presentation . They will as much as possible choose the issues on which to attack both to create the impression of being fighters and to slide over questions they prefer not to discuss . It is also in this way that candidates try to create illusions of victory , the band-wagon technique , by making themselves appear as the inevitable winners . When one competitor seems to be on the run , his opponent tries to convince the public that they can sense his victory " in the air . " footnote35 A classic example of a failure in this kind of timing was the campaign of Wendell Willkie for the Presidency in 1940 . He brought his campaign to its high point about two weeks before the election and thereafter had no place to go but down . The fact that Willkie was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor . 36 Boies Penrose stated this rule of attack in another way : " In politics it 's a fine thing to apologize to an individual . But never apologize to a mob . The first is gracious ; the second is cowardly . " ? Quoted in Walter Davenport , Power and Glory ( New York : G. 11 . Putnam 's Sons , 1931 ) p. 105 . As the Governor of Alabama reportedly told the Governor of Tennessee , who inquired what kind of a specch to make before a parn ( ular andieme : " Rough , governor . Rough as a roh . Go out here guttin ' , cuttin ' , and snuttin ' .  --  Quoted in the Salurd ( sy Fvening Post , Jammy 29 , 1955 , p . ZZ .  |p528  Ignoring the Opponent . The advice Abraham Lincoln is reputed to have given a young man ( that to be elected you have to ask people to vote for you ) amounts to taking the offensive . Using direct methods , speaking directly of a candidacy and a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional part of this strategy a candidate tries to advance his own campaign along the lines he chooses and counteract the campaign of his opponent without giving him any aid . This technique is largely a throwback to the discussion on publicity . The object is to avoid giving an opponent any personal publicity or helping him communicate his campaign appeals . The most elementary rule is never mention the opponent 's name in a speech or other campaign material . If an opponent must be referred to , the word " opponent " is used or some other term which will suggest that there is another candidate for the office . Candidates carefully select these terms and occasionally can develop a descriptive reference which creates an unpleasant association with the opponent , as Wendell Willkie referred to Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940 as " the third-term candidate . " This practice in American politics is one of the products of individuals campaigning by themselves or only in company with party colleagues ; it could not have been followed in the days when opposing candidates traveled together , talked from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each night . The modern practice of ignoring the opposing candidate personally is paralleled by the practice of ignoring his campaign ; but in fact his campaign can and can not be ignored . Circumstances alter cases and dictate the kinds of countermeasures to be taken . No one can compile a complete list of such circumstances . Only examples can be given.37 Counteracting Opponents ' Appeals . Incumbents , in particular , have to keep a sharp watch on the charges made against them by challengers . When a charge is made the first time , it may be ignored or the incumbent may save up his answers for a major speech . In one great effort he will answer both directly and obliquely by asserting his accomplishments and " setting the record straight " about what has and has not been done . No candidate wants to help spread his opponent 's charges , and if a charge creates no response the side instigating it will drop it , and the other side proved itself wise by having ignored the charge . To deny or counter a charge helps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a charge gets a public response and the candidate knows he can not ignore it , the best technique is to counter it forcefully through the illusion of attacking , not defending , and if possible , to couple the answer with a charge which the other side must answer . The case arises with some frequency when one candidate takes at least a semblance of a stand on an issue and challenges  |p529  his opponent to announce where he stands . The illusion created is that the issue embarrasses the opponent , and sometimes it does . The opponent may answer by stating a position and accusing his opponent of talking weasel words . One of the oldest charges in election campaigns is for each candidate to accuse the other of evading issues . Attacks are often called " smears " by the recipients of the attacks , and attacks or charges should be associated with persons , things , or events usually considered unpopular . A candidate often attacks his opponent for being dependent upon the " bosses , " for owing his nomination to them , for having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected . The attack may be launched in terms of issues , so that cliches and stereotypes can be dragged endlessly back and forth for the edification of the voters . A candidate can be excoriated for being a party to " the squeeze on the farmer " ; for being an advocate of " excess profits " in business ; for aiding and abetting the " demands of labor . " Opposing candidates , figuratively speaking , spar with each other , looking for openings and trying to find weak points to attack . Sometimes the only talking point is the other fellow 's inexperience or his failure to demonstrate any abilities required in the office . In case a candidate is known to be popular , the opposition avoids direct attacks upon him personally and may even try to benefit from his popularity by associating themselves with him , as many Democrats treated President Eisenhower and as some Republicans previously treated President Roosevelt . When it is dangerous to make charges against a candidate , the strategy is to attack beyond him so as to isolate him : attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such unsavory company ; shame them for being unworthy of the candidate . Another unique form of attack is through the political cartoon . This method of campaigning has reached a highly developed stage in the United States . It is used to belittle candidates , to accuse them of scandal and wrongdoing , and to caricature them.38 Avoiding Embarrassments . Because the history of campaigns is attack and defense , charge and countercharge , candidates are constantly embarrassed by their opponents . The golden rule for a candidate under these conditions is to preserve his composure and display no annoyance or fear . Frank Kent graphically stated this rule as " Never Handle a Hot Poker on the Front Porch . " 39 The candidate tries to ignore the charge , or if it is deadly and true , he may answer it by playing the martyr , by accusing the other side of " slinging mud , " by firing countercharges and generally con- footnote38 Joseph B. Bishop , Presidential Nornbialions and Elections ( New York : Charles Scribner 's Sons , 1916 ) Chaps . 19 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t ica t u res. eu Political 11rhariur , Chap . 16.  |p530  fusing the issue so that the public is not quite sure what to think 40 At the other extreme , candidates have been responsible for having a charge made against them so that they might answer it with a forceful and smashing attack and by implication dispose of all the genuine charges as well . On the federal level a frequent charge against the " ins , " since Thomas Jefferson organized the first " out " party , is that a policy or proposed policy is unconstitutional . How influential upon the voters such arguments are is very problematical , but such a charge sometimes puts the " ins " to the inconvenience of having to reply at length . Campaign Strategy in Presidential Campaigns . Since presidential candidates have begun openly campaigning , two types of techniques have been discerned in the strategy . One is the so-called " front porch " campaign associated with William McKinley in 1896.41 In this type the candidate stays at or near his home ( whether " home " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign , making speeches from time to time . The second type is a personal tour on a private train over much of the country , the " swing around the circle , " making several short speeches each day in the communities through which the train passes and making major addresses every two or three days in larger cities or at major points on the itinerary . The swing has been most frequently used during the twentieth century because of the fear of candidates that they hurt their chances by failing to get out and let people see them . Essentially , it is this fear combined with the natural disposition to attack that impels candidates to carry their appeal in person . Also there is the contention by those candidates who do make tours that in a representative form of government the peope are entitled to see their candidates and hear from them directly . The actual preference of most candidates , in all probability , is to avoid making long tours because of the grueling physical strain and because to stay at home is asserted to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely avoided some traveling , although Harding in 1920 conducted basically a front-porch campaign at Marion , Ohio , with short trips into nearby states during late September and October , and Coolidge in 1924 stayed close to the White House . In 1940 and 1944 Roosevelt , late in the campaign , made major speeches in larger Eastern cities and also campaigned in 1944 by his " nonpolitical " trips to inspect footnote40 One man in this predicament complained , " I do n't mind his charging me with doing all these things . What I object to is the damned fellow proving them on me. "  - -  Quoted ibid. , p. 172. 41 When candidates did not campaign openly , they could have been said to use this strategy , e.g. , Buchanan in 1856 and Lincoln in 1860 . The similarity in appearance is largely superficial , for the tradition of remaining aloof also forbade the appearance of campaigning except writing ; letters and receiving visits from panty and personal advisers . The front-porch technique , properly speaking , is overt caulpaigning and is not distirl-rrnl ac a rlillei @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and military installations . The practice in 1896 of having Republican delegations travel to Canton , Ohio , as the occasion for McKinley to make a speech , had to be curtailed even in 1920 because of the higher traveling expenses and the discomfort and difficulty in assembling and transporting a large group . In short , it is cheaper and far less troublesome for the candidate to go to the people than to bring the people to the candidate . The introduction of radio seemed to have little influence on the decisions to make a tour , but television creates the opportunity for a candidate to be seen as well as heard nation-wide . Differences of opinion have developed over the relative values of television campaigning and of personal contact with the voters . Although the former has become a standard method of seeking votes , its effectiveness can easily be overestimated.42 The use of air instead of rail travel now makes it possible for candidates to take a series of shorter trips , pinpointing the localities they want to visit . Campaigning for Colleagues . The strategy of attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used by one politician in behalf of another who is a candidate . In every campaign , candidates within the same party are constantly urging the election of one another : Candidates for governor and United States senator speak on behalf of candidates for the national House , for the state legislature , for county offices , and for each other ; candidates for the lesser offices urge the election of those at the top of the ticket . Presidential candidates campaign for the party ticket in each state they travel in . Certain advantages attach to this campaigning for a colleague . Some things a candidate would like to have the voters told would not be appropriate for him to tell . He would be embarrassed saying it , and the voters would probably resent it coming from him . A man can not eulogize himself , but his running mates can eulogize him . This speaking for one another is a mutual back-patting operation , permitting a more aggressive attack than if each candidate were speaking for himself . Presidents Campaigning for a " Friendly " Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have the President speak on his behalf . The distinction between a presidential candidate and a President who is campaigning is substantial . The latter has the prestige of the office with its symbolism of secret-service men , of a special musical selection , Hail to the Chief ! , of limousines and chauffeurs and a bevy of photographers and reporters . The only question that has been seriously raised about the wisdom of Presidents campaigning for party colleagues is whether or to what extent a President should campaign for his party 's candidates for Congress during the mid-term elections when the President himself is not a candidate . footnote42 , Sce , c.g. , New Ymh Times Alagazim ' , : Npi it 29 , 1956 , 1 ) . 13 and Sc ( lion 1 . Oc lohci " 1 . 1956.  |p532  A President is always presumed to want his party to keep control of Congress , but the practice has been for Presidents to say little specifically or publicly of a direct partisan nature during the campaign period in the middle of the presidential term . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1918 , but a peculiar element involved in that election was its occurrence while the United States was at war . President Wilson was finally prevailed upon to issue an appeal to the country on behalf of a Democratic Congress , asking for continuance of unified counsel and leadership in civil action as well as on the battlefield . He accused the Republicans , not of being unpatriotic or antiwar , but of being anti-Administration . This injection of the President was seized upon by the Republicans , and they won a majority in both houses of Congress about two weeks after the statement was issued . The universal judgment in both parties , even among some Democrats who had originally argued for the appeal , was that it proved to be a blunder.43 Wartime , it was concluded , was no time for the strategy of attack by the President . The next mid-term election held during war was in 1942 , when President Roosevelt , who was always mindful of the experiences of the Wilson Administration , refused to take a partisan stand and even keyed his own campaigns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , rather than to the kind of partisan issues he became famous for in 1932 and 1936 . In 1950 if it had not been for the war in Korea , President Truman probably would have toured the country on behalf of a Democratic Congress as he had done in the spring of 1950 . The international situation in October and November 1950 was not conducive to a vigorous presidential campaign on partisan issues . In 1.954 , a peacetime year , President Eisenhower went into a number of states to speak for Republican congressional candidates . The universal judgment this time was that his campaign helped the Republicans to hold down their losses.44 The success one politician has in campaigning for another is always dil ' - ficult to assess . It is hoped that a popular official will help his party colleagues , but one person 's popularity will not necessarily rub off on someone else . Too many other factors are involved ill campaigns to place exclusive ? credence in this one . footnote43 Arthur Krock , New York Times , February 17 , 1950 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( New York : Doubleday , Page &; Company , 1921 ) Chap . 115 . Some of the precedents Tumulty cited to justify Wilson 's action were not apt , applying to private statements of Presidents or to appeals made by men who were not President at Ow time . The only parallel was a speech made by McKinley in Iowa in 1898 , after the armi stice with Spain , asking for a Republican Congress to insure unity . 44This discussion does not take into account the results of a President openly taking sides in the nomination of candidates in his own party . Since the disastrous experience of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1938 , when he set out to ? purge " certain Democratic : rnenrbers of Congress in the primaries , this technique is considered taboo .  |p533  Limits to Partisan Attacks . All campaigning , whether by the candidate or by others on his behalf , lapses into extreme partisanship at times . While excess is understandable under the pressure of a campaign , its degree of usefulness should not be overestimated . Candidates would do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than vinegar . Voters who consider themselves independent are either unimpressed or repelled by excessively partisan appeals , and the opposition is indignant or outraged . These appeals can please only intense partisans . The result is not likely to win the candidate new or different supporters , and such appeals may help the opposite candidate by making him a martyr.45 The strategy of attack can be used quite apart from intense partisanship , and candidates , usually aware of the difference , use both kinds of attack . The public likes a fighter as long as they can become interested in the fight . Candidates can appear as fighters without always emphasizing partisanship , which much of the public considers petty or immoral . The best theme for the strategy of attack was expressed by Franklin D. Roosevelt when he formally entered the fray in 1940 , " I am an old campaigner and I love a good fight . " Maximum Support The object of a candidate is to receive as much support as he can , bo h among rank-and-file voters and among leaders who can be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a genuine contest ever feels he has sufficient support . Candidates almost always " run scared " whether they show it or not , and the perpetual dread and fear they have of making a blunder stays with them throughout their careers , in between as well as during campaign periods.46 The pressure to attain and hold more supporters leads candidates into various acts of desperation , some ill-advised . As the day of election approaches , the emotional mercury measuring degrees of nervousness keeps moving up and the pace is quickened accordingly . There is the fear of making a mistake and the fear that the opposition will make a last-minute charge which can not be answered adequately before election day . Any weaknesses in his armor begin looking bigger to the candidate . Sometimes in these frantic clays a candidate begins to worry about the groups he was previously assured of and may make new appeals and concessions to them , doubly to insure their support . The use of buttons , stickers , and streamers identifies supporters and publicly commits them to the candidate , in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The sense of com- footnote45The excesses of the attacks upon General Harrison in 1840 , accusing him of living in a log cabin and drinking hard cider , inspired the Whigs to adopt these symbols fut their campaign . 48 Kant 7 ' 6. r-i Gnmi n/ Pishlipt n 9.7  |p534  petition also causes candidates to spend money on personal cards , campaign literature , handbills , and paid advertisements in newspapers , because these things have been done traditionally and the opponent is doing them . No device dare be overlooked if it can conceivably reach voters and keep the candidate on a par with his rival . The winning over of leaders associated with the opposition is always considered a net gain for a candidate , no matter at what point in the campaign it occurs . The fluidity of loyalties as they follow personal ambitions in politics is reflected in the adage , " Politics make strange bedfellows " and in the supplemental observation that politics " is no game for grudges. " 47 Men who one day are pouring the most virulent scorn and vituperation on each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Usually when such reversal of form is noted , the principals explain that their previous antipathies were not personal but were based entirely upon the issues of the past , which are over and forgotten about ; now , they point out , they always had the highest regard for each other individually , so their present association is perfectly natural . A dilemma for a candidate is to have , or be able to get , the support of individuals or groups who are unpopular and would cost him support elsewhere . If he can not keep this support secret and the knowledge of it would damage his chances , he must denounce it . Just because a candidate speaks out against a group does not mean he had a chance for its support , although in either case he is trying to prove his innocence or virtue by his opposition . Candidates in or out of office are always shoring up their support , so that they are engaged in the two-way operation of holding their ground and moving on , all at the same time . " When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting up lightning rods.48 Another product of the fear of defeat and the embittered relations between contesting candidates is the spreading of rumors . The remarkable character of rumors is how they can be started and how their content is drastically changed as they spread.49 When used in politics , the rumor is often purposely started and leaves little to be enlarged upon . Rumors are difficult or impossible to answer . They can not be nailed down , and to try to counter them is to give them currency and even some plausibility . Rumors are not always false , and even the vicious ones may be based on truth . Those which are not vicious may strike the candidate on a highly footnote47 Political Behavior , p. 298 ; in general , Chap . 26 . One of the most remarkable examples of strange bedfellows was the alliance of some of the leaders of the AntiMasonic movement with leading masons like Henry Clay . See G. G. Van Deusen , Thurlow Weed ( Boston : Little , Brown &; Company , 1947 ) pp. 44-45. 48 Farley , op. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American term ? see Stimpson , op. cit. , pp. 257-258 ? and corresponds to the term " nursing a constituency " which is used in England . 49 See , e.g. , Gordon W. Allport and Leo Postman , The Psychology of Rumor ( New 11-1 , , , , .1 C ? m mnv . Inc. 1947 ) .  |p535  sensitive nerve , e.g. , " born with a silver spoon in his mouth , " " he is a Catholic , " " he lived abroad most of his life . " 50 Rumors in one and the same campaign can work both ways . In 1796 rumors were instigated by newspaper articles that Washington was supporting Jefferson and other rumors were set off by anti-Jefferson appeals for a " Christian President . " 51 The rumor that an opponent is going to withdraw from the race is easily disproved , but can create the impression he has not enough support to justify his running . 52 The end result of rumors is to give undertones of whispers to every campaign and to make some campaigns on every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The value of rumors is speculative . No one can point to a campaign , unless it involved a small constituency , won by the use of rumors . The net effect of them may be a boomerang or entirely nil . Slogans As a means of getting attention , publicizing the candidate and his appeal , and putting the opposition at a disadvantage , slogans have constantly been coined either accidentally or by those with a facility with words . Slogans are of course completely different from rumors or scandals . Slogans are adopted with the intention of featuring them in the campaign . Candidates are glad to have slogans to use , but must publicly repudiate any resort to rumor or other surreptitious tactic . The purpose of a slogan is to provide a catchy series of words , easily understood and easily repeated . The words should epitomize the campaign theme of the candidate or party , and preferably embarrass the opposition at the same time . If a slogan conveys a popularly accepted idea , the opposition is hard pressed to counter it . The essence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or implication . The more unrelated to campaign issues and the more related to personalities slogans are , the more difficult to cope with them . 53 The presidential campaign of 1840 produced two excellent examples , both favorable to the Whigs . General Harrison , the Whig candidate , was famous for his victory over the Indians in the battle at Tippecanoe . Ap- footnote50 Political Behavior , Chap . 24 . J. T. Adams , " Our Whispering Campaigns , " Harper 's , September , 1932 , p. 447. 51 Edward Stanwood , A History of the Presidency from 1788-1897 ( Boston : Houghton Mifflin Company , 1898 ) p. 46. 52 This and other standard rumors were used in Colonial Virginia ,  --  Sydnor , op. cit. , p. 46. 53 During the intra-Republican fight over the presidential nomination of 1952 , sonic pro-Taft Republicans poked at General Eisenhower and his managers with this doggerel : Here 's to the me-too Party The ionic of the phony and bluff Where the Lodges ca n't speak to the General And the Ucucral wo n't imcak to Red Duff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            