@@774100

txt  | lights of the firmament would in fact find themselves at a particular time in the future seemed a certain guarantee of the correctness of the whole system . The success of Hellenistic astronomy was further reinforced by its astrological application . The fundamental idea of astrology was that events in the heavens foreshadowed events on earth . After the linkage of Greek mathematics to Babylonian observational records it did in fact become possible to calculate the relative position of the planets at any time ? past or future . With such skill , it therefore seemed possible to predict what would happen on earth . By making the assumption that the position of the planets at the time of a man 's birth affected his whole life 's span , a single calculation gave the key to the future for any individual . This seemed enormously impressive to the ordinary unmathematical mind . Consequently , almost from its inception ? mainly at Alexandria in Egypt ? the new science of astrology attained enormous and enduring popularity . Reciprocally , the demand for men who could cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Roman times the astronomer Ptolemy ( second century A.D. ) distilled Greek mathematical astronomy into a single book , which we know by its Arabic title , Almagest . A little later Galen ( d. c . A.D. 200 ) codified Greek medicine for later ages , just as Euclid ( c. 300 B.c. ) had done earlier for geometry . Other aspects of Hellenistic culture diversified older Greek tradition but cut no strikingly new paths . This was true of sculpture and architecture , city planning and the arts of fortification , for example . Literature tended to become academic ? full of learned references ? or artificial ? populated by silly shepherdesses and the like . History degenerated into a branch of rhetoric , while the rhetoricians preferred a good phrase to a good idea . Such refinement and artificiality appealed of course only to the educated . The poor and vulgar also found a quasi-literary voice through the mime . This was a form of popular theater which preserved something of the bawdy tradition of Athenian comedy . The rise of Rome . A new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cultures in the eastern Mcdi- terranean with the Roman conquest , first of Macedonia and Greece ( 146 B.c. ) , then of Seleucid Asia ( 64 B.C. ) , and finally of Egypt ( 30 B.C. ) . Rome began its political career as the leader of a federation of Latin cities in central Italy . A period of royal Etruscan rule ended with the establishment of an aristocratic republic ( 509 B.C. ) . The Republic was initially very strongly committed to the preservation of a simple rural Latin way of life in reaction against the corruptions of both Greek and Etruscan brands of civilization . For more than a century , Romans engaged in border wars , slowly expanding their territory , but also suffering occasional setbacks as when a raiding body of Gauls sacked the city and almost captured the capital ( 390 B.C. ) . Rapid expansion began soon thereafter so that by 265 B.C. all of Italy south of the Apennines was united under Roman leadership . Rome 's success rested partly on a numerous and hardy peasantry , disciplined and led by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corrupting luxury and wealth they saw among their more civilized neighbors . Additionally , the native peoples of Italy were but loosely organized into tribes and cantons , sometimes with and sometimes without a definite urban headquarters . No stubborn defense of local autonomy hindered the Romans in fastening their military and political leadership upon these peoples , especially since they were already familiar with federal arrangements within their own local political systems . Hence it proved possible to unite Italy under a single city 's government without much trouble , whereas the Greeks struggled endlessly among themselves and never managed to combine local loyalties with stable attachment to any larger political whole . Rome 's rise brought on collison with the imperial city of Carthage in north Africa . Sicily , where Greeks and Carthaginians had long conducted sporadic war against each other , was the first bone of contention . Before they were able to defeat the Carthaginians , the Romans had to build a fleet , thus becoming a naval power for the first time . By 241 B.C. the Carthaginians were driven from Sicily . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special magistrate or governor and required to pay taxes to Rome . A second and far more severe test of Roman strength came between 218 and 201 B.C. when Hannibal , a skillful Carthaginian gen- eral , brought an army from Spain through southern Gaul and then crossed the Alps into Italy . Hannibal had expected most of the subjected cities and peoples of Italy to rise in revolt against the Romans . A few cities did indeed welcome him as liberator , but most of Rome 's subjects and allies in Italy preferred a Roman to a Carthaginian master . Consequently after twelve years in Italy , during which time he was never defeated in the field , Hannibal was compelled to embark for home , because in the meanwhile a Roman expeditionary force had turned the tables on him by raising the natives of north Africa against their Carthaginian masters . At Zama in north Africa the Romans with their African allies won a final battle ( 202 B.c . ) . They forced Carthage to make a humiliating peace , transferring Spain from Carthaginian to Roman control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Breakdown of the Republic . Involvement in the wars of the east came without delay ; but for half a century the Romans held back from assuming direct political control over any part of the Hellenistic world of the eastern Mediterranean . This policy was abandoned in 146 B.C. when Macedon ( already thrice defeated in battle ) was made into a province and Greece was " liberated " by a foreign conqueror for the last time . Very rapidly Roman governors , soldiers , and tax farmers acquainted themselves with the refinements and luxuries of Hellenistic civilization . New tastes flowed into Rome with the new wealth derived from plunder . Simultaneously , Roman society underwent a catastrophic differentiation between rich and poor , analogous to the crisis that the Peloponnesian war had brought nearly three centuries earlier to Greece . Civil war between rival generals , commanding increasingly profcssionalized troops , fastened a military dictatorship upon the Roman state . Julius Caesar ( d. 44 B.c. ) , the conqueror of Gaul and champion of the lower classes in Rome , was the first man who seized and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His expressed intention of reorganizing the Roman government roused bitter opposition among his fellow Senators who thought of him as a tyrant and usurper and so slew him on the steps of the Senate house . But their act , intended to restore the Republic ,  | merely plunged the Roman world into another round of civil war , from which Caesar 's adopted son , Augustus , emerged victorious ( 30 B.c . ) . Having won undisputed sovereignty over the Mediterranean , Augustus proceeded to borrow his defeated enemies ' slogans and claimed in 27 B.C. to have " restored the Republic . " He did reinstate republican forms and even entrusted the government of some of the provinces of the empire to the Senate . But Augustus was careful to keep military command in his own hands , and behind the scenes he exercised very effective control over elections and set tacit but real limits to the deliberations of the Senate . Nevertheless , the forms of republican government were not completely empty , if only because the emperor ( from Latin imperator , i.e. commander of soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pretense of republicanism made transmission of authority from one emperor to another rather awkward , for the hereditary principle was an affront to republican theory , which held that free elections should determine political leadership . Nevertheless , the custom whereby a reigning emperor designated his successor usually worked smoothly , for all men dreaded a recurrence of civil war . As a result , for more than two hundred years after Augustus ' victory the Roman world remained internally at peace , with the exception of one disastrous year ( A.D. 69 ) when the soldiers proclaimed no fewer than three emperors in rapid succession and the imperial rivals fought out their claims in the heart of the empire . Frontier wars continued . Augustus , for example , pushed his frontiers to the Rhine and the Danube ; the Emperor Claudius ( reigned A.D. 41 ? 54 ) began the conquest of Britain ; Domitian ( reigned A.D. 81 ? 96 ) occupied part of Germany lying between the upper Rhine and Danube , and Trajan ( reigned A.D. 98 ? 117 ) conquered both Dacia ( in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish revolts in Palestine also engaged Roman arms ( A.D. 66 ? 7o and A.D. 132 ? 35 ) and various wars against the Parthians to the east and the Germans to the north kept Roman armies from idleness . Yet these struggles had little effect in the interior of the empire , where peace and orderliness prevailed as never before or since .  | Hellenism in the Roman empire . During this long period of peace , the Roman empire witnessed a massive transplantation of Hellenistic civilization westward to Italy , Gaul , and Spain . To be sure , Latin rather than Greek became the prevailing language of these regions , so that it was Hellenistic culture in a Latin dress that rooted itself in the western provinces . Sculptors learned to carve with all the skill of their Hellenistic contemporaries , but Roman taste , emphasizing realistic portraiture , gave Roman sculpture its own distinctive character . Similarly in the field of literature , Lucretius ( d. 55 B.C. ) , Cicero ( d. 43 B.c. ) , and Vergil ( d. 19 B.c. ) ? to name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of expressing most of the Greek philosophic , rhetorical , and poetic refinements . Yet Latin could never become Greek . Latin letters and thought therefore retained always a distinctive accent , even when faithfully patterned on Greek originals or inspired by Greek example . - Within the framework of imperial administration , the provinces of the empire were organized into a series of city-states , each possessing its own local simulacrum of the public institutions , buildings , and governmental procedures which had once constituted the frame of existence for Greek and early Roman life . During the long Roman peace , provincial cities came to be dominated by local landowners . Their progress in the refinements of civilization was made at the direct cost of the peasants round about who tilled the soil and paid them rents . Gentility , but also a certain vapidity and cultural fragility , were inevitable consequences . Only a comparative handful of the population knew or cared much about the high Greco-Roman culture of the great Mediterranean world , and these favored few owed their security to the obedience of distant frontier garrisons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen . Under the circumstances it is surprising that peace lasted as long as it did , and that the privileged social position of a demilitarized landed class was not challenged until after A.D. 193 , when prolonged civil war once more began to ravage the empire . Christianity . Behind the Hellenized facade of Roman life great changes were under way ( luring the first two centuries of the Christian era . The interaction between Middle Eastern and Greek cul- tures , which had begun before the Romans appeared on the scene , continued apace . The Roman state , with its rapidly proliferating bureaucracy , tax collectors , legal system , postal services , and standing army borrowed heavily from ancient Middle Eastern examples of imperial administration . More important still were changes in religion , for it was in these centuries that Christianity ? a faith that combined Jewish and Greek elements with a new and most persuasive revelation ? created a force that was destined to shape men 's minds and feelings for millennia . Yet until after A.D. 200 Christianity , as well as other competing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribulations of the world , remained relatively obscure , since it was the poor and humble of the cities who first found solace in the Christian gospel . Despite the Greek language in which the Gospels were couched , and despite the Greek ring to some of St. Paul 's ( d. c . A.D. 64 ) phrases about sin and atonement , Christian theism was basically a reaffirmation of the Middle Eastern view of the nature of the world and man . The early Christians ' concern for God and salvation , and their vivid expectation of a speedy end of the world stemmed from Jewish roots , and these aspects of the new faith carried greater emotional power than did the abstract complexities of trinitarian theology or other distinctively Greek aspects of the new religion . Such analysis of the antecedents of Christianity should not disguise the fact that the events so simply narrated in the Gospels and in Acts generated something new and enormously appealing . Jesus and his disciples clearly expected God to intervene speedily and with power to set the wicked world aright . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( c . A.D. 30 ) , these expectations seemed at first to have been false . But soon afterwards the dispirited Apostles gathered in an " upstairs room " and suddenly felt again the heartwarming presence of their Master . This seemed absolutely convincing evidence that Jesus ' death on the cross had not been the end but rather a beginning . With a great rush of renewed hope , his followers concluded that he would soon return in glory to inaugurate the long-awaited Day of Judgment . Their friend and Master , Jesus , it now seemed certain , was indeed  | the Messiah , prophesied from of old , who had been sent by God to save the righteous and would soon return on clouds of fire to judge the quick and the dead . Such surprising news could not be kept quiet . On the contrary , the Apostles bubbled over with excitement and tried to explain to anyone who would listen all that had happened and was going to happen . Around this tiny kernel of excited missionaries the vast complexity of historical Christianity gradually formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ramifications from the life of Buddha , Confucius , or any of the other great teachers of mankind . In one important respect , however , the career of historic Christianity differed from that of any other great religion . From the beginning , learned and respectable Jews refused to accept the idea that Jesus had been the Messiah , and only a small minority of Jews ever accepted the new gospel . But St. Paul and others found willing listeners among pagans of the Hellenized cities of Syria and Asia Minor . Men who longed for a savior , but were not prepared to accept the ceremonial rules of Judaism , found the Christian message perfectly convincing . It was early decided that such converts would not have to conform to the Jewish Law . Faith in Christ ( a Greek term meaning " The Anointed One " and equivalent to the Hebrew " Messiah " ) and a reformed life as a member of the Christian community were enough . As a result , after the Jewish Christians of Jerusalem had been dispersed in the course of the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities severed their ties with Judaism entirely . No other great religion underwent such a change of environment in infancy , for Greek ideas and religious inheritance were not at all the same as Jewish , yet pagan converts inevitably brought with them many of their former habits of thought . In particular , the combination of divine and human traits in a single person was a thoroughly familiar idea among Greeks . This aspect of Christ 's existence tended therefore to attract greater emphasis . Similarly , Greek habits of logical argument demanded clearer theological definition of the relationship between God the Father , God the Son , and God the Holy Ghost or Spirit , which  | continued to visit and inspire Christian congregations from time to time , just as it had first visited the Apostles in Jerusalem after the crucifixion . From this emerged the subtleties of trinitarian theology . But before the abstract definition of dogma became critically important , Christians felt the need for a dependable record of Jesus ' life on earth . Accordingly the four Gospels , each recording a somewhat divergent recollection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down between A.D. 70 and ioo . Soon thereafter , St. Paul 's letters and several other texts of exhortation or of prophecy were brought together to form the New Testament . Weekly readings from these sacred texts , together with singing and a ritual meal commemorating Jesus ' last supper with his disciples , maintained the faith of the growing communities of Christians . The willingness of members of these groups to help one another , especially in time of sickness or other unusual hardship , was another very powerful support for the early church . Despite the distrust with which Roman rulers inevitably viewed a semi-secret society which preached the early end of the world and the overthrow of Roman authority , the Christian churches continued to attract converts among the poor and disinherited of the cities . The success of Christianity , coupled with the general petering out of Greek pagan energies , was a sign that Hellenism was at long last losing its expansive power . By that time , however , peoples in Asia and Europe had transformed , borrowed , and made their own , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Echoes of this process extended to India and even to distant China . This we will explore in the next chapter , which will consider the development of these civilizations during the years of Hellenism 's apogee , and survey the repercussions of civilized achievements upon the barbarian world as a whole .  | WHILE Hellenism was outgrowing its Aegean cradleland and becoming a diffusely genteel mode of existence , the other civilizations of the Old World did not stand still . The Macedonian and Roman conquests had consequences beyond Hellenistic and Roman frontiers , particularly in India . Simultaneously , in Mongolia the rise of the first really powerful nomad confederation triggered far-ranging migrations along the steppe . The upshot was to establish more intimate and regular communication than ever before among all civilized and many of the semi-civilized peoples of Eurasia . Despite fundamental cultural conservatism in all the main centers of civilization , the new frequency of contact across the entire Eurasian continent did stimulate peoples in critical crossroads areas to unusual creativity , especially in the field of religion . The illauryan empire of India . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronological uncertainties , particularly with respect to events across India 's northwestern frontier . When Alexander led his army into the Indus valley ( 3z7 B.C. ) , most of the Ganges region had already been consolidated under a single kingdom of Magadha . By disrupting local defenses and alliances the Macedonian invasion perhaps prepared the way for Chandragupta Maurya , king of Magadha ( reigned c. 322 ? 298 B.C. ) , to add the Indus region to his domain . Under his grandson ,   Asoka ( reigned c. 269 ? 232 B.C. ) , central and southern India too , save for the extreme tip , was annexed to the Mauryan empire . This vast state borrowed a good deal from Persian and Hellenistic models . Mauryan sculpture may have been produced by workmen imported from beyond the Hindu Kush . Chandragupta 's pal- ace appears to have closely resembled the Persian palace at Persepolis . Asoka 's famous pillar edicts , which he set up in widely scattered parts of his empire , seem to have been inspired by the Persian royal inscriptions carved into the cliffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empire owed something to the Persian and Macedonian examples . Yet Asoka , after youthful indulgence in war and conquest , became a pious Buddhist , and devoted the rest of his life to spiritual conquests . Specifically , he sent missionaries to all parts of his realm , as well as abroad . He also erected several shrines to house portions of Buddha 's ashes . For a while it seemed as though Buddhism would sweep all before it , but official patronage even when supplemented by invocations of the Buddha , perambulations of holy places , alms-giving , and other pious lay observances could not overcome the original weakness of the religion . Despite such inventiveness , it remained true that only for monks could Buddhism provide a complete way of life . Ordinary men in ordinary walks of life were still compelled to resort to Brahmans for rites appropriate to marriage , puberty , and death , not to mention all the lesser crises of human life . Very soon after Asoka 's death his empire split into warring fragments . Fresh waves of invaders came through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Parthians . These invasions were related to flights and removals on the steppe which were triggered in turn by the clash between a newly united China and the Turkish-speaking pastoralists of Inner and Outer Mongolia . The unification of China . Amid such widespread upheaval the fundamental change , perhaps , lay in China 's unification . This was the work of the ruler of the state of Ch'in . In 221 B.C. his armies , tempered in long border wars against the steppe barbarians , completed the overthrow of all rivals within China and he assumed the title of First Emperor ( Shih Huang-ti ) of a new dynasty , the Ch'in . The new emperor used his position to reorganize Chinese administration radically and ruthlessly . The country was divided into provinces and prefectures , on lines that lasted until modern times . He prescribed a uniform script , which also took hold and soon made older books more or less indecipherable . He completed the construction of the Great Wall of China to keep the nomads in   check , and created an efficient system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops to any threatened frontier or rebellious province . This great autocrat and conqueror ruthlessly overrode local tradition , repudiating anything that set limits on his power . This meant , among other things , collision with Confucian doctrine , which sought to confine the emperor to governing according to the rites . Shih Huang-ti therefore prohibited Confucian teaching and ordered all Confucian books burned , save for a single copy of each work , which was to be preserved in the imperial archives . This decree won Shih Huang-ti the undying hatred of later generations of Confucians . More important at the time , his massive   conscription of Chinese manpower for state service created general discontent , and when the great conqueror died in 2 I o B.C. his heir proved unable to maintain his father 's power . Fresh civil war broke out , ending in 202 B.C. , when the founder of the Han dynasty secured hegemony over all China . Except for one brief usurpation ( A.D. 9 ? 22 ) his descendants continued to occupy the imperial office until A.D. 220 . The early Han @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , having superseded the Chou aristocracy on the land , had become the dominant element in Chinese society . Sons of these families , educated in a predominantly Confucian mould , were recruited into the imperial bureaucracy . This established a pervasive harmony of outlook between officials and landowners who effectively combined to keep peasants and other subordinate ranks of society in their proper place . One sign of the stabilization of Chinese society along these lines was a decline of intellectual controversy which had been a prominent feature of the period of the warring states . Shih Huang-ti- , for example , was identified with the Legalist school that emphasized the rights of the state over all rivals , whereas the Han emperors soon accepted Confucianism as an official ideology . Rival doctrines ? Mohist , Taoist , Legalist , and others ? were repressed more through official disapproval than by intellectual refutation , until , by degrees , a remarkable uniformity of outlook arose among the educated classes of imperial China . Governments in central Asia . Long before this aspect of China 's stabilization had time to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made manifest abroad . Shih Huang-ti lost no time in taking the offensive and drove a number of tribes from Inner Mongolia across the Gobi desert to the sparse grasslands of Outer Mongolia . These refugees formed the kernel of a barbarian steppe confederation , called Hsiung-nu by the Chinese , which presently became so formidable as to constitute a worthy rival for China itself . The first Han emperor , for example , nearly lost his life on a campaign against the Hsiung-nu ( 200 B.C. ) . After this sobering experience he signed a treaty agreeing to pay tribute to the confederation and recognizing their restored dominion over Inner Mongolia . The Hsiung-nu thereupon set out to extend their control west- ward across the steppe . In doing so they dislodged various Iranianspeaking peoples who fled toward the southwest , where they overthrew the Greek kingdom of Bactria , an interesting but littleknown state that arose in the interstices between the decaying Seleucid and Mauryan empires , far to the east of other Greekspeaking kingdoms . Yet after a period of confusion , during which successive waves of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a more stable regime returned to the oases and pasture lands of central and western Asia . In 101 B.C. Chinese armies traveled westward and established the suzerainty of the Son of Heaven as far as the Jaxartes river . Some time later ( exact dates are disputed ) , a comparatively strong monarchy ruled by Kushan kings established itself where the Greek kingdom of Bactria had formerly been , i.e. in modern Afghanistan and across the mountains into modern Pakistan . Still further west , Iranian newcomers from the steppe , the Parthians , also erected a fairly stable empire which lasted from 171 B.C. until A.D. 226 . Changes in warfare and trade . This widespread stabilization of civilized governments in central Asia became possible because of an important development in the technique of cavalry warfare . Before 100 B.C. the Parthians discovered that by feeding horses on alfalfa , specially planted and harvested , they could develop a larger , stronger , and more beautiful breed than the shaggy steppe ponies known previously . Such a horse , in turn , was able to carry a much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-armored man and horse could render the arrows of light steppe cavalry ineffective . A company of such heavy cavalrymen could in fact return arrow for arrow , and then , when the steppe cavalrymen 's quivers had been emptied , could drive them from the field and harass their retreat . Seldom , however , could armored cavalry overtake light horse . The result , therefore , was to create a stalemate between civilized heavy cavalry and the light cavalry of the steppe nomads . Neither could prevail in the other 's environment . The big horses could not find sufficient nourishment in the slim pickings of the wild steppe , whereas on agricultural ground the unarmored nomads could no longer prevail against the new style of heavy armored cavalry .  | Agricultural communities capable of sustaining the big horses ? they could eat hay and grain when the irrigated fields needed for alfalfa were lacking ? therefore had the possibility of defending themselves against nomad raiding . But the expense was great , for horse and armor , not to mention the trained professional fighting man required to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that local institutions often had to be adapted in order to concentrate enough income in the hands of individual fighting men to permit them to purchase and maintain such elaborate equipment . This usually meant subordinating a village , or several villages , to a single strong-armed warrior . But when a truly formidable class of such paladins formed in the countryside , it meant that the will of the central government could not prevail , save on sufferance and with the concurrence of this new military class . Since monarchs , peasants , and townsmen all had reason to regret such a transformation , civilized societies did not accept the new heavy-armor technology of warfare very rapidly , except in regions exposed to constant raiding from the steppes , i.e. Iran and central Asia . Nevertheless , the shield against the steppe nomads which thus was raised in central Asia allowed civilized governments and merchants to collaborate in establishing an organized trade route , linking China with Rome by means of a well-appointed , regularly policed , and heavily taxed caravan route . Shipments of Chinese silk traveled westward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while a variety of goods made the return trip ? metals , glass , and considerable quantities of coin . Almost simultaneously , Greek-speaking sea captains operating from the Red Sea discovered how to take advantage of the regular monsoon winds of the Indian Ocean to travel across the open sea from the straits of Aden all the way to southern India . Similar voyages were soon undertaken across the Bay of Bengal , linking the east coast of India to Malaya . A short portage across the isthmus of Kra then brought the voyagers into touch with Chinese vessels operating along the southeast Asian coasts . Thus a sea route , broken only by the portage across the neck of Malaya , also came to link Rome with China shortly before the Christian era.  | Hundreds , perhaps thousands of persons made a living by traveling to and fro along these routes : camel drivers , sailors , guards , merchants , porters , and other common folk . They seldom left much trace in the literary record . Yet talk around campfires and in port taverns , we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the known world , throughout the bazaars of Asia all the way from Syria to China and from southern India to the Aral Sea . Developments in the arts . No fundamental modification of any of the four major civilizations of the Old World resulted from the greater ease of communication and travel between China , India , and the Middle East . We have already seen how the Greek style of life penetrated the upper strata of Middle Eastern society , interacted with European barbarism to civilize all of Mediterranean Europe , and contributed a distinctive imprint to emerging Christianity as well . But contact with the other civilizations of the Old World did not add much more than the luxury of silk clothes to the life of Greco-Roman gentlemen . Much the same was true elsewhere . The mainstream of Chinese culture , for example , was not affected in any important fashion by contact with the rest of the civilized world . Scholars and officials , steeped in the classics of Confucian scholarship , were as impervious to the silly notions of lowly trading folk as were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christianity mattered as little as did the discredited deities of Olympus . We kno far less about the lives of upper-class Brahmans in India , but they too may be presumed to have found little of interest in the gossip and tall stories of the ports and caravanserais , where the most fertile interchange between Greek , Indian , and Middle Eastern civilizations took place . The established civilizations of Eurasia , in other words , continued on their course as before . In China the years between Confucius ' death ( 479 B.c. ) and the unification under Shih Huang-ti in 221 B.C. were particularly fertile . Various rival schools of doctrine arose to dispute pre-eminence with Confucianism and Taoism ; but after the Han dynasty established peace in the land , these rivals  | withered or were absorbed into Confucianism . The process of absorption brought much which had originally been skipped over by Confucius into his followers ' traditional learning . The usual course was to read all sorts of new notions into the Confucian classics by treating them as allegories or anagrams , which hinted at truths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decipher their full meaning . In this way , as men were later to do with the Christian scriptures , a host of new ideas could be fitted within the framework of Confucianism without difficulty . Chinese learning was further enhanced by the inauguration of history as a distinct form of literary composition . The great pioneer was Ssu-ma Ch'ien ( 145 ? 86 B.c. ) , who compiled a multivolumed record of all the past known to him , from the beginning of things until his own lifetime . He organized China 's history around the idea that each dynasty began with an especially virtuous ruler chosen by Heaven for the task , and then by degrees dissipated its initial virtue until Heaven lost patience and withdrew its mandate from the last unworthy ruler . He fitted the data of China 's past into this scheme so persuasively that it became standard for all later Chinese historical writing . We are much less well informed about the development of Indian literary and intellectual culture . The linkage of priestcraft , courtly elegance , and ascetic discipline , which achieved a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 570 ) , was presumably maturing ; but when all dates are unsure it seems best to reserve a discussion of Indian thought and literature to a later chapter . The Iranian regions remain tantalizingly obscure . The replacement of the Seleucid by Parthian overlordship in Iran and Mesopotamia ( 171 B.c. ) does not appear to have had any drastic cultural consequences , at least initially . The Parthian monarchs , like the Seleucids , drew major tax revenues from the Hellenized cities of Mesopotamia and accordingly adopted a generally phil-Hellenic cultural policy . In the countryside , however , where the Zoroastrian faith survived , a more purely Iranian way of life persisted . This came clearly to political expression with the establishment of the Sassanian or New Persian empire in A.D. 226 . Art reflects exposure to new visual experiences far more sensi- tively than literature responds to contact with another learned tradition . This is so because it is not necessary to translate a work of art before strangers and outsiders can react to it . Literary culture , by contrast , is utterly unintelligible to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which contact with Greek sculpture stimulated Indian artists to perfect their own independent style of carving within a very short period . The earliest-known Indian sculpture dates from the time of Asoka . Within no more than two centuries a rich , mature style developed , well illustrated by the elaborate carving of the great Buddhist stupa at Sanchi . Art historians still debate exactly how much Indian artists were indebted to the Greeks . Yet the generally naturalistic character of Indian sculpture , its free use of Mediterranean decorative motifs , and the certainty that Indian stonecutters had ample opportunity to see numerous examples of Greek sculpture ( at least as exported in cheap copies from Alexandria ) , all point to a real connection between the two sculptural traditions . Astride the Hindu Kush a hybrid art style arose , using Greek forms to body forth Buddhist saviors . Buddhist missionaries spread this art across central Asia and brought it into China toward the end of the period we are now considering . As this style of art traveled eastward , Greek conventions were misunderstood . The spirit was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statue of Apollo ended as a stylized evocation of other-worldly aspiration . Greco-Buddhist art really affected China only after the end of the Han dynasty ( A.D. zzo ) , when it entered deeply into and quite transformed earlier Chinese art . In this indirect fashion , we may literally watch Greek art styles spread across Asia , altering meaning and symbolic significance as they progressed . New , cosmopolitan religions . The propagation of art styles was not , however , the most significant cultural consequence of the opening of regular communication between the separate civilizations of Eurasia . Rather , in the regions where men of different cultures met and chaffered in the bazaars there arose communities of rootless wanderers and lost souls who strove to make the harsh world in which they found themselves more tolerable by religious  | innovation of a sort that proved fundamental and very attractive to millions of men elsewhere throughout all later ages . Three regions proved particularly fertile . One was in southern India , a second in northwestern India , and the third lay in the Greek-speaking regions of the Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Greek-speaking populations of the eastern Mediterranean cities . Hinduism emerged almost simultaneously in southern India , while Mahayana Buddhism was doing the same in northwestern India . All three regions were active centers of long-distance trade , with big new cities where rootless men congregated . All three also were zones where several quite different older religious and cultural traditions overlapped , stimulating sensitive individuals to reorder their belief in the light of new inspiration , mystic experience , elaboration of ritual , and logic . Something has already been said of Christian beginnings , and of the mingling of Jewish and Greek traditions that provided the new religion with its early milieu . In southern India , Brahmanism evolved into Hinduism during the first Christian centuries in an environment where Aryan , Dravidian , and Greco-Roman influences met and overlapped . The change came gradually , for no one prophet or preacher deliberately or consciously transformed the traditional faiths of India . Rather , through a process of ritual invention , the various myths concerning the innumerable deities honored by different Indian castes began to coalesce around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vishnu . Their worshippers believed that each of these gods chose to appear to human gaze in many different forms , suited to the understanding and sensibility of particular audiences . Hence , almost any primitive cult or local peculiarity of worship could readily be attached to the cult of Vishnu or of Shiva , since every local god who in fact attracted worship was proved by that very fact to be a valid instance of divine incarnation . Such a doctrine , nevertheless , introduced a sort of order and system into Indian religion , since , when a local cult had been identified as a form of the worship of one of the two high gods of the Hindu  | pantheon , worshippers could begin to share in the more sophisticated service of the god whom they had previously known only in one of his particular guises . The really important feature of emergent Hinduism lay in this : that sophisticated worshippers of Vishnu and Shiva viewed these two deities as saviors , able and ready to rescue their devotees from the toils of their present life and raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfect state . The doctrine of rebirth remained central . The simple believed that pious life and good behavior would assure rebirth in a higher caste . The educated , on the other hand , could still proclaim , with the Upanishads , that annihilation of self in the supreme reality of which even Vishnu and Shiva were but appearances , remained the goal of religious striving . Thus , by combining high metaphysics with vulgar superstition , Hinduism offered something for everyone . The combination was immensely powerful , and ended by displacing Buddhism from the land of its birth . Before that fate overtook Buddha 's followers , however , a remarkable development of the faith took place , mainly in the northwest part of India , where Indian , Greek , Persian , and steppe peoples met and mingled . This religious development probably took place at the time when the Kushan empire bestrode India 's northwest frontier ( 1st century B.C. to 2nd century A.D. ) . The greatest Kushan monarch , Kanishka , was reputed in later Buddhist tradition to have been a patron of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once again , the central innovation was belief in the existence of divine yet incarnate saviors , called bodhisattvas . A bodhisattva was a soul which , though it had attained a state of holiness deserving the release of Nirvana , nevertheless declined that privilege in order to aid others on the road to salvation . In the meanwhile , these saviors lived a spiritual existence in a super-celestial heaven where prayers and other invocations could reach them , and where they could aid struggling humanity by a sort of spiritual sympathy . Exponents of these ideas termed their doctrine Mahayana , that is , the Great Way or Vehicle , thus distinguishing it from the older  | Hinayana , or Lesser Way . The development certainly carried Buddhism very far from the metaphysical pessimism and ideal of personal dissolution which its founder ( presumably ) preached . Instead , the worshipper , by appropriate prayer and ritual invocation of a bodhisattva of his choice , could hope to become a bodhisattva himself ( though perhaps only after innumerable incarnations ) and thus attain a blessed life after death not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Christianity , Mahayana Buddhism , and Hinduism are to be attributed to the spirit of the times . We can readily believe that persons caught up in great trading and administrative centers of western Asia , often far from home and thrown amid strangers , welcomed the prospect of salvation . One may also argue that the kinship between Mahayana Buddhism and Christianity is due to a common Greek element . The idea of God incarnate , central to both Christianity and Mahayana Buddhism , certainly had Greek analogues ? witness the all-too-human deities portrayed in Greek art . To untutored Indian eyes a statue of a god who was also a man must have required extensive explanation : and it is tempting to suggest that one of the seedbeds of the Mahayana doctrine may have been just such wonderment on the part of Indian seekers after truth and holiness . The appearance of Christianity , Mahayana Buddhism , and Hinduism ? not to mention a number of other less influential cults like Mithraism , the worship of Isis , Cybele , and others ? gave men of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappointment and hardship , since all these faiths held forth the hope of a future in which present injustices would be righted gloriously and forever . Moreover , these religions were independent of any particular locality or community . Like post-exilic Judaism , wherever a few of the faithful gathered together the hope of salvation burned bright . Short of that ultimate bliss , the everyday fellowship of the religious community itself provided a not ineffective solace for hardship or loneliness . All three of these religions were therefore well attuned to the requirements of urban living , as no earlier faith except Judaism had been . Since inequities and hardship  | were inseparable from civilized life , the appearance of such faiths very likely made the long-term survival of civilization far easier than would otherwise have been the case . Diseases and empires . Another consequence of the intensification of contact across the Old World had a very different effect . Goods , ideas , and techniques were not the only things that traveled from one community to another . Disease germs also were transmissible , and as contacts multiplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before been largely confined to one or the other part of Eurasia and Africa spread to new regions . Among a previously unexposed population , disease germs may cause very heavy mortality . Records from both China and Rome make clear that there were severe plagues in the first and second centuries A.D. Many parts of the Roman empire , indeed , began to suffer from depopulation , and lack of manpower became a chronic problem for the Roman authorities from A.D. 200 if not before . It is therefore not fantastic to suggest that epidemic disease , resulting from closer contact across the entire span of Eurasia and much of Africa , may have been a major factor in the collapse of the Roman and Han empires . Of course there were other factors : brute barbarian attack and internal social tensions clearly played major roles . Yet even after the Roman peace and the Han imperial administration were both irremediably broken , the three great world religions that had come to birth in the first centuries of the Christian era ? Christianity , Mahayana Buddhism , and Hinduism ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high cultural life of the troubled age that succeeded . Of all the achievements of antiquity , none remains more vigorously alive today .  | BY A.D. 200 Hellenism had lost its power to attract . The polite , cool , and moderate style of life recommended by Greek philosophers to Roman gentlemen no longer seemed equal to the needs of the time , especially when the long Roman peace suffered violent disruption in A.D. 193 and , after a brief rally , disintegrated squalidly between A.D. 235 and 28 . E into a long series of civil wars , barbarian invasions , and disputed successions to the imperial office . Simultaneously , Confucian China suffered similar disasters . The last decades of the Han dynasty were disfigured by civil wars and barbarian invasions , and the final overthrow of the dynasty in A.D. 220 simply ratified publicly the political and military confusion which had already divided China into a number of competing local states . In the center of the civilized world , however , matters wore a very different aspect . From the Caspian to the Hindu Kush the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raiding steppe cavalry . Their heavy horses , heavy armor , and powerful bows , together with their readiness at a moment 's notice to take the field in order to protect the peasants upon whose rents they themselves depended , provided a most effective defense for the heartlands of Middle Eastern and Indian civilization . Any raiding party had to penetrate through a continuously protected countryside  | where the most technologically formidable warriors of the age lay in wait . Few made the attempt ; fewer still repeated it . Secure behind this barrier , both Indian and a revived Persian civilization attained new levels of elegance , sophistication , and religious virtuosity . India in particular entered upon a golden age which remained " classical " for subsequent Indian generations . Far less is known about the real cultural attainments of Sassanian Persia . Unsympathetic Moslem and Christian reports of Zoroastrian and other forms of religious heterodoxy constitute the principal basis for what little is known of Sassanian literary and religious history ; and the art of the age has survived only in a very damaged state . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great as Indian influence upon southeast Asia and the Chinese Far East . It seems well , therefore , to divide the history of the centuries between A.D. 200 and A.D. 600 into two " fields of force , " and consider the Indian and Sassanian achievements and influence in successive chapters , even though they coincided in time . This chapter will therefore describe the flowering and expansion of Indian civilization , and the next will deal with the achievements of Sassanian Persia . The Gupta empire . In A.D. 320 an energetic Indian king of the lower Ganges , named Chandra-gupta , * crowned himself in a special ceremony as " universal ruler . " To make good his title he then launched a series of conquests . Within less than a century , his heirs brought all of northern India from the Bay of Bengal to the Arabian Sea under their suzerainty . The Gupta empire , thus established , endured until about A.D. 570 . During much of this time , warfare and major political violence seem to have been unimportant in India . We have record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which struck about A.D. 460 . Within India itself chivalric conventions and religious injunctions tamed the destructiveness of warfare to an unusual degree . It was under these conditions that Indian civilization flowered in such a fashion that the Gupta age * The name is identical with that of the founder of the Mauryan empire , who lived about 65o years before . To distinguish the two , it is customary to print the first Chandragupta 's name as a single word and to hyphenate the second .   popular languages of the day , all of which were derived from Sanskrit but differed from it much as French or Spanish differs from Latin . Similarly , the Mauryan empire used a number of local languages for administration . All this altered by the time of the Guptas . Sanskrit became again a living literary language , in which fresh work of utmost refinement and polish was composed . One reason for Sanskrit 's remarkable comeback may have been the growing difficulty of bridging the gap between the various local dialects . As regional differences in the everyday , uneducated forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligible to all became far more acute than in the days of Asoka , when relatively small variations made differences of dialect not too difficult to overcome . But the central fact that permitted Sanskrit 's revival was the school system whereby any man aspiring to knowledge had to learn Sanskrit . A corps of men speaking the same language , and attuned to the same intellectual wave lengths , was thus maintained generation after generation . In Gupta times , this corps of educated men took over social leadership in practically every branch of cultural activity . Thereby , of course , they displaced the Buddhists , who in an earlier time had discarded Sanskrit learning as useless baggage for the soul . Some of the reasons for Buddhism 's ultimate failure in India have already been suggested in Chapter IV . The readiness of Brahman Sanskritists to react energetically to the foreign stimuli that had come into India from the Greek and Iranian worlds during the preceding three or four centuries was another factor that allowed them to eclipse the increasingly well-to-do , insulated , and withdrawn Buddhists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronomy and medicine , where the Greek imprint became clear and unmistakable . Yet the appropriation of Greek notions about the mechanics of planetary motion , together with the mathematical skills needed for casting horoscopes , did not freeze Sanskrit learning into rigid , alien moulds . On the contrary , one of the great inventions of the human mind , the decimal place system of numerical notation , emerged in India by A.D. 270 . The simple numerical sys tern of notation which we call " Arabic " and which the Arabs cur- rectly attributed to India ranks with alphabetic writing as one of the master keys of human inventiveness . Once the notation had been invented , calculation became comparatively easy and rapid . As a result , both the affairs of the market place and the abstruse concerns of theoretical mathematicians were enormously facilitated . All the same , the perfected notation spread rather slowly , becoming known among the Arabs only in the tenth century A.D. and reaching Latin Christendom two centuries later still . Sanskrit literature . The heart of Sanskrit learning lay not in natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an antique , learned , and sacred language led to the development of grammatical science . Panini wrote a grammar of Sanskrit which became classical ; but when he lived is quite uncertain . Similarly , the precise literary history of India 's two great epic poems is irrecoverable , since oral transmission and elaboration across centuries left few definite traces for modern scholars to analyze . Nevertheless , it seems certain that both the Mahabharata and the Ramayana achieved their final form during the Gupta period . The Mahabharata is an enormously lengthy poem , roughly three and a half times as long as the entire Christian Bible . It contains a great variety of matter . At the core is an ancient story of heroic warfare between rival coalitions of noble charioteers , which must descend from very ancient bardic songs of Aryan times . Recitation of these songs somehow became part of Brahman religious ceremonies . The priests saw fit to interlard the bloody violence of the traditional tales with all sorts of homilies and stories teaching religious lessons . If the Christian fathers had reworked Homer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect would be similar . In addition , folk tales and fairy stories interrupt the narrative from time to time . Sometimes stories within stories suspend the main theme acrosss hundreds of printed pages . The Ramayana is shorter and more tightly organized . It is a story of the hero Rama and his wife Sita , and of the trials and tribulations that separated them through a long series of adventures until a final reunion ends the tale . Both the Mahabharata and the Ramayana became very popular in India , and remain so to the present . Innumerable episodes pro- vided a mine of material for subsequent literary elaboration , much as the Greek playwrights exploited Homer and Hesiod for their plots , or as Shakespeare used Italian and classical authors for many of his . The entire subsequent literary tradition of India has been shaped by this device . Between them , the two poems created a literary frame of reference and universe of , discourse that still survives . No author can be assigned to either the Mahabharata or the Rantayana ; and it is clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of time before achieving their final shape in the Gupta period . The history of Sanskrit drama is very different , for the plays that survive usually have an author 's name attached to them and bear every indication of having been composed by a single man for presentation at the royal court . The use of some Greek technical stage terms proves that Greek models had some importance for the Sanskrit theater , though exactly how much is disputed hotly , since Sanskrit drama has its own conventions and the Indian playwrights usually drew their plots from traditional materials of the epics . Kalidasa ( c . A.D. 400 ) is the acknowledged master of Sanskrit literature . His plays rank as classics , and his lyric poetry bespeaks an elegant sensibility , perhaps just a little too self-conscious and contrived to appeal strongly to our own contemporary taste . These aspects of Kalidasa 's work were elaborated after his time by other courtly writers , until verbal complexity and ingenuity outbalanced and even obscured meaning . Gupta art . Accidents of preservation make a fair judgment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moslem conquerors later systematically destroyed the temples of northern India on the ground that they were seats of idolatry . Hence little distinctively Hindu art survives from the centers of Gupta power , which lay in the north . A few carvings from the south can be dated to Gupta times , but they are rather crude and artistically unsatisfactory . Obviously , artists faced a difficult task in giving visual form to gods whose essence was the mutability of their form , since the numerous deities of the Hindu pantheon were doctrinally linked together as successive incarnations of Vishnu or Shiva . So  | far as surviving monuments allow us to judge , this problem was not successfully solved during the Gupta period . Buddhist art , on the other hand , attained a finish and perfection it never subsequently equaled . The paintings of the caves of Ajanta are deservedly famous , reflecting an elegant luxury and refinement characteristic of all aspects of Gupta culture . A few examples of Buddhist sculpture also survive , and exhibit the same artistic mastery ? with just a hint of decadence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was never separable from other aspects of India 's cultural life . The law books , the two great epics , monumental temples , cult statues , and other works of visual art , not to mention the irrecoverable arts of music and dancing , were all part of Hinduism in the sense that all dealt with the relations between men and the supernatural and each in its own way helped to give definition to this critical frontier of human experience . The definitive doctrinal elaboration of Hinduism , however , came only some centuries after the end of the Gupta era , when Shankara ( c . A.D. 870 ) propounded a monistic , transcendent philosophy that later defenders of Hinduism regularly resorted to when arguing against Moslem and Christian critics of India 's traditional faith . The perfection achieved in Gupta times in so many branches of cultural endeavor gave an enduring stamp to Hindu and Sanskrit culture , yet did so without injecting anything radically different or new . Maximal perfection and balance can , presumably , be attained only by refraining from major innovation . This the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , by remaining gladly within the limits their predecessors had defined for them , were able to polish and improve what had been handed down in a fashion later generations never surpassed . Eastern spread of Indian civilization . The Gupta golden age was felt far beyond India 's border . The principal carriers of Indian culture were merchants and missionaries , not soldiers like those who had brought Hellenism to the Middle East , or Greco-Roman civilization to Gaul . In southeast Asia , Indian civilization abutted upon a region where no pre-existing culture offered much competition . Here , therefore , a Greater India arose . Between about A.D. 100 and  | A.D. 600 a series of local states and royal courts in such areas as Burma , Sumatra , Java , Malaya , Siam , and Viet Nam eagerly strove to import as much of Indian civilization as they could . North of the mountains , Indian merchants and missionaries confronted very different conditions . Chinese , Persian , and GrecoRoman populations were not prepared to jettison their pasts in toto , even when they were irresistibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all to the techniques of mystical asceticism which Indian holy men had long cultivated . Hence it was only selected aspects of Indian culture that took root and flourished in other parts of the civilized world , whereas Indian influence on  | southeast Asia was diluted only by the residual barbarisms and village simplicities of that region . In southeast Asia legends provide some information about how Indian styles of life penetrated the peaceable village communities that existed along the shores and river banks of the Bay of Bengal and the South China Sea . Typically , a merchant from India married into a chieftain 's family , and from that vantage point began to exercise cultural-political leadership over surrounding settlements until a small state emerged . Royal power in such states rested largely upon magical ideas which tied fertility of the fields to the potency of royal persons and a ceremonial stone symbol thereof ( i.e. a stone phallus ) ? the so-called " linga . " Temple and palace structures designed to house the royal person and the linga in fitting splendor soon emerged from these notions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life and furnishings as lavishly and correctly as possible . They even imported monumental statues and other ceremonial gear from India . Shortly before A.D. 600 , however , independent stylistic development , presaging the magnificent architecture and sculpture of later centuries , demonstrated the emancipation of southeast Asian courts from their earlier tutelage . It should perhaps be emphasized that the great bulk of the population of southeast Asia was very slightly affected by the introduction of these new styles of court life and architecture from India . Heavier labor service and taxes were perhaps the only difference villagers could notice . But the same might of course be said of the Romanization of Gaul and Britain which had been carried through some four centuries earlier . Indian expansion into southeast Asia was geographically a good deal more extensive than the westward movement of Hellenism , and also may perhaps be said to have affected more people , since the imprint of Indian models on native cultures of that part of the world has lasted until our own time . Buddhist missions to the Far East . Buddhists played a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia , but it was Hindu religious ideas and cult practices that prevailed in most of the region , perhaps because Hinduism was more hospitable to local cults and religious practices than Buddhism could be . North of the  | mountains Hinduism never made any important impression . Buddhism , on the contrary , flowed like a mighty torrent into China and lapped over into Korea and Japan between A.D. 200 and 600 . The reception of Buddhism in China constituted a conscious break with Confucian traditions and values . Nothing , indeed , could be more alien to the cool , this-worldly moderation of Confucianism , with its emphasis upon family and political duties , than Indian Buddhism , which sought escape from the world and preached ascetic withdrawal from all ordinary society . Perhaps it was just this antithesis that appealed to the Chinese . For when the Han government began to lose its grip on the country as a whole , and barbarian invasion added a fresh dimension of violence to the miseries of civil war , the sage advice of Confucians , recommending moderation and decorum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy did to Roman ears in the same age . Stronger medicine for the soul was needed in such times . The Romans found the answer in Christianity , the Chinese in Buddhism . Yet although Buddhism came to command a wide following among the Chinese , adepts in the older Confucian lore never disappeared and never surrendered their distrust of a doctrine so subversive of ordinary life and political discipline as Buddhism ? at least if taken literally ? appeared to be . Efforts to get correct knowledge and true images of Buddha led several Chinese pilgrims to travel to India and visit the scenes of Buddha 's life . Some of them brought back whole libraries of Buddhist texts and proceeded to organize systematic translation . But by about A.D. 600 the initial phase of eager appropriation of Buddhist learning had been pretty well completed . Chinese Buddhists never paid much attention to the sectarian differences that divided the Indians , nor did the complex metaphysical speculations to which the Indian monks devoted their intellectual energies appeal to the Chinese . Mystical enlightenment , however , and the retreat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seekers after peace of soul did meet a need that neither the Confucian nor the Taoist traditions of China knew how to cope with . Chinese Buddhism therefore soon began to evolve in directions of its own , essentially independent of the declining curve of Buddhist fortunes in India .  | Buddhism brought a distinctive style of art into China . Greek and Indian elements had already blended in central Asia to produce a stately , impressive style . In China , Buddhist art underwent rapid adjustment to the Chinese environment , so that by A.D. boo an effective and unmistakably Chinese version had developed . Before the reception of Buddhism , Chinese art had been mainly decorative and geometrical . Buddhist art , on the contrary , centered upon a stylized yet basically naturalistic portrayal of bodhisattvas , that is , of divine helpers of mankind clothed in human form . In addition , Buddhist wall paintings and carvings often tried to tell a story which required the artist to suggest spatial and other relationships between his figures . These aspects of Buddhist art represented a notable enrichment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buddhism itself had been sloughed off . The impact of Buddhism on Korea and Japan was of a profounder character . Those lands boasted no very impressive preexisting high culture . They found themselves on the extreme edge of the Chinese sphere of influence in the period when China proper was eagerly absorbing Buddhism . Hence it was Chinese civilization in Buddhist dress that attracted the kings and courtiers of Korea who , between A.D. 373 and 528 , made Buddhism into a state religion in each of the kingdoms into which Korea was then divided . Japan , being more remote , was less ready to grasp the latest modes of Chinese culture . Nevertheless , a Buddhist mission that reached the land of the Rising Sun in A.D. 552 met with important success . From that time onward the Japanese islands joined the circle of the civilized ( and semi-civilized ) nations clustering around the imposing bulk of China . Indian influence upon the west . Indian influence on the Iranian and Roman parts of the civilized world was far less evident than it was in the Far East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that there was any important Indian impact on Europe and western Asia . The trouble is that records are lacking . If Christian and other religious ascetics of the Iranian and Roman worlds were influenced in any important ways from India , they failed to say so ; and , in the nature of the case , we can not expect records to have  | been made . Assuredly humble folk traveling back and forth between India and Alexandria had ample opportunity to exchange tales about the wonders of Indian ascetic practices . Indeed , we know that at least one Indian holy man reached the Mediterranean , because a " gymnosophist " burned himself publicly in Athens and by doing so excited enough wonderment that his deed was recorded . But Christian monks who saw visions and interpreted them as visions of God could not be expected to know or admit that Indian idolators had done the same centuries before . Nevertheless , the resemblances between certain details of Christian ascetic practices and the devotions of Indian sages are striking , and the style of holiness embraced so fervently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general resemblance to much more ancient Indian ascetic disciplines and withdrawal from the world . That some early Christian monks may have picked up useful hints about how to be holy from tales or personal study of Indian ascetic practices seems entirely possible , but remains quite unproven . In the field of philosophy itself ? once the pride and arcanum of Greek pagan rationalism ? the new themes and mystical emphasis introduced by Plotinus ( d . A.D. 270 ) resembled themes long familiar to students of the Upanishads . At the very least , Plotinus and his contemporaries were aware that Indian philosophy existed , and that it was as sophisticated and massive as the Greek tradition itself . A Westerner is always likely to underestimate the magnitude of a cultural movement which affected his own past in disguised and limited ways . It is therefore well to underline the fact that the expansion of Indian civilization to southeast Asia and its impact on Chinese , Korean , and Japanese styles of life imbued the civilization of more than half the human race with a common tint . Insofar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian with the Chinese , Japanese , Korean , Mongolian , Tibetan , Burmese , and Ceylonese peoples , it is due to the contagion of ancient Indian civilization , especially in its religious manifestation . The achievement of Hellenism was no greater .  | WHILE Indian religiosity and courtliness were winning converts in southern and eastern Asia , in the north the harsh shouting of warriors and the clash of arms resounded all along the length of the frontier between steppe barbarism and the civilized communities of Europe and Asia . Both in China and in Europe , civilized defenses were beaten back by advancing barbarians , but in the center of the long line the Iranians held the steppe peoples at bay . China proved capable of absorbing her invaders , and re-established imperial unity ( A.D. 589 ) after some three and a half centuries of division and disorder . By contrast the Roman empire was never reconstituted after the great barbarian breakthroughs of the period A.D. 375-525. * The Iranians met a more surprising fate . After their long and successful struggle against steppe barbarians and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constantinople , the Persian empire of the Sassanids collapsed before Arab invaders But the fiction carried on . In western Europe , for example , the last " Roman " emperor abdicated in t8o6 and adopted the more accurate title " Emperor of Austria . " In the Balkans , Greek-speaking Roman emperors reigned uninterruptedly from the " New Rome " of Constantinople until 1204 . After A.D. 565 these Roman emperors are commonly termed Byzantine , but they referred to themselves as Romans , and the last claimant to the title disappeared only in 1453 , when the lurks conquered Constantinople .  | from the south . The conquerors were newly converted to the faith of Mohammed , which armed them with theological weapons that proved at least as effective as their ( quite ordinary ) horsemen , bows , and lances . Yet before the Iranians merged their cultural identity into the world of Islam , their military success against the steppe peoples and against more civilized neighbors compelled or induced Romans on the west and oasis dwellers of central Asia on the east to borrow much from them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been accustomed to call " medieval . " During the period between A.D. 200 and 600 , therefore , the northern parts of the civilized world were influenced by two distinct forces : the steppe barbarians , forever battering at the gates , countered by the Iranian example of how to organize effective defense against barbarian attack . A somewhat closer look at the course of events will show how this see-saw worked across each of the exposed frontiers of the civilized world . The Huns and the western steppe . The nomad peoples of the Eurasian steppe may be likened to molecules of gas in a very leaky bottle . Pressure at any point spread rapidly through the entire system . Any groups of nomads displaced from traditional pasture grounds either perished or quickly seized a neighbor 's pasturage by force of arms . Within a few seasons , therefore , any important disturbance of pasturage rights spread from one end of the grasslands to the other , neighbor nudging neighbor , until the weakest or least well-organized groups either died , fled into the inhospitable forest land lying north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses to the south , where they might become masters of agricultural populations . We have already seen how the rise of the Hsiung-nu confederacy just before 200 B.C. started one such wave of migration ( above , p. 163 ) . Soon after A.D. 350 a similar confederation centering once more in Outer Mongolia took form . The Chinese called it Juanjuan . At its height , this war confederation exerted authority all the way from Manchuria to Lake Balkhash . As the Juan-juan power swept westward along the steppe , whole tribes and peoples fled before the assault .  | One such group was known in European history as Huns . They appeared in southern Russia in A.D. 374 and immediately defeated the Ostrogoths , who had been ruling that region for a century or more . Fear of the Huns persuaded the neighboring tribe of Visigoths to seek refuge inside Roman frontiers , where that wandering horde of warriors lived off the country , alternately quarreling and making alliances with the Roman authorities . After sacking the city of Rome in A.D. 410 the Visigoths moved westward to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until A.D. 711 . Several plundering German tribes soon followed the Visigoths ; others submitted to the formidable Huns . Meanwhile the Huns had set up their headquarters in the Hungarian plain , from which vantage point they raided southward into the Balkans and westward into Italy and Gaul . Yet in A.D. 453 when Attila , their last great war captain , died , the Hunnic confederacy broke up even more rapidly than it had arisen . Quarrels among rival leaders combined with rebellion on the part of some of the subjugated peoples to destroy almost overnight what had been a vast territorial hegemony . The overthrow of the Huns ' empire failed to bring any sort of order to western Europe . Some of the Germanic peoples who had been subjugated by the Huns fled south and west to Roman territory , and set up new kingdoms in north Africa ( Vandals ) , Gaul ( Burgundians ) , and Italy ( Ostrogoths ) . Simultaneously , a quite different and much more lasting German advance took place in Britain and the Rhineland . Here German-speaking plowmen took over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Roman ( i.e. mostly Celtic ) populations . This agricultural settlement proved lasting , whereas states set up by roving bands of warriors were all short-lived , like the similar barbarian regimes of north China and eastern Iran . Steppe peoples of the east . The migrations and political changes precipitated in western Europe by the sudden appearance of the 1 tuns were matched by similar disturbances accompanying the almost simultaneous eruption of the Ephthalites ( sometimes termedEphthalite Huns or White Huns ) into eastern Iran . From this base , the Ephthalites raided northwest India , and eventually set up a   predatory empire of their own , which spanned the mountains just as the Kushan empire had done before . The disorders loosed upon India by the Ephthalites brought the Gupta age and dynasty to an end . But the invaders were not more able than the Huns of Europe to establish a stable regime over the lands their bows and horses had conquered . Ephthalite power in India disintegrated into endemic civil war by A.D. 549 North of the mountains the horde was finally destroyed less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness of these barbarian states was everywhere the same . Their rulers tried to do two incompatible things . On the one hand the victorious chieftain and his followers wanted to retain the traditional ways and manners of their predatory past . On the other , they sought to enjoy the luxuries and delights of civilized living by squeezing goods and services from their new subjects . But the more civilized the conquerors became , the less did old tribal and war band traditions hold up . Easy living and vice regularly undermined barbarian vigor and warlike effectiveness within a generation or two . Civilized peoples as a rule disliked their barbarian masters . When opportunity offered they were predisposed to welcome a liberator who proclaimed his loyalty to old traditions and ideals . The Chinese and Persians had the greatest success in rolling back the barbarian tide in this fashion . In A.D. 552 the Juan-juan confederacy was destroyed by Chinese armies co-operating with Turks who promptly created a new steppe empire as formidable as the Juanjuan had been . Yet a dynastic quarrel within the ruling family of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turkish confederacy into eastern and western hordes , each jealous of the other and riven by internal quarrels . With the threat and pressure from the steppe reduced in this way , a new Chinese dynasty , the Sui , swept away the last of the barbarian states of north China and reunited the entire country in A.D. 589 . China 's military and cultural dominance over the adjacent barbarian peoples was thereby unambiguously re-established . Almost the same rhythm of events manifested itself along the eastern frontier of Iran . Persian monarchs of the Sassanian dynasty combined with the Turks in A.D. 567 to overthrow the Ephthalites .   The quarrel between the two branches of the Turkish confederation which ensued almost immediately allowed the Sassanians to push the frontier of the Persian empire to the Oxus river once again , thus reuniting the eastern marchlands with the rest of the Iranian lands . Weakening of the Roman empire . The Romans , however , were not so successful . During the first prolonged and bitter crisis of civil war and invasion ( A.D. 235 ? 84 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a regime was not very popular since officials often behaved in a violent and tyrannical fashion . Moreover , the will of the soldiery was fickle . A general , elevated to supreme power through a soldiers ' revolt , might find himself deposed without warning if , for any reason , he proved incapable of pleasing the armies that put him in power . Fictitious election to office by the " Senate and people of Rome " no longer meant anything more than ceremonial validation of naked military usurpation . The Emperor Constantine ( ruled A.D. 312 ? 337 ) changed Roman government in two important respects . He established a new capital at Byzantium , which he renamed Constantinople , and he made Christianity a favored state religion . The new capital was well situated both for trade and for defense , since it was relatively easy to supply the city from the far-flung coastlands of the Black and Aegean seas . The uninterrupted survival of Roman ( often called Byzantine ) imperial government until 1204 was made possible by this fact . Christianity also lent important support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most of the Christian bishops proved eager to co-operate with the emperor , and regarded Constantine and his successors as chosen by God for their imperial office . Here was a simple but persuasive idea that could really clothe the nakedness of military usurpation with the garment of legitimacy . The Emperor Theodosius ( d . A.D. 395 ) carried the alliance between throne and altar to its logical conclusion by prohibiting all rival faiths , thus making Rome officially Christian . Yet this commitment raised another acute problem , for Christians did not all agree on details of doctrine . Soldier emperors and   politic bishops found it hard to handle such issues in an age when abstruse questions of theology became popular rallying cries around which all sorts of discontents against constituted authority quickly gathered . Most of the Germanic kingdoms of western Europe confronted similar problems . Nearly all the German kings accepted a variant form of Christianity which made them foul heretics in the eyes of most of their Roman subjects . The emperor Justinian , therefore ( A.D. could expect a majority of the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of campaigns into the western Mediterranean , seeking to re-establish the unity of the Roman empire . He was only partly successful ; and nearly all the gains he won in north Africa , Spain , and Italy had to be given up immediately after his death , when new invaders attacked the Roman frontiers . Reactions to the barbarians in China and Iran . The differing degrees of success with which the Chinese , Iranians , and Romans re-established the unity and security of their states in the sixth century provide an index of the adequacy of their political and military institutions in the face of the barbarian challenge . China had the advantage that her traditional imperial institutions had themselves been shaped in the days of the Han to cope with the barbarian threat offered by the Hsiung-nu . Hence the Sui emperors and their successors of the T'ang dynasty were able to conform faithfully to ancient imperial precedent while re-establishing an effective frontier guard against the Turkish confederacy . Diplomacy , subsidy , and the use of Chinese commanders to control barbarian mercenary troops guarding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses , the Sui organized an efficient , rather ruthless , bureaucratic regime , whose greatest accomplishment was the completion of a canal linking the Yangtse with the Yellow river . This canal speedily became a major artery of China 's imperial economy . Products from the fertile south could be sent north via the canal to the imperial capital where officials and soldiers stood ready to consume the enlarged supply that thus be- came available to them . Closer control of the entire Yangtse valley and a far greater concentration of goods at imperial headquarters became possible after the opening of the Grand Canal , as this waterway was called . Hence the reconstituted imperial China was stronger than in Han times , able to mobilize more men and material for warlike or peaceful enterprises than ever before . Barbarian raiding , therefore , quickly lost its terrors in the face of the organized imperial might of reunited China . The Iranians had a rather more complex problem . No new resources lay easily at hand , as in China , to reinforce the imperial , central power . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar enough . The difficulty lay in creating a system of society that could support a sufficient number of suitably armored and trained cavalrymen near enough to the frontier to provide effective and continual protection against steppe raiding . The Parthian monarchs had allowed ( perhaps they even encouraged ) the growth of a military class of landowners who equipped themselves as heavy cavalrymen and were perpetually on the alert to protect their own lands from destruction . But the Parthian monarchs never solved the problem of exerting anything like an effective central power over the Iranian baronage . The Parthian royal government seems to have favored cities and towns , whence came their supply of ready cash . But the towns of Iran and Mesopotamia failed to supply enough money to the king to permit him to maintain a strong enough standing force of heavy cavalry to be able to overawe his powerful subjects . Hence the price of an effective frontier guard against the steppe had been a continual welter of local rebellion and disobedience which enormously weakened the central authority of the Parthian government . The Sassanian empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplanted the Parthian regime entirely . The Sassanian family to which Ardashir belonged remained on the throne of Persia and Mesopotamia until A.D. 651 . Sassanian royal power underwent many spectacular crises during these centuries , and not all the kings followed the same policy . Nevertheless , the principles laid down by Ardashir ( reigned A.D. 226 ? 241 ) were never abandoned for long . For the founder of the Sassanian state based his power  | squarely on the Iranian baronage . He cultivated a consciousness of the Persian imperial past , and in particular supported and was supported by a reconstituted Zoroastrianism . Appeal to Persian imperial greatness and to the faith of Zoroaster apparently had the effect of persuading most of the barons of the countryside to support the Sassanian monarchs , at least in times of crisis . The central power therefore remained alive and vigorous , a formidable rival for the Roman empire . Zoroastrian doctrine depended on local traditions that had been treasured by priestly and aristocratic families like that from which Ardashir himself had sprung . But there were embarrassing divergences from shrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canonical version of the Zoroastrian scripture , the Avesta , should be established . They further decreed that the Zoroastrian heritage should be enriched by suitable borrowings from Greek and Indian authors . But the revamped faith , despite the coherence and completeness with which its scriptures were thus endowed , never took root in the cities of the Sassanian realm . The baronage , however , appears to have been well enough pleased , since rebellion , usurpation , and royal assassination ? which constituted the order of the day in Rome ? remained comparatively rare in Persia . Throne and altar , in other words , appear to have made an effective alliance in Sassanian Persia almost a full century before Constantine inaugurated a similar alliance within Roman boundaries . The real importance of the Sassanian experiment lay not in details of doctrine , which were lost soon after the Moslem conquest cut off Persian cultural independence . Rather , it was the fact that the supernatural sanctions invoked by official religion and an organized priesthood effectively reconciled the conflict of interest between militarized landowners and the central royal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armored cavalry could thus protect the land from raids without at the same time threatening to tear civilized society apart through incessant civil war . No other part of the civilized world was so successful at inventing new institutional forms . The Sassanian example , therefore ,   had a powerful effect on Byzantium , and through Byzantium on western Europe . Sassanian religion . Nevertheless , the alliance of king , barons , and Zoroastrian priesthood was not without its cost . The cities of Mesopotamia , from which the Parthian rulers had drawn their strength , were more or less excluded from the Sassanian scheme of things . Perhaps for this reason , the Sassanian period was one of unusual religious effervescence in Mesopotamia . The greatest figure was the prophet Mani ( c . A.D. 216-77 ) . King Shapur I ( reigned A.D. 241-271 ) , son and successor of the founder of the Sassanian dynasty , appears to have looked favorably upon Mani , perhaps hoping to balance the proud rural Zoroastrianism of his father against Mani 's new revelation which appealed mainly to the urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophet . He set out to purge all existing religions of the corruptions which time had worked in the divine message , which , he held , had everywhere been the same , even when delivered through such diverse lips as those of Jesus , Buddha , and Zoroaster . To guard against similar corruption of his own revelation , Mani personally wrote his message down and emphatically prohibited careless copying of his sacred texts . As a result , Manichean scripture always remained scarce , and modern scholars can not reconstitute Mani 's texts from the scraps and paraphrases ( often emanating from religious rivals ) which alone survive . Mani 's precautions against corruption thus backfired . So did the excessive precision with which he established his church and organized missionary enterprise . Having foreseen and prohibited all sorts of errors and vulgarizations , Mani in effect limited his doctrine to an elite of specially trained and disciplined souls . Despite this limitation , during his lifetime Mani met with wide acceptance in Mesopotamia and in other commercial centers , both east and west . Yet at home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who accused them of having corrupted the truth originally entrusted to them by Zoroaster . Hence , when Shapur I died ( A.D. 271 ) Mani was exposed to the anger of outraged Zoroastrian orthodoxy . As a result he spent his last years   in prison and his followers suffered severe persecution . This did not prevent the survival of the faith , but did make the Manicheans into opponents of the regime . Three hundred years later a more definitely revolutionary faith was preached in Persia by a prophet named Mazdak . An emphatic egalitarianism seems to have been central to Mazdak 's message , although details can not he recovered from the shocked denunciations of his opponents who accused the Mazdakites of advocating community of property and of women . For a while , Mazdakism enjoyed royal tolerance ; but when Chosroes I ( reigned A.D. 531 - 79 ) came to the throne , he embarked upon a policy of violent suppression which extirpated all of the sect 's overt manifestations . As it happened , none of these Iranian-Mesopotamian religious movements led to the establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sassanian world a religion suited to urban needs and at the same time able to over-awe the countryside . Because of this , not much is known about Sassanian religion or cultural life at large . Yet , if one remembers that despite its late start , Manicheism constituted the most formidable competitor Christianity had to face in the Roman empire , and realizes that the oases of central Asia as far as the Chinese frontier became outposts of Sassanian religious and cultural life , then the strength and vitality of the Sassanian civilization can be better appreciated . Art also offers some indication of the importance of the Sassanian accomplishment . Some of the features of Byzantine architecture appear to have originated in Sassanian Persia . But unfortunately the piles of dusty brick which alone survive today can give us no real idea of what the royal palaces were like . Their exteriors may never have been particularly impressive , but the domed and vaulted interiors , where glazed bricks once made the light shimmer in brightly colored patterns along the walls , must have been splendid indeed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or adopted from Persian models . Royal state , for instance ? crown and scepter ? and rituals of court ceremonial were deliberately borrowed by Diocletian ( reigned A.D. 284-305 ) , in the hope of clothing his person in an aura of mystery that would inhibit the   sort of squalid assassination that had met so many of his predecessors . Most important of all , after the time of Constantine , the Romans also made heavy armed cavalrymen the backbone of their imperial field army . No other kind of force was capable of meeting Persian attack on the one hand and barbarian harassment on the other . The Romans , however , were unwilling to adapt their social structure to the Sassanian " feudal " style . An elaborate body of legal principles and practices that had grown up piecemeal across the centuries inhibited any really drastic alteration of the urbancentered social and political order . Justinian 's ( A.D. 527 ? 65 ) codification of Roman law was therefore not merely a matter of administrative convenience ; it also constituted a reassertion of continuity with a distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military problem of defense the Byzantine emperors tried to keep a standing force in being , preferably near their own persons , ready at a moment 's notice to travel to any threatened frontier or revolted province and there enforce the imperial will . But tax income was not sufficient to maintain a large force of expensively equipped and armored cavalrymen . When Justinian attempted to reconquer the lost provinces of the western Mediterranean , for example , he resorted to the practice of allowing his great general Belisarius to raise a company of 5000 heavy cavalrymen privately , in the expectation of paying them from booty and plunder . Belisarius ' long campaign in Italy ( A.D. 535 ? 548 ) therefore involved ruthless and prolonged plundering , which turned out to be more damaging to local inhabitants than any of the previous barbarian invasions had been . Inevitably , when the principal armed force of the state remained near the imperial person , the frontiers were seriously exposed . " rime and again small-scale raids from beyond the Danube , for instance , went scot-free since the imperial bodyguard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of marauders . As a result , the Balkan hinterland lay at the mercy of small bands . Only a few coastal cities , strong behind their walls , remained safe . Nothing remotely resembling the vigorous Sassanian local defense system protected Roman frontiers .   The exposure of the borderlands to barbarian raids and infiltration was , in a sense , the price paid by the urban populations of the empire for their continued dominance of society . An armed , rural aristocracy would have challenged that dominance , as had happened in Iran and Mesopotamia with the establishment of the Sassanian empire . The emperors and people of Constantinople opted instead to let the remote and barren inland regions of the empire go , if need be , while defending the vitals of the state with a small mobile standing army , technically equipped in the Persian manner , but maintained by taxes and booty rather than by grants of land . Heresy and orthodoxy . The urban , and in certain basic tenets also democratic , character of Christianity reflected and sustained this emphasis within late Roman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sassanian Persia did for the militarily more successful regime of Iran . Thus , in refusing to imitate the Sassanian military model in its entirety , the Byzantines asserted the socio-political difference between their sea-centered empire and a purely land power such as Persia . The development of Christianity and clearer definition of church organization and doctrine also underlined the differences between the two rival empires . Even before Constantine made Christianity a legal religion , teachers in Alexandria had tried to organize Christian doctrine into coherent form . The great pioneer was Origen ( d. c . A.D. 251 ) , who , inevitably , when attempting to speak about ultimate realities fell back upon the vocabulary of Greek philosophy . Thenceforward , argument about points of Christian doctrine was couched in a philosophic , and sometimes extremely abstruse , Greek . As soon as the pressure of official persecution was removed ( A.D. 312 ) a series of bitter disputes broke out among Christians . Donatism in North Africa and Arianism in Egypt attracted Constantine 's personal attention ; and when remonstrance failed to bring reconciliation among the warring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Christian church at Nicaea in A.D. 32 S. There the doctrine of Arius concerning the relation between Father and Son of the Trinity was anathematized , and a concise creed   ( The Apostles ' Creed ) was approved as orthodox . This did not suffice to convince Arian Christians , however . Subsequent councils , summoned to deal with yet other heresies , succeeded only in defining orthodoxy more and more precisely , and in expelling those who thought otherwise on disputed points . The major and enduring doctrinal splits that developed among Christians tended to conform to deep-seated ethnic and cultural lines of demarcation . The Coptic church in Egypt and the Syriac church in western Asia voiced secular and ethnic as well as theological dissatisfaction with rule from Constantinople . Disaffection was so widespread that when Moslem Arabs invaded Egypt and Syria , they were often greeted as liberators from a heretical and oppressive yoke . Relations between Greek- and Latin-speaking Christians were more complex . Rome was the seat of the pope , i.e. the bishop of Rome . Tradition held that the church of Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore considered themselves to be successors to Saint Peter and claimed primacy over the entire Christian church on the ground that Peter had been specially appointed by Christ as prince of the Apostles . Other major bishoprics of the Christian world resisted the pope 's claim and preferred to rely on a council of all the bishops to settle matters of common concern . When the Council of Chalcedon ( A.D. 451 ) accepted Pope Leo the Great 's formulation of trinitarian doctrine ( thereby repudiating a theological view popular in Egypt and Syria ) a headlong collision between the two theories of church government was postponed but not , of course , resolved . Debate over points of doctrine and church discipline occasioned a great outpouring of polemical and expository works , together with numerous commentaries on scripture and a few ventures into speculative theology . The bulk of this literature was written in Greek , where it gave exhaustive definition both to orthodoxy and to its opposing heresies . In the Latin world , the role of the church fathers was different , for they were less concerned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Christianity available to Latin readers . St. Jerome ( d . A.D. 420 ) , for example , translated the whole Bible into Latin ? the so-called Vulgate , which  | became a canonical version for later generations of Latin Christians . His contemporary , St. Augustine of Hippo ( d . A.D. 430 ) , produced a shower of sermons , biblical commentaries , and apologetic writings . His greatest work , The City of God , sketched a universal Christian history , extending from creation to the day of judgment , which remained fundamental to the world-view of western Europe . His Confessions offered a vivid autobiography of his conversion to Christianity and ended with a penetrating philosophic inquiry into the nature of time and eternity . Taken together , Augustine 's works gave later Latin Christians a theological and philosophic statement of their faith and imparted a distinctly Platonic coloring to it . As the Germanic invasions and attendant disorders ( A.D. 375 ? 525 ) disrupted the urban centers of the Latin Vest , monasteries became the most active centers of Christian piety , education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character when St. Benedict of Nursia ( flor. c . A.D. 529 ) drew upon his personal experience as abbot of a monastery at Monte Cassino to create his Rule for the governance of the monks ' daily lives . With the decay of imperial administration in the western , Latinspeaking provinces of the empire , the church inevitably assumed a fairly independent attitude vis-a-vis secular authorities , who were more likely to appear as ravaging plunderers than in any other guise . The conversion of Clovis , king of the Franks , to the orthodox form of Christianity in A.D. 496 did bring the most powerful German kingdom officially within the pale of papal Christianity ; but the conduct of Clovis and his successors was barely tinged I/y Christian precepts . Impoverishment and political chaos in Italy attendant upon Justinian 's long-drawn-out wars of conquest weal : ened the authority the pope was able to exert outside of Rome itself . By contrast , the Eastern church under the administration of the patriarch of Constantinople remained closely in touch with the imperial authorities . In many cases the Greek church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other instances , patriarchs boldly opposed imperial decrees as heretical . A Christendom so deeply- divided between Greek , Latin , Syriac , and Coptic churches was clearly in no very favorable position to   withstand the assault of Islam , especially since the Arab conquest from the south coincided with renewed attacks from the north where disturbances on the steppe once again set whole peoples in motion across Christendom 's ill-defended frontiers . The changed lance of the world resulting from the explosion of Islam will bee theme of the next chapter .   IN A.D. 636 an Arab army defeated the Roman ( Byzantine ) garrison of Syria and Palestine , and permanently eliminated Roman power from those two provinces . Shortly thereafter , other Arab expeditionary forces overran Mesopotamia ( A.D. 641 ) and Egypt ( A.1 . 642 ) , and by A.D. 651 Iran had also been annexed to the new Islamic empire created by these victories . The fervor of fresh religious revelation vouchsafed to the prophet Mohammed ( d . A.D. 632 ) inspired these extraordinary victories . Even more remarkable was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquerors and their descendants to weld a new and distinctively Islamic civilization from the various and often discordant elements Middle Easterners had inherited from a past that reached all the way back to the first beginning of civilization . The life of Mohammed . In Mohammed 's time , Arabia was divided between warlike tribes , some nomadic and some settled at agricultural oases or in trading towns . Judaism and Christianity had made some inroads into Arabia , but Mecca , the city of Mohammed 's birth , remained pagan . As a young man , Mohammed probably traveled with caravans carrying goods to towns along the Palestinian border . Then at about the age of forty he began to fall into trances and hear voices , which he presently recognized as visita-  | tions from the angel Gabriel , instructing him in obedience to the will of Allah . Under the impulsion of these experiences , Mohammed began to preach the unity and omnipotence of Allah , the impending day of judgment , and the necessity of complete obedience to Allah 's will . He summed up his message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " submission " to Allah . Prayers five times daily , alms-giving , pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in a lifetime , abstention from wine and pork , and a month-long fast from sun-up to sun-set every year were the principal obligations Mohammed imposed upon the faithful . Obedience to Allah , the Prophet revealed , would be rewarded by a place in Paradise , whereas idolaters and other wicked men were destined to suffer eternal fiery torment . Bodily resurrection on the Last Day was another point upon which Mohammed put much emphasis . Initially , the Prophet assumed that Jews and Christians would recognize his preaching as the last and most perfect revelation of God 's will . For Allah , Mohammed believed , was the same deity who had spoken to Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and all the other Hebrew prophets . Since Allah could not contradict himself , differences between Mohammed 's own revelation and the tenets of the older religions were explained simply as the result of human error or corruptions of the authentic divine message . A few Meccans accepted Mohammed 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their traditional worship , which Mohammed denounced as idolatry . Then , in A.D. 622 , Mohammed fled from Mecca to Medina , where he had been invited by strife-torn factions of that oasis city in the hope that an outsider could adjudicate their quarrels . From this time onward , Mohammed became a political leader and lawgiver . At Medina , Mohammed had his first direct encounter with Jews , who declined to accept his authority . Mohammed therefore attacked them , and took their land for his own followers . A little later , Mohammed subjugated another Jewish oasis . This time he left the inhabitants in possession of their land on condition that they render tribute in the form of a head tax . These first encounters were of great importance because they became binding precedents , defining the relation between Moslem rulers and their Jewish ( and also Christian ) subjects .  | While at Medina , Mohammed attracted a steady flow of new recruits and converts . As a result , the community of the faithful was soon hard pressed to find a livelihood in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to raid caravans owned by the Meccans . The first raids were successful ; others soon followed until resistance in Mecca crumbled . Mohammed returned in triumph and then went on to unite all of Arabia under the banner of Islam , partly by war , but mainly by diplomacy and negotiation . Scarcely had this been accomplished when Mohammed died ( A.D. 632 ) , leaving no son to succeed him . One of the Prophet 's old friends and close companions , Abu Bakr , was chosen as caliph ( i.e. successor ) to lead the Moslem community . He immediately had to face a widespread withdrawal of allegiance by Arab chieftains , who felt that their submission to Mohammed did not obligate them to the community of the faithful as a whole . But when it came to fighting , the enthusiasm and conviction of the hard core of Mohammed 's converts once again prevailed , and the Arabian chieftains were forced to unite once more behind the banner of the new faith . Abu Bakr died as soon as this crisis was past ( A.D. 634 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A.D. 634-644 ) , who proved himself not only pious and devout , but also a very successful general and administrator . Arab conquest and the OrnnMyad caliphate . The consolidation of all Arabia prefaced the amazing series of Arab conquests that brought the whole of the ancient Middle East ( except for Asia Minor ) as well as the desert region of the lower Indus valley ( by A.D. 705 ) , North Africa and even Spain ( by 711 ) under Moslem control . No military change accounts for these victories . Arab armies were neither very numerous nor particularly well equipped , but the conviction that God was with them , the belief that death in battle assured a blissful life in Paradise , and Onmar 's effective leadership sufficed to give the Arabs superiority over their enemies . After A.D. 715 , however , easy victories stopped . The city of Byzantium withstood a hard and prolonged siege ( 717-18 ) . This major defeat was matched by failure in a series of frontier skirmishes in central Asia , where a Turkish force pushed the Moslems out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Franks defeated a  | Moslem raiding party at the battle of Tours in central Gaul ( A.D. 733 ) . These defeats , together with the inevitable waning of the first flush of religious excitement and conviction , created acute problems within the Moslem community . During the first generation or two , the Arab warriors had remained more or less insulated from their subjects . Omar set up special garrison cities , where the Arabs settled down under their tribal leaders . Each warrior received pay derived from the taxes collected from the population at large by traditional Roman and Persian bureaucratic methods . This system worked pretty well at first , and remained effective even when the leadership of the Islamic community passed into far less capable hands than those which had guided its first years . The first test came in A.D. 644 , when Omar was assassinated . A chieftain of the Ommayad family then succeeded to the caliphate and the office remained in that family until A.D. 751 . The Ommayads made Damascus in Syria their capital . The power of the Ommayad caliphs depended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The caliph had first of all to mollify clashes among the rival Arab chieftains and tribes , who constituted the garrison forces of the empire . He had also to manage the bureaucracy inherited from his Roman and Persian predecessors and use it to tax the population at large . Then , in the third place , the caliph somehow had to serve as religious head of the community . Of these three roles the one the Ommayads failed to fill adequately was the last . Serious and devout men , seeking to know the will of Allah and to do it faithfully , found no satisfaction in the spectacle offered by Ommayad administration . As long as military success continued uninterruptedly , such discontents were politically ineffective . But after A.D. 715 , when the Moslems suffered their first serious defeats , the pious opposition , which demanded a worthy , God-chosen caliph , became a serious matter . As administrators of the population at large , the Ommayads also ran into increasing difficulty . Numerous Christians and Zoroastrians and followers of other religions found the theological simplicity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On principle , such converts were welcome to join the  | community of the faithful . But when conversion meant relief from taxation ? as at first was the case ? religious success meant acute fiscal embarrassment . Moreover , Arab custom had difficulty in fitting masses of newcomers into the tribal system into which the Moslem community was still organized . Arabs tended to look scornfully upon the new converts and treated them as less than fully equal members of the community of Islam , despite the plain injunctions of Mohammed 's revelation . All these strains came to a head in A.D. 744 , when a disputed succession precipitated civil war . Fighting ended with the overthrow of the Ommayad regime and of the privileged position of the Arab garrison forces as well . The Abbasid victors set up their capital at Baghdad in Mesopotamia . The backbone of their military support came from the Persian converts . It is not , therefore , surprising that Abbasid policy from the start smacked strongly of Sassanian precedent . Arab tribal groups , which had been so important before , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefs , as in Ommayad times . In Arabia proper , where the old style of nomad life continued , tribal ties remained unchanged . But in the settled parts of the empire the Arabs blended into the general population , usually as landowners or in other privileged positions , and soon forgot their tribal identity and discipline . Instead , bureaucracy of the familiar imperial model took over all ordinary ad ministration , while Iranian and Turkish or other mercenaries more and more constituted the core of the caliph 's armed forces . These reversions to very ancient imperial precedents met the demands of the non-Arab converts to Islam , who were now , like everybody else , the distant subjects of a secluded and somewhat unapproachable caliph . But these changes did nothing to meet the demands of the pious Moslems who were bent upon realizing God 's will on earth in all its specificity . The solution Abbasid statesmen found for this difficulty was of fundamental importance for all subsequent Islamic society . Instead of trying to combine religious authority with military and political leadership as previously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of religious importance to an informal body of experts in the lore of Islam ? men known collectively as ulema . Moslem scripture and sacred law . The ulema had developed  | spontaneously . Pious men , confronting a problem of conduct , wished to know what God 's will in the matter might be . The way to find out was to seek for precedents in the words or deeds of the Prophet . But ordinary men were not familiar with these deeds and words , and had to ask experts who were . As the first generation of the Prophet 's companions died , this called for systematic study . Naturally enough , Medina was the first seat where the details of Mohammed 's career were studied . Here his inspired utterances were collected and committed to a canonical order just a few years after the Prophet 's death . The resulting scripture , the Koran , has ever since constituted the ultimate repository of religious authority for Moslems . Many matters for which the Koran offered n0 direct guidance had somehow to be coped with also . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islam resorted at first to reports about Mohammed 's uninspired words and deeds emanating ? really or fictitiously ? from companions of the Prophet . When this failed , the conduct of men closely associated with Mohammed might be helpful . When even these " traditions " could not be brought to bear on a case , the ulema admitted the use of analogy to decide a difficult point . If analogy failed to offer convincing guidance they fell back ultimately upon the consensus of the faithful , arguing that Allah would not permit the entire community to err , however faulty individual judgments might be . Using these methods , the learned men of Islam rapidly built up an elaborate system of law , which they believed expressed the will of Allah . The sacred law was , of course , unchangeable , since Allah did not change . It was also rather detailed and specific , since the whole effort was aimed at making unambiguously clear what Allah wished men to do in particular situations . As a result , the sacred law of Islam later proved a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither be repudiated nor altered . Under the Abbasids , however , the sacred law still glistened like newly minted gold . Allah 's will for men seemed surely there revealed , and it behooved the faithful to bend every effort to conform to its clear and definite prescriptions . This was not hard to do since learned men , respected for their exact knowledge of the  | Koran , the Traditions , and the details of the Sacred Law , sat in the market place of every considerable town , ready to pass judgment on matters of conscience brought before them . Much of the business of government affecting private persons and individual lives was thus transferred to the jurisdiction of these religious experts . Pious Moslems could therefore feel that in everything that really mattered , the best and wisest men were in control . By comparison with this , who happened to be running the central government , collecting taxes , guarding the frontiers , and enjoying the luxuries of palace life did not matter so very much . The early ideal of the totally holy community , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solely to obedience to Allah , was thus somewhat reluctantly surrendered by the majority of Moslems . But not by all . Some stubborn idealists clung to the original vision and thereby became heretics . Many of them came to hold that only descendants of Ali , the son-in-law of the Prophet , were worthy of heading the community of the faithful . When Ali 's direct line died out in the twelfth generation , some argued that the true successor to the Prophet had withdrawn from an irremediably wicked world but would return in the future and turn his terrible avenging wrath against those who had betrayed the truth and been false to Allah 's commands . Extreme sects split into numerous sub-groupings , harboring a truly revolutionary intolerance for Abbasid , or indeed for any other constituted authority that fell short of their utterly unyielding ideal . Such groups are termed Shi'a . The majority , who were willing to seek holiness within the framework accorded by Abbasid policy , are known as Sunni Moslems . The Sunni ? Shi'a split has continued to run throughout Islam right down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbasid compromise placed upon the jurisdiction of secular government have continued to affect the policy of all Islamic states ever since . An important corollary of the autonomous administration of the Sacred Law was that Moslem political authorities expected the leaders of other religious communities to guide and legislate for their flocks in all personal and religious matters just as the ulenia  | guided the lives of Moslems . Far-ranging autonomy for Christian and Jewish communities was thereby assured . A second important implication of the Moslem legal code was that a man had to accept Islam in its entirety or reject it utterly . No halfway house was possible . Either Mohammed was Allah 's latest and most perfect prophet , and the Sacred Law in every jot and tittle was the veritable expression of Allah 's will for men , or else these claims were false . No middle ground could be found in logic , and very little was discovered in fact . Islam , in short , shared the doctrinal intolerance of its Judaic and Christian forerunners to the full . The religious aspiration that found expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily lives of millions of men in the Middle East and north Africa . Cultivation of the Arabic language as the necessary vehicle for all religious discourse became part of piety . As a result , a rather rapid linguistic shift went hand in hand with the propagation of Islam , as Arabic displaced Greek and/or Aramaic as the everyday speech of the Middle Eastern peoples . Persian , however , retained its currency in Iran , although for a while it ceased to be used for literary purposes . Arabic court life and culture . Poetic records of tribal and individual prowess were an important part of the culture of preIslamic Arabia . Mohammed had looked with disfavor upon these rivals to the poetry of his own inspired utterances . Nonetheless , Arab warriors continued to cultivate a taste for poetry and rhythmic prose in spite of the Prophet . The warrior 's ideal expressed in such poetry was reinforced by the ease and leisure the first Arab generations experienced , when they could live upon the taxes collected from their new subjects . As a result , a courtly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood in conscious opposition to the ideals of the pious Moslems . Wine drinking , for example , was part of the gentlemanly code of behavior despite Mohammed 's prohibition . More generally , a warm appreciation of the sensory joys of the world , refinement of manners , and delicacy of sentiment in matters of pride , hate , and love , accorded but ill with the pious drive for  | complete obedience to Allah . Only in high political circles , preeminently in the court of the caliph himself , could this secular , leisured , and essentially aristocratic style of life flourish freely . A second element inherited from the past also stood stubbornly in the way of energetically pious champions of Islam . The speculative habit of mind , so persistently cultivated among the Greeks , could not be entirely suppressed . In matters of religion , to be sure , the ulema resolutely and on the whole successfully resisted temptation by refusing to entertain questions of speculative theology . They held it to be a self-evident truth that everything a man needed to know was provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two professional services the Moslems ? or at least the rich among them ? were not prepared to do without : the prediction of the future by astrologers and the curing of illness by doctors . Astrology and medicine were , of course , deeply imbued with Greek thought . In taking these professions over , the Moslems , therefore , inevitably imported into their own learning a generous share of the Greek inheritance . And once Moslem minds began to reason about things , it was hard to call a halt . Before long , curiosity spread to other matters not directly related to either medicine or astrology . Some of the Abbasid caliphs even became patrons of learning and organized systematic translation of Greek and Indian works of science and philosophy . In this way much of Greek knowledge and some Indian learning ( e.g. the decimal-place notation system ) passed into Arabic and fired the curiosity of a handful of courtiers and professional men . The most fruitful direction in which this curiosity turned was toward alchemy . Many of the ideas and some of the skills alchemists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the Arabs took up the search for the philosophers ' stone with enthusiasm and tried long and hard to transmute base metals into gold . In the process , devices for distillation , heating , dissolving , and in other ways altering the physical state of matter were invented or improved ; and a number of chemical compounds were synthesized successfully , despite radically erroneous ideas about how chemical reactions occur . A second science in which Arab work surpassed  |p2I4  anything known to the Greeks was mathematical optics ? a result of the skill the Moslems acquired in grinding lenses of glass to fit a mathematical curve . But such improvements did not shake the general authority of such authors as Galen in medicine and Ptolemy in astronomy . Arab science remained always faithful to the Greeks in fundamentals and departed from their authority only in detail . The Abbasid empire . Under the Abbasids , therefore , the traditions of Greek rationalism and science , the aristocratic warrior ideal cherished by pre-Islamic Arabic tribesmen , and the radical striving for holiness characteristic of pious Moslems , all found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment that drew its main inspiration from Persian prototypes . The amalgam created a richness and complexity of civilization that surpassed anything then known in Europe and rivaled the efflorescence of T'ang China far to the east . Two points of weakness remained . At home , the dissent of Shi'a groups , feeding upon ethnic and perhaps also upon economic divisions within Moslem society , let to recurrent revolt . After A.D. 861 , various break-off states that drew some of their strength from just this sort of religious-social discontent began to eat into the imperial structure . Secondly , along its northern frontier the Abbasid empire was not able to cope for long with the perennial pressure from the steppe . As a result , Turkish mercenaries gradually took over political control , even though they continued to cloak their usurpation of effective authority by putting members of the Abbasid family on the throne until 1252 . Long before that time , however , the combination of provincial rebellion and palace coup d'etat led to the breakdown of imperial control even in the MesopotamianSyrian heartland of the empire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infolding of Turkish tribesmen from the steppe and the increased scope allowed to mystic seekers after forms of religious enlightenment for which early Islam had made no room , gave the Moslem world a markedly different character . The date A.D. 1000 roughly accords with the onset of these transformations and corresponds also to important alterations in relations between the Moslems and their Hindu and Christian neighbors . But before pursuing these matters further  | we must retrace our steps in time to survey the reactions of other civilized peoples to the rise of Islam and to the new style of civilization that Islamic conquerors so successfully created at the ancient Middle Eastern crossroads of the Old World .   BECAUSE Islam quickly became a coherent and legally defined way of life , neighbors had either to accept or reject it in toto . This tended to divide the civilized world into more nearly watertight compartments than had been true in earlier times when dogmatic religions had not played so central a part in civilized life . Nevertheless , stimulus across cultural frontiers remained negatively important . In resisting Islam both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more emphatically than before . A second general characteristic of the centuries between A.D. 600 and woo was the spread of semi-civilized styles of life throughout broad borderlands both north and south of the earlier zone of civilization . In the Far West , for example , Celtic , Germanic , and Slavic tribes were all brought within the fold of Christendom by the year i 000 . With Christianity came at least the rudiments of high culture and civilized social order . In eastern Europe and central Asia , Turkish tribes entered the penumbra of civilization at the same time . The best-organized Turkish states did not accept a religion established already among their civilized neighbors , but preferred Judaism ( in the case of the Khazars ) or Manicheism ( in the case of the Uighurs ) . They thus retained greater spiritual and cultural independence vis-a-vis their civilized neighbors .   The fact that traditional pastoralism , war , and caravan trade continued to dominate the life of Turkish tribesmen of the steppes made it easy for them to keep religiously apart from their civilized contemporaries , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no such gap between barbarian and civilized communities . Instead , a major improvement of agricultural techniques permitted German and other barbarian peoples to transform the forests of the north European plain into fields . As a result , civilization could now penetrate the forested lands of the Far West in a fuller sense than was geographically or socially possible on the steppe grasslands . The key change was that German cultivators invented a new type of heavy mouldboard plow , capable of draining wet low-lying lands and strong enough to penetrate even the heavy clay soils that covered much of northern Europe . This mouldboard plow made it possible to cultivate for the first time lowland forested areas where the light , scratch plows familiar to Mediterranean and Middle Eastern farmers had been completely ineffective . No comparable technical change came to the steppe to transform the conditions of life in that region . Hence the northward extension of civilization to German and Slavic peoples involved far more radical changes than did the simultaneous northward movement of familiarity with aspects of civilized life which occurred among the Turkish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far East the situation was again different . A slow , painstaking extension of the garden-style of cultivation , which had been developed by the Chinese centuries before , continued . Nameless pioneers ditched and diked and pumped and piped water from innumerable little streams into new fields . No technical innovation was involved , just a vast expenditure of human effort . And while the Chinese slowly brought the Yangtse valley to the south into high cultivation , Koreans and Japanese , on the northeastern flank of the original center of Chinese life , painstakingly carried through another geographically substantial expansion of the area of Far Eastern agricultural civilization by raising the cultivation of their respective homelands to the Chinese level . Like their Uighur contemporaries , the Korean and Japanese peoples maintained their cultural distinctiveness vis-a-vis China by  | sticking to their separate languages and by espousing a religion different from that prevailing in the center of the civilization with which they were in contact . Thus the Koreans made Buddhism into a state religion and clung to it all the more emphatically after the Chinese officially outlawed Buddhism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was far enough away from China not to feel the risk of complete absorption into the Chinese culture sphere . Hence , between A.D. 600 and Io00 the Japanese welcomed Buddhism , Confucianism , and every other aspect of Chinese culture they could import . They did so with an energetic enthusiasm for things foreign , which , recurring in later times , gives Japanese history a jerky character all its own . Thus during the Nara period ( 646 ? 794 ) the Japanese imperial court very quickly and systematically created a miniature model of the great T'ang court in China . The precocious sensibility of Japanese courtly life is delightfully illustrated by Lady Murasaki 's delicate love story , The Tale of Genji , written soon after A.D. 1000 . But it was a much cruder style of life , sustained by baronial patrons in their provincial castles , that really nourished Japan 's cultural independence . As the political and military power of such warlords grew at the expense of the imperial administration ? a feature of Japanese life that became very prominent after I o00 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assured . On the southern flank of the civilized world a similar string of new peoples and states arrived at a level of life properly termed civilized during the same period of time . Yunnan became a cultural satellite of China as Annam ( modern North Viet Nam ) had done earlier . Tibet took advantage of its intermediate position between China and India to combine elements from each , taking its religion from India and secular aspects of culture mainly from China , but retaining always a strong local individuality . Tibet 's religion , for example , mingled native " Bon " rites with Buddhist motifs to create what is known as Lamaism . On the southern flank of the Himalayas , Bengal and Kashmir became important frontiers of Indian culture , where powerful local states arose that dominated the political life of the north Indian plains , although neither was ever able to unite the Ganges and Indus valleys into a new " universal " empire .  | Arabia 's sudden eruption into the Middle East we have already studied . Across the Red Sea , Ethiopia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seats of local states that boasted many of the trappings of civilization . Ethiopia and Nubia accepted a form of Christianity ( monophysite ) declared heretical in Rome and Constantinople . Ghana remained pagan . The enormous geographic expansion of civilized styles of life and the increased variety of local blends and combinations of disparate cultural elements that occurred all along the northern and southern flanks of the civilized world after A.D. 600 recapitulated , but on an enlarged scale , the development of regional sub-cultures and variants around Mesopotamia that had occurred when civilization first became attuned to survival on rain-watered land about 2000 B.C. The intrinsic attractiveness of civilized accomplishments was of course centrally responsible for both spreads . In both cases , also , a much enhanced export of commodities from the civilized world in the form of plunder and tribute as well as trade made it possible for barbarian chieftains , kings , captains , and potentates of every description to initiate the exposure of their peoples to the seductions of civilization . After A.D. 600 the various civilized communities of the Old World were in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal economic and technical development everywhere underwent significant advance in the course of what has traditionally been called the " Dark Age " of Europe 's history . To appreciate better the increasing reach of civilized societies , we shall consider each in turn . China . Not long after the reunification of China ( A.D. 589 ) by the Sui dynasty , a brief round of war brought a new dynasty , the Tang , to power ( 618-907 ) . The T'ang , in turn , after a longer interregnum were succeeded by the Sung ( 96o-I26o ) . Actually , the realities of Chinese government do not precisely correspond to the traditional dynastic pattern . Within the four centuries ( 600-000 ) with which we are concerned , strong central government lasted only until 75 ; and was followed by a period of weakened imperial power , local war-lordism , and dependency upon a power- ful Turkish confederacy headed by the Uighurs of central Asia . The overthrow of the Uighurs in 84o simply substituted other barbarian masters , who took over direct administration of north China during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynasty failed to displace these barbarian rulers from the northern tier of Chinese provinces . Yet the disruption of central power after 755 did not seriously check the economic development of China . Particularly in the south the labor of millions of peasants gradually extended their rice paddies up the hill slopes from the river edges to make a continuous carpet of fertile and carefully tended fields , producing rice in quantities great enough to maintain a much enlarged urban population of craftsmen , landlords , and officials . Trade was often in foreign ? especially Uighur and Arab ? hands . Confucian doctrine held merchants to be social parasites anyway . Hence , despite a substantial growth of foreign trade and of interregional exchanges within China , the urban classes did not challenge the traditional dominance of the landowning gentry . Instead , the ingenuity and skill of Chinese artisans and of foreign and Chinese merchants were directed mainly toward satisfying the tastes of the landlord-official class , whose members , being educated in classical Chinese learning , strove to practice the arts and decorum appropriate to gentlemen . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sung periods . Painting , for example , which became the principal fine art of China , assumed classical forms in this period , although no authenticated works survive . Poetry also assumed its classical form with the work of Li Po ( A.D. 701 ? 62 ) and Tu Fu ( A.D. 712 ? 70 ) whose verse patterns elaborated rhythms of popular songs and snatches , and in doing so established conventions that became binding for subsequent generations . The freshness and autobiographical poignancy characteristic of Li Po 's verses was more difficult to imitate than his prosody , so that those who are capable of judging agree that Li Po was not only the pioneer but also the greatest of Chinese lyric poets . Buddhism assumed an almost official status in early T'ang times , but ran into systematic persecution after A.D. 845 . The emperor 's desire to confiscate the lands that Buddhist monasteries had accu/I mulated from gifts of the pious may have triggered these persecutions . But the basic factor was the distrust , indeed antipathy , Confucians felt toward an alien faith that taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be central to the good life . After the persecutions of the ninth century , Chinese Buddhism survived only in comparatively humble walks of life ? in remote provinces where the official writ ran only weakly , and among humble village folk who perhaps found a secret attraction in a faith that was so much out of favor among their social superiors . Yet Buddhism contributed a great deal to Chinese culture . Confucians , for example , learned from the Buddhists how to read new meanings into old texts by analogy and symbolic interpretation . Moreover , many of the new meanings they discovered in the classics of the Confucian canon dealt with metaphysical and eschatological questions which had first been brought to Chinese attention by Buddhist teachers . For their part , the Taoists chose to combat Buddhism by borrowing not merely aspects of doctrine but the pattern of monastic organization and a system of schooling from their rivals . Hence even in its official defeat , Buddhism left a large heritage behind ? a fact nicely illustrated by the manner in which later Chinese painters used representational and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artists in order to illustrate secular and Confucian subjects . The elaborated and philosophically sophisticated reinterpretation of the classics is called Neo-Confucianism . Its full development came after the period we are now considering , but the school was well launched before A.D. 1000 . The policy of the early Sung rulers , who enthusiastically championed everything they felt to be authentically Chinese and rejected consciously all that was felt to be foreign , assured the victory of Neo-Confucianism in official circles . Gentry dominance of society went hand in hand with this cultural policy . By operating together , these factors gave China a remarkably uniform cultural history , as compared with the stormier developments of western Asia and Europe . India . Islam offered no direct military challenge to the Chinese . There were skirmishes in central Asia , but the loss of a few distant oases to Moslem warriors after A.D. 75 I ( Battle of Talas ) was of no  | great importance . In the decade immediately following this defeat , disasters far closer to home disrupted the T'ang imperial power ; and soon thereafter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moslem and Chinese worlds . India was far more exposed . Moslems conquered Sind in northwest India by 705 and soon thereafter seized primacy on the seaways of the Indian Ocean as well . Hence it came to pass that followers of Mohammed , who regarded Hinduism , at least in principle , as abominable idolatry , cut India off from her erstwhile cultural dependencies in southeast Asia . The caste organization of India , with the political-military weaknesses that inevitably resulted from such a system of society , meant that Hindus were unable to repel the Moslems by force . Their response was therefore peaceable , aimed at conserving the Hindu heritage that Moslems found so offensive . On the one hand , a handful of Indian philosophers set out to systematize the intellectual tradition of the Upanishads . This allowed the learned to rebut effectively Moslem reproaches against the idolatrous practices traditional to Hinduism by explaining that all such rites , if properly understood , helped simple men along the path to a pure and transcendent theological monism . The philosophic system created by Shankara ( flor. c. 800 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crudest traditional religious practices by claiming that they encouraged humble intellects to reach toward knowledge of the Absolute residing behind every sensory experience . As a good Hindu , he was even prepared to argue that Moslem rites had value for those who could see no further into the Truth than Mohammed had done . Turning the tables on Moslem teachers in such a dexterous fashion was all very well in theoretical discussions . At the more practical everyday level Indian sentiment hardened against foreigners . Like the Chinese of later T'ang and Sung times , popular Indian culture set out to reject systematically everything felt to be of alien inspiration and to defend and acknowledge all that seemed autochthonous . In the process , much that had been hidden and primitive in Indian life entered the literary record for the first time . In particular , extremely varied cult practices known collectively as   Tantrism came into the open and underwent vast elaboration . Tantric adepts sought to achieve the supernatural powers popularly attributed to holy men and ascetics by using magic charms and incantations . Tantrism therefore constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attain the ascetic 's goals without undergoing the pains and tribulations of ascetic discipline . Such a bargain had wide appeal and tended to undercut all forms of asceticism . Tantrism was always a mainly private system of rites , although small groups might make magic together . On the more public side , temple services supplemented by occasional spectacular festivals in honor of one or another deity of the Hindu pantheon continued as before , and may even have become more elaborate . In Gupta times , the court provided patronage and an audience for writers and artists . After the collapse of the Gupta imperial peace , no comparable courtly center arose . Temples therefore took over first place . The more secular , intellectual aspects of Hindu civilization suffered from this transformation . In particular mathematics , which had made such a promising start in the Gupta age , simply fell into oblivion having no function in a temple-centered high culture . Courtly poetry like that of Kalidasa was supplanted by anonymous hymns which sometimes celebrated the love between God and his worshippers in vivid and very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onlookers and participants could and did generate high emotional excitement and public catharsis . Hinduism thus retained deep roots in popular feeling , making it pretty well proof against the arguments of Moslem ( and later of Christian ) missionaries . Information about the social and economic life of India in this age , and even about the political units into which the land was divided , remains very imperfect . A generally high level of activity certainly continued , and in such border regions as Bengal and the high Himalayan valleys of Kashmir , important geographical expansion of Indian society occurred . In these regions , jungle and swamp , hillside and forest , gave way to cultivated countryside . The total mass of Indian society therefore continued to increase , despite the loss of the border provinces along the Indus to Islam .   Yet these continued successes do not suffice to counterbalance the fact that in general the Indian reaction to the Moslem threat appears to have been an indrawing of sensibilities , concentrating upon what was clearly and unambiguously Indian , rejecting alien stimuli , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and successful endeavors of the preceding Gupta age . Europe . Europeans , too , remained on the defensive until the very end of the period we are here considering . But the European defensive was military first and foremost , and only in a secondary sense intellectual and emotional . Thus , in contrast to India , the primacy of politics over other bases of human association which classical Greece had first so emphatically declared was reasserted by the warlike barbarians and struggling Christians of Europe 's " Dark Age . " It is useful to group the disturbed events of Europe 's political history during this age into three successive waves of barbarian invasion , separated from one another by two periods of short-lived stabilization . We considered the first wave in Chapter XII . This was the movement of peoples triggered by the Hunnic invasion of central Europe that brought Goths , Burgundians , Vandals , Franks , Anglo-Saxons , and other Germanic peoples to Roman soil between A.D. 375 and about 450 . The consolidation of a Frankish monarchy in Gaul under the descendants of Clovis ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Africa , Italy , and parts of Spain by the emperor Justinian ( d. 565 ) constituted a precarious stabilization of civilized ( or in the Frankish case semi-civilized ) administration in the wake of this first great barbarian advance . A second wave developed immediately after the death of Justinian , when a new band of nomads , known as Avars , drove westward from southern Russia into the Hungarian plain , and like Attila before them , began to raid far and wide into the agricultural lands lying south and west of their new headquarters . Avar power was near its height when the Moslems besieged Constantinople in the years 717-18 . Yet the walls of Constantine 's capital on the Bosphorus held . A new emperor , Leo III , the Isaurian ( 717-41 ) , came to power and proceeded to reorganize and strengthen the Byzantine armed establishment . He did so by making extensive  | land grants to fighting men who undertook to guard the frontiers in return for the lands thus assigned to them . In Asia Minor this policy soon rolled back the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the line of the Taurus mountains . In Europe , however , Leo and his successors failed to stem a massive Slavic infiltration which gradually transformed all the northern and central regions of the Balkan peninsula into a predominantly Slavic-speaking countryside . In a similar fashion , after 568 the German tribe of Lombards displaced the Byzantines from control of all the inland parts of Italy . Stabilization of a sort came to Europe with the recovery of Byzantine power in Asia Minor ( after 718 ) and the consolidation of two barbarian states : the first Bulgarian empire on the lower Danube ( after 679 ) and the Carolingian empire in the Far West ( after 687 ) . The Bulgar kingdom folded Slavic manpower into a Turkish war-band organization . It proved powerful enough to become a serious military rival to the Byzantine empire . In the process , attributes of civilized government and administration penetrated among the Balkan Slays , even before the Bulgar khan 's conversion to Christianity ( 865 ) opened the floodgates to civilization in its Byzantine form . Among the Franks a somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially Christian in the time of Clovis ( A.D. 496 ) . Despite savage quarreling among his descendants ( the Merovingians ) , traces of old Roman life remained precariously alive in Gaul . Then in 687 Pepin of Heristal won effective control over both the halves into which Clovis ' kingdom had divided . Pepin came from the eastern and more purely Germanic ( Austrasian ) portion of the Frankish lands . He granted extensive new estates in the more Romanized parts of Gaul to his own followers and supporters on a scale sufficient to constitute a second wave of Germanic invasion . In 751 the power of Pepin 's family was officially recognized when the pope crowned his grandson ( also named Pepin ) king of the Franks . In the next generation Charlemagne brought the power of the newly constituted Carolingian dynasty to its peak . He conquered all of Germanic and Roman Europe , save for Scandinavia and England . He converted  | Saxons and other pagan German tribes to Christianity by main force . He destroyed the Avar camp in Hungary and asserted a somewhat shadowy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In recognition of his power , in 800 the pope crowned Charlemagne Emperor of the Romans . A few years later , the imperial master of Byzantium ratified the pope 's action , thus in legal form reconstituting a Roman empire in the west to match the Roman ( Byzantine ) empire in the east . Co-operation between Byzantines and Franks was never close . Political distrust was exacerbated by persistent religious friction , centering on the proper role of images in Christian worship . Emperor Leo III , the Isaurian , having saved Constantinople from the Moslems by breaking the siege of 717-18 , wanted to purge the Christian church of image worship . He therefore banned icons . He may have been responding to Moslem reproaches of idolatry ; but undoubtedly there were many Christians who believed that the military setbacks they had suffered at Moslem and barbarian hands were due to God 's displeasure at idolatrous practices . The pope in Rome and many ecclesiastical leaders in Constantinople resisted the emperor 's iconoclastic policy . Each denounced the other as heretical . It was at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Byzantium that he crowned Pepin king of the Franks , thus finding in the half-barbarian monarch of the north a substitute for the imperial protector on the Bosphorus who had turned heretic . Even when the iconoclastic controversy ended with a final capitulation of the imperial government to popular practice ( 843 ) , the gap between the eastern and western portions of Christendom continued to widen . As a result of the Slavic infiltration of the Balkan hinterland , Latin all but disappeared from the streets of Constantinople after Justinian 's time ( d. 565 ) . Long before , Greek had been forgotten in the west , where knowledge of Latin itself was only precariously maintained in a few monastic and cathedral schools . Popular speech was evolving rapidly away from classical forms , toward the various Germanic and romance languages of medieval and modern times . It was therefore a culturally and politically divided Christendom  | that met the third and last wave of barbarian invasion . Once again , a new war band , fleeing from southern Russia , penetrated to the Hungarian plain and began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named Magyars or Hungarians . They crossed the Carpathian passes in A.D. 895 . A little later , Moslem states in north Africa abruptly reversed the balance of power in the Mediterranean by almost destroying Byzantine naval strength . A series of large-scale piratical raids followed , directed against the entire northern coastline of the Mediterranean . A similar and even more ruthless harassment was simultaneously launched by Viking pirates , whose base of operations lay in Scandinavia . A fundamental reversal of western Europe 's relations with its neighbors occurred about A.D. 1000 . This was signalized by the rise of Italian shipping which presently was able to exchange blow for blow with the Moslems in the Mediterranean , and by the conversion to Christianity of Russia ( 989 ) , Hungary ( i000 ) , and the three Scandinavian kingdoms of Denmark , Sweden , and Norway ( between 831 and Imo ) . In every case , conversion signified the emergence of an ambitious royal authority which welcomed Christianity as an aid in taming the unruliness of subordinates and in establishing such necessary adjuncts of civilized life as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The beginnings of feudalism . The taming of the northern barbarians by spontaneous acts of conversion was at least in part a tribute to the much enhanced effectiveness which Europe 's institutions began to demonstrate under the hammer blows of Magyar , Viking , and Arab raids . In the east , the Byzantine empire at length transformed itself in the fashion pioneered so long before by the Persians . A feudal system developed , whereby princely landowners maintained retinues of heavy armed cavalrymen along the frontiers of the state , ready for local self-defense against raiding neighbors of whatever sort . The risk involved in this transformation was real enough . The greatest Byzantine conqueror , Emperor Basil II ( ruled A.D. 989-1025 ) , who finally succeeded in overpowering the Bulgar empire and was able to push his frontiers to the Danube an , d the upper Euphrates , was twice nearly toppled from his throne by rebellions of local magnates . Moreover , the emergence of great  | warrior-landowners in the countryside eroded urban dominance of society as a whole ? a fact perhaps related to the eclipse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mediterranean . In the west , central administration did disintegrate . Charlemagne 's empire proved quite incapable of defending itself from Viking and Magyar raids . Instead , military and political leadership passed into the hands of a rough-and-ready body of local lords and men-at-arms , who equipped themselves as heavy armored cavalry , or knights . But Western knights differed in one very important respect from heavy armored cavalrymen of other parts of the world . Apparently from the time when this sort of expensive armament was first introduced into the Far West , i.e. in the time of Charles Martel ( ruled A.D. 714-741 ) , Frankish knights relied upon a fundamentally new tactic . Instead of shooting arrows at opposing troops as their Persian and Byzantine prototypes had done , the Franks relied upon a heavy lance . By charging headlong against the foe , they could put the full momentum of horse and rider behind the lance point and thus exert a comparatively enormous force that could easily break through any other sort of military formation . Stirrups were essential to this invention . Without stirrups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moment of impact , the shock of contact would sweep the rider ignominiously from his horse 's back . Unfortunately , the origin and diffusion of stirrups is quite unclear . But it does seem certain that early in the eighth century the Franks combined stirrups , armor , big horses , and a heavy lance to produce a style of fighting man whose equal , man for man , could be found nowhere else . As long as their numbers remained very few the newfangled knights were unable to stop barbarian raiding . But need for local defense was acute and pressing . Consequently , partly by legal grant from the king or from some other public authority ( duke , count ) and partly by local usurpation and informal arrangement , more and more agricultural land was assigned for the support of knights . As a result , well before the year I000 most villages of western Europe had come under the control of , a professional fighting man who was equipped with a horse , lance . and armor , and a generous store of brute ferocity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved able not merely to turn back attack but quickly took the offensive across every frontier of western Christendom . Two other fundamental changes gave additional reach and power to the emerging medieval system of society . One was the spread of the heavy mouldboard plow , mentioned earlier ( see p. 217 . ) Agriculture based on such a plow provided the economic support needed to maintain enough knights to make Europe truly formidable . The second was the development of trade in Europe 's northern seas . Pirates and sea rovers quickly discovered that trade might be advantageous when ravaging was no longer safe . Bands of itinerant merchants , seamen , and part-time pirates often found it convenient to settle down at some more or less permanent headquarters , wherever lines of communication and safe harborage created a suitable site . In this way the kernel was fashioned from which medieval town life later arose in northwestern Europe . It was most significant for the future development of Western civilization that the first European townsmen were accustomed to running their own affairs and defending themselves against all corners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very different , more assertive ethos than was habitual among townsmen of the other civilizations , where deference to social superiors and polite catering to landowners and officials prevailed . The combination of knighthood , the heavy plow , and a morally independent not to say aggressive mercantile population gave the Far West a set of local institutions and techniques that were both new and quite distinct from any contemporary civilization . The decay of learning . In this sense the " Dark Age " of European history was in fact very fruitful . Yet in another sense the age deserves its traditional name . On the European mainland , men were too busy struggling against one another to devote much energy to literature or art . In Ireland and Great Britain , however , a remarkable upsurge occurred which , under other circumstances , might have developed into an independent civilized style of life . The first landmark of this history was the conversion of Ireland to Christianity by St. Patrick ( d . A.D. 461 ) . Thereafter , in a number of Irish monasteries a traditional Celtic oral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and learning . Missionaries sailed to Scotland and England ; thence others visited the mainland , where they played a conspicuous part in converting the Germans , and everywhere brought a higher level of intellectual culture to the scene than anything preserved in Gaul or Germany itself . The Venerable Bede ( d . A.D. 735 ) , whose greatest work was an ecclesiastical history of England , represents one of the finest flowers of this tradition of learning . Soon after his death , Vikings destroyed the monastery where he had lived and worked . The same fate befell all the other centers of Irish and British learning , so that by the year 900 almost nothing remained . Ireland , together with the rest of Celtic Europe , relapsed into the status of a marginal and backward participant in the wider European world . Suvimary . If one tries to compare Chinese , Indian , and European responses to Moslem and barbarian pressures , it seems clear that by far the most radical changes came within Europe . China , in effect , was untroubled in essentials and went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to a restored and enriched Confucian antiquity . India was more deeply affected , but reacted by withdrawing within its indigenous religious tradition . Europe , on the contrary , fought back , and in doing so transformed its most fundamental institutions and improved its techniques in a fashion that proved capable of sustaining even greater future achievements . At the time , however , Islam , China , and India far surpassed the level of European civilization , as measured by almost any conceivable standard . The Far West had in fact sunk back toward barbarism , retaining only tattered shreds of classical learning , literature , and art . Fresh creativity in these fields came only after A.D. 1000.  | CLOSER ties between steppe nomads and the civilized world had been a prominent feature of the centuries before A.D. 1000 . During the ensuing five hundred years , this eventuated in a series of infiltrations and conquests that brought Turkish and Mongol rulers to China , the Middle East , India , and eastern Europe . Civilized victims and subjects reacted in different ways . The Moslems altered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a far-reaching and strikingly successful fashion . In effect , the Moslems captured the military energy of the steppe peoples for themselves . The new cutting edge that Turkish and ( much less important ) Mongol recruits imparted to Islam established it as the ruling faith in all of India and in eastern Europe . Simultaneously , merchants and itinerant holy men carried the religion of Mohammed to southeast Asia and through east and west Africa as well , and even penetrated some of China 's western provinces . The Chinese found nothing to admire in the novelties brought to their attention by Mongol conquerors , and at the first propitious moment they rallied to cast off what was always felt to be an alien and barbarian yoke . Hence the episode of Mongol rule ( the Yuan dynasty , 1280 ? 1368 ) left remarkably few traces behind , unless an  | enhanced determination to value old and authentically Chinese culture can be attributed to the energy with which the Ming dynasty ( 1368 ? 1644 ) repudiated the Mongol rule . The great majority of Indians and orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained faithful to their respective religious traditions . Nevertheless , prolonged geographical intermingling provoked a good deal of interchange between the rival religious communities , despite official efforts by guardians of the faith on each side to maintain the purity of their respective versions of theological truth . The Turkish infiltration . Before examining civilized reactions in more detail it will be well to recapitulate the course of world events . In A.D. 1000 Turkish-speaking tribes lived throughout the middle reaches of the steppe , from the Altai mountains as far west as southern Russia . In eastern Iran , extensive interpenetration between Moslem towns and cultivators and Turkish nomads had already occurred , and many Turkish tribes had accepted Islam , usually in a somewhat casual and superficial fashion . The Iranian barons who for so many centuries had held the steppe nomads at bay ceased to be effective after about 850 or 900 . The reasons are obscure , but it seems possible that many moved into towns , acquired a far richer culture than their forefathers had known , and in the process lost their taste for war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who presently found themselves in a position to hold urbanized Iranian and other Moslem societies up for ransom . When , therefore , Turkish mercenaries and tribesmen started everywhere to dominate the political life of Islam ( after about A.D. 900 ) the newcomers already knew a good deal about Persian , Arab , and Moslem culture . Yet the Turks maintained their own languages and a certain sense of military camaraderie against the rest of Islamic society . Their rule was disorderly . Detribalized military adventurers competed with the unstable power of clan leaders , whose followers regularly deserted ancient discipline after a few years in a civilized environment . Rivalries and alliances among such precariously situated rulers were unusually fragile and created an endless political kaleidoscope throughout the heartland of Islam .  | Nevertheless , the newcomers extended Moslem frontiers very substantially . Penetration deep into India began with massive raids launched by Mohammed of Ghazni in the year 1000 . Within three centuries only the southern part of that sub-continent had escaped Moslem conquest ; and in 1565 the south capitulated also when the empire of Vijavanagar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Christendom were also very great . After the battle of Manzikert ( 1071 ) the Byzantines lost control of the interior of Asia Minor to Seljuk Turks . Simultaneously other Turkish tribes ( Kipchaks ) pressed across what is now the Ukraine , where they cut off easy communication between Byzantium and freshly Christianized Russia . These heavy blows helped to precipitate the First Crusade ( 1096 ? 99 ) ; but despite some successes , this and later crusades failed to check the Turkish advance . On the contrary , when the Fourth Crusade actually attacked Constantinople and captured and sacked the city ( 1204 ) , the weakness of the Byzantine state was advertised to all the world . Partial recovery ? there was a Greek emperor again in Constantinople after 1261 ? was not sufficient to check the force of Italian commercial exploitation on the one hand and Turkish military assault on the other . The Ottoman Turks reaped the ultimate victory . They won their first foothold in Europe in 1326 by crossing the Dardanelles and seizing the peninsula of Gallipoli . After 1389 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turks won military supremacy in the Balkans . Not until 1453 , however , when they conquered Constantinople and made it the capital of their empire , was the last trace of Byzantine power erased from the face of the earth . The Mongol conquest . This vast tide of Turkish advance into India and Europe was punctuated in the thirteenth century by a sudden storm emanating from Mongolia . The founder of Mongol greatness was Genghis Khan ( ruled 1206 ? 27 ) . In his youth an all but helpless refugee from local enemies , Genghis succeeded in welding together a vast military confederacy among the peoples of the steppe . He then raided successfully in every direction ? southward into China , westward against the Moslems of Iran and Iraq , and against the Christians of Russia as well . On his death the  | empire was divided among his four sons . They transformed the massive raiding of Genghis ' time into a somewhat more stable form of political rule . For some time , there continued to be effective cooperation between the separate parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ custom , with Genghis ' youngest son and that son 's heirs . They ruled Mongolia and China and commanded nearly the whole of the Mongol army . In Genghis ' time the Mongol tribesmen were pagan shamanists . They treated their human victims much as they treated their animals ? tending or slaughtering them as convenience might dictate . But once encamped amid more cultivated peoples , the Mongols did what every other nomadic conqueror had done : they quickly took on the color of their subjects ' civilization . In the Middle East and Russia this meant the acceptance of Islam . In China , matters were different , for the Mongol emperors could not afford to see the armed forces upon which their power depended dissolve into the Chinese mass . The effort to hold themselves aloof from the Chinese led the Mongols to accept Tibetan Lamaism as the preferred religion of state , although a grand melange of faiths ? Christian , Moslem , shamanist , and others ? continued to be represented at court . Yet the penalty of remaining distinct from the Chinese was vulnerability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power only a century and a half after Genghis had launched his raids . Mongol rule therefore constituted no more than an episode in China 's long history . In the Middle East and Russia almost the same was true , for after an initial period of hesitation the Mongols not only accepted Islam ( Russia , 1257 ; Persia , 1295 ) but rapidly assimilated themselves to the Turkish community , which was already dominant everywhere on the central and western steppe . There were too few Mongols and their culture was too crude to permit any other result . Hence in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries Islamized Turkish warriors , often led by captains who claimed descent from Genghis Khan , again pressed forward against Christendom and Hindustan . The Moslem world had by then fully recovered from the temporary set-back wrought by the pagan Mongol conquest of the thirteenth century .  | The Ottoman empire . By far the most durable and most important of the new states that arose in the course of this renewed Turkish offensive was the Ottoman empire . It originated as a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the service of the Ottoman sultan from all over the Moslem world , because his raids against Christian territory made religious merit and heroic exercise of violence coincide as was true nowhere else in the Moslem world . Under these circumstances territorial advance became rapid , especially after 1354 , when the Turks made their first permanent lodgment across the straits in Europe . Presently , the Sultan faced difficulty in commanding the loyalty and obedience of his followers , who had been assigned lands from the conquered territories on the usual feudal pattern . The Ottoman rulers met this difficulty by expanding their personal household into a standing army , staffed by men who were legally classed as slaves , but who as the Sultan 's agents and soldiers of the janissary ( i.e. " new troops " ) corps actually commanded Moslem landowners and warriors in battle . Personnel for the imperial slave family came partly from Constantinople 's slave markets and capture in war . But when really large numbers of men were needed for the incessant campaigns of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , the sultans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remote Balkans . Thus it happened that young men born as Serb , Greek , or Albanian peasants in the western mountain zone of the Balkan peninsula provided a strategically decisive element in the military and administrative cadres of the Ottoman empire . No other Moslem state achieved such a remarkable and effective internal organization ; and none played anything like the role in world affairs that the Ottoman empire was to do . We shall now examine a little more closely the reactions of each of the major civilized communities to Turkish and/or Mongol rule . Islam ? the Sufi movement . The Abassid caliphs had become mere puppets and playthings of Turkish mercenary captains long before the Mongols , in capturing Baghdad ( 1252 ) , put an end to the caliphate and to the pretense of a single jurisdiction over all Mos- lems . Under such circumstances , the principles and compromises upon which classical Islam rested lost their plausibility . What , indeed , was the use of the entire effort to shape a society in accordance with Allah 's express will and command as revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brazenly flaunted themselves in the seats of the mighty ? The private sphere remained , and here the doctors of the Sacred Law continued as before to guide personal conduct by giving opinions on difficult cases in accordance with the elaborate precedents they so carefully gathered and studied . But in all this effort there remained a gaping hole : for the Sacred Law could no longer be stretched by any feat of the imagination to legitimize the political chaos that prevailed almost everywhere in the Moslem world . Such a logically imperfect and increasingly routine approach to holiness could not sustain the authentic fires of conviction which had fueled the first Moslem centuries . Instead , seekers after holiness increasingly drifted into mysticism . A great variety of holy men ? or Sufi as they were termed ? cultivated the beatific vision of God . They adhered to diverse disciplines . Followers gathered round a man of unusual holiness and sometimes thereby founded a dervish order that might last for centuries and spread over wide regions of the Moslem world , and in other cases disbanded again , leaving no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision of God which , when experienced personally by scores of thousands of men , gave the Sufi movement an emotional force and vivacity which " official " Islam had lost . Conversion to Islam became comparatively easy when the first step was reverence for and imitation of Sufi holy men who walked familiarly with God . It was no longer the case that acceptance of an elaborate law code and radical changes of private life were needful before becoming a Moslem . Instead , the remodeling of private life to accord with the Sacred Law came gradually and only after Sufi mystics had brought initiates into the Moslem fold . The success with which Asia Minor was made into a Moslem land , the geographically far more extensive conversion of the western and central steppes to Islam , the substantial penetration of India by Islamic sects , the annexation of large parts of east and west Africa to the  | Moslem world , and , not least , the conversion of nearly all the Christians remaining within the Syrian and Egyptian heartland of Islam all resulted from the new momentum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islam had been a city religion . Indeed , some of the ritual prescriptions of the Sacred Law could not be met in rural isolation . But when reverence for " saints , " homage at their tombs , and a spectator 's part in their ecstasy-inducing rituals became the first step toward membership in the Moslem community , then simple country folk could share the faith with urban sophisticates . In other words something like the gradation and variety of religious practice and outlook which had long characterized Hinduism permeated Islam . Indeed , insofar as the mysticism of the Middle East retained traces of Indian origins , one may describe the triumph of the Sufi path as an Indianization of Islam . Sufism also worked important changes within the fabric of Islamic high culture . Its greatest success was in suffusing the gentlemanly and courtly ideal of early Islam with the delicate ambiguity of heavenly as opposed to carnal love . Persian poetry became the supreme vehicle of this semi-religious , semi-secular sensibility . The three great poets were Rumi ( d. 1273 ) , founder of an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hafiz ( d. 1390 ) . They , with some lesser luminaries , created a body of poetry which soon became part of the education of all cultivated Moslems . Persian thus displaced Arabic as the leading poetic language of the Moslem world . Arabic , however , remained supreme for all sacred matters , while Turkish was reserved for war and administration . In the intellectual sphere , the impact of Sufism was less happy , though no less great . Men who themselves saw God in visions were not much interested in mere human reasonings . Kings and successful captains continued to need the services of doctors and astrologers , and these professions therefore continued to flourish . Systematization set in with men like ibn-Sina ( d. 1037 ) , who wrote a widely used Canon of medicine , and al-Biruni ( d. 1046 ) , who deliberately sought to synthesize Indian , Greek , and Moslem thought , in the hope of thereby mastering all knowledge . Perhaps the systematizers were too successful . What after all remained for any  | doctor of medicine to investigate once so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compiled ? Or perhaps , by fastening attention upon mystical penetration of reality the Sufi adepts deprived mere scientific investigation of any attraction for men of sensitive intelligence . Whatever the reasons , Moslem science withered after about 1200 . Disinclination from and distrust of reason found its own systematic expositor in the person of al-Ghazali ( d . I ) , who used Aristotelian logic to demonstrate the impossibility of discovering the truths of theology by human reasoning . His book , The Destruction of Philosophy , as its title implies , expressly repudiated the value of logic as a path toward truth . Yet , mystics could not entirely refrain from talking and writing about their supra-rational experiences . From such discussion there emerged a complex analysis of the stages and nature of mystical reality which had many of the characteristics of a reasoned , theologico-philosophic system . This sort of Sufi learning hardened toward fixed forms after about 1200 , in much the same way as the Sacred Law of Islam had done about 350 years before . As this occurred , Moslem minds encased themselves in twin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ill fortune , they did so just as men of western Europe were beginning to embark upon the restless investigations and inquiries of medieval and modern times . Thus , by a striking paradox , such rigorous and challenging thinkers as the Spanish Moslem ibn-Rushd ( Averroes , d. 1198 ) and the Egyptian Jew Maimonides ( d. 1204 ) , both of whom found central inspiration in the philosophy of Aristotle , were almost disregarded in the Moslem world , whereas they both had powerful influence upon the emerging Scholastic philosophy of Paris . In summary , we may say that Sufism succeeded in merging the rationalistic tradition inherited from the Greeks , the genteel tradition inherited from Arab and Persian aristocrats , and the sacred tradition inherited from Mohammed into a single , and far more coherent , whole than had been achieved in Abbasid times . When one adds to this the fact that Sufi missionaries introduced Islam to an area more than twice the size of the Abbasid empire , something of  | the magnitude and success of the movement can be appreciated , even by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts . The Sufi movement was matched by the rise of impressive and distinctive Moslem styles of architecture and painting . Among Moslems architecture was always more important than painting , since religion itself required the construction of mosques and other public buildings . But because nearly all the important centers of Islamic life have been continuously inhabited to the present , details of the architectural past are often unsure . Buildings have been repaired and remodeled from time to time , and old ruins have sometimes been buried under structures which can not be disturbed by the archaeologist 's spade . Nevertheless , where careful study has established dates and the sequences of style ? as , for example , in Cairo ? it is clear that the size , magnificence , skill of workmanship , and accuracy of detail , together with the artistic success of the structure over-all , tended to increase throughout the five centuries with which we are now concerned . Islamic architects were no longer , as in the first days of Ommayad rule , dependent on Greek or Persian models , but had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decoration played a prominent part . Pious Moslems always disdained the art of painting since portrayal of the human figure invited idolatry . Nevertheless , a school of illuminators arose in Persia whose miniatures usually illustrated manuscripts of the great Persian poets . The bright colors , minute detail , and linear elaboration of these paintings rank them among the most sophisticated and perfect of the world . The best such work , all anonymous , was done in palace ateliers between 1400 and 1600 . Other arts ? carpet weaving for example ? reached a comparable level of refinement and allowed the rulers of the land to surround themselves with a splendor that amazed and impressed the first crude European intruders who encountered it . India ? changes in Hinduism . The Moslem conquest of India had a serious impact upon Hinduism . To be sure , the conquerors fitted into the Hindu social system without straining it unduly , becoming another caste , just as earlier conquerors had done . But Islam , being a universal and missionary faith , systematically resisted encapsulation within the Indian caste system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the omnipotence of Allah and equally precious in his eyes . Hence , it is not surprising that itinerant Sufi holy men , preaching Islam , met with considerable success in attracting low-caste urban Hindus to the faith of Mohammed . Along the frontiers of Indian society also , especially in eastern Bengal , newcomers to Indian civilization tended to prefer Islam with its equalitarian emphasis to Hinduism , which placed them near the bottom of the caste hierarchy . Moreover , the reproach of idolatry which Moslems leveled against traditional Hindu piety was not easy to meet , even after refined philosophical systems had been devised to explain and justify India 's age-old multiplicity of cult practices . Hence the Islamic community in India came to be divided between a thin layer of rulers , warriors , and landowners ? many of them Persian in culture and Turkish in origin ? and a much more numerous company of poor and humble local peoples , who inevitably brought with them into Islam much of their peculiar local cultural heritage . As a result , Indian Islam remained always distinct from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hinduism itself altered in three main directions under Moslem rule . First of all , Moslem invaders pillaged the temples around which Hindu cult practices had begun to crystallize . Moslem rulers usually refused to allow such idolatrous structures to be rebuilt . Hence only in southern India do Hindu temples survive with anything like the splendor and elaboration they once attained all over the land . Driven from the ruined temples , Hindu religious ceremonies took on a more public and plebeian character , often taking place in a public square or forming processions that wound their way through town and village streets . Holy men , enjoying an ecstatic communion with Vishnu , Shiva , or some other member of the Hindu pantheon , became the charismatic figures of Hinduism . Inasmuch as Hindu saints saw God with the same vividness as Sufi mystics , Islam enjoyed no emotional superiority over Hinduism on Indian ground . Hence , in general it was only the fringes of Indian society that were attracted to Islam . Secondly , a few individuals found the intellectual challenge of Islam too immediate to he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attachments to the Hindu pantheon and rituals . Venturesome thinkers attempted to synthesize Hinduism and Islam , repudiating what they felt to be false in each system and retaining the common core of truth that each of the rival faiths had buried under false accretions . The most famous such religious innovator was Kabir ( c. 1450 ) , whom the Sikhs of modern India claim as their founder . In the third place , the Sanskrit integument in which Hinduism had wrapped itself so enthusiastically during the Gupta age was generally discarded . Vernacular tongues ? Hindi and others ? came into use for all religious purposes . Sanskrit sank back toward being the precious possession of a learned few ; while popular Hindu piety almost lost sight of its ancient Sanskrit base . These changes all had the effect of bringing Hinduism closer to the population at large , while cutting away courtly and priestly elaboration . This surely helped to assure the survival of Hinduism . It also cost Hindu civilization a great deal , for all the more costly and official aspects of culture became Moslem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ province of the Islamic world , nothing more . And without royal and princely patronage , Hindi literature failed to develop a secular counterpart to the hymns and other religious texts which dominate ( perhaps disproportionately ) our record of India 's past . Orthodox Christendom . It is a striking and not entirely accidental fact that only Orthodox Christendom succumbed to Moslem rule . The separation between the two halves of Christendom achieved formal and lasting definition in 1054 , when the pope and the patriarch of Constantinople anathematized each other , thus creating a schism which has endured until the present . The occasion of the quarrel was a difference of opinion about the proper phrasing of the Apostles ' Creed ; but the distinction between the two halves of Christendom ran very deep , and the gap widened when a new and vigorous civilization began to arise in western Europe , in which the Greek Orthodox had no real share . Instead , as the Latin west increased in wealth , power , culture , and self-confidence , eastern Christendom became one of the victims of Latin expansive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minor and of southern Russia to Turkish invaders was noticed above ( p. 234 ) . This twopronged assault coincided with a similar double thrust from the west . Italian merchant traders came by sea ; Norman knights seized Sicily and southern Italy from the Byzantines ( by 1065 ) and then crossed the Adriatic to march overland against Constantinople . Byzantine diplomacy was able to parry this first thrust from the west by diverting the formidable " Franks " to the Holy Land , where they could expend their ferocity on Byzantium 's other dangerous enemy , the Turks . The result was the First Crusade , 1096-99 . Later , however , the Greeks were less fortunate . The climax came in 1204 when the Fourth Crusade actually captured the city of Constantine , and left behind a short-lived Latin empire of the Levant . From the point of view of Orthodox Christians , Moslem Turks were definitely preferable to Latin Christians . The Latins insisted on trying to force the Orthodox Christians to accept their version of Christian doctrine at the expense of the immutable truths of Orthodoxy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allow Christians of whatever persuasion to continue to follow their accustomed rites . Moreover , the theologians of the church officially classified Islam as Christian heresy : hence Moslem error was really no worse theologically than Latin schism . In addition , the Ottoman Turks , when they first appeared in the Balkans , were much less oppressive tax gatherers than their Christian predecessors had been . The Turks , indeed , in accordance with the Sacred Law gave their Christian subjects far wider local autonomy than they were likely to enjoy under any Christian ruler . Every consideration , therefore , predisposed the Orthodox Christians to opt for Turkish Moslems against Latin Christians if and when choice between the two became necessary . The option expired in 1453 when Constantinople fell to the Turks . Nearly the same factors applied further north in the Russian forests , where such a ruler as Alexander Nevsky ( d. 1263 ) resisted Latin conquest heroically and then tamely submitted to the Mongols . Before succumbing to the Ottoman Turks , however , the Greek Christians launched a rather vigorous Hellenic renaissance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rome had never entirely disapppeared , but after about A.D l000 Byzantine artists and literary men began to cherish the past glories of paganism as never before . Art imitative of classical models and literary composition in every mode established by the ancient Greeks were deliberately revived , with varying degrees of success . The Alexiad , a history written in verse by Anna Comnena , daughter of the emperor Alexis ( reigned Io71-II18 ) , is one of the most distinguished products of this effort . Very different was the rough border balladry , recounting the deeds of heroes fighting against the Moslems , which provided the raw material for the anonymous epic , Digenes Akritas , whose rude heroic spirit appeals to modern taste more strongly than does the somewhat artificial learning of the Byzantine upper classes . The Turkish conquest of Constantinople in 1453 abruptly throttled all varieties of secular Byzantine literature ; but echoes of the Hellenic renaissance were felt in Italy , and constituted a significant stimulant to the far more fruitful Italian renaissance , which lagged about two centuries behind the Byzantine revival . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Greek Orthodox church just after the Turks established themselves in Europe . A monkish party of mystic visionaries , the Hesychasts , overthrew the " Politicians " who had previously controlled the patriarchate and other high offices of the church . Thenceforward , bishops and all other high ecclesiastical dignitaries were recruited exclusively from monasteries , a practice which was not followed in the Latin church . The victory of the monkish party ? inspired by personal visions of God ? created a popular , emotionally powerful spirit within the Orthodox community at the time when the Turks took over control of most of the Balkan hinterland . As a result , conversion to Islam , which had occurred very generally in Asia Minor and had begun to occur also on the European side of the straits , came almost to a halt , thus assuring the survival of a Christian majority in the Balkans . The northern offshoot of Orthodox Christendom , Holy Russia , underwent a slow but very significant development during the period of Mongol rule ( 1241-1480 ) . Agriculture crept deep into the  | forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first congregated . Little by little great areas of ground were cleared for farming . This allowed a comparatively numerous , though extremely poor , peasantry to establish itself despite the inhospitable soil and severe climate . Politically , the Mongols were content to farm out taxes , first to corporations of central Asian merchants and then to native Russian princes , of whom the Grand Duke of Moscow became the chief . As agent for a harsh though distant taskmaster , the Grand Duke of Moscow created an administrative bureaucracy of tax gatherers . The result was that in 148o , when Ivan III repudiated Mongol suzerainty , he had a ready-made administrative machine at his command . Moscow thus became the only great and independent Orthodox state . Russian churchmen soon developed the idea that Moscow was the Third Rome , succeeding to Constantinople as Constantinople had succeeded the first Rome on the Tiber , because only in Russia had Orthodoxy remained pure and undefiled . Ever since then the notion that Russia was uniquely chosen for the special mission of guarding the true faith on earth has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not least since the Communist revolution of 1917 . China ? the triumph of tradition . As already explained , the outward appearance of Chinese civilization was remarkably little affected by the episode of Mongol domination . Neo-Confucianism attained its full development under the later Sung , when the greatest philosopher of this school , Chu Hsi ( 1130-1200 ) , flourished . But the whole effort of Chu Hsi and his fellow literati was to remain faithful to the ancients , as Confucius himself had tried to be . Hence innovation was never consciously admitted whether in thought or in art , in manners or in government . Nevertheless , during the Mongol period important socio-economic development put considerable strain upon the traditional frame of Chinese civilization . In the end , the old Confucian forms triumphed decisively , but this should not blind us to the importance of the forces which nearly transformed Chinese society . The late Sung and Mongol periods saw a great development in trade and commerce , based upon regional specialization within China and  | upon far-ranging export and import up and down the coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were among the most active centers of this development . Early in the Ming period ( 1368 ? 1644 ) official organization was brought to the maritime enterprise of south China . Results were spectacular . Between 1405 and 1433 a court eunuch named Chengho launched a series of expeditions into the Indian Ocean , in the course of which truly imperial fleets of several hundred vessels visited all the strategic gateways to the southern seas ? Malacca , Ceylon , Calicut , and even Hormuz at the mouth of the Persian Gulf ? and temporarily established Chinese control over most of these places . Then the Ming emperor ordered the expeditions stopped , and forbade Chinese subjects from building sea-going vessels or leaving the country . Court intrigues between rival cliques may have had something to do with this decision , so pregnant for the future commercial and imperial balance of power in Asia . But basically the Ming rulers , from their capital at Peking near the everdangerous Mongol border , felt that imperial resources should not be squandered on such distant enterprises when the need for protection against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This deliberate abdication from an active role in the southern seas condemned Chinese overseas colonies to speedy decay . Mastery of the seas passed to Japanese and Malay pirates , who soon made the coasts of China unsafe for peaceable shipping . From time to time they even succeeded in interrupting transport on the Grand Canal by penetrating inland along China 's numerous waterways . Merchants had always , of course , ranked as social parasites in Confucian estimation , whereas Mongols and other steppe peoples accorded them a much more dignified place in society . The trading community , which had prospered under barbarian protection , was therefore particularly disadvantaged by the Ming restoration of Neo-Confucian orthodoxy . Yet the failure of the mercantile interest to hold its own after the really great advances made in Sung and Mongol times seems , at least to a ' Westerner , to require further explanation . The fact that Chinese agriculture also underwent a very great development may help to explain why the conservative Con- fucian ideal prevailed . About A.D. 1000 new varieties of rice were introduced that could ripen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ? even more important ? could mature successfully on hilly ground where irrigation could be had only during a short period of the spring run-off . The total agricultural productivity of China was thereby greatly enlarged , especially in the far south , where hilly ground , previously unsuited to rice growing , prevailed . Hence , as trade and commerce prospered , so did the landowning gentry . Their numbers and weight in society presumably increased more or less equally with the increase in the importance of merchants and artisans . Then , with the overthrow of the Mongol rulers who had been special patrons and protectors of merchants ( witness Marco Polo ) , the stage was set for the native Ming dynasty first to organize and then officially to throttle China 's overseas trade . The social dominance of the gentry class meant that even such potentially disturbing inventions as gunpowder ( reported in Chinese sources from about i loo ) , printing ( invented 756 ) , and the magnetic compass ( first mentioned early twelfth century ) were kept under control and used simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , widened the circle of Confucian literati ; it was not employed to bring unorthodox novelties to public attention as happened so dramatically in Reformation Europe . Gunpowder , similarly , made suppression of local warlords easier than before and allowed the imperial government to maintain a more or less effective central control over all of China ( with only a few brief periods of breakdown ) from the time the Ming dynasty completed the expulsion of the Mongols until 1911 . Nothing could be more traditional . The equally traditional , high-handed yet effective , fashion with which the Ming court warded off the distraction of sea-borne enterprise , which use of the compass and other navigational improvements permitted , has already been mentioned . Chinese culture and institutions had , in short , attained such inner perfection and balance that nothing short of wholesale social breakdown of a sort that did not occur in China until the twentieth century , sufficed to make more than superficial , transitory impression upon the bearers of the Chinese learned tradition . The myth  | of immutability , so eagerly accepted by nineteenth-century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aspects of Chinese society which continued to alter , even when the government and official culture remained frozen to the ideal of Confucian propriety .  | T HE self-transformation and expansion of Islam was the most dramatic and conspicuous shift in world history that took place between A.D. 1000 and 1500 . A second change , even more significant for the future , was the rise of two new civilizations on the extreme flanks of the civilized world , in northwestern Europe and in Japan . Both were closely related to adjacent , older , and more sophisticated civilizations : Japan to China and western Europe to Byzantium . Both Japan and Europe also exhibited a pronounced militarism , which penetrated all ranks of society in a fashion elsewhere unknown among civilized peoples . This imparted a degree of formidability vis  --  vis their more polished neighbors that allowed both Europeans and Japanese to borrow whatever they felt good from these same neighbors without surrendering their sense of superiority and cultural individuality by doing so . Unusual flexibility and capacity for growth resulted , so that by about 1500 both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture and style of civilization that in most respects could bear comparison with any other in the world . Medieval Europe . By the year woo the inhabitants of northwestern Europe possessed a comparatively numerous knightly class whose armament and training gave them man-to-man superiority over any other military force in the world . Manorial agriculture ,  | based upon the mouldboard plow , provided an adequate economic support for society as a whole . There was a further advantage in that it could readily be enlarged by clearing additional woodlands , which everywhere lay close at hand . Finally , energetic and enterprising townsmen and a church which had inherited an elaborate theological doctrine from antiquity , stood ready to organize and advance economic and cultural life . Western Europe 's improved posture was demonstrated most dramatically by geographical expansion across every frontier confining Latin Christendom . The effective incorporation of Scandinavia and the western Celtic fringe into the European body social was an affair of centuries , but the conversion of Norway and of Iceland ( 1 000 ) together with the invasion of Wales ( i o81 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ultimate upshot clear . In an eastward direction , German knights conquered and colonized a broad belt of territory across the Elbe river ; others used ships to leap-frog along the Baltic coast , conquering Prussia , Livonia ( modern Latvia ) , and Estonia , but failed ( 1241 ? 44 ) in an attempt to penetrate and subdue the Russian interior . Poland and Hungary withstood the German pressure only by imitating the armament of German knights and by importing German ( and Jewish ) townsmen to provide essential artisan and mercantile services . In so doing , of course , these outposts of Latin Christendom became far more firmly incorporated into western European society than before . The most significant frontier for Latin Christendom lay to the south and east , for here Moslem and Byzantine neighbors had something more than barbarian hardihood and backwardness to contribute to European civilization . The Norman conquest of southern Italy and Sicily ( 1059 ? 78 ) brought formerly Byzantine soil under papal and " Frankish " rule. * A long-drawn-out advance of Christian power in Spain and Portugal also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Granada , the last Moorish stronghold on the European side of the straits , was overrun in 1492 . These  | conquests were more lasting than the spectacular crusading ventures to the Holy Land , the Aegean , north Africa , and Egypt , which led to the establishment of Europe 's first overseas empires . These empires , nonetheless , weathered innumerable ups and downs across the centuries until the last of them disappeared in 1797 with the extinction of the Venetian republic by Napoleon Bonaparte . Geographical expansion abroad was matched by a great work of consolidation at home . Consolidation proceeded in every walk of life , and won spectacular successes , yet never quite sufficed to fix European institutions and cultural patterns in an enduring mould . The incessant mutability of European ( more recently of Western ) civilization is , indeed , its most salient characteristic . No sooner had the restless West worked out a potentially " classic " style of life , as happened for the first time during the medieval period , than with great tribulation that particular ordering of society and culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another potentially " classic " mould emerged only to encounter the same fate . No other civilization of the world has undergone spontaneous and repeated mutation in this fashion , though as we shall see , the sudden turns and shifts of Japanese cultural history have been quite as drastic and a good deal more abrupt than anything in European experience . The difference lies in the fact that the major shift of Japanese history came in response to circumstances others had created , whereas Europeans responded mainly to dilemmas and opportunities of their own making . The geographical reversal which came with the opening of the oceans to commerce , whereby what had before been remote and isolated extremities of the civilized world became instead strategically open to every sort of foreign sea-borne influence , does much to explain the recent instability of European and Japanese history . Deep-seated discrepancies , producing internal polarities and tensions within the two civilizations , also help to account for what happened . Europe 's economic consolidation . Clearing of forest , founding of new villages , and expansion of the cultivated fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the middle  | of the fourteenth century . Then , at least in some parts of Europe , the ravages of the Black Death ( 1348-50 ) , together with more obscure changes in markets , rents , and taxes , halted or even reversed agricultural expansion . By that time , nearly all the easily cultivated land of Europe had been put to the plow . Further agricultural improvements required new crops , ditching and draining , or other expensive innovations which , for a while , were not forthcoming . Town life exhibited the same general curve . Very rapid upthrust occurred between woo and about 1300 . Thereafter , growth slowed , or stopped entirely , save in certain special regions , such as along the Baltic coast of Germany or in central and northern Italy , where vigorous commercial exploitation of the new Baltic and Levantine " empires " that had been created by German and Frankish knighthood continued to sustain important urban development until after 1400 . Thereafter major economic innovation tended to concentrate more in central Germany and the Low Countries , where mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large-scale capitalist enterprise . The outstanding characteristic of European commerce was the great importance of rude and vulgar commodities . Articles of rather wide consumption , like woolen cloth , grain , herring , and iron , entered interregional trade . Luxuries and fine articles designed for the rich constituted only a minor part of the stream of European commerce . In most of the civilized world , transport was so costly that long-distance trade was pretty much confined to articles of high value in proportion to their bulk . Europeans could afford to move much less valuable goods to distant markets because intrusive seas and long , slow-moving streams made water transport available to very large parts of the European countryside . Shipping was of course immeasurably cheaper than transport overland , which , in the absence of well-maintained roads , had to be conducted by animal pack trains . Neither India nor the Middle East had as dense a network of natural waterways as Europe , but China 's canals and rivers and Japan 's indented coastline offered facilities for water transport about as good as those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | preceding chapter , the social structure of China was so dominated by officials and landlords as to inhibit the free development of shipping and trade . As for the Japanese , they did not take to the sea on a large scale until after 1300 . Then , early in the seventeenth century , after a heroic period of sea roving , the government , as in China , forbade all naval enterprise . Hence it was only in Europe that an aggressive merchant class confronted the technical potentialities of sea transport in a geographically propitious environment without being hampered by hostile officialdom . From about I000 , Europeans were therefore in a uniquely favorable position to exploit their natural waterways to bring articles of common everyday consumption to market . To be sure , improvements in ship building and navigation were necessary before the stormy and tide-beset waters of northwestern Europe became reasonably safe for shipping . Critical improvements in seamanship were made during the Viking age , when , for example , the much more efficient stern rudder supplanted the steering oar . Thereafter as shipping grew and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adam Smith was later to describe in his Wealth of Nations , accrued to medieval Europe . Trade and commerce affected almost every rank of society , since peasants as well as townsmen and landowners could afford to buy some of their tools and other necessities from petty traders , artisans , or shopkeepers . In other words , the market penetrated deeper into the tissues of European society than it did in land-fast Asian communities . Correspondingly European manufactures catered to a cruder level of taste and a cheaper market than was usual elsewhere . Political consolidation . Throughout the Middle Ages a confusing variety of overlapping jurisdictions competed for sovereignty . The Pope in Rome and the imperial heirs and successors of Charlemagne each claimed universal leadership over all Christendom ? meaning , in practice , over Latin Christendom alone . National monarchs , feudal princes , local landowners of every degree , as well as towns and ( on the fringes of Europe ) even clans and free villages , all competed with one another for authority , rights , immunities , and jurisdictions . We can distinguish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the first period , the emperor ( i.e. the ruler of Germany whose title derived from Charlemagne 's usurpation ) supported by most German and some Italian bishops sought to keep all more local sovereignties in check . In practice the kingdoms of France , England , Spain , Scotland , Scandinavia , Poland , and Hungary were always free to go their own ways . The emperors had more than enough to do in trying to rule Italy and Germany . During the second period , beginning in 1059 , the papacy took the lead in seeking to purify and reform the Church . Among other matters , this reform deprived the emperor of his customary right to appoint the bishops of Germany and ( parts of ) Italy . A long struggle ensued , in the course of which the popes allied themselves with the new-sprung Norman kingdom of southern Italy and with Italian towns of central and northern Italy , in order to find the military strength needed to resist sporadic invasions from the north launched by a succession of indignant German emperors . By 1252 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ papacy was left as the only claimant to the universal government of Latin Christendom . Papal authority soon collided with the national monarchies of France and England , both of which had before usually stood in loose alliance with the papacy as a form of insurance against the German emperor 's claims to supreme authority over Christendom . In 1302 the new balance of power was dramatically demonstrated when agents of the French king kidnapped Pope Boniface VIII , yet met with neither divine nor human retaliation . Soon thereafter the popes and kings of western Europe struck a bargain whereby the papacy gave up its claims to appoint bishops without consulting the king , while the king in return agreed to allow the pope 's agents to collect specified taxes and dues from the prelates of the realm . In effect , kings and popes collaborated in reducing the powers and independence of lesser local jurisdictions , specifically seeking to diminish the rights and powers of local nobles , both lay and ecclesiastical . In Germany and Italy , however , city-states and various princely jurisdictions acquired most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interregnum , Rudolf of Hapsburg was elected  | emperor . Thereafter , with only a few exceptions , members of the Hapsburg family continued to occupy the imperial office until 18o6 , when it was abolished . Their power , however , rested not so much on the imperial title as upon hereditary lands , which centered around Austria in southeastern Germany . Soon after the empire thus limply revived , its victorious rival , the papacy , suffered a serious set-back . Pope Clement VII and his successors set up their residence at Avignon in southern France ( 1207 ) , thereby becoming the close allies and at times almost the agents of the French king . Efforts to remedy this situation resulted in the establishment of rival popes in Avignon and Rome ( 1378-1417 ) . Unity was restored only by means of a general council of bishops , summoned to meet in the Swiss city of Constance by the Emperor Sigismund ( 1414-18 ) . Nothing resembling universal papal monarchy could survive such an experience . Before turning attention to the cultural consolidation of medieval Europe , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary government . This distinctive political institution had two principal roots . On the one hand , canon law held that bishops should be elected by the clergy of their cathedral church , and that matters of general concern should be settled by meetings of church leaders , whether in a local synod or in a general council . Particularly during the fourteenth century , when rival popes claimed supremacy over the Church , ecclesiastical reformers developed elaborate arguments in favor of settling the question through a council . Some went on to argue that all legitimate authority derived from consent of the governed , expressed through designated or elected representatives . Such ideas were readily transferrable to secular government , where the traditional relationships between a ruler and his followers provided a second root from which parliamentary institutions grew . Princes of every degree had to consult their subordinates and servants from time to time , particularly before undertaking any important new enterprise . Originally such consultation served two main functions : the settlement of quarrels among the prince 's followers , and deliberation about whether to undertake a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grant of " aids , " i.e. of money payments needed by the prince for some public undertaking . Aids tended to become more and more important as time passed . Many knights or holders of knights ' fiefs ( e.g. the young son of a dead knight not yet of age ) preferred to pay someone to fight in lieu of making a personal appearance when summoned to war . Knight service was thus sometimes commuted to a fixed money payment . This allowed the king to gather round himself a body of salaried fighting men who were , in the nature of things , more obedient tO the royal will than a levy of landholders , scattered far and wide across the kingdom , could ever be . But as soon as money matters became a major subject of consultation between the prince and his followers , it seemed sensible to bring representatives of the towns to court also , for the townsmen were , of course , the most fertile source of cash . Representatives of the towns usually sat apart from the noble landowners in a separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituted a separate estate , since , being also under the pope , they had a special legal relationship to secular authorities . In this somewhat haphazard fashion , it became customary in every important European state for the prince or king to consult representatives of all the major interests of the realm ? about tax payments first and foremost , and about other matters of general concern too , since representatives easily discovered that they could withhold approval of a new tax levy until the prince redressed their grievances ? or promised to do so . By means of such representative institutions , important conflicting interests within each European state found more or less effective voice . Peasants were seldom represented and town artisans were likewise left out . But property holders and taxpayers were heard in public matters that most concerned them . Europe 's political consolidation therefore involved the enfolding of the most active elements of society into the political process in a fashion that had no real parallel in other civilized lands . Relatively close collaboration between rulers , landowners , and merchants was thus assured . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any European government could have overridden the interests of such  | a massive group of shipowners and seamen as existed in south China at the time the Ming emperor forbade the further construction of seagoing vessels . A somewhat stumbling but generally effective sensitivity on the part of public administrators to the economic interests of the subjects was built deeply into the fabric of European government . In this sense , therefore , European governments , like European trade and commerce , were unusually vulgar , and by the same token unusually apt to accommodate themselves to new forms of economic enterprise ? particularly if the innovation seemed likely to produce additional tax revenues . Cultural consolidation . For more than two centuries , from the time when Europe 's recovery commenced until about 1200 , eager appropriation of everything that appealed to Western men in the Arabic and Byzantine cultural traditions , together with bold and vigorous creativity , imparted a youthful brilliance to medieval culture that can only be compared to the ancient Greeks ' similar period of apprenticeship to and emancipation from the cultural model of the ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , scholars organized systematic translation from Arabic into Latin . A large literature of professional handbooks and encyclopedic information was thus added to the Latin inheritance , which had previously been almost exclusively ecclesiastical . The translation of Aristotle 's works into Latin proved particularly influential . Western men found in Aristotle 's pages a reasoned , complete , and persuasive view of the entire universe which was , however , , pagan . The task of reconciling Aristotelian doctrine with Christian truth became critical for those ? and they were many ? who refused willingly to surrender any part of their intellectual inheritance , whether it be the new Aristotelian logic or the old Christian faith . Another dimension of European culture ? the inheritance from the barbarian world generally , and the knightly style of life in particular ? also called for integration into a Christian mould , for the rough brutality and violence of the tenth century had next to nothing in common with Christian love , hope , and charity . These challenges were initially met in a spirit of reckless abandon . St. Anselm ( d. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for exam- pie , seem to have felt that human reason and Christian doctrine would be sure to support one another if reason were resolutely and rigorously pursued . Thus , St. Anselm found it possible to prove the logical necessity of the Incarnation , and Peter Abelard launched a critical inquiry into the conflicts among Christian writers on points of doctrine . Simultaneously , in the field of law the monk Gratian ( c. 1140 ) weightily argued the pros and cons of discordances within the laws of the Church , while Irnerius ( d. c. 1130 ) began the systematic study of Roman law in hope of finding a key wherewith to unlock the prevailing confusions that plagued the local , customary law of Europe . To such men , nothing was too difficult to try . Monumental stone building in the style known as Romanesque dates from these same years . ' Western architects expressly repudiated the Byzantine architectural style , which had previously found a modest footing in western Europe , and preferred a style based upon ancient Roman basilicas and early Christian church structures . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at last partially Christianized through such enterprises as the Crusades ( beginning 1096 ) and by the development of a knightly ideal that asked men-at-arms to aid the weak , serve womankind , and protect Mother Church . Between about 1200 and 1300 the initial elan of medieval Europe 's cultural upthrust developed a more complex and troubled yet richer texture . Tensions between Christian faith , ecclesiastical order , and naive acceptance of the authority of the past on the one hand , and men 's rational , secular , and critical faculties on the other , became acute . Yet in diverse and conscious ways these tensions were for a while effectively resolved , thus producing the great climax of medieval culture ? the synthesis of the thirteenth century ? toward which an important company of sensitive Westerners have ever since nostalgically looked back . In the field of thought , faith and reason were resolutely reconciled by theologians like St. Thomas Aquinas ( d. 1274 ) and St. Albert the Great ( d. 128o ) . Aquinas ' Summa Theologica arrayed authoritative opinions and carefully reasoned answers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His book very soon came to  | be recognized as a semi-official statement of Christian doctrine . Aristotelian logic and some of Aristotle 's conclusions were thus skillfully harnessed to the task of upholding Christian truth , in accordance with the general principle that while faith and reason could never contradict one another , there were points of theological truth that were simply not accessible to unaided reason and had therefore to be imparted to mankind through divine revelation . Yet Aquinas was not without his critics . The most influential of these distrusted long chains of logical proofs , and preferred the certainty of things divine that came from mystical experience , and the knowledge of things mundane that could be achieved by careful attention to information supplied by the senses . Such thinkers as St. Bonaventura ( d. 1274 ) and Roger Bacon ( d. c. 1292 ) represented this loosely Platonic ( and Franciscan ) intellectual tradition , which they consciously opposed to the Dominican Aristotelianism of Aquinas . In the field of action , diversity and discrepancy were more apparent than synthesis ; but opposing tendencies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to give scope to a wide spectrum of human impulse and diversity of character . Thus , for example , Christian knighthood was countered by a " romantic " ideal that emphasized courtly ( i.e. extra-marital ) love and a code of manners that risked sensuality in the pursuit of sensibility . Or again , heresy which spread widely among weavers and other artisan groups met a counterpoise in the piety of Franciscan and Dominican friars . Unlike monks , the friars lived and worked among laymen , preaching , caring for the sick , aiding the poor and helpless , and in other ways offering a practical demonstration of Christian idealism . St. Francis ( d. 1226 ) , founder of the Franciscan order , and St. Dominic ( d. 1221 ) , founder of the Dominican order , were the most important leaders of this fresh outpouring of Christian feeling . Yet here too lay a difficulty , for the very intensity of St. Francis ' pursuit of holiness pushed him to the verge of heresy . Some of his followers , who criticized the pope and bishops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apostles by leading lives of poverty ( as the friars in principle undertook to do ) , passed beyond the verge at which their saintly founder had always called  | a halt . After a long legal process these " Spiritual Franciscans " were condemned as heretics , despite ( or because of ) the intensity of their piety . The literary activity of the thirteenth century gave voice to all these diverse strands of thought and feeling , and did so partly in Latin , partly in vernacular languages . Popular tales , often scurrilously anti-clerical , and naively pious " miracle " plays based on Biblical stories reflected the diversity of life in the towns . Romances and troubadour songs did the same for the aristocracy . The greatest literary figure of the age was Dante , the Florentine exile ( d. 1321 ) . His love sonnets , political writings ( De Monarehia ) , and above all his Christian epic , The Divine Comedy , set forth a world view that more nearly captured the multifaceted life of thirteenthcentury Europe than any other man came near to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rush toward multiplicity and variety . Gothic cathedrals of the thirteenth century achieved a complex , subtle , and enormously successful solution to the problem of enclosing a large space for Christian worship . Yet the Gothic style quickly evolved toward greater and greater decorative complication , until encrusted tracery obscured the structural simplicity of rib , buttress , and pier . This flamboyance matched the complication and occasional triviality of later Scholastic philosophy and may have corresponded also to a certain weakening of Christian conviction and increased delights in display and luxury which gave point to the " Spiritual " Franciscans ' attacks upon the worldliness of ecclesiastical dignitaries . A general fraying out of the medieval cultural synthesis was characteristic of the period after 1300 . In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries , the competing ideals of holiness and human satisfaction in this world failed to find any really satisfactory resolution . During this time , developments in Italy diverged significantly from the climate of opinion north of the Alps . Italy became the seat of a conscious renaissance of classical antiquity , meaning , in practice , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered that study of the pagan Latin poets and of Cicero offered not only models of literary excellence but fresh and valuable insights into the question of how men should live and con- duct themselves . Humanists , as men who cultivated these concerns were proud to call themselves , seldom broke explicitly with Christianity . Indeed , humanistic literary and artistic values often were shared by prelates of the Church , who ranked among the most important patrons of the movement . In the milieu of the Italian towns a new art style was born . Like the humanists ' Ciceronian Latin , it was deliberately modeled on ancient example . Architecturally , pillars , pilasters , and round arches constituted the elements from which the " renaissance " style was derived . In painting few ancient examples were available , and perhaps in consequence , a more profound originality developed . Aerial and ? from about 1430 ? linear perspective gave the Italian painters a systematic , remarkably rational , and optically persuasive technique for arranging objects in an illusory space . The result was to create a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It endured as the fundamental frame for European painting until the end of the nineteenth century . North of the Alps no such successful and venturesome assertion of novel humanistic and naturalistic interests came to expression . Instead , something of a stalemate between the discordant elements of the European cultural inheritance set in . Florid court chivalry accorded ill with the brutal reality of the Hundred Years ' War ( 1337-1453 ) between France and England , when bands of mercenary soldiers robbed and burned their way across the fertile fields of France . Popular discontents found expression in a rash of peasant revolts and in the rise of new heretical movements like the Lollards of England and the Hussites of Bohemia . The medieval frame of European culture was clearly in difficulty , but its eventual repudiation was a painful and prolonged process , decisively launched only by such great events as the opening of the oceans to European shipping and the nearly simultaneous outbreak of the Reformation . Discussion of the genesis of modern Europe will , however , be reserved for the third part of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not entirely disappear even when the imperial power had become no more than a shadow . But border barons who pioneered the expansion of Japa- nese society northward through the archipelago were not in a position to share or admire the refined and anti-militaristic cultural ideal which the first Japanese courtiers had imported wholesale from T'ang China . Instead , they developed a code of manners and a warrior ideal of their own , emphasizing courage in battle , loyalty to a chosen leader , and the infrangible personal dignity of each and every fighting man , no matter how poor he might be or how desperate his cause . In time the code of the samurai , as the Japanese warriors were termed , became strict and binding , and even attained written codification . It arose from the discipline and spirit of successful war bands , recruited by individual captains for their own and their followers ' aggrandizement . A successful band of course took possession of a piece of territory and collected dues in kind from the peasant inhabitants . Hereditary possession became usual , but continual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in battle were always required to maintain what had been won . Constant local wars were the result , for any quarrel between members of different bands could only be adjudicated by the sword , and , for that matter , it was not always possible for members of a single band to settle differences among themselves peaceably . Japanese feudalism , therefore , closely resembled the feudalism of early medieval Europe . Even the survival of an ineffective imperial suzerainty in Japan resembled the vague deference paid to the imperial idea by Europeans . In detail there were important differences . For example , the Japanese samurai grouped themselves into clans ( real or fictitious ) , whereas European knights were governed by contractual relations ? homage and fealty ? not by kindreds . Moreover , the style of agriculture which sustained the Japanese fighting class was entirely different from that of Europe . As in China , a garden type of intensive cultivation prevailed in Japan . Accordingly a densely settled peasantry , producing a smaller food surplus per family than European peasants could do , constituted a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole . After about A.D. 1300 a third element began to achieve greater prominence in Japanese society ? to wit , townsmen and sailors .  | Important improvements in naval architecture , pioneered by the Chinese , permitted this development in Japanese society . The compass , adjustable centerboard , keels , cloth instead of slatted bamboo sails , and a general increase in size and strength of ship construction all spread from China to Japan . This made sea voyaging practicable up and down the Japanese coasts , and across the sea to China , to southeast Asia , and to the nearer islands of the Pacific as well . Fishing soon developed into an important industry . Then , when the Chinese withdrew from the seas in the 1430 's , the Japanese rapidly took over naval primacy throughout the southwest Pacific region . In these circumstances , piracy and sea roving offered a very promising career for poverty-stricken samurai who lacked enough land or had been dispossessed in some local struggle . Japanese pirates , therefore , quickly became the scourge of the China coast . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where town life burgeoned . An extensive interpenetration between merchants and warriors produced a warlike , self-reliant middle class , whose only analogue in the civilized world was in Europe , where piratical origins had also helped to define the townsman 's ethos . The rise of towns in Japan meant also the appearance of new social milieux in which the polarity between Chinese civility and Japanese reality could work itself out and generate a more elaborate Japanese high culture than the spartan idea of rural samurai allowed . Drama based on episodes from struggles among samurai clans and war hands was one of the products of this interaction . The development of a Japanese style of painting , related to yet distinct from Chinese styles , was another . The refinement of samurai manners by such elegancies as the " tea ceremony " and the use of silk clothes was still a third . Japan 's religious history reflects the same development toward local independence of Chinese examples . Zen Buddhism was initially imported from China , but on Japanese soil Zen became intertwined with the samurai ideal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeated samurai not infrequently retired to Zen monasteries , where they found in the metaphysical doctrine of sudden enlightenment a needed supplement to the bleak militarism of their secular life . From about 1200 , Pure Land Buddhism becalve prominent in Japan . This sect appealed to a wider public . It  | was organized on congregational lines and expressly repudiated reliance upon priestly or monkish mediators between ordinary men and salvation . Both Zen and Pure Land Buddhists occasionally resorted to violence . Zen monasteries , indeed , were often important landholders and therefore found themselves compelled to defend their property like a samurai clan . Pure Land Buddhists , on the other hand , provoked a number of large-scale peasant risings . These broke out after 1400 , but were nowhere successful for long . The cult of the Sun Goddess from whom the imperial family claimed descent underwent an important transformation in the fifteenth century . Previously this cult had been almost entirely confined to the imperial court and family , and had been assimilated to Chinese patterns of ancestor worship . After 1400 , however , priests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allegorical interpretations of traditional myths , thus equipping the cult with a metaphysical theology comparable to Buddhist doctrines . This remodeled cult , or Shinto , could and did appeal to an emerging Japanese sense of national identity and uniqueness ? a sense greatly stimulated by the enlarged contacts with the outside world their successful sea roving inaugurated . By 1500 , therefore , Japanese society and culture had become comparable in complexity , formidability , and sophistication to other civilized communities of the Old World . A comparatively small and isolated geographical range and the comparatively great ethnic homogeneity of the bearers of Japanese culture cramped the full development of this new civilization . Or perhaps one should rather say that before Japanese civilization had time to spread beyond the confines of the Japanese islands and attract other peoples ( e.g. the Filipinos and Amerindians ) into its ambit , rival sea-borne civilizations , to wit , the Islamic and European , pre-empted the ground and effectually fenced Japanese culture in , so that it could not spread among new peoples in the way more favorably situated new civilizations had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time to preserve full cultural and political autonomy in modern times , as the less advanced peoples of Africa , Australia , and the Americas , whose cultural development we will glance at in the next chapter , were quite unable to do .  | BY A.D. 1500 only a slender zone of tundra and Arctic shoreline in the Old World remained unaffected by the development of civilized styles of life . A few reindeer herders continued to carry on a traditional existence , and an Eskimo culture , skillfully adapted to survival in the special environment of the Arctic shoreline , came into being without any perceptible or plausible relationship to what men had done in more favored regions of the earth . South of the belt of civilized communities that extended all the way across Eurasia , geographical conditions and cultural relationships were far more complicated . Yawning gaps remain in our information about the history of such a vast and varied region of the earth as Africa , and what is known presents almost as many historical puzzles as it solves . Only a very tentative summary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is possible in a book such as this . The reader should be aware that much of what follows rests on nothing more solid than shrewd guesswork . In A.D. 1500 Africa south of about the Zambesi river , as well as the whole of Australia and adjacent islands like Tasmania and New Guinea , remained entirely untouched by civilization . Primitive peoples there pursued a Stone-Age life similar , so far as we can tell , to that of the earliest human ' hunters .  | Southeast Asia and the South Pacific . North of these two major refuge areas , however , the transforming force of civilized styles of life had everywhere been felt . In southeast Asia and the islands of Indonesia , societies familiar with root agriculture and adept in the arts of primitive seamanship existed before either Indian or Chinese explorers penetrated the river mouths of that part of the world . Then , as we have already seen , beginning about the Christian era , massive acceptance of Indian culture occurred . After about A.D. boo links with India weakened , largely as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian Ocean . The various Hindu ( and some Buddhist ) courts of southeast Asia were therefore thrown back upon their own local resources . The results were occasionally magnificent . Java , for example , became the seat of a Hindu empire which built the great temple of Majapahit , while the lower Mekong became the seat of a similar state , the Khmer empire , whose monument is the vast and impressive palacetemple-city of Angkor Wat . Beginning about A.D. I200 two outside forces attacked the Indianized court civilizations of southeast Asia . Thai tribes descended from the north , overthrew the Khmer empire , and substituted their own more warlike and more tumultuous dominion in the Mekong valley . Missionaries in time converted the Thai to a form of Buddhism bearing a Burmese-Tibetan rather than an Indian stamp . Simultaneously , Moslem missionary enterprise gathered headway as a result of the internal changes in the Islamic community which we have already noticed . Accordingly , Malaya , Sumatra , and presently Java and distant Mindanao in the Philippines became the seats of Moslem regimes . Sooner or later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bali , where something of the older life survived until modern times . During these same centuries , Polynesian navigators were carrying their high barbarism far across the Pacific . Their culture was at least loosely related to the cultures of southeast Asia . Ancestors of the Polynesians probably came from somewhere on the Asian mainland , but their great dispersion occurred only after the invention of outriggers permitted a canoe made from a single hollowed log to travel in safety across the open ocean . When this critical  | breakthrough had been made ( about A.D. 600 ) Polynesians spread across the vastnesses of the Pacific within a few hundred years ? a fact attested by the close affinity of their languages in regions as distant from one another as New Zealand and Hawaii . Sub-Saharan Africa . Africa was probably the original cradle of mankind , and that continent has preserved until our own time a greater ethnic variety than any other part of the earth . Peoples as widely different in their physical appearance as Bushmen , Hottentots , Dinka , and Masai can not be found elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger territories than they do today , whereas other populations ? Bantu-speaking Africans in particular ? were once confined to a small portion of the ground they now occupy . The naive idea that Africa is and has always been inhabited by a more or less uniform Negro population is completely unfounded ; but the truth is too complicated and too illrecorded to be easily reconstructed . The Sahara desert effectually divides Africa in two . The northern coast shared in the classical and medieval history of the Mediterranean and does not concern us here . Sub-Saharan Africa , however , is far from uniform geographically . The Congo rain forest is bordered north , east , and south by savanna ? that is , landscapes of grass dotted by occasional clumps of trees . But the mountains and great lakes of central east Africa interrupt the arc of the savanna , so that it is not a continuous belt , but divides into two major parts : west Africa , bisected by the curved course of the Niger river , and east Africa , running down the east spine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hope . Scant pasture lands , fringing the southern Sahara , skirt the northern face of the mountain barrier . This miniature steppe therefore linked the two major productive regions of east and west Africa . The geographical compartmentation of Africa helps to account for the restricted reach of ancient Egypt , whose influence does not appear clearly outside the Nile valley itself , and then only as far south as Nubia . About the Christian era , or perhaps shortly before , an important Indonesian component was brought into Africa . At that time , the island of Madagascar was colonized by a people who  | arrived by sea from one of the islands of Indonesia , perhaps from Borneo , where their closest linguistic relatives live in modern times . Other Indonesian settlements probably once existed along the eastern coast . The surest evidence of this is that a number of root crops native to Indonesia and therefore well suited for rain-forest cultivation established themselves as staples of African agriculture . The new crops had their major impact on west Africa where cultiva- tors began to penetrate into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps because the new Indonesian crops first made agriculture in that environment practicable . The initial expansion of the Bantu-speaking peoples , whose original homeland and point of dispersion lay in west Africa , not far , perhaps , from the Bight of Benin , may have depended on their successful exploitation of the new Indonesian crops . About A.D. 300 trans-Saharan camel trains began to bring influences from the Roman world to bear upon west Africa . On the strength of a growing caravan trade , whose main commodities were gold , salt , and slaves , Ghana , the first major west African state , began to take form , sometime between A.D. 300 and 600 . Meanwhile in east Africa the kingdoms of Nubia and Abyssinia entered into much closer relations with the Roman world . Both became Christian at an early date , but Abyssinian and Nubian Christianity soon developed local idiosyncrasies . Abyssinia for a while controlled the straits of Aden and exercised considerable power in Arabia . But the rise of Islam and Mohammed 's unification of Arabia drove the Abyssinians back across the straits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the defensive . Islam quickly planted itself in east Africa and Moslems soon took over all the coastline , confining the Christians to the highlands , where they still exist . The Arab conquest of Egypt ( A.D. 641 ) and of all north Africa ( by 71 I ) gave both east and west Africa , Moslem instead of Christian neighbors . The further fact that Moslem shipping speedily took over primacy on the Indian Ocean meant a further exposure of Africa to Moslem infiltration . Until after the year IOOO , however , Islam made only modest headway south of the Sahara . Thereafter , its advance became much more rapid . Ghana , for example , was overthrown in 1076 by a Moslem conqueror . Thereafter Moslem states dominated west Africa . The most important of the early Moslem empires was Mali . The effort required to resist Islamic assault actually generated something of a " golden age " in Abyssinia 's cultural history , but Nubia succumbed to Islam in the fifteenth century . After the conquest of Nubia Arab nomad tribes began to move all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern edge of the Sahara . When these migrants reached west Africa they actually rolled back the frontier of cultivation a considerable distance . The history of east Africa south of Cape Guardafui is still quite unclear . At some time between 700 and 1400 large-scale gold mining occurred at several sites in what is now Rhodesia . Extensive rock-built ruins at Zimbabwe and nearby attest the scale of this enterprise . Another important event was the spread of cattle nomads southward . Once again , the pioneers were Bantu-speaking tribes who had presumably acquired the art of cattle rearing from some more civilized people ? perhaps from Nubia . Bantu cattle nomads rapidly drove the Hottentot hunters southward . By 1500 the frontier of Bantu expansion had reached the Zambesi river . Before Europeans circumnavigated the Cape of Good Hope , therefore , nearly all of Africa had felt the influence of more advanced societies in attenuated but unmistakable form . The Americas . The Americas had meanwhile become the seat of complex societies that fully deserve the epithet " civilized . " Generally speaking , the level of mastery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems very similar to what the ancient Mesopotamians and Egyptians had achieved by about 2500 B.C. A four-thousand-year lag was far too great for the Amerindians to make up when the Spanish conquistadors burst in upon their seclusion . Since the higher culture of the Aztec and Inca empires left only limited traces behind , we can afford to be quite cursory in our consideration of the Amerindian civilization . Cultivation of maize , the fundamental food crop of the New World , dates back at least as far as 2500 B.C. About a thousand years later , settled village life developed in Mexico , presumably as better and more productive strains of maize evolved . Not long before the Christian era monumental cult centers began to take form in such places as the Guatemalan highlands ( Mayas ) and the central Mexican plateau ( Toltecs ) . What archaeologists call the " classic " stage of the Amerindian cultures of Central America emerged by about A.D. 300 and lasted for about six hundred years . During this time , Mayan and Toltec temples attained vast size and system- on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars today can partly decipher . Priestly management of society seem clear ; but the details of myths , religious principles , and administrative organi-lich the effort of ordinary farmers was mobilized to Lt temples , and how expert stone masons and other arlaintained , can not now be known . have lagged somewhat behind the Mexican and Guadopment , but the " classic " period of the three major eru is thought to coincide fairly closely with the clasIe Mayan and Toltec temple states . Potatoes and the nportant resources of the Andes slopes not available in ddition , the Peruvian societies of the coastal area devery skillful irrigation , whereas in Central America . own on rain-watered land . At some date between A.D. D all of the Peruvian valleys that plunge down to the overrun by an art style originating in the high Andes o . Perhaps this attests military conquest , though it may ne religious movement . Whatever its nature , centrali , t survive for long . When the Incas began to develop a from a center in the high Andes , their expanding rid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifry ) . The Incas imposed a very strictly centralized reEl of Peru . Their empire was linked together by roads , a religion of the sun , of which the Great Inca was The resemblance to the religio-political centralization ; ypt is striking . can area was more various and may be compared in to ancient Mesopotamia . About A.D. 900 Mayan and t-led communities broke down . The reasons are not central valley of Mexico it seems probable that barbarfrom the north brought down the Toltec regime . Furraces of military assault are lacking , and it is possible thdrawal of belief , whereby the Mayan farmers ceased essary to support the priestly centers in order to assure of their maize fields , accounts for the abandonment of tes . Nevertheless , more militaristic regimes did conic to  | the Mayan lands . First Chichen Itza in Yucatan and then Mayapan seem to have created a sort of loose empire among the Mayans , but by the time the Spaniards arrived , even this sort of political unity had vanished . Despite their past , attested by the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities when the Spaniards first appeared and had no elaborate military , political , or even priestly organization . Further north a number of waves of invasion may have occurred before the Aztecs asserted a loose hegemony over all of central Mexico . Aztec military operations were directed toward the capture of prisoners whose hearts were then offered to the gods daily throughout the year . We may presume that the victims were not pleased with their fate . No really effective loyalty or political unity therefore existed among the millions of inhabitants of the central Mexican valley when Cortez led his handful of ruffians to Montezuma 's palace . Other Indian societies had begun to move toward agricultural elaboration before the European discoveries . In the southeastern United States , for example , cult centers had begun to arise , simpler than those of Mexico but influenced by them . Similar proto-civilizations existed in what is today Colombia and Chile . Still further afield , the Indians of Virginia and New England knew how to raise maize , and a people like the Iroquois had begun to construct a formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . A much debated issue is whether or not Amerindian cultures owed anything important to trans-oceanic voyagers , whether from across the Atlantic or the Pacific . Some striking resemblances between a few art motifs in Central America and southeast Asia , together with the pre-European distribution of cultivated plants in the Pacific islands , suggest that some sort of relationship existed among the cultures on the two sides of the Pacific from a fairly early time . Nevertheless , many scholars emphatically deny that Amerindian civilizations profited significantly from contact with the rest of the world . The matter must remain open and can not be firmly settled without more careful archaeological study than has yet been made .  | As I conceive world history , the entire span of time between 500 B.0 and A.D. 1500 belongs together , as a sort of inflated " Middle Ages , " sandwiched between the constitutive age of civilization-building and the age of Western dominance that set in after 1500 . Such a classification runs counter to the traditional periodization of our history , which divides what is here treated together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a medieval segment . The traditional chronological pattern fits the histories of other parts of the world very awkwardly , however , and it therefore seems best to list titles by region alone , and not to undertake any chronological ordering . EUROPE . Most classical authors have been translated into English and published in the Loeb Classical Library , with opposing pages in the original Greek or Latin . In addition , the more important authors have been translated elsewhere and often , and I lack sufficient knowledge to be able to recommend a particular edition of authors like Aeschylus , Sophocles , Aristophanes , Herodotus , Thucydides , Plutarch , Livy , Tacitus , Plato , Aristotle , Cicero , and others of similarly enduring popularity . Any curious student should , however , be invited to turn to these authors at once , for they constitute one of the tap roots of Western civilization . Among the moderns , choice becomes arbitrary and difficult . Two fine , standard texts are : J.B. Bury , History of Greece to the Death of Alexander the Great , 3rd ed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , History of Rome down to the Reign of Constantine the Great , znd ed . ( London , 1954 ) . Gisela M. A. Richter , Sculpture and Sculptors of the Greeks , rev. ed . ( New Haven , 1950 ) , is another standard authority ; and Moses Hadas , History of Greek Literature ( New York , 1950 ) , surveys his subject gracefully . For economic history , see F. M. Heichelheim , Ancient Economic History , 3 vols . ( New York , 1958 ) ; M. I. Rostovtzeff , The Social and Economic History of the Hellenistic World , 3 vols . ( Oxford , 1941 ) ; the same author 's far more impassioned Social and Economic History of the Roman Empire , revised by P. M. Fraser , and ed. , 2 vols . ( Oxford , 1957 ) ; Tenney Frank , et al. , eds. , An Economic Survey of Ancient Rome , 5 vols . ( Baltimore , 1933 ? 40 ) ; and A. H. M. Jones , The Greek City : From Alexander to Justinian ( Oxford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political affairs the following are particularly interesting : A. R. Burn , Persia and the Greeks : The Defence of the West ( New York , 1962 ) ; H. W. Parke , Greek Mercenary Soldiers ( Oxford , 1933 ) ; A. H. M. Jones , Athenian Democracy ( Oxford , 1957 ) ; and Sir Ronald Syme , The Roman Revolution ( Oxford , 1939 ) . Two other books that can be  | warmly recommended are : Marshall Clagett , Greek Science in Antiquity ( New York , 1956 ) , and W. W. Tarn and G. T. Griffith , Hellenistic Civilization , 3rd ed . ( London , 1952 ) . Early Christianity is a subject by itself . Two excellent works by classicists are C. N. Cochrane , Christianity and Classical Culture ( New York , 1944 ) , and Arnaldo Momigliano , ed. , The Conflict Between Paganism and Christianity in the Fourth Century ( Oxford , 1963 ) . Good general treatments of early Christian history are : Kenneth Scott Latourette , A History of the Expansion of Christianity , 1 : The First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Grant , Historical Introduction to the New Testament ( New York , 1963 ) ; and Rudolf Karl Bultmann , Primitive Christianity in Its Contemporary Setting ( London , 1956 ) . More specialized themes of interest are dealt with by A. D. Nock , Conversion : The Old and the New in Religion from Alexander the Great to Augustine of Hippo ( London , 1933 ) ; J. M. Allegro , The Dead Sea Scrolls and Origins of Christianity ( New York , 1957 ) ; and Jean Doresse , Secret Books of the Egyptian Gnostics ( New York , 1960 ) . Salo W. Baron , A Social and Religious History of the Jews , and ed. , 8 vols . ( New York , 1952-58 ) , is a very useful counterpart to the study of early Christianity . Medieval histories divide almost always between the Latin and Greek halves of Christendom , and Slavic Europe often constitutes still a third compartment . Similarly , relationships with Islam are neglected or treated in isolation from general narrative . The result is to emphasize , more than perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medieval period within Europe ? not to mention Eurasia as a whole . Hugh Trevor-Roper , The Rise of Christian Europe ( London , 1965 ) , transcends this sort of narrowed vision ; so do Gustave E. von Grunebaum , Medieval Islam : A Study in Cultural Orientation , and ed . ( Chicago , 1955 ) , and Lynn White , Jr. , Medieval Technology and Social Change ( Oxford , 1962 ) . Recent work on medieval economic history has turned very largely upon the " Pirenne thesis , " as set forth in Henri Pirenne , Mohammed and Charlemagne ( New York , 1955 ) , and reaffirmed in a larger context in his Economic and Social History of Medieval Europe ( New York , 1937 ) . The Cambridge Economic History of Europe , 3 vols . ( Cambridge , 1941-63 ) , reflects experr consensus ; and C. S. and C. S. L. Orwin , The Open Fields , and ed . ( Oxford , 1954 ) , bring practical experience with farming to bear upon elucidation of the much disputed matter of manorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle for a list of the hooks that are more interesting or important than most : Marc Bloch , Feudal Society ( Chicago , 1961 ) ; Carl Stephenson , Medieval Feudalism ( Ithaca , N.Y. , 1942 ) ; Sir Steven Runciman , A History of the Crusades , 3 vols . ( Cambridge , 1951-54 ) ; Charles Homer Haskins , The Normans in European History ( Boston , 1915 ) ; Geoffrey Barraclough , The Origins of Modern Germany , and . ed . ( Oxford , 1947 ) ; and P. H. Sawyer , The Age of the Vikings ( New York , 1962 ) . A similarly arbitrary principle for cultural history suggests the following :  | The year 1 Soo serves better than most historical landmarks as a divide between modern and pre-modern times . This is true in European history , for the great discoveries , quickly followed by the Reformation , gave the coup de grace to medieval Europe and inaugurated a century and a half of desperate effort to achieve a reasonably stable new pattern of thought and action . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization attained a hazy sort of definition after 1648 . The year 1500 marks an important turning point in world history also . The European discoverers made the oceans of the earth into highways for their commerce and conquest . They thus created a new cultural frontier along ever/ habitable coast that rivaled , and in the end eclipsed , the importance of the land frontiers where the civilizations of Asia had for centuries stood guard against steppe nomads . Little by little all the non-Western peoples of the earth found it necessary to do something drastic about the intrusive Europeans with their restless , disturbing ways . The rise of the West to this position of dominance all round the globe is , indeed , the main theme of modern world history . Nonetheless , changes such as these rake time to ripen . For a full two hundred years after Christopher Columbus ( 1492 ) , Vasco da Gama ( 1498 ) , and Fernando Magellan ( 1522 ) imprinted their wakes upon the oceans of the earth , the old established civilizations of Asia reacted sluggishly to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth and power . In the Americas , and in the less highly developed lands of northern Asia , the European impact was much more drastic . Local cultures withered when confronted by the missionary spirit and technical superiority of European pioneers in both these great regions of the globe . As a result , a European type of society expanded both east and west from its original focus and center in northwestern Europe , penetrating deep into Siberia and across the Atlantic into the New World . After 1700 , however , the Islamic peoples together with the Hindus and Buddhists of Asia found themselves unable to stave off the Europeans . Old institutions and attitudes hallowed by centuries of religion could no longer stand up to the new power western European peoples had been able to generate . Successive demonstrations of this fact in India , the Balkans , and the Middle East caused a stunned paralysis to descend upon nearly all Moslems and most Hindus . Yet decisive breakdown of traditional ways and institutions did not occur before about 185o , when with an extraordinary suddenness the Ottoman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single decade either collapsed or found themselves compelled to venture forth from the shelter of familiar ways in the hope of being able to beg , borrow , or steal from the Westerners the secrets of their strength . This effort at conscious modernization or Westernization still continues to command the central place in the aspirations of all the non-Western peoples of the world . The pace of social change accelerates steadily , and the effort to manage society so as to achieve goals set by some directing clique or party seems to gain force with every passing year . After 1500 , however , divisions of European history do not match the bench marks of world history very closely . This is no more than what we should expect , for if it is correct to say that the main theme of modern history is the rise of the West to dominance over the globe , there should be a time lag between successive stages of Europe 's own development and the impact upon other peoples and distant continents .  | Hence it seems well to bracket the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history until 1648 as a period when the Far West first decisively and definitely challenged all the other cultures of the earth by demonstrating important superiorities in such fields as military organization and technology , natural science and inquisitiveness . The period of world history between 1700 and 185o may similarly be bracketed with Europe 's Old Regime , 1648 ? 1789 , when a potentially classic reorganization of European civilization emerged from the struggles and confusion of the preceding period . By the same logic , world history since 185o may be paired with Europe 's history since 1789 , when the twin movements of industrialization and democratization began to transform Western institutions fundamentally , and imparted to them the irresistible force to which the other civilizations of the world bowed only after 185o . The chapters that follow are therefore arranged in three tiers : A survey of Europe 's self-transformation 1500 ? 1648 precedes discussion of the development of each of the major regions of the world in the period 1500 ? 1700 . Then chapters on Europe 's Old Regime and on the colonial expansion of European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a second tour of the rest of the world , surveying its development in the period 1700 ? 1850 . Then , third , remarks about the West 's transformations since 1789 are followed by a survey of how different parts of the non-Western world have reacted to Western superiorities since 185o . The awkwardness of such a plan will , I believe , be counterbalanced by the fact that its chronological irregularity underlines and illuminates the central reality of modern world history .  | PRINCE Henry of Portugal ( d. 146o ) , nicknamed " the Navigator , " prepared the way for the dramatic voyages of oceanic discovery that opened the entire circuit of the habitable globe to Europeans within a time span of no more than two generations . What he did was to bring the best available theoretical knowledge into contact with traditional rule-ofthumb seamen 's and shipbuilders ' skills , in order to improve the seaworthiness and navigability of his ships . Prince Henry had in view the rounding of Africa , hoping thereby to link up with the halfmythical Christian champion , Prester John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the realm of Islam . Profit from trade in slaves and other commodities to be picked up along the African coast helped to sustain the enterprise , but this was not a central motive . Navigation remained inexact , for until the invention of a satisfactory marine chronometer ( 176o ) no precise method for determining longitude ( east-west ) was known . Latitude ( north-south ) could be measured by finding the angle of the sun above the horizon at noon . With the help of tables of the sun 's declination at known latitudes for each day of the year , a sea captain could establish his position north or south of the equator within some thirty miles or so , even when using comparatively crude sighting instru- ments . The trick lay in compiling accurate tables . This task Prince Henry assigned to specially selected astronomers and mathematicians who , after lengthy calculation , provided Portuguese sea captains with the necessary information . By guessing how far east or west they had gone , explorers could then make charts of the African coast , permitting later navigators to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ships toward an expected landfall at a precisely established latitude . In 1497 , for example , Vasco da Gama spent ninety-seven days out of sight of land , and yet steered accurately for the Cape of Good Hope , despite the fact that the Cape had not been visited by any ' European since it had first been discovered by Bartolomeo Diaz sixteen years before . European shipbuilding made equally important advances . The Portuguese took the lead , multiplying the number of masts and fitting at least the larger central masts with more than a single sail . This allowed sailors to trim their canvas to fit different conditions of wind and sea , and made the ship much more maneuverable and seaworthy . This in turn permitted the construction of larger vessels ; but large vessels required stouter hulls . As a result , by 1500 , the mighty keel , heavy ribs , and double oak planking of a European vessel were able to withstand the recoil from heavy cannon . Vessels of lighter construction , such as those familiar in the calmer waters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves apart . These developments of European shipbuilding entirely outmoded prevailing methods of sea fighting . Ramming and boarding ? standard tactics of earlier times ? could seldom be brought into play against vessels capable of smashing enemy ships with cannon fire at a distance of as much as zoo yards , and capable also of rapid and agile maneuver to bring enemy ships under fatal bombardment . Hence , when Columbus , Vasco da Gama , Magellan , and numerous less famous but no less daring captains opened the oceans of the entire globe to European navigation , their ships enjoyed a crushing technical superiority over vessels built elsewhere and designed for less stormy waters than those of the North Atlantic . Chinese and Japanese junks offered the only competition . They usually lacked enough heavy guns to come near to matching Euro- pearl ships . Gun metals remained comparatively rare in the Far East , whereas Europe 's cruder but much larger-scale metallurgical industry allowed Europeans to arm their vessels much more lavishly than Far Eastern shipbuilders could ordinarily afford to do . These technical facts help to explain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Vasco da Gama completed the first round trip to India in 1499 . Ten years later the Portuguese defeated a numerically much superior Moslem fleet off the port of Diu in the Arabian Sea , and thereby fastened their naval supremacy on the Indian Ocean . Without delay they established naval stations at the key strategic points of Goa ( 1510 ) , Malacca ( 1511 ) , and Ormuz ( 1515 ) . A Portuguese expedition penetrated the Spice Islands themselves in 1511 ? 12 , and an individual merchant reached Canton in 1513 . A generation later , regular missionary and trade relations were opened with Japan ( 1545 ) and a permanent Portuguese settlement was established along the south China coast in 1557 at Macao . Here Portuguese expansion lapped up against the rival imperial power of Spain , which fastened itself upon the Philippines via Mexico in 1571 . As far as the Asian civilizations were concerned , Europe 's naval supremacy after 1500 did not make much difference . From the point of view of the Chinese imperial government , for example , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed into the hands of a new set of barbarians . Moslems from southeast Asia , Japanese pirates , or the beak-nosed " south sea barbarians " from Europe seemed all alike to Peking . In India also the rulers of the land were little concerned with mercantile matters and after the defeat at Diu ( 1509 ) made no concerted effort to oppose the Portuguese presence . Instead , Moslem trading vessels evaded Portuguese patrols , which always remained scant because of the vast distances from the homeland . Light , small ships soon were able to conduct trade almost as before . The occasional loss of a vessel to the Portuguese became for Moslem traders and shipowners a mere inconvenience . In the Americas , however , the arrival of Spanish conquistadores in Mexico ( 1519 ? 21 ) and Peru ( 1531 ? 35 ) brought sudden and irreparable disaster to the Amerindian high cultures . The complete  | collapse of the Aztec and Inca regimes opened the way for the creation of a vast land empire , ruled by Spaniards and dedicated both to the saving of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the American mines . With remarkable docility , the Amerindians submitted to Spanish leadership . Earlier religious and cultural ideals survived only at the village level , or in remote regions of the rain forest , mountain , and desert , where Spanish power and missions failed to penetrate . Thus a new type of society , Spanish in form and Catholic in religion but based upon the labor of millions of almost mute Amerindians , arose in the New ' World . Europe 's new naval supremacy had no remotely comparable result in the Old World . Nevertheless , three major consequences of the opening of the world 's oceans to European shipping affected every civilized society and transformed conditions of life for many barbarous and primitive peoples as well . These were ( a ) the price revolution resulting from the flow of massive quantities of silver and gold from the Americas , ( b ) the spread of American food crops , and ( c ) the spread of diseases . Each of these deserves a little elaboration . The price revolution . The price revolution affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of Europe with only small delay and modest diminution of its force . The Ottoman empire in the eastern Mediterranean was affected too , and so was distant China , where Mexican silver provided a far more abundant coinage than had been available before . As for India , nothing is known . The economic and social consequences of the price revolution in Turkey and China have not been studied , and may not have been as important as they were in Europe , which felt the first and strongest impact , since it was to European ? specifically to Spanish ? ports that the treasure first came . Careful investigation has shown that within a century , prices in Spain multiplied about four times over . Less drastic price rises occurred elsewhere in Europe , but everywhere the changes were enough to disturb traditional economic relations profoundly . Persons with fixed incomes suffered severe loss of status , while those engaged in business often prospered , since the prices of their goods tended to increase while their debts did not .  | All the certainty inherent in an established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an age when prices changed as sharply as happened in Europe between 1500 and 165o . Governments universally found their accustomed sources of income insufficient , and were compelled to find new devices for raising revenue . Even the humblest artisan or the poor peasant selling his few eggs in the market place felt the force of the price revolution . No one of course understood the relationship between increased supplies of silver and increased prices . But when all society was affected , so that some prospered while many were deprived and everyone ? rich or poor ? suffered from uncertainty as to the future , most men concluded that greater greed and wickedness were loose in the world than ever before . This pervasive sense of grievance intensified the extraordinary bitterness of religious and political controversy which set this age off from both earlier and later periods of European history . American food crops . American crops were botanically altogether different from those familiar in the Old World . Some of them proved to be extremely valuable supplements to what European , Asian , and African farmers had previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , spread rapidly to southwestern China , Africa , and southeastern Europe . In China the potato proved to be less important than the botanically unrelated sweet potato , which flourished abundantly on hillsides and other previously waste lands , where rice could not be grown . In Europe the relationship was reversed , for a cooler climate suited a plant native to the high Andes , whereas European summers were not warm enough to allow sweet potatoes to mature . The reception of American food crops increased local food supplies , and usually provoked a corresponding increase in population . This certainly occurred in south China . American crops also permitted a dramatic multiplication of population in Africa , especially in west Africa , whence came most of the millions of slaves who worked the plantations of the New World in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . Details of the American food plant migration are not well established , and it is likely that the major impact of the new crops came after rather than before 165o . This was certainly the case in Eu- rope , where it took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages of and to learn how to raise the new crops . The spread of diseases . The spread of disease did not wait upon human initiative , but proceeded , like the price revolution , despite human intention and without being understood at the time . Indeed , all details remain obscure , since the records of pestilential attacks , whether among Indians in America or in some city of Europe , are so imprecise as to make accurate medical diagnosis impossible . In general , however , it is clear that as ships began to ply the oceans they carried germs as well as goods from one port to another . Consequences for human life were sometimes important . European vessels . for example , transferred a number of diseases ? including in all probability such scourges as yellow fever and malaria ? from the Old World to the New , where these mosquito-borne infections made much of Central and South America almost uninhabitable . In addition , diseases long established among the populations of Europe proved devastating when loosed upon the Amerindians who had no inherited or acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chicken pox . Perhaps the Amerindians reciprocated by transmitting syphilis to the Old World , although the American origin of syphilis is not certain . Despite these ignorances , we may discern some of the over-all consequences of the diffusion of disease germs by ocean-going ships . First of all , previously isolated populations suffered drastic losses . It has been calculated , for example , that the population of the central plateau of Mexico decreased from about i i million when Cortez first invaded in 1519 to a mere 1.5 million in 165o , and this despite Spanish immigration ! Similarly drastic depopulation occurred in small islands of the Pacific and elsewhere , whenever new diseases encountered locally dense , previously isolated and therefore unresistant populations . Civilized populations , however , had long been exposed to a wide variety of infection . Indeed ? with the possible exception of syphilis ? no important new disease seems to have found large numbers of victims awaiting its ravages among the civilized inhabitants of the Old World . On the contrary , diseases that had been  | known previously in epidemic form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ epidemic pestilence ceased to play any important role in checking population growth . Very likely the modern upward spurt of civilized populations dates from this change in the nature and incidence of diseases . Available statistics certainly seem to show that in Europe , China , India , and in at least some regions of the Middle East , population growth set in at previously unheardof rates from some time between 1600 and 165o . By then the epidemiological effects of oceanic shipping had had time to make themselves felt and American food crops had begun to come into their own . Modern scientific medicine on the other hand had little influence upon demography before about 1800 even in Europe , much less in China or India , and can not be held responsible for the early phase of modern population growth . Clearly , the effect of the new oceanic dissemination of diseases redounded strikingly to the advantage of Europeans . Their home populations suffered no irreparable loss and soon began to multiply at a hitherto unparalleled rate , while in the Americas , and in other remote parts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominion . Even in the Old World the destruction ( 1757 ) of the last nomad confederacy in central Asia successfully to oppose civilized arms was the work not of guns but of smallpox . European knowledge and inventiveness . On an entirely different plane , too , the consequences of the great European discoveries worked strongly in Europe 's favor as against all the rival cultures of other parts of the earth . For new skills and knowledge garnered from all over the habitable world became available to enrich and enlarge European technology and culture . As was the case with their forefathers of the feudal age , when the techniques of knightly warfare had given western Europeans a short-lived military superiority on land , naval supremacy in the early modern age imparted such a sense of security to European seafarers that they found it possible to examine all they met with a naive yet confident curiosity , eager both to know and to discover , and ready to borrow anything that pleased them in the tool kit of others . An upsurge of Fu- ropean inventiveness and ingenuity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety , both natural and human , was the inevitable and admirable result . No other civilization responded to the new possibilities opened by ocean travel with anything remotely resembling European venturesomeness . Toying with foreign novelties did occur , most notably in the Far East , but nothing inimical to ancient and well-established tradition ruffled the mind of Chinese mandarins for very long . Moslem and Hindu reaction was even more emphatically negative . Anything conflicting with ancient truths was simply repudiated and neglected ? or not noticed at all . How different was Europe 's response , where the convulsions of the age of Renaissance and Reformation shook European society to its core and shattered the medieval frame of European civilization entirely ! The stimulus of the discoveries , and their subsequent exploitation , was not the sole cause of this transformation of Europe . Deep-seated and long-standing tensions within European civilization contributed at least as much as anything from the outside . To an examination of these internal forces and their interplay we must therefore devote the next chapter .  | DESPITE tremendous complication in detail , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development in the field of politics between z 500 and 1648 . As compared with the tangle of overlapping jurisdictions that had prevailed in medieval times , power tended to concentrate at relatively few centers . The European landscape came to be partitioned into a series of well-consolidated states , each controlled by a central and usually monarchical government . Within the borders of each successful state , the powers of government expanded radically . Matters which had once been strictly local came within the cognizance of agents of the central government . Kings and princes also acquired authority in matters of ecclesiastical administration and patronage , even in countries that remained Catholic and continued to recognize papal headship of the church . Noble rights and immunities together with town and village autonomies suffered drastic curtailment . Every sort of local authority based on inherited personal status crumbled before demands made in the name of a distant sovereign by officials whose power depended on royal or princely appointment . This process of political consolidation may be looked at in a number of different ways . In one sense , it amounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government which had  | been first worked out in Italian city-states . Thus , for example , the merging of noble and burgher classes into a single ( if tumultuous ) body politic had been pioneered in Italian cities like Florence about two hundred years before French and English kings began to make much progress in that direction . Or , again , the use of standing professional armies to back up the will of the sovereign was commonplace in Italy long before 1500 , but became practicable in Spain and France only after that date . In the important instances , of course , state-building north of the Alps proceeded on a much enlarged territorial scale as compared to anything Italy knew . With this territorial enlargement the effective power of the leading European governments increased enormously , and the whole scale of interstate politics underwent corresponding magnification . From another point of view , however , the complex overlapping jurisdictions of medieval political life were dissolved far more by the violent deeds and emotions connected with the Reformation than by slow seepage of Italian political practices north of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and make it holy had an enormous and immediate impact upon politics . Sustained and serious effort to make human life conform to God 's will as revealed in the Bible changed men 's minds and altered their behavior . Wholesale violence sanctified by dogmatic differences quickly erupted , and for more than a century Europe was convulsed by wars fought in the name of Christian truth ? though scarcely in accordance with its dictates . Amid all the violence and bloodshed , secular sovereigns unceasingly inched their power forward . In the principal states that became Protestant the government took over most of the properties formerly owned by churchmen , and acquired the right to appoint , or at least to approve the appointment of , leading clergymen . Almost the same fate befell the church in countries that retained their allegiance to the pope . The fact that land and other property was not confiscated outright did not prevent Catholic rulers in Spain , France , and Austria , for example , from appointing the dignitaries and taxing the lands of the church within their domains . From still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a comparatively small number of centers reflected the rapid  | elaboration of military technology . As weapons became more sophisticated , the exercise of organized violence became prohibitively expensive for local rulers , and impossibly complicated for universal authorities . The medieval knight , once he acquired a horse , armor , and training was almost self-sufficient , or , more accurately , wherever he went he could find what he needed in the way of food and minor repairs to his equipment without much difficulty . If threatened by some superior force he could retire behind castle walls , where , if the castle were well provisioned , he could wait safely enough until the enemy went home . But when artillery and infantrymen armed with pikes and guns drove the knight first from his castle and then from the battlefield ? a process lasting from about 1350 to 1550 ? military organization became vastly more complicated . Supplies of powder and shot , transport for . heavy guns , the arts of discipline , and money to pay for everything an army needed were not within the reach of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were too disparate for any universal monarch to muster effectively across the whole of Europe . Dependence upon a growingly complex system of land armaments also tied governments to the sources whence such complicated devices came : that is , to artisan shops and manufactories , mining and metallurgical entrepreneurs , capitalists , bankers , and generally , to the urban element in society which alone could assemble the necessary raw materials , produce the weapons , and deliver them to the soldiery in the right assortment and at the right time . Hence , really powerful governments were those in whose territories a sufficient urban development had occurred to sustain the complex demands of the new military technology , whereas territorially great states like Poland , for example , in which such a development failed to occur , were unable to take advantage of their size to become correspondingly powerful . Each of these three points of view is surely valid . Their interplay over a century and a half , acting amidst the innumerable unpredictable acts of individual men who found themselves in critical situations facing new and unparalleled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unusually intense , chaotic quality . At the time , the eventual victory of the royal and princely gov- ernments over both local and universal rivals for sovereignty was far from obvious . In some of the eastern and northern parts of Europe , for example , aristocrats and clan chieftains retained or even enhanced their liberties . This was done both in the name of Calvinist reform of church and state , as in Hungary and Scotland , and in the name of a restored and reinvigorated Catholicism , as in Poland and Lithuania . In the Dutch provinces and in England similar political developments proceeded from very different causes , for there the royal power was dismantled by townsmen and commercial farmers who found in legal precedent and Calvinist doctrine suitable justification for their defiance of the centralizing authority . The Dutch revolt against Philip II of Spain began in 1568 and attained definite success by 1609 , when a truce was concluded that ended large-scale campaigning . The rebel provinces worked out a loose federal union in the face of the exigencies of the war against Spain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction between urban and rural elements , sufficed to make the Dutch into a world power of the first rank . In the next generation the English civil wars ( 1642 ? 48 ) also ran counter to the trend toward monarchical absolutism . It was the parliamentary opponents of modern , efficient royal bureaucracy who prevailed . Like the Reformation itself , the parliamentary cause was radically reactionary , for it rested as much on a reaffirmation of the traditional liberties of Englishmen ( Magna Carta and all that ) as upon relentless Puritanical striving after a government of saints . But like other successful revolutionaries , the Puritans in power were compelled to betray their program . English liberties and a government of saints degenerated after the execution of King Charles I ( 1649 ) into an open military dictatorship under Oliver Cromwell ( d. 1658 ) . His earnest efforts to re-establish a parliamentary form of government ran afoul of the stubborn fact that the vast majority of Englishmen repudiated the Puritanical ideal that inspired Cromwell 's armies . After Cromwell died , King Charles II 's restoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ king did not attempt to build up royal power as Charles I had done . Sovereignty remained with Parliament ; and the English Parliament managed to  | balance local and national interests in such a way as to make the central government reasonably responsive to changing circumstances . Yet , however pregnant English parliamentarianism and Dutch federalism may have been for later times , they were exceptional and entirely atypical of the age . By giving political expression to the stubborn localism of landowners and burghers , the English and Dutch governments seemed to be defending a lost cause . Only the fact that their formidability vis-a-vis other states rested on naval rather than on land forces explains how it was that these two maverick nations were able to play roles as great powers without submitting to the bureaucratic centralization which in other lands proved to be the price of military strength , or indeed of political survival . International politics . The most spectacular aspect of European politics between 1500 and 1648 was not the incessant wearing down of local jurisdictions by representatives of some central authority . However important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarrels and decisions . Far more dramatic was the conflict at the other end of the political scale , which pitted the two great universal institutions of Latin Christendom ? papacy and empire ? against the emerging territorial sovereigns of western and central Europe . It seems clear , at least in theory , that Renaissance rationalism and the Reformation effort to apprehend and enforce a complete truth that could save men from uncertainty and error might both have been harnessed to support a universal state and a single church ? if any single sovereign had been able to exploit the increasing technical complexity of warfare in order to organize a power so strong as to overwhelm all political rivals and hunt down all heretics . Nothing of the sort happened . Yet in 1519 , when Charles V of Hapsburg added the title and powers of Holy Roman Emperor to his already magnificent inheritance , it certainly seemed that universal monarchy might indeed prevail . For through a fortunate marriage alliance , Charles V inherited not merely his family 's lands in Austria and nearby regions of Germany , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Low Countries in an irregular strip of territory lying between France and Germany . In addition , he fell heir to the Spanish crown in 1516 . To this was soon added the vast new empire of the Americas , which emerged before Europe 's startled eyes as first Cortez ( 1521 ) and then Pizarro ( 1535 ) unlocked the dazzling wealth of the New World . As though this were not enough , Charles 's brother Ferdinand , whom he entrusted with the administration of his Austrian possessions , inherited the crowns of Bohemia and Hungary in 1526 , when his brother-in-law , the Hungarian king , died without heirs when fleeing the Turks after the disastrous battle of Mohacz . Charles 's enemies were as numerous as his subjects , however , and his subjects never united for any sort of prolonged common effort . The result was therefore first stalemate , and eventually evisceration of the imperial power , even in Germany . But a long and stormy passage intervened between the time of Charles 's coronation as Holy Roman Emperor ( 1519 ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1648 ) of the sovereignty of local German princes . The king of France and the sultan of Turkey were the most consistent opponents of the Hapsburg imperial power . ( Their treaty of alliance , 1536 , though seldom effective in the field , was a constant reproach to the Most Christian King of France . ) In addition , at the beginning of his reign Charles tangled violently with the papacy , and his soldiers sacked Rome in 1525 . Later on , after Spanish arms and Spanish piety had invaded Italy , captured the papacy , and inspired the Counter Reformation , the popes began to cooperate with the Hapsburgs . The resulting alliance between empire and papacy proved very strong and effected the reconversion of nearly all the Austrian , Hungarian , and Polish lands which had briefly proved hospitable to Protestantism . In Germany , however , the Reformation enormously strengthened and intensified the opposition of local princes to any consolidation of the imperial power . After initial hesitation , Charles V declared himself firmly against Martin Luther and his followers ; but wars with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mediterranean , kept him so busy that he never had time to marshal  | his full force against the Lutherans . In 1556 Charles abdicated , transferring Spain and its empire together with the Burgundian lands to his son , Philip , but endowing his brother Ferdinand with Austria and the imperial title . Yet even this division of the inheritance did not , in the end , permit consolidation of either part . Germany remained divided and its princes nursed a lively suspicion of Hapsburg imperial ambitions . For a long time Ferdinand and his heirs followed a cautious policy , while the greater power of Spain under Philip II struggled vainly first to consolidate and then to hold dominion over the Low Countries . The success of the Dutch revolt ( 1568 ? 1609 ) and the English victory over the Spanish Armada in 1588 did not prevent the Spaniards from retaining the rest of the Burgundian lands in Europe and dominating most of Italy while staving off the Turks in the Mediterranean , establishing their empire over a vast region of the Americas , and even , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1 581 ? 164o ) . Only after Philip 's death ( 1598 ) did Spanish predominance begin to fade . France had been distracted by a series of religious wars which pitted rebellious Protestants against the royal authority , but emerged again as a strong and united state under Henry IV ( 1589 ? 161o ) . Meanwhile industrial stagnation or even retrogression diminished Spain 's capacity to equip the armies and navies needed to maintain her imperial position . The weakening of Spain coincided with the accession of Ferdinand II ( reigned 1619 ? 37 ) to the Austrian inheritance and imperial title . Ferdinand II was a far more energetic and ruthless monarch than his predecessors had been . His agents set out in the name of Catholic restoration to overthrow local rights and immunities . The result was to fan a local revolt in Bohemia ( 1618 ) into thirty years of violent war that convulsed most of Europe . The collision between Protestant and Catholic doctrines envenomed the conflict , but just as much at stake were the conflicting princely and imperial claims to sovereignty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first the Danes , then the Swedes , and finally the French intervened against the Hapsburg imperial cause . Brutal devastation of parts of Germany ended with the Peace of Westphalia ( 1648 ) , which guaran- teed the emptiness of the imperial title by recognizing the sovereignty of the separate German princes . Thenceforward , for more than two hundred years , Germany remained divided among scores of local rulers whose courts and governments imitated but could not rival the really great power that emerged from the Peace of Westphalia ? that is , France . European colonization and trade . The upshot of Europe 's political , military , and religious history between 1500 and 1648 was , therefore , almost as confused as the events themselves . Plural sovereignties still divided the landscape , and their relations were complex and changeable as ever . Papal power remained real in much of Europe ; Spain retained most of her empire both in the Americas and in Europe ; and even the imperial power of the Austrian branch of the Hapsburg family found ample scope in consolidating and strengthening its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hungary . The French dominance that emerged in 1648 was therefore very limited , even on the continent of Europe . When one considers naval power and overseas empire , French preponderance disappears , for England and the Dutch had both become formidable sea powers , superior to the French . They used their ships to encroach upon the Spanish and Portuguese overseas empires , dispatching interlopers to the Indian Ocean and colonists to the Americas . The establishment of the Dutch and English East India companies ( 1600 , 16o 1 ) gave a lasting and effective mercantile organization to the enterprises of these two nations in Indian and Far Eastern waters . At first it was the Dutch who won the most spectacular successes . From an initial venture in 1594 , within a mere fifty years they drove the Portuguese from Malacca and Ceylon and established their power in Java , thus becoming the masters of the spice trade . Early English lodgments along the west coast of India were relatively modest . In the Americas , however , the balance was reversed , for the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founded 1620 ) soon outstripped the Dutch colony at New York ( founded 1618 ) . French colonization of Canada started almost si- multaneously at Quebec ( founded 16o8 ) . By far the most lucrative European ventures across the Atlantic in the seventeenth century were directed toward the smaller islands of the Caribbean , where sugar plantations , worked by slaves imported from Africa , provided a commodity in high demand at home . By the 1640 's , English , French , and to a lesser extent Dutch entrepreneurs had taken the lead in this trade , overtaking the Portuguese and Spaniards , who had first experimented with sugar along the Brazilian and Caribbean coastlines . This very rapid expansion of European settlement and trade attested the restless growth of European power vis-a-vis other less volatile peoples and civilizations . All the futilities and confusions of European politics , the brutal clash of arms , and the impassioned struggle after theological certainty which constituted the stuff and substance of European experience in these years were not entirely in vain . Men seldom accomplished what they desired , but their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth , manpower , and ingenuity for political and economic purposes . The consolidation of sovereignty and the expansion of the scope of governmental activity constituted one important aspect of this evolution . The rise of joint stock companies like the Dutch and English East India companies ? and of other large-scale business enterprises ? was another . Equally , in the intellectual and artistic realms , a reckless pursuit of truth and of beauty , enhanced and sometimes stimulated by advances of technology ( e.g. printing , the telescope ) , imparted to European culture a greater variety and toughness than the comparatively parochial outlook and limited knowledge of the medieval age had allowed . We must consider these changes next . The Renaissance . The twin yet rival movements of Renaissance and Reformation emphasized different aspects of the European cultural inheritance . Men inspired by the ideal of giving rebirth to the knowledge , skills , and elegance of pagan antiquity magnified the Greco-Roman constituent of Europe 's past , whereas believers anxious to reform religion on Biblical lines drew their main inspiration from the Judeo-Christian component of Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to repudiate the other entirely ; yet this was unusual , for a complex cross-play always existed between the two movements . Some of the greatest reformers were skilled classical scholars and found the techniques which had been developed for establishing the correct texts of pagan authors applicable to Biblical studies too . Similarly , the artists and men of letters of the Renaissance remained deeply concerned with religion and questions of theology , not least , when , as with Machiavelli ( d. 1527 ) , they expressly renounced the Christian faith . The Renaissance had , of course , taken form in Italy , from about 1350 . A return to antiquity , with its memories of Roman greatness , naturally had strong appeal to Italians . More than that , Italian towns harbored secularly minded commoners and princely patrons who deliberately turned their attention toward things human and away from things divine . The Italian Renaissance reached its peak just about the year 1500 . Leonardo da Vinci 's ( d. 1519 ) restless probing of the natural world through his art and through minute observation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of the nature and use of political power based upon personal experience and study of classical authors , well represents its culmination . Only a little later , Michelangelo Buonarroti ( d. 1564 ) and Nicholas Copernicus ( d. 1543 ) ? who though he died in Cracow drew his intellectual stimulus from the University of Padua where he had been trained ? gave up the radical reliance on human rationality which seems implicit in the work of both Leonardo and Machiavelli . Michelangelo suffered torments of doubt about practically everything , even about the value of his art ; and Copernicus ' heliocentric system of astronomy , which assumed a circular instead of an elliptical orbit for the planets , was inspired by neo-Pythagorean number mysticism and actually flew in the face of observational data . The attractions of the Renaissance ideal of beauty as created by human skill and of truth to be discovered by untrammeled exercise of human faculties were not lost on the rest of Europe . Aristocratic and courtly circles were particularly receptive north of the alps ; but wherever urban growth had created a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhineland , England , and France ? commoners , too , were soon attracted by local efforts to imitate or surpass Italian models . The result was the development of distinct national schools of literature and to some extent also of painting . Thus , for example , Miguel Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605 ? 15 ) and the plays of Lope de Vega ( d. 1635 ) gave literary definition to the Spanish language . Modern French acquired its literary form through the labors of three utterly diverse men : Francois Rabelais ( d. 1553 ) , who mocked what he could not alter , John Calvin ( d. 1564 ) , who strove relentlessly to reform and sanctify all human life , and Michel Eyquem , seigneur de Montaigne ( d. 1592 ) , who recommended an aloof moderation in the face of human shortcomings . English owes its literary definition to Elizabethan writers ? William Shakespeare ( d. 1616 ) above all ? and to the King James Bible 0610 . Modern literary German is the creation of Luther 's translation of the Bible . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Swedish ) took form also as a by-product of Protestant translations of the Bible into the vernacular . The Reformation . The other leading characteristic of Europe 's cultural life in this age was the reassertion of religious concerns despite the charms of rampant secularism toward which the thought and sensibility of Renaissance Italy seemed to be moving . Reform and reinvigoration of the Christian Church had been undertaken repeatedly in medieval Europe . By their very nature such movements challenged constituted ecclesiastical authorities , who were always tempted to declare their critics heretical . This had been the fate of John Wycliffe ( d. 1382 ) in England and Jan Hus ( d. 1414 ) in Bohemia , each of whom nevertheless attracted a considerable body of followers . The healing of the Great Schism in 1417 through the restoration of papal monarchy at the Council of Constance made it harder for heresy to flourish in the following century . In Spain , particularly , religious conformity and political loyalty tended to coincide . The crusading spirit , fanned by centuries of war against the Moors ( driven from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish imperial effort both in Europe and overseas . A uniquely close relationship between church and state resulted . Elsewhere , pope and monarch usually collaborated in tax- ing the clergy , but were otherwise as often at odds as in alliance . The papacy itself claimed sovereignty over part of Italy , and some popes allowed their pursuit of political advantage in the peninsula to outweigh the spiritual headship over Christendom their predecessors had so vigorously asserted . Elsewhere in Italy and Germany bishops and abbots often followed the pope 's example . Amidst such a religious scene , Martin Luther 's ( d. 1546 ) burning conviction , based on poignant personal experience of how a sinful man might still win through to salvation , flashed like the sword of an avenging angel . Luther initially challenged the validity of the sale of indulgences . Sales of these documents which purported to relieve suffering souls from the torments of Purgatory , had been organized in a thoroughly commercial spirit as part of a campaign to raise money to build a new St. Peter 's cathedral in Rome . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value of indulgences by posting 95 theses on the church door at Wittenberg in 1517 . But instead of remaining a matter of academic controversy , Luther 's views spread like wildfire through Germany . Public debates with champions of the papacy rapidly drove Luther toward more radical and complete exposition of his convictions . Three eloquent pamphlets written in 1520 ? An Appeal to the Nobility of the German Nation , The Babylonian Captivity of the Church , and The Freedom of a Christian Man ? defined the heart of Lutheranism . Subsequent controversy developed innumerable differences in doctrinal formulation between Catholics , Lutherans , and other kinds of Protestants . At the center of this theological strife was the question of the source of religious authority . Luther rested his case on the Bible and his own personal experience of what he felt to be the freely given grace of God . He further denied that the clergy had any necessary mediating role between the individual sinner and God , and boldly proclaimed the priesthood of all believers . The printing press spread Luther 's views rapidly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathered other discontents behind the banner of church reform . Luther 's attack on the papacy , for example , attracted many in Germany who felt aggrieved at being taxed and exploited by foreign- ers ; but this nascent expression of German nationalism was soon stifled by the refusal of the emperor , Charles V , and of other important rulers in Germany to become Lutheran . Instead , therefore , of becoming German , the Protestant movement became pan-European , particularly after John Calvin established his headquarters in Geneva ( 1536 ) and made it the center of a vigorous propaganda that affected almost every country of Europe . England , for example , broke with the pope in 1534 , but the Church of England became Protestant in doctrine only by degrees , very largely under stimulus from Geneva . Simultaneously the Dutch and Scots made Calvinism dominant in their countries . In France , on the contrary , the government remained Catholic . French Protestantism , after a promising start , lost its elan about 1600 . In Italy , Protestantism never commanded wide support and withered quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , became Lutheran , along with almost half of Germany . Local nationalisms , which were beginning to emerge all over Europe , played important parts in determining each of these results . Social and economic revolution also made a brief appearance in Lutheran dress . But when rebellious peasants took Christian liberty to mean relief from dues and rents , Luther denounced them violently ( 1525 ) . Thereafter , social unrest and religious radicalism passed into Anabaptist and other channels , where it survived persecution only among small secret or semi-secret groups . The drastic nature of the social and economic changes that came to Europe between 1500 and 1648 contributed powerfully to religious controversy . Yet it would be wrong to forget that the search for an absolutely certain religious truth gathered enormous energy behind it simply because of the inherent attractiveness of a definite and coherent world view . Peace of mind required authoritative and adequate answers to the uncertainties that daily experience thrust so remorselessly upon a large proportion of Europe 's population . Luther was sure about how he himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secrets of his success , since others wished desperately to achieve a similar state of inward grace and assured salvation . Vs'hen a man did achieve certainty , he naturally wished  | both to communicate the saving truth to others and to denounce error in all its guises . A great outpouring of preaching and writing , aimed at such explication , was soon supplemented by systematic schooling in carefully drawn-up catechisms . Defenders of the papacy presently developed Roman Catholic counter-propaganda . All across Europe a far greater knowledge of Christian doctrine and an emotionally deeper commitment to chosen or inherited forms of the faith resulted . One of the ironies of Protestantism was its tendency to split into sects and sub-sects . The reformers never abandoned the ideal of a single Catholic church embracing all Christians . But the Bible ? their sole source of religious authority ? was capable of diverse interpretation . Truths that seemed self-evident to one man did not always seem so to others who were just as sincere and equally eager for the certainty of salvation . In such a case each was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine , and often did so with more vigor than charity . Yet as the white heat of the first generation of reform receded , efforts to build a church organization and enforce doctrinal conformity met with success in most parts of Protestant Europe . In England the process was more drawn out . Piecemeal reform under the Tudors ( 1534-1603 ) failed to satisfy a powerful group of rigorists , or Puritans . Their effort to make over all human life in accordance with God 's will did not exhaust itself until after the utter failure of the government of saints under Oliver Cromwell ( 1658 ) . The Roman church reacted slowly to the Protestant challenge . At first many hoped that reconciliation could be achieved , and the most pious Catholics , who were best capable of meeting the Protestant movement on its own terms , often hesitated to divide Christendom even more deeply by counter-attacking against the Lutherans . Yet the passionate drive for theological certainty which armed the Protestants could also be harnessed to the Catholic cause . St. Ignatius Loyola ( d. 1556 ) did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , he set out to preach the truth as a soldier of the pope . He soon collected a group of like-minded young Ellen around himself and then organized them into the Society of Jesus , which speedily became a most effective agent for the defense and EUROPE 'S SELF-TRANSFORMATION 1500 ? 1648 31I  | propagation of Catholicism , both in Europe and overseas . When the Jesuit order was still in its infancy , the Council of Trent 1545 ? 63 ) assembled . After lengthy and thrice-suspended sessions , it succeeded in decreeing a number of practical reforms and defined disputed points of doctrine in a firmly anti-Protestant sense . Thereafter the initial ambiguity of the appeal for church reform faded , and men everywhere in Europe were confronted by the spectacle of a comparatively well-organized , united , and reformed Roman Catholic church locked in combat with an equally determined but not nearly so tightly organized Calvinist movement ,  | while Lutherans and conservative churchmen in England looked on with a general distaste for both of the protagonists . Eventually , the failure of pope and emperor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) and the almost simultaneous failure of the Puritan revolution in England ( 164o ? 6o ) turned many men 's minds away from religious controversy , which , in the course of both conflicts , had often become a transparent disguise for ignoble political and economic interests . The growth of science . As a matter of fact , throughout the Reformation period a small but important company of men had not permitted the quest for theological certainty to eclipse other , more mundane concerns . Galileo Galilei ( 1564 ? 1642 ) , for example , lived through the height of Europe 's religious conflicts , yet found it preferable to devote himself to physical and astronomical investigations . His defense of Copernican astronomy on the basis of telescopic observation and mathematical reasoning , and his ingenious efforts to give mathematical expression to carefully recorded observational data inaugurated lines of inquiry which physicists and astronomers have not yet exhausted . Rene Descartes ( d. 165o ) was another who deliberately turned his back on theological controversy and instead set out to create a mathematically rigorous philosophy which would , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , provide answers to metaphysical as well as to all other questions about which men had quarreled so bitterly and desperately since the time of Luther and before . Other intellectual traditions were active and fruitful too . Paracelsus ( 1541 ) , Andreas Vesalius ( d. 1564 ) , and William Harvey ( d. 1657 ) successfully challenged the authority of Galen in medical matters , as much on mystical and neo-Platonic grounds as upon the basis of more exact observation of human anatomy . Similarly , a superstitious mystic , Johannes Kepler ( d. 163o ) , strove vainly to discover the harmonic ratios among the orbits of the planets , but did , after vastly laborious computation , discover a mathematical formula that exactly described the elliptical motions of each separate planet in its orbit ? thus , incidentally correcting Copernicus and removing one of the most important objections to the Coperni- can hypothesis . Still another tradition , optimistic and empirical , was represented by Francis Bacon ( d. 1626 ) , who argued that careful observation and systematic collection of information would allow men to unlock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or mathematical reasoning . Invention of a number of new instruments , particularly the telescope ( c. 16o8 ) and the microscope ( c. 1590 ) , the pendulum clock ( c. 1592 ) , thermometer ( c. 1592 ) , and barometer ( c. 1643 ) , gave the observations and experiments of the small company of natural philosophers much greater precision than had been possible in earlier ages . This , together with the vast influx of miscellaneous information flooding into Europe from overseas , provided a rich diet for those who preferred such studies to the controversies of theologians . Hence , when ( after 1648 ) hostile religious camps came to be widely discredited among reflective men , the natural philosophers were ready and primed to offer a world view less complete perhaps but scarcely less fascinating than the rival theologies that had dominated the attention of earlier generations . Yet it would be wrong to suggest that science supplanted religion . On the contrary , the Reformation age left behind a heightened religious concern in all walks of life . Science and other secular inquiries did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been pitched so very high by reformers of both Protestant and Catholic persuasions . Rather , secular investigation grew up and throve in the interstices of knowledge which were treated as matters of indifference by theologians . Later , after about 165o , scientific investigation attained enough respectability that scientists and men of learning no longer had seriously to worry about how ( or even whether ) their discoveries might fit into the frame of official theology . Emergence of cultural pluralism . Thus the upshot of Europe 's long travail between 1500 and 1648 was strangely contrary to what almost all the great men of the age had desired . Instead of discovering and enforcing a universal truth , Europeans discovered that they could agree to disagree . Intellectual pluralism established itself on European soil more flagrantly than ever before . No official hierarchy of knowledge provided a complete scheme for under- standing the world ? as had been the case , in theory if not in practice , in medieval times . Each separate church , nation , and profession was in a position to pursue truth according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very rapid development of European thought down even to our own time . Art and letters also exhibited an increasing pluralism . The rise of the vernacular which had occurred at the beginning of our period created separate national schools of literature . Painting , too , tended to diverge from the pattern established by the great Italians , so that Spanish ( Velasquez , d. 166o ; El Greco , d. 1614 ) , Dutch ( Rembrandt , d. 1669 ) , and Flemish ( Rubens , d. 164o ) schools , each with distinctive traits , developed within the general European tradition . Architecture remained less variable . In all of Catholic Europe a baroque elaboration of Renaissance styles prevailed , whereas in most Protestant lands variations upon Gothic held the ground . The trauma of emergence from the medieval mould was enormous . Never since have Europeans faced more agonizing or more pervasive uncertainties . Yet the severity of the experience called forth human genius and individual achievement on a most unusual scale . Columbus and Cortez , Luther and Loyola , Leonardo da Vinci and Descartes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest ? were makers of the modern world in a more profound sense than were men of earlier or later generations who did not confront , as these men did , the challenges of a new world ? both literally and metaphorically ? opening before their startled eyes . The surpassing success with which these and scores of thousands of other Europeans rose to meet this unprecedented opportunity is best attested by the subsequent career of Western civilization , of which we and all the world are heirs .  | AT a time when China , India , and the diddle East found it unnecessary to make more than trifling accommodation to the European presence along their shores , Russian and American populations were already deeply entangled with western Europe . Paralyzing collapse came to Amerindian higher cultures , and the new institutions planted on American soil by the conquistadors in every case derived directly from Spain . Russian institutions were much tougher and did not crumble like Amerindian institutions at the first approach of armed strangers . Yet Russia , too , found it hard to shift from resisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenges coming from western Europe . Severe strain in both church and state registered the difficulties of this about-face , which was quite as profound as western Europe 's simultaneous struggle to emerge from its medieval chrysalis . The rise of Moscow . Until 1480 most of the Russian lands remained under the formal suzerainty of the Khan of the Golden Horde , whose capital was at Kazan on the Volga river . In fact , the khan entrusted tax collection to the Grand Duke of Moscow , who did not always find it necessary to remit what he collected to his suzerain . Hence when Ivan III formally renounced his allegiance and assumed the title of tsar ( 1480 ) , the act had more symbolic                     