@@774169

txt  | capitalist-agrarian split of the 1780 's continued and was institutionalized by the formation of political parties in the 1790 's . Those favoring the Constitution formed the agrarian base of the Republican party founded by Jefferson and other planter-aristocrats . Economic forces , in short , were the basis of party divisions in the period . Beard then went on to point out that , contrary to popular belief , the movement called Jeffersonian Democracy did not constitute an assault upon property or political privilege as such . It merely transferred political power from one socioeconomic group in American society to another ? the power shifted from the capitalist class to the agrarian masses . " Jeffersonian Democracy , " wrote Beard , " simply meant the possession of the federal government by the agrarian masses led by an aristocracy of slave-owning planters , and the theoretical repudiation of the right to use the Government for the benefit of any capitalistic groups , fiscal , banking , or manufacturing . " 5 What were the consequences of this shift in political power , according to Beard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many Americans assumed . Beard , surprisingly enough , considered Jefferson something of a failure in this book . He noted that Jefferson as president made many concessions to the Federalists in his policies by perpetuating a number of aspects of the Hamiltonian economic system . Jefferson 's mistrust of the " mobs of great cities " also resulted in a limitation of his democratic doctrine , Beard believed , because his plans failed to include the urban working classes . Moreover , Beard observed , Jefferson 's ideas of political democracy did not differ greatly from those of the Federalists because he was just as anxious as they to guard against the " tyranny of majorities . " Beard 's book was actually something of a polemic addressed to his fellow Progressives and intended as a lesson in history from which they might draw a moral for their own day . He wanted to show them that Jefferson had not understood clearly the economic bases of politics and therefore had not gone far enough in supporting the forces of democracy against those of reaction and privilege . Claude G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Democracy in America was published a decade after Beard 's book , took a much more positive approach to Jeffersonian democracy . To Bowers the conflict between Jefferson and Hamilton symbolized a clear-cut fight between the forces of democracy and aristocracy to determine nothing less than the future destiny of the nation . Viewing the protagonists in this 5 Charles A. Beard , Economic Origins of Jeffersonian Democracy ( New York , 1915 ) , p. 467.  | light , Bowers portrayed the fierce struggle waged by the two men during the first crucial decade under the new Constitution . In Bowers ' eyes , Jefferson was not a theoretician but a master politician who succeeded in marshalling the popular forces in America to lead them to victory against the entrenched Federalist opposition . America , as the result of his triumph , escaped the terrible fate that lay in store for her had the aristocratic forces under Hamilton maintained their power . Bowers , a journalist for a Democratic newspaper at the time , wrote his biography in a popular style and with overtones of present-mindedness . From a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was timely because it came on the eve of the centennial of Jefferson 's death and the sesquicentennial of America 's independence . But from a political viewpoint , his work was even more timely . The Democratic party was in the doldrums after the Wilsonian era and had split into warring factions . By reviving the image of Jefferson as the founder of the party and presenting a Democratic interpretation of the Federal period , Bowers provided the politicians of his own day with a rallying point . In 1928 Bowers was named as keynote speaker of the Democratic National Convention and in eloquent phrases called upon his fellow Democrats to return to the principles of Jefferson . His writings and speeches on Jefferson helped to spark a revival of the Jeffersonian tradition in the popular imagination during the 1920 's . The climax in writing about Jefferson by the Progressive school of historians in the 1920 's came with the publication of Vernon L. Parrington ' s three-volume work , Main Currents in American Thought . Parrington approached the nation 's past in terms of intellectual history and looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the nation 's social and political thinkers . To Parrington the major current in American thought was the enduring dichotomy throughout the country 's history between two rival political philosophies ? the liberal and idealistic tradition of Jefferson and the conservative and materialistic one personified by Hamilton . Viewing all of American history in terms of a Jefferson-Hamilton dichotomy , Parrington proceeded to push his analogy backward into the colonial period and forward to the twentieth century . His overall view was that America 's liberal tradition had been declining since Jefferson 's day . But there was no question on which side his sympathies lay , for he admitted that his bias was " liberal rather than conservative , Jeffersonian rather than Federalistic . " Parrington believed that Jefferson symbolized a native Amer-  | ican brand of liberalism that had arisen in the New World . American liberalism , as he saw it , was influenced by three separate strains of thought ? French liberalism , English liberalism , and the democratizing influence of the frontier . French liberalism , or romantic and idealistic thought , resulted in egalitarianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature and substituted instead the concept of man as a potentially perfectible being . English liberalism , or realistic and materialistic thought , looked upon human nature as being acquisitive ; it called for a social and political philosophy to conform with capitalism rather than the rights of man . The American frontier , on the other hand , provided a free environment in which these often contradictory Old World philosophies could develop in a different way . The first selection in this chapter is from Parrington and demonstrates how the author felt that Jefferson personified the fusion of these three strains of thought . With the coming of the New Deal , the Jeffersonian tradition had an even greater appeal to the popular imagination . The Democratic party made a conscious effort during the great depression of the 1930 's to revive Jeffersonian slogans and symbols in an attempt to show that the proposed programs for the New Deal were in the American tradition . Among other things , the New Deal was defended as a modern adaptation of longstanding Jeffersonian principles rather than any radical revision of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resorted to the same tradition for their arguments to show that Jeffersonianism in the past had defended liberty largely in terms of an absence of governmental restrictions and restraints . The outbreak of World War II likewise proved a boon to the Jeffersonian tradition . In the struggle against totalitarianism there was a fight for men 's minds , and democracy as a way of life became a faith to disseminate and defend . No other major American figure was better equipped to serve as a symbol of the democratic tradition than Jefferson , author of the Declaration of Independence . His ringing phrases seemed to be particularly relevant to the struggle against totalitarianism being waged by the free world . Jefferson came into his own as never before as historians , journalists , and politicians sought to give renewed meaning to the liberal Jeffersonian tradition within an international as well as a national context . In the post-World War II era the Jeffersonian tradition continued its popularity , but unlike earlier periods in American  | history the trend this time did not result in a decline of the Hamiltonian tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground to a halt with the coming of the Progressive era . Although it was true that a small segment of Progressive historians praised Hamilton for his bold use of powers of the central government to achieve constructive national goals , the predominant view among scholars in the first three decades of the twentieth century favored the Jeffersonian tradition . Hamilton 's reputation sank to its lowest point during the depression of the 1930 's as the Republican party fell into disfavor . But from the late 1930 's on , Hamilton 's reputation was on the rise . One of the first signs of the shift in Hamilton 's favor was the publication of two perceptive articles on him by Rexford Guy Tugwell and Joseph Dorfman in the Columbia University Quarterly of 1937 and 1938 . Tugwell , a member of Roosevelt 's " brain trust " in the early days of the New Deal , was a vigorous advocate of government planning for bringing about reforms in the economic and social sphere . After leaving his government post , Tugwell coauthored two articles on Hamilton with Dorfman , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In view of his recent experiences , Tugwell showed an increased appreciation of Hamilton 's unprecedented use of strong national governmental powers to build up the new nation in its early years . Developments during the decade of the 1940 's continued the trend of a more favorable attitude toward Hamilton by historians . The booming American economy during the wartime and postwar period , no doubt , helped to enhance Hamilton 's reputation . With the mounting affluence of American society , there was less tendency on the part of some historians to read an economic class-conflict back into the American past and Hamilton 's image as a defender of the rich and well-born was taken far less seriously . In fact , the positive achievements of Hamilton 's economic program in shoring up the nation 's economy in the 1790 's and early 1800 's came in for considerable praise in the post-World War II period . At the same time , another side of Hamilton 's career ? his role as nation-maker ? was being stressed anew . The decline of imperialism and the post-World War II settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and American historians came to view the problems involved in nation-building in a different perspective . There was a growing awareness  | of the great debt owed to Hamilton for helping to mold the foundations for a strong nation-state . Historians like Charles A. Beard , Louis M. Hacker , and Leonard D. White all touched upon Hamilton 's contribution to statecraft in their writings in the 1940 's . The most important new tendency in the 1940 's , however , was not the presentation of Hamilton in a more favorable light but rather the emergence of a more evenly balanced evaluation of the Hamiltonian-Jeffersonian dichotomy . This trend began with the approach taken by Richard Hofstadter in his book of essays , The American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It , published in 1948 . Hofstadter 's essay on Jefferson deemphasized the differences between the two men and stressed instead the continuance of Hamilton 's system under Jefferson as president . The beliefs that Hamiltonians and Jeffersonians had in common , said Hofstadter , proved to be a more powerful bond in uniting them than the specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's thesis was that much of America 's political past had to be viewed in terms of consensus rather than conflict . In studying the ideology of leading American statesmen such as Jefferson and Hamilton , he became convinced that there was a pressing need for reinterpreting our political traditions within a new framework ? one that emphasized a common climate of opinion in America . The tendency of earlier historians to place political conflict in the foreground of American history , he claimed , had obscured the common areas of agreement among political leaders who were often pictured as antagonists . " However much at odds on specific issues , " Hofstadter wrote , " the major political traditions have shared a belief in the rights of property , the philosophy of economic individualism , the value of competition ; they have accepted the economic virtues of capitalist culture as necessary qualities of man . " 6 The main theme of the Federal era , according to Hofstadter , was the essential agreement between Jefferson and Hamilton on these fundamental political traditions . It was this common area of agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Hamiltonian capitalism that took place after the election of 1800 . Symptomatic of this point of view of Jefferson as a person who had no fundamental disagreement with his political opponents over important issues is the second selection in this chapter by Morton Borden written in 1961 . B Richard Hofstadter , The American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It ( New York , 1948 ) , p. viii .  | The consensus thesis characterized much of the writing on the Federal era by scholars in the 1950 's and 1960 's . Louis Hartz , writing in the mid-1950 's , for example , identified the liberal tradition as being the one tradition forming the common climate of opinion in America . ' The clash of principles attributed to Hamilton and Jefferson represented nothing more than a sham battle , Hartz said , because such controversy took place within the confines of a liberal society whose values were already agreed upon . There was no deep ideological split between the two men and the differences between them occurred within the Lockean liberal tradition which all Americans accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing about the Federal era can not be identified as such , there was a noticeable trend toward a more balanced assessment of the Hamiltonian-Jeffersonian dichotomy among scholars in the post-World War II period . This tendency was evident in many general studies on the era . Marcus Cunliffe , covering the years 1789-1837 , warned readers not to view the period solely in terms of a struggle between Hamiltonianism and Jeffersonianism and stressed instead a number of other forces in conflict ? urban versus rural areas , nationalism versus sectionalism , and conservatism versus experimentalism ? that had given rise to national tensions . A second general study by John C. Miller dealing only with the period when the Federalist party was in power ? 1789  --  1801 ? argued that out of the two extreme positions held by Hamiltonians and Jeffersonians there had emerged a middle-of-the-road approach that served the nation well in future years . ' This more balanced view was apparent also in many of the pertinent biographies written since World War II . Dumas Malone 's multi-volume work on Jefferson , begun in the late 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier works and stressed the consistency of his thought . John Dos Passos and Nathan Schachner , who wrote studies and sketches of Jefferson in the 1950 's , likewise avoided the pitfalls of violent partisanship in their writings . ' Such portrayals led one Jeffersonian scholar , Merrill Peterson , to remark in the early footnote ' Louis Hartz , The Liberal Tradition in America ( New York , 1955 ) . ' Marcus F. Cunliffe , The Nation Takes Shape , 1789 ? 1837 ( Chicago , 1959 ) ; John C. Miller , The Federalist Era , 1789 ? 1801 ( New York , 1960 ) . s Dumas Malone , Jefferson and His Time , 4 vols. to date ( Boston , 1948 ? ) ; Dos Passos , The Men Who Made the Nation ; Nathan Schachner , Thomas Jefferson : A Biography , 2 vols . ( New York , 1951 ) .  | 1960 's that " Jefferson . . . appears less radical and more conservative , less theoretical and more practical , less universal and more national . " 10 The best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the late 1950 's showed the same influence . Miller maintained that Hamilton 's political thought was a curious blend of contradictions that made him more moderate than he was usually pictured.1 ' College textbooks published in the postwar period reflected this same shift in emphasis . Some saw a line of continuity from Federalist to Jeffersonian presidents ? there was no " Revolution of 1800 " and the election represented a change of men , not measures . Other texts treated the Federal era in terms of intellectual history , claiming that the ideas of Hamilton , Jefferson , Adams , and Madison were all derived from the same source ? the Enlightenment . Hence these founding fathers were pictured as sharing almost the same political philosophy and differing only in particulars . Still others deemphasized the HamiltonJefferson split by arguing that the clash of political extremes in the 1790 's quickly gave way to a more moderate and middle-ofthe-road approach . At any rate the current trend was unmistakably moving away from the Hamiltonian-Jeffersonian dichotomy as an explanation of all American history . There were many reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal era . In the Cold War era of the late 1940 's and I950 's the need for strong national unity in the face of external threats from Communist countries abroad placed a greater premium on conformity and consensus among the American people . Some scholars responded to the felt - needs of their own generation , either consciously or subconsciously , by stressing the consensus thesis in order to present the image of a strong and united America . Thus they read their own predilections back into the past and concluded that there was relatively little class strife in the Federal era . Moreover , the recent trend toward intellectual history brought about a deemphasis on class conflict . The editorial projects that brought forth definitive editions of the papers of Thomas Jefferson , Alexander Hamilton , John Adams , and James Madison in the 1950 's and 1960 's provided more primary sources on the founding fathers than ever before , and shed new light on the ideas current during the early national years . To footnote1 ? Peterson , Jefferson Image in the American Mind , p. 450. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paradox ( New York , 1959 ) .  | many historians , the papers proved that these men were closer to one another in terms of political thought than they or their contemporaries believed , and that despite their differences there were broad areas of agreement among them . One conclusion was clear in this post-World War II development : never before in American history were scholars closer to declaring a truce in the war that has raged between Hamiltonians and Jeffersonians in the past 175 years . In the decade of the 1960 's , scholars who studied the Federal era began placing heavy emphasis on two approaches that proved quite profitable . One involved a comparative approach to the history of the period . A whole host of new nations came into being as European empires dissolved in Africa and Asia after 1945 . These circumstances provided an opportunity to make insightful comparisons of the late-eighteenth and earlynineteenth centuries with the new countries formed in the midtwentieth century . Two works ? those of Seymour M. Lipset and William N. Chambers ? dealt with the comparable political processes experienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mid-twentieth century . Lipset , a political sociologist , pointed up certain important parallel developments . He compared the turbulent period when the Federalist party was in power and seeking to legitimatize the new national system of authority through the charismatic powers of George Washington , with the turmoil experienced in the newly-independent African country of Ghana in the 1950 's when the government made efforts to gain some semblance of legitimacy through the person of its charismatic leader , Kwame Nkrumah . William N. Chambers , on the other hand , stressed that the political parties that emerged in America in the I790 's were the first true parties of modern times . In building their nation , America 's founding fathers had come up with political structures that suited their needs and history , and Chambers called upon contemporary new nations to do likewise.12 The second approach that scholars found fruitful in the 1960 's involved intellectual history . In this connection , historians focused in particular upon the attitudes of leaders in early America toward the idea of political parties and political opposifootnotei2 Seymour M. Lipset , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Comparative Perspective ( New York , 1963 ) ; and William N. Chambers , Political Parties in a New Nation : The American Experience , 1776 ? 1809 ( New York , 1963 ) .  | tion . One thing that intrigued scholars was the seeming paradox between the thought and practice of the founding fathers over political parties . On the one hand , Federalists and Jeffersonians took a public stance in the 1790 's opposing the formation of any parties . On the other , both set to work furiously to establish party organizations almost as soon as the new national government was founded . Two brilliant studies on the party systems by David H. Fischer and Richard Hofstadter demonstrated that there were significant changes in the attitudes of political leaders toward parties during the period . Fischer 's book concerned itself mainly with the Federalists and what he termed the " revolution of American conservatism . " This revolution occurred when conservative Federalists of the " Old School " ? those who led the movement for independence , subscribed firmly to the idea of a deferential society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were replaced after their defeat in 1800 by " young Federalists . " The new men , being more flexible in their political principles , were willing to suppress their preference for a deferential society , to " run " for office , and to borrow the tactics of their Jeffersonian opponents to seek votes by courting the mass electorate . The third selection in this chapter is from Fischer 's book.13 Hofstadter 's book , however , dealt with the shift in political opinion of both Federalist and Jeffersonian leaders . Although a strong anti-party point of view prevailed in the Constitutional period , many men participated in the creation of the first American party system during the 1790 's . After the election of 1800 this system provided the world with a shining example of the peaceful transfer of governmental control from one popularly elected party to another . But even after this episode , Hofstadter claimed , the concept of a legitimate political opposition had not yet taken root in the United States . In keeping with his earlier writings on Jefferson and Hamilton from a consensus standpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not bring about a change in attitude toward parties , it did lead to a quest for unanimity on the issue . The idea of legitimate party opposition , he concluded , was finally accepted in the era of Andrew Jackson.14 Students will have a difficult time deciding whether the Fedfootnote ' David H. Fischer , The Revolution of American Conservatism : The Federalist Party in the Era of Jeffersonian Democracy ( New York , 1965 ) . is Richard Hofstadter , The Idea of a Party System : The Rise of Legitimate Opposition in the United States , 1780 ? 1840 ( Berkeley , 1969 ) .  | eralists and Jeffersonians were as close on fundamental issues as some recent historians such as Hofstadter have suggested . Is it possible to approach Alexander Hamilton as a nationalist and exponent of a strong centralized government without reference to his basic conservatism ? Can Thomas Jefferson be understood without accounting for his commitment to liberal and democratic ideals ? Granted that these two men had much in common , should the differences between them be minimized or glossed over ? These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered before one can decide whether the period between 1789 and 1829 was Hamiltonian or Jeffersonian in nature .  | VERNON L. PARRINGTON ( 1871 ? 1929 ) taught at the University of Washington until his death . His major work , Main Currents in American Thought ( 3 vols. , 1927-1930 ) , has remained a classic in American history . THE years following the great defeat were disastrous to the party of agrarian democracy . Under the brilliant leadership of Hamilton the Federalists went forward confidently , gaining daily a firmer grip on the machinery of government , and establishing their principles in far-reaching legislative enactments . Their appeal to the wealthy classes , to those who made themselves audible above the clamor , was electrical . Hamilton was the hero of the hour , and the effusive approval that augmented with every added profit to the money brokers , seemed to indicate that the country was enthusiastically behind the Federalist policy . To what despondency the democrats were reduced is revealed in Maclay 's Journal , with its caustic comment on political measures and motives . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loose by the French Revolution were running swiftly through America , awakening a militant spirit in the democracy . Antagonism to the aristocratic arrogance of Federalism , and disgust at its coercive measures , were mounting fast . If that inchoate discontent were organized and directed by a skillful leader , it might prove strong enough to thrust the Hamiltonian party from power . To that work Thomas Jefferson devoted himself with immense tact and untiring patience . A master of political strategy , he spun his webs far and wide , quietly awaiting the time when the bumbling Federalist bees footnote From Main Currents in American Thought , Volume One , by Vernon L. Parrington ; copyright , 1927 , 1930 , by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich , Inc. ; copyright , 1958 , by Vernon L. Parrington , Jr. , Louise P. Tucker , Elizabeth P. Thomas . Reprinted by permission of the publisher .  | should range too carelessly in search of their honey . Accepted at once as the leader of agrarian America , he was to prove in the course of a long life the most original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite the mass of comment that has gathered about Jefferson , the full reach and significance of his political philosophy remains too little understood . Uncritical praise and censure have obscured or distorted his purpose , and allied his principles with narrow and temporary ends . Detraction will not let him alone . The hostility of his enemies , as a recent biographer has remarked , has frequently taken " the peculiar form of editing his works or writing his life . " For this distortion there is , perhaps , more than usual excuse . Certainly Jefferson is the most elusive of our great political leaders . Apparently inconsistent , changing his program with the changing times , he seemed to his enemies devoid of principle , a shallow demagogue who incited the mob in order to dupe the people . One of the most bitterly hated and greatly loved men in the day when love and hate were intense , he was the spokesman of the new order at a time of transition from a dependent monarchical state , to an independent republican state . Back of the figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plebeian frame , was the philosophy of a new age and a new people ? an age and a people not yet come to the consistency of maturity , but feeling a way through experiment to solid achievement . Far more completely than any other American of his generation he embodied the idealisms of the great revolution ? its faith in human nature , its economic individualism , its conviction that here in America , through the instrumentality of political democracy , the lot of the common man should somehow be made better . From the distinguished group of contemporary political thinkers Jefferson emerges as the preeminent intellectual , widely read , familiar with ideas , at home in the field of speculation , a critical observer of men and manners . All his life he was a student , and his devotion to his books , running often to fifteen hours a day , recalls the heroic zeal of Puritan scholars . He was trained in the law , but he was too much the intellectual , too curious about all sorts of things , to remain a lawyer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irresistible , and early in life he began a wide reading in the political classics that far outweighed Coke and Blackstone in creative influence on his mind . He was equally at home with the English liberals of the seventeenth century and the French liberals of the eight-  | eenth ; and if he came eventually to set the French school above the English , it was because he found in the back-to-nature philosophy , with its corollary of an agrarian economics and its emphasis on social well-being , a philosophy more consonant with Virginian experience and his own temperament than Locke 's philosophy of property . But he was very far from being a narrow French partisan , as has been often charged ; rather he judged old-world theory in the light of its applicability to existing American conditions , and restrained his love of speculation by immediate practical considerations . The man of affairs kept a watchful eye on the philosopher in his study . In the major doctrines of his political philosophy Jefferson was an amalgam of English and French liberalisms , supplemented by the conscious influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mind . The first bill that he introduced into the Virginia Assembly , at the age of twenty-six , was a bill to permit slave-owners to manumit their slaves ; and his first published pamphlet , issued in 1774 , rejected the legal reasoning of John Dickinson and Daniel Dulaney ? supporting the parliamentary right to impose external taxation ? and took its stand on the doctrine of natural right to local self-government and freedom of trade . When two years later he drafted the Declaration of Independence the fusion was complete . The strong influence of French humanitarianism is revealed in the passage on slavery that was stricken out on the floor of Congress , and more significantly in the change in the familiar phrasing of the several natural rights . Samuel Adams and other followers of Locke had been content with the classical enumeration of life , liberty , and property ; but in Jefferson 's hands the English doctrine was given a revolutionary shift . The substitution of " pursuit of happiness " for " property " marks a complete break with the Whiggish doctrine of property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the substitution of a broader sociological conception ; and it was this substitution that gave to the document the note of idealism which was to make its appeal so perennially human and vital . The words were far more than a political gesture to draw popular support ; they were an embodiment of Jefferson 's deepest convictions , and his total life thenceforward was given over to the work of providing such political machinery for America as should guarantee for all the enjoyment of those inalienable rights . If the fact that he set the pursuit of happiness above abstract property rights is to be taken as proof that Jefferson  | was an impractical French theorist , the critic may take what comfort he can from his deduction . That Jefferson was an idealist was singularly fortunate for America ; there was need of idealism to leaven the materialistic realism of the times . It was a critical period and he came at the turn of a long running tide . He watched the beginnings of the political shift in America from isolated colonial commonwealths to a unitary sovereign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced him that the impending change was fraught with momentous issues for the common man . He had meditated much on the social results of the slow oscillations in western civilization between social decentralization and centralization , with their contrasting political and economic structures ; and he understood how the movement from simplicity to complexity ? from freedom to regimentation ? creates a psychology and an institutionalism that conducts straight to the leviathan state , controlled by a ruling caste , serving the demands of exploitation , heedless of the well-being of the regimented mass . This great lesson in social drifts he brought home to America . There had been created here the psychology and institutions of a decentralized society , with a corresponding exaltation of the individual and the breakdown of caste . In the broad spaces of America the old-world coercive state had dwindled to a mere police arrangement for parochial duties ; the free citizen refused to be regimented ; the several communities insisted on managing their affairs by their own agents . Such was the natural consequence of free economics ; but with the turning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of earlier American experience and repeat here the unhappy history of European peoples ? To the philosophic mind of Jefferson , such a question was not academic , but urgent and vital . He had been bred in that older world , he believed passionately in the excellence of its virtues , and his political and social philosophy was determined by that experience . He sprang from a society deep-rooted in an agrarian economy , and he wished to preserve that society . Born on the Virginia frontier , he had never seen a hamlet so large as twenty houses before his eighteenth year ; his neighbors and associates were capable and vigorous frontier democrats , who managed the affairs of local government with the same homespun skill that went to their farming . " It is not difficult , " remarks an acute critic , " to see how the great principle of Jefferson 's life ? absolute faith in democracy ? came to him . He was  | the product of the first West in American history ; he grew up with men who ruled their country well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson loved his backwoods neighbors , and he , in turn , was loved by them . " This early conviction of the excellence of a freehold order was confirmed by later experience ; wide observation and much travel convinced him that no other people was so favored by circumstance as the American , or so vigorously self-reliant . That such well-being resulted from a plastic economics , he regarded as self-evident ; and from this economic freedom came political freedom . In his European travels he saw everywhere want and wretchedness dwelling in the shadow of the aristocratic state , and he could not dissociate the two . Political tyranny was the outward and visible sign of greater tyrannies that ran down to the very roots of society ; the leviathan state was the convenient instrument through which those tyrannies took their heavy toll of the common well-being . America was a land of free men ; it was exploited neither by an aristocracy nor a plutocracy . Surely there could be no greater or nobler ambition for an American than to assist in preserving his country from the misery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democratic industry , to the serfdom of the European wage-taker and peasant . To a mind imbued with such conceptions the appeal of the Physiocratic theory of social economics would be irresistible . The ground was prepared for the sowing of the seeds of the liberal French thought . With its emphasis laid upon Agriculture , its doctrine of the produit net , its principle of laissez faire , and its social concern , the Physiocratic theory accorded exactly with his familiar experience , and it must have seemed to Jefferson that it was little other than a deduction from the open facts of American life . He had read much in the works of the Physiocratic group , and was intimately acquainted with DuPont de Nemours ; and the major principles of the school sank deep into his mind and creatively determined his thinking , with the result that Jeffersonian democracy as it spread through Virginia and west along the frontier assumed a pronounced Physiocratic bias . The sharp struggle between Jefferson and Hamilton must be reckoned , in part at least , a conflict between the rival principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a capitalistic economy . Much as Jefferson feared the ambitions of an aristocracy , he feared quite as much the creation of a proletariat . As he looked into the future he saw great cities rising to breed their Roman mobs , duped and exploited by demagogues , the convenient tools of autocracy ; and counting  | the cost in social well-being , he set his face like flint against the rising capitalism . A free yeomanry he regarded as the backbone of every great people , the producers of the real wealth , the guardians of manly independence ; and the number of factory workers measured for him the extent of social disease . It is this Physiocratic conception that explains his bitter hostility to protective tariffs , national banks , funding manipulations , the machinery of credit , and all the agencies of capitalism which Hamilton was skillfully erecting in America . Not to have hated such things Jefferson must first have emptied his mind of the teachings of experience and the lessons of the social philosophers . In the Notes on Virginia there is a well-known passage that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agrarian economy : The political economists of Europe have established it as a principle , that every State should endeavor to manufacture for itself ; and this principle , like many others , we transfer to America . . . . But we have an immensity of land courting the industry of the husbandman . Is it best then that all our citizens should be employed in its improvement , or that one half should be called off from that to exercise manufactures and handicraft arts for the other ? Those who labor in the earth are the chosen people of God , if ever hP had a chosenpeop e , w ose reasts he h. made his peculiar deposit for substantial and genuine virtue . It is theIocus in w IC e eeps a ive a sacre ? fire , which otherwise might escape from the fR-e-aEfrie earth-Cori : " f , of morals in the mass of cultivators isap enomenon o w ch no age nor nation has furnished an . exam-13-1-e . It is jh mark set on , those , who n ot oo ing up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ' s-does the hus an$nan , or t ? - heir suTsistencedepend or-if-bji casualties and capnce oF-customers . Dependence begets subservience and venality , suffocates the germ " 6T-Virtue , and prepares fit tools for the designs of ambition . . . . Generally speaking the proportion which the aggregate of the other classes of citizens bears in any state to that of its husbandmen , is the proportion of its unsound to its healthy parts , and is a good enough barometer whereby to measure its degree of corruption . While we have land to labor then , let us never wish to see our citizens occupied at a work-bench , or twirling a distaff . . . for the general operations of manufacture , let our work-shops remain in Europe . It is better to carry provisions and materials to work-men there , than bring them to the provisions and materials , and with them their manners and principles . . . . The mobs of great cities add just so much to the support of pure government , as sores do to the strength of the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which preserve a republic in vigor . A degeneracy in these is a canker which soon eats to the heart of its laws and constitution .  | Such was his attitude in 1782 , an attitude identical with Franklin 's . Thirty-four years later he had modified his views of industrialism . The bitter experience of the Napoleonic wars , with the hardships and losses visited upon neutral shipping , had convinced him of the need of domestic manufactures , and he was then deeply interested in improved machinery , new methods , original ventures . " We must now place the manu/ facturer by the side of the agriculturist , " he conceded , or remain in economic dependence . But how much further the country should be industrialized , whether it " shall be proposed to go beyond our own supply " to compete in foreign markets , was not yet clear to him ; the problem remained still to be determined whether " the surplus labor " would be " most beneficially employed in the culture of the earth , or in the fabrications of art . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic determinism that drives every people to go through with the industrial revolution , once it is begun ; but if we recall the primary principle of his political philosophy , that the " care of human life and happiness , and not their destruction , is the first and only legitimate object of good government , " we may perhaps judge what would have been his attitude towards a centralized industrialism . He would have judged its desirability , not by the balance sheet of corporate business , but by the social ledger . As a social economist he could not think in terms of the economic man , nor simplify human beings to labor commodity , nor reduce the social tie to the cash nexus . It is inconceivable that he should have shared Hamilton 's satisfaction at the contemplation of women and children ? and many of the latter " of tender age " ? wasting away in the mills ; he was too socialminded for that , too much an idealist , too human in short . Though necessity might force him away from a simple agrarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisan to a centralizing industrialism , with control vested in banking credit . It is a common charge that Jefferson was consumed with suspicion , and it is set down against him as the mark of a mean and ungenerous nature . That in later years he was suspicious of fair-spoken advocates and plausible programs was as true of Jefferson as of Sam Adams ; he had learned like the Boston democrat the virtue of the saying , felix qui cautus , and with so much at stake he would practice caution . He feared many things , for he was acutely aware of the incapacity of the heedless majority to defend itself against an able and instructed  | minority . As a child of an aristocratic age he fell into the mistake of visualizing that minority in the guise of a landed gentry , rather than in the guise of plutocracy ; but in his quick fear of a minority he had all history as counselor . When he took his . seat in Washington 's cabinet his suspicions of the Hamiltonian program were quickly aroused . He believed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unattainable , then a highly centralized state designed to hold in check the democratic tendencies . His line of reasoning may be summarized thus : In consequence of the republican enthusiasm of the early years of the Revolution , democratic reorganization of the several state governments had been successfully achieved . Very great progress towards democracy had been made . Certain legislative acts of agrarian assemblies were now being turned against democracy to invalidate it as a working system of government . But if agrarian majorities had used their power to enact laws beneficial to their interests , they were only applying a lesson learned from long experience with aristocratic legislatures . Such acts were no serious indictment of the democratic principle , and to make partisan use of them to justify curtailing the powers of the majority , was a betrayal of popular rights . And this , Jefferson believed , was the deliberate purpose of the Federalist leaders . Unable to stem the popular tide in the several commonwealths , the wealthy minority had devised a plan to superimpose upon the sovereign commonwealths a centralized federal government , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majorities , and hence able to override and nullify the democratic will . Once safely established , this federal government would gather fresh powers into its hands , until there emerged a rigorous machine , modeled after the British system , and as little regardful of the common interests . If this were not the Federalist purpose , why all the praise of the British system as the ripe product of experience , exactly adapted to the political genius of the English race ? In the matter of appeal to past experience , which provided the staple of Federalist argument , Jefferson discovered fresh grounds of fear . The past he looked upon as evil , and the record of experience was a tale of injustice and bitter wrong . He would not have America follow the trodden paths , for whither they led he knew too well . He would countenance no entangling alliances with old-world upper-class systems of statecraft ; for such systems would reproduce in America the evils it should be the chief business of America to prevent . There must be erected  | here no counterpart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no aristocracy , no plutocracy ; but a new democratic organization of government , in which the welfare of the whole people should be the sole concern . When I left Congress in ' 76 he wrote as an old man it was in the persuasion that our whole code must be revised , adapted to our republican form of government , and now that we had no negatives of Councils , Governors and Kings to restrain us from doing right , that it should be corrected in all its parts with a single eye to reason and the good of those for whose government it was planned . Not past experience but present need should instruct America in drawing the plans of a new system of government and a new code of law . In analyzing the evils of European systems Jefferson came to - his ater t in int - ; -s : -0 The . oliti .1 state tends inevitably to self-a ? ? randize u - oil ' - popu ar control . With sovereign-powers vested in the ands of governmental agents , those agents lie under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end they align the powers of the state on the side of the most ambitious and capable . The greater the power of government , the ampler tt revenues , the more energetic its administration , the more d a - gerous it may become to the rights of men ; for where the prize is greatest , men struggle most ruthlessly , and what prize could be greater than the privilege of exploiting society in the name of the state ? History knows no objective more tempting to the will to power , than the control of the absolute state . A government adequately socialized , intent solely upon furthering the common well-being , Jefferson would have been unanxious about . But such governments existed only in the dreams of Sir Thomas More and the Utopians ; he could discover none such either in the past or present . Everywhere strong governments were little more than efficient tax-machines to support armies and provide subsidies and places for the minority . Against such forces of corruption the people struggle in vain . If such was the common testimony of old-world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government there would deny it ? what reason was there to expect that like causes would work unlike results in America ? To what purpose was the talk of strong government encouraged amongst the holders of the public debt ? To what end had lobbyists for the funding  | bill invaded the floor of Congress ? It was idle to expect in America a nullification of the law , that where power sits within , corruption waits without . The love of power is universal . Most men are potential autocrats , the strong and capable may become actual autocrats . No man is good enough , no group of men , to be trusted with unrestrained powers ? in America any more than in Europe . A centralized government in control of the tax-machine , and secure from popular restraint , would undo the results of the Revolutionary War . The movement to consolidate power , Jefferson asserted , was " but Toryism in disguise . " " The generalizing and concentrating all cares and powers into one body . . . has destroyed the liberty and the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sun . " Our country is too large to have all its affairs directed by a single government . Public servants at such a distance , and from under the eye of their constituents , must , from the circumstances of distance , be unable to administer and overlook all the details necessary for the good government of the citizens ; and the same circumstance , by rendering detection impossible to their constituents , will invite the public agents to corruption , plunder and waste . The practice of local home rule had grown up in America in response to native conditions ; it had resulted from democratic needs ; and Jefferson was too thoroughly American , too instinctively democratic , to overlook the significance of local sovereignties in a democratic philosophy . From the sharp contrast between American and European practice he deduced a cardinal principle , namely , that good government springs from a common interest in public affairs , and that such common interest is possible only when the field of activities is circumscribed . Set government apart from the people , or above them , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The danger of an encroaching tyranny by a superimposed sovereignty , is made easy by the public lethargy in respect to distant and unfamiliar things , and establishes itself through the psychology of custom . Jefferson was never greatly concerned about stable government ; he such - . : r : . i : : - . . - - that it should faithfully serve t e majority will . He made god of the political state . He had no conventional reverence for established law and order ; he inquired rather what sort of law and order he was asked to accept , was it just or unjust . Changing conditions make ancient good uncouth , and established in-  | stitutions tend to fall into dry-rot , or to become tyrannical . Men are more important than constitutions , and the public well-being is more sacred than statutes . An occasional revolution , he commented grimly apropos of the hue and cry over Shays 's Rebellion , is salutary ; if it does not come of itself it might well be brought about . Progress in government results from experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small scale than on a great . Inertia increases with size , and the more consolidated the government , the more unyielding it becomes . The longest delayed revolutions are the gravest . In asserting the principle of the majority will , Jefferson , like other democratic thinkers of the time , found himself countered by the argument of abstract justice . Vehement denunciation had greeted Paine 's doctrine that what a nation chooses to do , it has a right to do . There can be no rights , it was confidently asserted , superior to the right . The people may legislate , but it remains to determine the validity of statutes in the light of justice ; that which is unjust is ipso facto null and void . It was Coke 's doctrine of judicial review , set up in America after its repudiation in England , and Jefferson 's hostility to it was bitter . As an intellectual he had none of the lawyer 's complacency with legal principles , or conceit of the law 's sufficiency ; and as a democrat he would not yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no veneration for the Common Law of England : it had grown up by slow accretions during centuries of absolutism ; how should it be expected to answer the needs of a freer age ? It must be purged of outworn elements , imbued with democratic sympathies . The Revolution had been fought in defense of rights that are broader and more human than legal principles ; and to hand over those rights to be interpreted away by lawyers , seemed to him moonstruck madness . It was the law of Blackstone rather than of Coke that he feared most ? that " elegant " canonization of the malign influences of Tory reaction , and that was so cried up by the smatterers and " ephemeral insects of the law " in America ; whereas Coke " was as good a Whig as ever wrote " : Blackstone and Hume have made tories of all England , and are making tories of those young Americans whose native feelings of independence do not place them above the wily sophistries of a Hume or a Blackstone . These two books , and especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the liberties of man , than all the million of men in arms of Bonaparte , and the millions of human lives with the sacrifice of which he will stand loaded before the judgment seat of his Maker .  | As Jefferson grew older his fear of judicial encroachment on the popular will became acute , but it shifted from distrust of the Common Law to concern over the Supreme Court . A strong and outspoken hatred of the Federal judiciary runs through all his later writings , and he lost no opportunity to popularize the thesis ? " It is a misnomer to call a government republican , in which a branch of the supreme power is independent of the nation . " The great object of my fear is the Federal Judiciary . That body , like gravity , ever acting , with noiseless foot , and unalarming advance , gaining ground step by step , and holding what it gains , is engulfing insidiously the special governments into the jaws of that which feeds them . It is a very dangerous doctrine to consider the judges as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one which would place us under the despotism of an oligarchy . . . . The Constitution has erected no such single tribunal , knowing that to whatever hands confided , with the corruptions of time and party , its members would become despots . As Jefferson watched Chief Justice John Marshall gathering all things , within the purview of the Federal judiciary , preparing future strongholds by the skillful use of obiter dicta , legislating by means of judicial interpretation , nullifying the will of the majority , and with the power of repeal made nugatory by the complexity of the process , he saw clearly what the outcome would be . Surely that was no democracy where judge-made laws were enforced by bench warrants , and where the sovereign power lay beyond the immediate reach of the popular will . The government that he desired would not rest on the legal fiction of an abstract justice above statutes and constitutions , whereof a group of judicial gentlemen were the repositories and guardians . It would be like Paine 's , " a plain thing , and fitted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of the majority ceases to be acknowledged , there government ends ; the law of the strongest takes its place . " Granted the truth of Jefferson 's premises that power tends to contract to the hands of a few , and that all government of the few is vicious , then democracy is the only form of government under which an approximation to justice can be realized . A class will serve class interests . Government by an aristocracy is government in the interest of the aristocracy . For the staple argument of the Federalists , that gentlemen of principle and property alone may be intrusted with affairs of state , Jefferson  | had a quiet contempt . " I have never observed men 's honesty to increase with their riches , " he remarked . On the contrary , he regarded the " better sort of people " as a chief hindrance to the spread of social justice . The past had been evil because the past had been exploited by gentlemen of principle and property . They had kept government away from the people , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxpayers and drenched nations in blood . Their selfish rivalries everywhere exacted a heavy toll of society and left behind a trail of poverty and wretchedness . The future would be better in the degree that mastery passed into common hands . From the conclusions of his democratic premise he did not shrink . If it were indeed true that the people were beasts , then the democratic government of the future would be a bestial government ? and even that might be better than the old arrangement of masters and slaves . But the American people whom Jefferson trusted were very far from beasts ; he was convinced that they were honest and well-meaning ; and if government were brought close to them , kept responsive to their will , a new and beneficent chapter in human history would open . The populistic laws passed by the legislatures of Rhode Island and New Hampshire , about which such an uproar was raised by fearful creditors , and which were urged as an argument against popular government , gave him no concern . He understood the ways of propaganda , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouths of their enemies . The cure for the evils of democracy , he believed , was more democracy . The whole are far less likely to be unjust than the few ; - and if sovereignty does not rest in the majority will , where shall it lodge ? Hume , the great apostle of toryism , says " the Commons established a principle , which is noble in itself , and seems specious i. e. pleasing ' ; but is belied by all history and experience , that the people are the origin of all just power . " And where else will this degenerate son of science , this traitor to his fellow men , find the origin of just power , if not in the majority of the society ? Will it be in the minority ? Or in the individual of that minority ? The America of Jefferson 's day was a simple world , with a simple domestic economy . More than ninety percent were plain country folk , farmers and villagers , largely freeholders , managing their local affairs in the traditional way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no closely organized class  | groups . With its sharp restrictions on suffrage and the prestige accorded the gentry , it was still far from a political democracy ; but it was hastening towards a more democratic order . Remote from the cesspools of European diplomacy , and not yet acquainted with imperialism , it had no need for a leviathan state . Economic conditions sanctioned a laissez-faire government , simple and unambitious . In such a world the well-known words of Jefferson 's first inaugural address , justified themselves to all who did not seek to use the state for personal advantage . A wise and frugal government , which shall restrain men from injuring one another , which shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement , and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned . This is the sum of good government , and this is necessary to close the circle of our felicities . In one significant direction he would extend the scope of government ? the encouragement of education . An intelligent people is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a free society . Tyranny thrives on ignorance and superstition , and every exploiting group fears popular education . Free himself in thought and action , believing in the unshackled commerce of ideas , hating all censorships , Jefferson accounted the founding of the University of Virginia his largest contribution to the well-being of his native commonwealth . To all who profess faith in the democratic ideal Jefferson is a perennial inspiration . A free soul , he loved freedom enough to deny it to none ; an idealist , he believed that the welfare of . the whole , and not the prosperity of any group , is the single end of government . He was our first great leader to erect a political philosophy native to the economics and experience of America , as he was the first to break consciously with the past . His life was dedicated to the service of freedom , and later generations may well recall his words , " I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man . " Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he came to see that where men enjoy free access to the sources of subsistence , government is likely to be simple and honest , and society free and content ; but where a policy of preemption has run its course , the function of government is seduced from its social purpose to perpetuate the inequalities which spring from the progressive monopolization of natural resources , with augmenting corruption and injustice . To preserve government in America from  | such degradation , to keep the natural resources open to all , were the prime desire and object of his life . That such an effort was foredoomed to failure , in presence of imperious forces that shape society beyond the capacity of political means to change or prevent , can not detract from the nobility of his ideal , or the inspiration of his life . Among the greater thinkers of the constitutional period Jefferson remains by far the most vital and suggestive , the one to whom later generations may return most hopefully .  | MORTON BORDEN ( 1925 ? ) is Professor of History at the University of California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federalism of James A. Bayard ( 1955 ) . FOR twelve years the Constitution worked , after a fashion . From its inception the new document had been subjected to severe trials and divisive strains . A rebellion in Pennsylvania , a naval war with France , a demand for states ' rights from Virginia and Kentucky , and various Western schemes of disunion ? all had been surmounted . Had it not been for the great prestige of George Washington and the practical moderation of John Adams , America 's second attempt at a federal union might have failed like the first . Partisan passions had run high in the 1790 's , and any single factor on which men disagreed ? Hamilton 's financial plans or the French Revolution or the Sedition Act ? might easily have caused a stoppage of the nation 's political machinery . The two-party system emerged during this decade , and on each important issue public opinion seemed to oscillate between Federalist and Democratic-Republican . Perhaps this was to be expected of a young nation politically adolescent . Year by year Americans were becoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room for middle ground between these two factions , yet opinions were hardly fixed and irrevocable . The culmination of partisan controversy and the test of respective strengths took place in the monumental election of 1800 . Jefferson was feared , honestly feared , by almost all Federalists . Were he to win the election , so they predicted , all the hard constructive gains of those twelve years would be dissipated . From Morton Borden , ed. , America 's Ten Greatest Presidents . Copyright cQ ' 1961 by Rand McNally &; Company and reprinted with permission .  | Power would be returned to the individual states ; commerce would suffer ; judicial power would be lessened ; and the wonderful financial system of Hamilton would be dismantled and destroyed . Jefferson was an atheist , and he would attack the churches . Jefferson was a hypocrite , an aristocrat posing as democrat , appealing to the baser motives of human beings in order to obtain votes . Jefferson was a revolutionary , a Francophile and , after ruining the Army and Navy under the guise of economy measures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . In short , it was doubtful if the Constitution could continue its successful course under such a president . In like manner the Republicans feared another Federalist victory . To be sure , John Adams had split with Hamilton and had earned the enmity of the Essex Junto . But would he not continue Hamilton 's " moneyed system " ? Did not Adams share the guilt of every Federalist for the despicable Alien and Sedition Acts ? Was it not true that " His Rotundity " so admired the British system that he was really a monarchist at heart ? Republicans were not engaging in idle chatter , nor were they speaking solely for effect , when they predicted many dire consequences if Adams were elected . A typical rumor had Adams uniting " his house to that of his majesty of Britain " and " the bridegroom was to be king of America . " Throughout the country popular interest in the election was intense , an intensity sustained over months of balloting . When the Republicans carried New York City , Alexander Hamilton seriously suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adams and Hamilton became public knowledge , Republicans nodded knowingly and quoted the maxim : " When thieves fall out , honest men come by their own . " The Federalists were narrowly defeated . But the decision was complicated by a result which many had predicted : a tied electoral vote between the two Republican candidates , Aaron Burr and Thomas Jefferson . ( Indeed , the Twelfth Amendment was adopted in 1804 to avoid any such recurrence . ) A choice between the two would be made by the House of Representatives . At this moment , February , 1801 , the Constitution seemed on the verge of collapse . Federalist members of the lower house united in support of Burr ; Republicans were just as adamant for Jefferson . After thirty-five ballots , neither side had yet obtained the necessary majority . The issue seemed hopelessly deadlocked . What would happen on March 4 , inauguration day ? One representative from Maryland , sick with a high fever ,  | was literally carried into Congress on a stretcher to maintain the tied vote of his state . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march on Washington with troops if the Federalists persisted in thwarting the will of the people . Hamilton was powerless ; his advice that Jefferson was the lesser evil went unheeded . So great was their hatred of the Virginian that most Federalists in Congress would have opposed him regardless of the consequences . After all , they reasoned , Jefferson would dismantle the Federal government anyway . In the end , however , patriotism and common sense prevailed . For the choice was no longer Jefferson or Burr , but Jefferson or no president at all . A few Federalists , led by James A. Bayard of Delaware , could not accept the logic of their party , and threw the election to Jefferson . What a shock it was , then , to read Jefferson 's carefully chosen words in his inaugural address : But every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle . We have called by different names brethren of the same principle . We all are republicans ? we are all federalists . If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it . I know , indeed , that some honest men fear that a republican government can not be strong ; that this government is not strong enough . But would the honest patriot , in the full tide of successful experiment , abandon a government which has so far kept us free and firm , on the theoretic and visionary fear that this government , the world 's best hope , may by possibility want energy to preserve itself ? I trust not . I believe this , on the contrary , the strongest government on earth . I believe it is the only one where every man , at the call of the laws , would fly to the standard of the law , and would meet invasions of the public order as his own personal concern . Sometimes it is said that man can not be trusted with the government of himself . Can he , then , be trusted with the government of others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings to govern him ? Let history answer this question . The words were greeted with applause ? and confusion . It was obvious that Jefferson wanted to salve the wounds of bitter factionalism . While many Federalists remained distrustful and some even regarded it as hypocritical , most men approved the tone of their new president 's message . But what did Jefferson mean ? Were there no economic principles at stake in his conflicts with Hamilton ? Were there no  | political and constitutional principles implicit in the polar views of the respective parties ? And , in the last analysis , did not these differences reflect a fundamental philosophical quarrel over the nature of human beings ? Was not the election of 1800 indeed a revolution ? If not , then what is the meaning of Jeffersonianism ? For two terms Jefferson tried , as best he could , to apply the standards of his inaugural address . Naturally , the Alien and Sedition Acts were allowed to lapse . The new secretary of the treasury , Albert Gallatin , was instructed to devise an easily understood program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either abolished or reduced . Fru a lity and economy were emphasized to an extreme . Elegant and cost y social functions were rep aces . y s p - . informal receptions . The expense of maintaining ambassadors at the courts of Portugal , Holland , and Prussia was erased by withdrawing these missions . The Army and Navy were pared down to skeleton size . To be sure , Jefferson had to reverse himself on the matter of patronage for subordinate Government posts . Originally he planned to keep these replacements to a minimum , certainly not to permit an individual 's partisan opinions to be a basis for dismissal unless the man manifestly used his office for partisan purposes . This position was politically untenable , according to Jefferson 's lieutenants , and they pressed him to accept a moderate number of removals . Indeed , Jefferson 's handling of patronage is symbolic of what Hamilton once called his " ineradicable duplicity . " The Federalist leaders cried out in anguish at every one of these policy changes . The lowering of the nation 's military strength would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risky gamble to assume that peace could be maintained while European war was an almost constant factor , and the United States was the major neutral carrier . The abolition of the excises , especially on distilled spirits , would force the Government to rely on tariffs , an unpredictable source of revenue depending on the wind and waves . It was charged that several foreign ambassadors were offended by Jefferson 's rather affected and ultrademocratic social simplicity . Most important , the ultimate payment of the public debt would reduce national power . This time , however , the people did not respond to the Federalist lament of impending anarchy . After all , commerce prospered throughout most of Jefferson 's administration . Somehow the churches remained standing . No blood baths took place . The  | Bank of the United States still operated . Peace was maintained . Certainly , some Federalist judges were under attack , but the judicial power passed through this ordeal to emerge unscathed and even enhanced . Every economic indicator ? urban growth , westward expansion , agricultural production , the construction of canals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the political bickering in Washington . At first the Federalists were confident that they would regain power . Alexander Hamilton 's elaborate scheme for an organization to espouse Christianity and the Constitution , as the " principal engine " to restore Federal power , was rejected out of hand . He was told that " our adversaries will soon demonstrate to the world the soundness of our doctrines and the imbecility and folly of their own . " But hope changed to despair as the people no longer responded ; no " vibration of opinion " took place as in the 1790 's . Federalism was the party of the past , an antiquated and dying philosophy . " I will fatten my pigs , and prune my trees ; nor will I any longer . . trouble to govern this country , " wrote Fisher Ames : " You federalists are only lookers-on . " Jefferson swept the election of 1804 , capturing every state except Connecticut and Delaware from the Federalist candidate , Charles C. Pinckney . " Federalism is dead , " wrote Jefferson a few years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resurrection . The quondam leaders indeed retain their rancour and principles ; but their followers are amalgamated with us in sentiment , if not in name . " It is the fashion of some historians to explain the Federalist demise and Republican ascendancy in terms of a great change in Jefferson . A radical natural law philosopher when he fought as minority leader , he became a first-rate utilitarian politician as president . The Virginian became an American . Revolutionary theory was cast aside when Jefferson faced the prosaic problem of having to run the country . He began to adopt some of the techniques and policies of the Federalists . Indeed , it is often observed that Jeff e , oit ? cu t1 dliral ; zed the Federalists . " There is much fo be said for this view . After all , less than three months after he assumed the presidency , Jefferson dispatched a naval squadron to the Mediterranean on a warlike mission , without asking the permission of Congress . Two members of his Cabinet , Levi Lincoln and Albert Gallatin , thought the action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moment of its birth the young nation had paid tribute , as did every European power , rather than risk a war  | with the Barbary pirates . But Jefferson could not abide such bribery . No constitutional scruples could delay for a moment his determination to force the issue . Later , Congress declared war , and in four years Barbary power was shattered . The United States under Jefferson . accomplished an object that England , France , Spain , Portugal , and Holland had desired for more than a century ? unfettered commerce in the Mediterranean . Here , then , in this episode , is a totally different Jefferson ? not an exponent of states ' rights and strict interpretation of the Constitution , but an American nationalist of the first order . Perhaps the most frequently cited example of Jefferson 's chameleon quality , however , was on the question of whether the United States should or should not purchase the Louisiana Territory from France . On this question the fundamental issue was squarely before Jefferson , and a choice could not be avoided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Yet the Constitution did not specifically provide for such acquisition of foreign territory . Further , the treaty provided that this area would eventually be formed into states , full partners in the Union . Again , the Constitution did not specifically cover such incorporation . A broad interpretation of Article IV , Section III , however , might permit United States ' ratification of the treaty . Should theory be sacrificed and an empire gained ? Or were the means as important as the ends ? Broad or loose construction of the Constitution was the key to the growth of Federal power . Federalists had argued in this vein to justify most of their legislation in the 1790 's . To Jefferson , individual liberty and governmental power were on opposite ends of a see-saw , which the Federalists had thrown off balance . He believed that government , especially the central government , must be restricted within rather narrow and essential limits . Only by continually and rigidly applying strict construction to the Constitution could this tendency to overweening power be controlled and individual liberty be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor of Virginia , had warned that constitutions must be explicit , " so as to exclude all possible doubt ; . . . lest at some future day . . . powers should be assumed . " On the other hand , the purchase of Louisiana would fulfill a dream and solve a host of problems . Jefferson envisioned an American empire covering " the whole northern , if not the southern continent , with a people speaking the same language , governed in similar forms , and by similar laws . " The purchase  | would be a giant step in the direction of democracy 's inevitable growth . " Is it not better , " asked Jefferson , " that the opposite bank of the Mississippi should be settled by our own brethren and children , than by strangers of another family ? " Of more immediate interest , Westerners would be able to ship their goods down the Mississippi without fear that New Orleans might be closed . Indian attacks undoubtedly would taper off without the Spanish to instigate them . Uppermost in Jefferson 's mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would assure . He did not fear Spanish ownership . A feeble , second-rate nation like Spain on the frontier offered little threat to America 's future security . The continued possession of Louisiana by an imperialistic France led by the formidable Napoleon , however , might force the United States into an alliance with England . At first Jefferson thought a constitutional amendment specifically permitting the purchase might solve the dilemma . But Napoleon showed signs of wavering . The treaty had to be confirmed immediately , with no indication of constitutional doubt . Jefferson asked the Republican leaders in the Senate to ratify it " with as little debate as possible , and particularly so far as respects the constitutional difficulty . " In still other ways Jefferson 's presidency was marked by Federalist policies which encouraged the growth of central power . Internal improvements loomed large in Jefferson 's mind . While many turnpikes and canals were financed by private and state capital , he realized that Federal support would be necessary , especially in the western part of the nation . With the use of Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( later ) aided by direct congressional appropriations , the groundwork for the famous Cumberland road was established during Jefferson 's administration . He enthusiastically supported Gallatin 's plan to spend twenty million dollars of Federal funds on a network of national roads and canals . Other more pressing problems intervened , however , and it was left to later administrations to finance these local and interstate programs . If Hamilton had pressed for internal improvements in the 1790 's ( he suggested them in the Report on Manufactures ) , Jefferson probably would have raised constitutional objections . Finally , is not Jefferson 's change of tack further reflected in the political history of that era ? Over the span of a few years it seemed as if each party had somehow reversed directions . In 1798 ? 99 Jefferson and Madison penned the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions as an answer to the Federalists ' infamous  | Alien and Sedition Acts . In 1808 ? 9 more radical but comparable rumblings of dissatisfaction emanated from some New England Federalists over Jefferson 's Embargo Act . For the embargo , says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitrary , inquisitorial , and confiscatory measure formulated in American legislation up to the period of the Civil War . " Further , both parties splintered during Jefferson 's administration . Many moderate Federalists , like John Quincy Adams , found themselves in closer harmony with Administration policy than with Essex Junto beliefs . And Jefferson 's actions alienated old comrades , like John Randolph , Jr. , whose supporters were called the Tertium Quids . It is interesting to note that there is no historical consensus of why , when , how , or what precipitated the break between Randolph and Jefferson . Randolph is always referred to as brilliant but erratic ; and whatever immediate reason is alleged , the cause somehow has to do with Randolph 's personality and Jefferson 's betrayal of the true doctrines . It is part of Jefferson 's greatness that he could inspire a myth and project an image . But one must not confuse myth and reality , shadow and substance . Thomas Jefferson as he was , and Thomas Jefferson as people perceived him , are quite different . While both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding our past , it is always the historian 's task to make the distinction . Too often , in Jefferson 's case , this has not been done . Too often the biographers have described the myth ? have taken at face value the popular view of Jefferson and his enemies , contained in the vitriolic newspaper articles and pamphlets , the passionate debates and fiery speeches of that period ? and missed or misconstrued the reality . This is understandable . Even the principals inevitably became involved and helped to propagate the exaggerated images of the 1790 's and thus misunderstood one another 's aims and motives . Jefferson , according to his grandson , never considered Federalist fulminations " as abusing him ; they had never known him . They had created an imaginary being clothed with odious attributes , to whom they gave his name ; and it was against that creature of their imaginations they had levelled their anathemas . " John Adams , reminiscing in a letter to Jefferson , wrote : " Both parties have excited artificial terrors and if I were summoned as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excited . . . the most terror , and which had really felt the most , I could not give a more sincere answer , than in the vulgar style ' put them in a bag and shake them , and then see which comes out first . ' "  | On March 4 , 1801 , following a decade of verbal violence , many Americans were surprised to hear that " We are all republicans ? we are all federalists . " Some historians act as if they , too , are surprised . These historians then describe Jefferson 's administration as if some great change took place in his thinking , and conclude that he " outfederalized the Federalists . " This is a specious view , predicated on an ultraradical Jefferson of the 1790 's in constant debate with an ultraconservative Hamilton . Certainly Jefferson as president had to change . Certainly at times he had to modify , compromise , and amend his previous views . To conclude , however , that he outfederalized the Federalists is to miss the enormous consistency of Jefferson 's beliefs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none , not even to Hamilton . He always conceived of the United States as a unique experiment , destined for greatness so long as a sharp line isolated American civilization from European infection . Thus he strongly advised our youth to receive their education at home rather than in European schools , lest they absorb ideas and traits he considered " alarming to me as an American . " From " Notes on Virginia " to his advice at the time of Monroe 's doctrine , Jefferson thought of America first . It matters not that Hamilton was the better prophet ; Jefferson was the better American . The French minister Adet once reported : " Although Jefferson is the friend of liberty . . . although he is an admirer of the efforts we have made to cast off our shackles . . . . Jefferson , I say , is an American , and as such , he can not sincerely be our friend . An American is the born enemy of all the peoples of Europe . " Jefferson 's nature was always more practical than theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Declaration of Independence is a Lockean justification of revolution ; but , said Jefferson , " It was . . . an expression of the American mind , " meant " to place before mankind the common sense of the subject . " Jefferson always preferred precision to " metaphysical subtleties . " The Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions can be understood only as a specific rebuttal of the Sedition Act . " I can never fear that things will go far wrong , " wrote Jefferson , " where common sense has fair play . " One must also remember that Hamilton 's power lessened considerably in the last four years of Federalist rule . He had a strong coterie of admirers , but the vast body of Federalists sided with John Adams . Despite all Hamilton did to insure Adams ' defeat ,  | and despite the split in Federalist ranks , the fact that Jefferson 's victory in 1801 was won by a narrow margin indicated Federalist approval of Adams ' actions . Certainly the people at that time ? Jefferson and Adams included ? regarded 1801 as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a revolution , perhaps Adams ' split with the Hamiltonians is a better date . " The midposition which Adams desired to achieve , " writes Manning Dauer , " was adopted , in the main , by Jefferson and his successors . " To be sure , the two men disagreed on many matters of basic importance . Jefferson placed his faith in the free election of a virtuous and talented natural aristocracy ; Adams did not . Within the constitutional balance , Jefferson emphasized the power of the lower house ; Adams would give greater weight to the executive and judiciary . Jefferson , as a general rule , favored a strict interpretation of the Constitution ; Adams did not fear broad construction . Both believed that human beings enjoyed inalienable rights , but only Jefferson had faith in man 's perfectibility . Jefferson could say , " I like a little rebellion now and then . It is like a storm in the atmosphere " ; Adams had grown more conservative since 1776 . Jefferson always defended and befriended Thomas Paine ; Adams found Edmund Burke 's position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sages of Quincy and Monticello were both moderate and practical men . Despite the obvious and basic contrasts , both Adams and Jefferson stood side by side on certain essentials : to avoid war , to quiet factionalism , to preserve republican government . Their warm friendship , renewed from 1812 to 1826 in a remarkable and masterful correspondence , was based on frankness , honesty , and respect . " About facts , " Jefferson wrote , " you and I can not differ , because truth is our mutual guide ; And if any opinions you may express should be different from mine , I shall receive them with the liberality and indulgence which I ask for my own . " Jefferson and Adams represent , respectively , the quintessence of the very best in American liberalism and conservatism . Their indestructible link , then , was " a keen sense of national consciousness , " a realization that America 's destiny was unique . This is the meaning of Jefferson 's words : " We are all republicans ? we are all federalists. "  | DAVID H. FISCHER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brandeis University . He is the author of Historians ' Fallacies ( 1970 ) . IN the year 1810 , two elderly American gentlemen reflected sadly upon what they took to be the ruins of a republic . " The times are really altered , compared to what they were thirty years ago , " David Sewall wrote to Robert Treat Paine . " The Patriotism and genuine American spirit which then glowed is greatly depreciated , and seems degenerated into selfishness and democracy . " Paine replied sympathetically , " The times are really altered , and that spirit which once was so successfully exerted to procure and protect the substantial liberty and happiness of the country . . . has unhappily taken the course you have described . " No major problem in American history is more difficult to discuss reasonably ? and is more in need of reasonable discussion ? than the expansion of political democracy . A profusion of interpretations and a paucity of facts have together bred bewilderment and despair among serious students of the problem . Confusion is compounded , of course , by conceptual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a " middle-class democracy " long before the Revolution . An eccentric politician insists that America has never been a democracy , and hopes that we shall never become one . Clearly , they are not discussing the same things . Democracy as an ideal , as a philosophical conception , does not footnote From pp. xi ? xix , " Introduction " and p. 199 in The Revolution of American Conservatism by David Hackett Fischer . Copyright ? 1965 by David Hackett Fischer . Reprinted by permission of Harper &; Row , Publishers , Inc.  | admit of easy explication . But the process of political democratization may be specified more simply as the expansion of voter participation within an increasingly open and free electoral process . To say this is to specify but two variables of many , but it will serve as a working definition for the purposes of this investigation . The process of democratization has been continuous in American political history ; scholars have observed and described it in every period . But it is surely true that more significant changes have occurred in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though continuous , has not been constant . To examine a part of the problem is difficult because there are few fixed reference points . But perhaps it is possible to begin by agreeing upon two generalized assumptions which , though not supported by a consensus of expert opinion , would appear to be sustained by a majority ( the majoritarian idea , it seems , has even invaded the academy ) . The first rests upon a cluster of revisionist studies of the Jacksonian era , which conclude that the process of democratization was far advanced before Jackson reached the White House , before Tocqueville crossed the coast . " Political democracy , " Marvin Meyers has written , " was the medium more than the achievement of the Jacksonian party , " a precondition more than a consequence of the election of 1828 . The expansive ideals of equality and liberty would , of course , continue to ramify in new and surprising ways after 1828 , but by that date they had already wrought radical changes in the structure of American politics . Richard P. McCormick and J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A second generalized assumption concerns the structure of American politics before 1800 . Bernard Bailyn has given it intelligent expression : " Nowhere in the eighteenth-century America was there ' democracy ' ? middle-class or otherwise , as we use the term . " The political role of the people was effectively limited , not by property qualifications for voting and officeholding , but by the much greater weight of habit and custom . " In stable governments , " Fisher Ames observed , " usages become laws . Things wear a certain channel for themselves . " It would appear to have been thus in colonial America . A few prominent families , possessed of wealth and distinctions , monopolized offices and power in every colony . The politics of New Hampshire were dominated during the eighteenth century by a single family , the Wentworths . In Boston , great power lay in the hands of Hutchinsons , Sewalls ,  | Wheelwrights , and Olivers ; other Massachusetts towns were controlled in similar fashion by a few families whose names regularly recur upon the lists of officeholders . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pitkins , Stanleys , and Wolcotts ; a recent study of the structure of power in a single town , Kent , has shown the " top offices were filled by a small group or clique of the town 's wealthiest men . " Even in Rhode Island where , as John Adams wrote , " there has been no Clergy , no Church , and I had almost said no State , and some People say no religion , there has been a constant respect for certain old Families . " The elitist pattern of politics and society in eighteenth-century New England was even more apparent in the middle and southern colonies . New York , before the War for Independence , was largely governed by Bayards and De Lanceys , Heathcotes , Johnsons , Livingstons , Coldens , Morrises , Nicollses , Pells , Philipses , Rapaljes , Remsens , Schuylers , Smiths , Stuyvesants , Van Cortlandts and Van Rensselaers . The predominant families of proprietary Pennsylvania were Penns , Allens , Assetons , Fishbournes , Hamiltons , Hills , Lloyds , Logans , Norrises and Pembertons ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dulanys , Lloyds , Ogles and Taskers . Similar lists could be recited for Virginia , the Carolinas , and Georgia . The industrious researches of Robert Brown have conclusively established the important point that the political power of the colonial elite did not derive from economic restrictions upon the exercise of voting . Brown has shown that the suffrage was open , in Massachusetts , to most adult white males ; and it may be granted , in Bailyn 's words , that " what has been proved about the franchise in early Massachusetts ? that it was open for practically the entire adult male population ? can be proved to a lesser or greater extent for all the colonies . " It is also true , of course , that many members of the ruling elites were parvenu , that their wealth was often new wealth . Both popular participation and social mobility were far more extensive in colonial America than in the mother country , or in any other eighteenthcentury state . Nevertheless , Bagehot 's phrase for nineteenth-century England , a " deferential society , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from childhood to show deference to their betters , and to expect it from their inferiors . The " habit of subordination , " as a Federalist later labeled it , served to cement a functional society more effectively than legislative restraints or constitutional restrictions . The drop-  | ping of a curtsy , the doffing of a cap , the raising of a deferential finger to the brow ? these were the superficial symbols of a spirit which ran deep and strong in the minds and hearts of men . A fundamental distinction between the " multitude " and the " people of the better sort " expressed itself in manners , speech , and modes of dress . A nineteenth-century historian of Portsmouth , New Hampshire , recalled " earlier times , when scarlet colored broadcloth cloaks , worn by our Warners , Jaffreys , Cutts and other gentlemen of the old school of politeness , good order and decorum , warned the boys of severe reprehension , if not rods which awaited them for any neglect of respectful recognition of the approach of these august personages , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The " habit of subordination " also expressed itself in the low level of voter participation in colonial elections . Despite competition between individual candidates or between rival " connexions , " which often took place in an unsystematic fashion , the deferential spirit resulted in desultory attendance at the polls , and the " best people " with only occasional difficulty managed the affairs of their communities . If these assumptions about the Jacksonian era and the colonial period are correct , then it follows that between 1760 and 1820 two major changes occurred in the structure of American politics . Many more people exercised their electoral privileges . They did so within an increasingly open and free electoral process . With these hypotheses in mind , I examined the voting statistics compiled by McCormick and Pole . The work of both scholars shows that a sudden expansion of popular participation did in fact take place within a very narrow time span ? the sixteen-year period from 1800 to 1816 . Before 1795 , participation appears to have ranged between 15 and 40 percent of adult males in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From 1796 to 1799 , a slow but significant rise was perceptible , especially in the middle states . In 1800 there appears to have been a sudden jump , followed in the next few years by a falling off . But from 1804 to 1816 , in a majority of states , an extraordinary surge carried voter participation in state elections to unprecedented heights ? 68 to 98 percent of adult males . This level has been maintained ever since , with many fluctuations , of which the most important was a falling off in the period 1824-1840 , the Age of Jackson ! In a few states voting qualifications were eased within the period 1800-1816 , but in most states they were not . The revision of suffrage requirements followed , rather than preceded , the ex-  | pansion of voter participation . An explanation must be found elsewhere . The principal issues of the period , the embargoes and the War of 1812 , were of course bitterly controversial , but intrinsically no more interesting than the imperial questions of the 1760s and early 1770s , or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pressing problems of the 1790s . Why did the explosive expansion of participation come when it did ? Two alternative hypotheses come to mind . First , the Jeffersonian movement might have been solely responsible for quickening popular interest in political questions , and for the expansion of the democratic principle . Seymour Lipset has summarized this possible interpretation in a sentence : " The almost unchallenged rule of the Virginia Dynasty and the Democratic-Republican Party served to legitimate national authority and democratic rights . " A second hypothesis would be that organized party rivalry gained a new intensity in the period 1800 ? 1816 ? a twoparty rivalry more competitive than ever before ; and that the central and transcendent fact of competition served to stimulate an expansion of popular participation . Standard works on the Jeffersonian era ( there are remarkably few of them ) tend to support the first hypothesis . They do not generally indicate that party competition was unusually keen in the period 1804 ? 1816 ; indeed , most suggest the opposite , arguing that the Federalist Party was moribund after 1804 , unresponsive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unwilling and unable to compete for popular support . Historians have not been attentive to the men who called themselves Federalists in the age of Jefferson . The prevailing interpretation calls to mind the Scottish poet 's satirical strictures upon another great party in adversity : Awa , Whigs , awa ! Awa , Whigs , awa ! Ye 're but a pack o ' traitor louns , Yell do nae good at a ' . Our thrissles flourish 'd fresh and fair , And Bonnie bloom 'd our roses ; But Whigs cam ' like a frost in June , And wither 'd a ' our posies.  | Even John Bach McMaster , who openly admitted that one of the purposes of his history was to " show up " Thomas Jefferson , dismissed the Federalists after 1800 as " mere obstructionists , a sect of the political world which , of all other sects , is most to be despised . " And Albert J. Beveridge , whose admiration for one Federalist , John Marshall , is well known , had little sympathy for Marshall 's political friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment , " reduced to a grumbling company of out of date gentlemen . . . . They had repudiated democracy , and assumed an attitude of insolent superiority , mournful of a glorious past , despairing of a worthy future . " Students of parties and political machinery have generally concluded that the Federalists disdained formal political organization and competition in the Jeffersonian era . George D. Luetscher , in an able and important monograph on early American politics , suggested that the Federalists were destroyed because they refused to develop an organization and to compete actively with the Jeffersonians . He contended that his rule was proved by one exception , Delaware , where Federalists did develop effective party machinery , competed energetically , and managed to retain power throughout the Jeffersonian era . There are a few exceptional works ? a splendid study of Delaware politics by John A. Munroe , an excellent biography of William Plumer , and an important and provocative monograph on New York politics by Dixon Ryan Fox . But the great majority of studies of the Jeffersonian era are , understandably , centered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains unchanged from Henry Adams to the most recent surveys of the period . 3 The following account is frankly revisionist . Its purpose is to suggest that a younger generation of Federalists ? the most obscure leaders of a major party in American political history ? responded to the Jeffersonian movement with energy , flexibility and effect . It will be argued that they deliberately tried to create popularly oriented vote-seeking political organizations which might defeat Jefferson with his own weapons . The younger Federalists successfully established these party organizations in at least ten states . They sponsored partisan newspapers and secret political societies on an unprecedented scale , and borrowed Jef-  | fersonian electioneering techniques , rhetoric , and issues for their own elitist purposes . The young Federalists were , of course , conspicuously unsuccessful in their effort to recover power from their opponents . They never overcame the heavy handicap of a late start , after their adversaries were well organized , after their adversaries ' principles and prejudices had been widely disseminated , after Federalism itself had become a byword for repression and antirepublican ideas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were hindered by older colleagues who refused to cooperate , and even opposed any effort to borrow Jeffersonian techniques . Jeffersonians themselves proved to be extraordinarily resourceful as the rivalry became more intense . And finally , after fourteen years of slow political starvation , the chance coincidence of events at Hartford , Ghent , and New Orleans came as a crushing blow to the frail structure of the Federalist cause . But if the young Federalists were unsuccessful in their own particular purposes , their partisan activity remains doubly significant . Firstly , by offering close competition to the Jeffersonians in a contest for popular favor , they helped to stimulate an increase in popular interest in politics . The fact of intensive party rivalry would explain , better than any other , the extraordinary surge of voter participation in the Jeffersonian era . . . . Secondly , the political ethics and behavior of younger Federalists contrast in striking ways with the conduct of older colleagues who had grown to maturity in a different political environment . The juxtaposition of two generations of Federalist leaders is itself an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the New Republic . For this reason , we shall begin not with the younger Federalists but with their elders , the " gentlemen of the old school . " . . . This investigation began with an epistolary conversation between two gentlemen of the old school , David Sewall and Robert Treat Paine , who agreed in 1810 that America 's experiment in Republicanism had gone awry , that the spirit of its War for Independence had degenerated into " selfishness and democracy . " Their values , of course , are debatable ; but the fact of change is clear . A new society , with new ethics and new corruptions , a new progressive spirit and a new conservatism , was in process of becoming . The pervasive holism and honest undisguised elitism of the old school had become anachronisms . The great social revolution which Sewall and Paine were un-  | able to accept or to approve had begun long before the election of 1800 and would continue after the War of 1812 . But there is no period in American history in which fundamental change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this most obscure of periods . And there is no better reflection of that change than the careers of those most obscure of American party leaders , the men who called themselves Federalists in the era of Jeffersonian democracy .  | Jacksonian Democracy Working Class or Middle Class ? TO many historians the election of Andrew Jackson as president in 1828 represents a pivotal turning point in American history . Prior to Jackson 's election , the men who occupied the presidency had come from either Virginia or Massachusetts ; they were closely identified with an aristocratic elite which seemed far removed from the great mass of Americans . Andrew Jackson , on the other hand , seemed to symbolize the common man rather than the aristocrat . Being a self-made man and military hero ? characteristics which made him a somewhat charismatic figure ? Jackson 's election was viewed by many as representing the ultimate triumph of democracy in American society . Although historians for many years accepted the relationship between Jackson and political democracy , they disagreed sharply over the precise nature of what came to be known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1840 became one of the most controversial eras in American history insofar as scholars were concerned . This was hardly surprising . Americans traditionally had attempted to define the unique characteristics that separated them from the rest of the world ? a quest that inevitably led to an extended discussion of democracy and its meaning . Historians were no exception to this rule and much of their writing revolved around a historical examination of the nature and development of democracy in America . Because Andrew Jackson and democratic politics seemed so closely related , both topics became the subject of innumerable books and articles . ' footnote ' For a significant analysis of the historiography of Jacksonian democracy see Charles G. Sellers , Jr. , " Andrew Jackson versus the Historians , " Mississippi Valley Historical Review , XLIV ( March , 1958 ) , pp. 615-634.  | Like that of Jefferson before him and other political leaders after him , Jackson 's historical reputation has changed markedly from time to time . The earliest evaluations of his presidential career tended to be highly critical and hostile in tone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted that Old Hickory was indeed the idol of the American people . Yet his portrait of Jackson was anything but flattering . Recognizing the complex nature of his subject , Parton concluded that " his elevation to power was a mistake on the part of the people of the United States . The good which he effected has not continued ; while the evil which he began the spoils system remains , has grown more formidable , has now attained such dimensions that the prevailing feeling of the country , with regard to the corruptions and inefficiency of the government , is despair . " 2 Parton 's criticisms were echoed even more strongly by other nineteenth-century writers , including Hermann E. von Holst , William Graham Sumner , and James Schouler . These writers agreed that Jackson was illiterate , uneducated , uninformed , emotional , and that his actions were motivated by a desire to dominate merely for the sake of power . In short , his election as president in 1828 was considered to be a mortal blow to cherished American ideals . " His ignorance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ? high , impenetrable . He was imprisoned in his ignorance , and sometimes raged round his little , dim enclosure like a tiger in his den . " 8 The hostility of these historians toward Jackson , oddly enough , did not arise from the fact that their own political ideology and preferences differed sharply from those held by Old Hickory . Indeed , most of these scholars were all nineteenth-century economic liberals who staunchly championed laissez-faire principles , condemned governmental intervention in the economy , and supported a sound currency . In this respect they were in general agreement with many of Jackson 's policies , including his attack on the Second Bank of the United States and his hardmoney views . Moreover , they approved of his forceful and assertive nationalism ? particularly his bold stand during the South Carolina nullification controversy . What these nineteenth-century scholars found most deplorable about Jackson 's presidency , however , was the fact that the democratization of American politics had resulted in the exclu- footnote2 James Parton , Life of Andrew Jackson ( 3 vols. : New York , 1861 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 699.  | sion from high public office of those individuals and groups that had been traditionally accustomed to hold the reins of power . The older political leaders were being replaced by the wrong sort of men ? men who pandered to the desires and wishes of the mob and acted according to the dictates of political expediency rather than to the principles of right and justice . " The undeniable and sadly plain fact , " wrote von Hoist , " is , that since that time the people have begun to exchange the leadership of a small number of statesmen and politicians of a higher order for the rule of an ever increasing crowd of politicians of high and low degree , down even to the pot-house politician and the common thief , in the protecting mantle of demagogism . . . . politics became a profession in which mediocrity ? on an ever descending scale ? dominated , and moral laxity became the rule , if not a requisite . " 4 Von Hoist 's words were echoed by other writers . Since Jackson , Parton charged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducted with a stupidity which has excited the wonder of mankind . " 5 The antipathy of these nineteenth-century scholars toward Jackson is not difficult to understand . Most of them had come from Eastern , middle class , patrician families that had enjoyed social and political leadership for well over a century . Viewing themselves as an aristocratic elite that held a monopoly of the ability to govern wisely and effectively , they were especially resentful of the democratization and seeming debasement of American politics . In their eyes Jacksonian democracy was the movement that had resulted in their own loss of status and power . Believing that the affairs of state should be conducted by the " right " sort of people , they condemned Jackson for supposedly beginning the process of corrupting an ideal state of affairs . The masses of people , these patrician aristocrats believed , were incapable of self-government ; their interests could best be looked after by an uncorruptible aristocracy truly devoted to the welfare of the nation . Their historical writings , then , represented a **26;443;TOOLONG point of view . Consequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward Jackson . By the beginning of the twentieth century , the study of history in the United States had begun to undergo a profound transformation . No longer did Eastern patricians dominate his- footnote 4 Hermann E. von Hoist , The Constitutional and Political History of the United States ( 8 vols. : Chicago , 1876-1892 ) , II , p. 77 . Parton , Life of Andrew Jackson , III , p. 700.  | torical writing . Instead , their places were taken by younger scholars , many of whom came from different parts of the country and who did not hold aristocratic elitist views . These younger historians saw in their discipline both a means of illuminating contemporary problems and providing guidelines for future action . Staunch believers in democracy and progress , they tended to favor those leaders and movements that had contributed the most to the growing democratization of the American people and their institutions . Unlike the patricians , they did not write about American history in terms of decline from some supposed earlier golden age . On the contrary , they wrote American history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special interests , between the forces of democracy as against aristocracy , so that each epoch brought their country closer and closer to what they felt was its true democratic destiny . These historians , most of whom were part of the Progressive school of American historiography , began to break with the views of the older patrician school . In doing so , they set the stage for a radical reevaluation of Jackson and his role in American history . The changing attitude toward Andrew Jackson first became evident in the writings of Frederick Jackson Turner , one of the earliest of the great Progressive historians . Just as Parton and other patrician historians leaned toward aristocracy , so Turner leaned toward democracy . Indeed , his famous paper on the significance of the frontier in American history in 1893 was an effort to differentiate Americans from Europeans by emphasizing the democratizing influence of a frontier environment . According to Turner , Andrew Jackson was in some ways the logical culmination of the triumph of democratic values in the United States . " On the whole , " Turner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency was more representative of the America of his time than would have been that of any of his rivals . The instincts of the American people in supporting him conformed to the general drift of the tendencies of this New World democracy ? a democracy which preferred persons to property , an active share by the people in government to the greater system and efficiency of a scientific administration by experts or by an established elite who dealt with the people from above . " From the turn of the century until the end of World War II , the Progressive school interpretation of Jacksonian democracy remained dominant among American historians . In numerous footnote s Frederick Jackson Turner , The United States 1830 ? 1850 : The Nation and Its Sections ( New York , 1935 ) , p. 28.  | books and articles , scholars contributed to the growing identification between the triumph of political democracy and the accession of Jackson to the presidency . Even the supposed introduction of the spoils system ? a development that patrician historians had regarded as an unmitigated disaster ? began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Progressive historians emphasized , was both a reflection and a result of democracy . Prior to Jackson public office had , been monopolized by a small social and economic elite who had regarded government as their own private preserve . But the introduction of universal manhood suffrage and the emergence of a broad-based two-party system destroyed the monopoly of this elite and threw open governmental office to all persons regardless of their class or background . The spoils system , then , was the democratic alternative to an elitist monopoly . Far from abhorring the spoils system , Progressive historians saw it as the logical consequence of democracy even though they recognized that it was , under certain conditions , susceptible to abuses . The culmination of the Progressive interpretation of Jacksonian democracy came in 1945 when Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , published his Pulitzer-Prize-winning study The Age of Jackson . This book immediately became the starting point for historiographical controversy and scholars , generally speaking , fell into either the pro- or anti-Schlesinger camp . Indeed , so great was the impact of this book that much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the publication of The Age of Jackson . What Schlesinger succeeded in doing was to sharpen and elucidate in a brilliant and provocative manner the Progressive school interpretation of the Jacksonian era . While his Progressive predecessors had regarded Jackson and democracy as related subjects , they had never clearly spelled out the nature of the relationship in other than general and vague terms . Earlier Progressive historians , for example , had assumed that throughout most of American history economic opportunity had prevented a potential plutocracy from consolidating its rule . Although concerned over the growing disparities between rich and poor in twentieth-century America , they believed that periodic renewals of the democratic faith would modify or ameliorate the overt class struggles that wracked European society . Like most middle-class Americans , they disliked open class conflict ; in their historical writings , therefore , they played down open class strife and stressed instead a sectional conflict between the dem-  | ocratic West , the capitalist Northeast , and the aristocratic slaveowning South . Schlesinger , on the other hand , minimized sectional conflict as the key to an understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems clear now , " he argued , " that more can be understood about Jacksonian democracy if it is regarded as a problem not of sections but of classes . " ' In his eyes the impetus behind Jackson came from noncapitalists , farmers , and workingmen , who were reacting to the economic hardships of the period as well as to the domination of business interests seeking to extend their control over the economy . Where Turner and other sectional historians had emphasized the support that Jackson drew from the West , Schlesinger argued that it was the Eastern urban working class that had played the more important role . Schlesinger 's interpretation of Jacksonian democracy in terms of class conflict was set within a broader framework of his understanding of American history as a whole . The Jacksonian era , Schlesinger maintained , was simply one phase in the continual conflict between liberalism and conservatism in America . American democracy , he wrote , had always accepted the idea of an enduring struggle among competing groups for control of the state . Such a struggle was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government by any single group . " The business community , " Schlesinger forcefully remarked , " has been ordinarily the most powerful of these groups , and liberalism in America has been ordinarily the movement on the part of the other sections of society to restrain the power of the business community . This was the tradition of Jefferson and Jackson , and it has been the basic meaning of American liberalism . " Within this framework , Schlesinger 's approach to Jackson and his followers was highly favorable . Jackson 's attack on the Second Bank of the United States was justified , for the Bank , although performing public functions , was completely independent of popular control . Indeed , the Bank symbolized the alliance between the federal government and the business community . Although Schlesinger clearly pointed out that antipathy toward Nicholas Biddle and the Bank came from diverse , even opposing forces , his point was that the Bank War represented a phase in the struggle to restrain and curtail the power of the business footnoteArthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , The Age of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ibid. , p. 505.  | community . In this sense Jackson and Jacksonian democracy could only be understood and interpreted within the liberal reformist tradition . Schlesinger 's interpretation of Jacksonian democracy , however , did not long go unchallenged . Indeed , within two years after the publication of The Age of Jackson a number of scholars expressed their dissent in no uncertain terms . While few of these critics could agree on an alternative hypothesis , they concurred that Schlesinger 's democratic and class conflict hypothesis was not substantiated by the facts . The result was an extended debate among American historians over the problem of explaining the nature and significance of Jacksonian democracy . Generally speaking , Schlesinger 's critics fell into two general schools . The first , known as the entrepreneurial school , maintained that Jackson did not represent the great masses of people who were attempting to curb the power and authority of the business community . On the contrary , the Jacksonians themselves were middle-class entrepreneurs and businessmen seeking to free themselves from the restraining hand of government and who sought to embark on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human and social costs involved . The second tradition in American historiography that emerged after 1945 went even further and denied the existence of a movement known as the Jacksonian democracy . The political struggles of the 1830 's , argued some of these historians , revolved around local issues and a desire for public office ; no ideological divisions whatsoever were involved . The first criticisms from the entrepreneurial school came shortly after Schlesinger had published The Age of Jackson . In a series of articles and then in a Pulitzer-Prize-winning book , Bray Hammond , a scholarly official of the Federal Reserve Board , took to task Schlesinger 's interpretation of the Second Bank of the United States . Hammond denied Schlesinger 's contention that the Bank was " the keystone in the alliance between the government and the business community . " 9 He argued instead that this institution performed the role of a central bank ; that is , it was a responsible regulatory agency that had as its function the prevention of disastrous , periodic economic crises by pursuing sound monetary and fiscal policies . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed a rising group of entrepreneurs who resented the obstacles that prevented them footnote 9 Ibid. , p. 76. p 300 from embarking on speculative ventures that would bring them quick wealth . They resented particularly the Second Bank of the United States , in part because its sound monetary policy hampered speculative enterprises , and in part because the Bank was controlled by Philadelphia interests . These entrepreneurs ? centered in New York State and particularly New York City ( and Wall Street ) ? wanted to destroy the national power of the Bank in order to further their own economic interests . In Andrew Jackson , according to Hammond , these rising entrepreneurs found their champion . For Jackson seemed to epitomize the rising tide of democracy in the United States . The appeal of the Jacksonians was extraordinarily broad , for it was phrased in traditional agrarian , democratic , and individualistic terms . Jackson , who never clearly comprehended the issues involved , was persuaded that the Bank , by virtue of its privileged position , was destroying economic opportunity . Hence , he destroyed the Bank . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single financial institution ; the power of the federal government to regulate the economy through fiscal and economic policy was thereby greatly diminished . Consequently , American society throughout the nineteenth century was subjected to the extreme ups and downs of the business cycle , with all of the human . suffering and other undesirable effects that attended periodic depressions . Indeed , by the beginning of the twentieth century the federal government was forced , once again , to reassert the type of financial control required in any modern complex industrial nation . The price of industrialization during the nineteenth century , Hammond concluded , was much greater than it might have been had the Bank been able to continue its regulatory activities . In the first selection in this chapter , Hammond spells out his case for the entrepreneurial interpretation of Jacksonian democracy.l ' 0 Hammond 's thesis , of course , was in some respects diametrically opposed to that of Schlesinger , who had seen Jackson as the champion of the masses . Hammond , on the other hand , saw Jackson and his followers as middle-class entrepreneurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow ends . In this sense Jacksonian democracy was not strictly a democratic movement ; it was a movement by expectant capitalists seeking only to free themselves from government restraint . footnote " Hammond 's most extended discussion of Jacksonian Democracy appeared in his book Banks and Politics in America : From the Revolution to the Civil War ( Princeton , 1957 ) , pp. 286 if .  | Oddly enough , the entrepreneurial school 's interpretation of Jackson and that of Schlesinger had a great deal in common . Both Schlesinger and his entrepreneurial criticis viewed Jacksonian democracy in terms of classes ; both rejected an exclusively agrarian approach to the Jacksonians ; and both emphasized the urban sources of the movement . Despite these seeming similarities , the two came to sharply differing conclusions . By emphasizing the middle-class sources of Jacksonian democracy , the entrepreneurial historians were , in effect , denying that the movement was in the American liberal tradition as Schlesinger had claimed . Instead of championing the cause of the people , Jackson was upholding the cause of liberal capitalism . Thus the political struggles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be viewed within a class framework that pitted the people against business and other special interests ; some other hypothesis would have to be found in order to make some sense out of the politics and personalities of that era . Hammond 's entrepreneurial approach was echoed in one form or another by other historians , notably Richard Hofstadter and Joseph Dorfman , both of whom saw in Jackson a President who was fundamentally pro-business in his outlook . In his book The American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It , Hofstadter entitled one of his chapters " Andrew Jackson and the Rise of Liberal Capitalism . " The Jacksonian movement , he emphasized , was " a phase in the expansion of liberated capitalism " and " was closely linked to the ambitions of the small capitalist . " To Hofstadter the popular hatred of privilege and the dominant laissez-faire ideology ? both of which came together in Jacksonian democracy ? made an unhappy combination . Their convergence in a single political movement created a mythology that defined democracy in terms of a weak central government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in questions involving national policy.I " The reaction against the Progressive school interpretation of Jacksonian democracy by entrepreneurial historians was also reinforced after 1945 by neo-conservative historians , who rejected a class analysis of American history and emphasized instead the basic consensus that united all Americans . In the United States , these historians argued , politics never revolved around ideological and class conflicts precisely because Americans shared a common outlook founded on Lockean middle- footnote 11 Richard Hofstadter , The American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It ( New York , 1948 ) , pp. 55-63.  | class liberalism . Reacting to the external threat posed to American institutions by the Soviet Union in particular and Marxism in general , the work of these historians reflected the emphasis on national unity so characteristic of the postwar era . The rejection of a clear class interpretation of Jacksonian politics was further reinforced by the work of historians who were influenced by the quantitative studies undertaken in other social science disciplines , especially political science , and who attempted to analyze party struggles by gathering and analyzing aggregate voting behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some serious questions about the validity of an interpretation that relied on a simple class division and the platforms and statements of parties and leaders . Although neo-conservative and quantitative-minded historians rejected a class conflict analysis of Jacksonian democracy , they were set apart from the entrepreneurial school , which viewed the period in terms of a struggle between competing economic groups . The entrepreneurial school , it will be recalled , viewed Jackson as a symbol of the rising middle class in American civilization . The basic struggle in the 1830 's , they suggested , was not between the haves and the have-nots , but between two sets of capitalists ? between newer entrepreneurs seeking to free themselves of the shackles imposed by the government regulation that was exercised through the Second Bank of the United States , and the older and more conservative entrepreneurs seeking to guide economic development through a neo-mercantilist policy that gave the central government an important role in economic affairs . These newer historians , however , went far beyond the approach of the entrepreneurial school in rejecting a class-conflict approach altogether . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution in emphasizing the middle-class rather than the lower-class nature of the Jacksonian movement , these scholars believed that the movement had to be interpreted within a different framework . Consequently , they began to advance their own explanation of the nature of Jacksonian democracy , its sources , its development , and its significance in American history . Some historians , to cite one example , began to deal with the Jacksonian era within a psychological framework . Influenced by work done in the social and behavioral sciences , they sought to apply certain concepts from these disciplines in such a way as to arrive at new insights in the study of history . The idea of  | reform was particularly susceptible to a psychological analysis , for historians had long been interested in understanding the motivation and behavior of various types of reformers . In the hands of this psychologically oriented school of historians , the Jacksonians could only be understood in terms of status insecurity . The participation of the Jacksonians in various reform efforts , including their attack on the Second Bank of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anxiety regarding their status in society . Reform served as a compensation for this insecurity and gave them an alternative outlet for self-expression . What these scholars were implying was that the Jacksonians resorted to reform activities because of their inability to adjust to the changing ways of American society . Reform , in effect , served largely as a therapeutic function to calm their fears regarding their own status insecurity . Within such a framework , the psychological school reduced all issues to psychological terms . The second selection in this chapter by Marvin Meyers is an excellent example of the psychological interpretation of Jacksonian democracy . Meyers argues that the Jacksonians wanted to preserve the virtues of a simple agrarian republic without having to sacrifice the rewards and conveniences of modern capitalism . By the 1830 's , Meyers suggests , the United States was already on the road toward industrialization . The Jacksonians , together with many of their supporters , were unprepared for all of the changes taking place in their society ? changes that were undermining traditional values and giving rise to unfamiliar and unwelcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore the virtues of the simple agrarian republic that had supposedly existed about the time of the American Revolution . The enemy , according to Jackson and his followers , was best personified in the Second Bank of the United States , for this institution did not create true wealth , but merely represented a " paper money power , the corporate money power ? i.e. , concentrations of wealth arising suddenly from financial manipulation and special privilege , ill-gotten gains . " Because the Bank was corrupting the plain republican order that they held so dear , the Jacksonians decided to cut out this source of corruption in the body politic . Herein , Meyers concludes , lies a paradox . The Jacksonians believed that in attacking the Bank they were destroying an institution that menaced their idealized agrarian republic ; in reality , they were destroying a regulatory institution , thereby paving the way for the triumph of laissez-faire capitalism .  | Historians of the psychological school , of course , were considerably indebted to their predecessors . Meyers , for example , had accepted Schlesinger 's description of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacksonian democracy implied laissez-faire capitalism . Nevertheless , his synthesis simply reduced the Jacksonian movement to a set of psychological adjustments ; one could not understand Jackson and his followers as part of a long and viable reform tradition . Nor were class conflicts determining factors in the movement . The ferment during the Jacksonian era was the result of competition for status and position by certain groups within society rather than competition between classes . The psychological interpretation of Jacksonian democracy was only one approach taken by post-1945 historians . Within the last decade or so , another group of scholars has gone further afield ; they have denied that Jacksonian democracy , as an organized movement or even a concept , ever existed . They argued instead that American historians who had utilized the concept had been influenced by their commitment to a democratic ideology . Such a commitment had led these historians to read their own values back into the past , thereby making Andrew Jackson a symbolic champion of the people in what they saw as a perennial struggle against the business class and other special interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would completely discredit the Progressive school interpretation of Jacksonian democracy . But if Andrew Jackson was neither the champion of the people nor even the representative of the emerging laissez-faire capitalism , then how could the politics of the 1830 's be interpreted ? In answering this question , these historians tended to borrow heavily from the behavioral sciences and to emphasize statistical data in order to demonstrate that the American people were not divided along class and ideological lines . In this respect their work paralleled the suffrage studies of Robert E. Brown and other colonial historians who had argued that seventeenthand eighteenth-century America was already a middle-class democratic society . If American society was obviously democratic by the 1820 's , Jackson could hardly be considered within a democratic reformist tradition . Thus Richard P. McCormick , in several studies of voting behavior during the Jacksonian era , challenged the thesis that an unprecedented upsurge in voting had been responsible for Jackson 's victories in 1828 and 1832 . Indeed , McCormick argued , the real upsurge in voter participation came after Jack-  | son was out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second American party system ( to distinguish it from the Federalist and Jeffersonian party system ) was not precipitated by ideological or class issues . It originated rather in the successive presidential contests between 1824 and 1840 . " It did not emerge , " McCormick wrote , " from cleavages within Congress , nor from any polarization of attitudes on specific public issues , nor did it represent merely the revival in new form of pre-existing party alignments . The second party system did not spring into existence at any one time . Rather , new party alignments appeared at different times from region to region . The most influential factor determining when alignments appeared within a particular region was the regional identifications of the presidential candidates . As changes occurred in the personnel involved in the contest for the presidency , corresponding changes took place in regional party alignments . New England , for example , was politically monolithic in support of John Quincy Adams , but when Clay was substituted for Adams , a two-party situation resulted . The South was monolithic behind Jackson , but when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into two parties . " 12 The implication of McCormick 's interpretation was obvious ; Jacksonian democracy , in terms of a distinct ideological party structure , never existed . In a similar vein Edward Pessen in his recent synthesis concluded that the age of Jackson was simply too heterogeneous and defied simple labeling . " If the attempt were made nevertheless to capture its spirit in a phrase , " he wrote , " there is something to be said for calling it an age of materialism and opportunism , reckless speculation and erratic growth , unabashed vulgarity , and a politic , seeming deference to the common man by the uncommon men who actually ran things . " 13 In the third selection in this chapter , Lee Benson spells out in a clear and succinct manner the argument that Jacksonian footnote 12 Richard P. McCormick , The Second American Party System : Party Formation in the Jacksonian Era ( Chapel Hill , 1966 ) , p. 13 . See also McCormick 's two articles , " New Perspectives on Jacksonian Politics , " American , Historical Review , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 301 ; and " Suffrage Classes and Party Alignments : A Study in Voter Behavior , " Mississippi Valley Historical Review , XLVI ( December , 1959 ) , pp. 397 ? 410. 13 Edward Pessen , Jacksonian America : Society , Personality and Politics ( Homewood , Ill. , 1969 ) , pp. 350 ? 351 . Surprisingly enough , this historical problem has been generally ignored by historians of the " New Left . " One exception is Michael A. Lebowitz , " The Jacksonians : Paradox Lost ? " , in Towards a New Past : Dissenting Essays in American History , edited by Barton J. Bernstein ( New York , 1968 ) , pp. 65 ? 89.  | democracy was a fiction created by American historians . Taking New York State as a test case , Benson categorically denies the existence of an organized , cohesive reform movement centered about Jackson and his followers . Indeed , Benson argues , the program of the Jackson party ? which included states ' rights , a strong executive leadership , freedom of conscience , and the idea of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such a program , he even suggests , was the negation of the democratic , egalitarian , and humanitarian movements that emerged during the second half of the nineteenth century . As an alternative hypothesis , Benson suggests that the era be named the " Age of Egalitarianism . " If this were done , historians would realize that the political struggles of that day were . over means , not over ends . Local issues , he points out , played the dominant role in New York politics ; the struggle over officeholding was always the dominating factor . Voting behavior was also a function of ethnic and religious factors , not economic ones . Benson concludes by advising historians to forget about the entire concept of Jacksonian democracy.14 Considering the variety of ways in which historians have approached the Jacksonian era , is it possible to offer any judgment about their relative worth ? Was the Progressive school right in arguing that Jackson and his followers represented the people in their struggle against privilege and vested interests , and that the movement was one phase in the continuing conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the entrepreneurial historians correct in stressing the identification of the Jacksonians with laissez-faire capitalism ? Or were both wrong , as more recent historians have insisted ? Equally relevant is the question as to whether or not historians writing about Jacksonian democracy were simply reflecting their own milieu , thereby making impossible any truly objective judgment of this important era in American history . These are indeed difficult questions to answer ; perhaps no historian can give any definitive or binding answers . Undoubtedly this historical controversy reflects the perennial ? and valuable ? effort to define with precision the nature and significance of the American experience . If so , perhaps the quest itself is of value , apart from any other possible benefits . footnote 14 Lee Benson , The Concept of Jacksonian Democracy : New York as a Test Case ( Princeton , 1961 ) . For a recent discussion by Benson of the Jacksonian period see his essay , " Middle Period Historiography : What is to be Done ? , " in American History : Retrospect and Prospect , edited by George A. Billias and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pp. 154-190.  | BRAY HAMMOND ( 1886 ? 1968 ) was for many years an official with the Federal Reserve Bank . He received the Pulitzer Prize for his book Banks and Politics in America from the Revolution to the Civil War ( 1957 ) . MORE than forty years have passed since Catterall 's monograph on the second Bank of the United States was published , and , though that account has never been superseded , it antedates all recent literature on central banking and therefore presents inadequately the public purposes of the bank . Furthermore , it includes nothing about the bank 's Pennsylvania successor , which failed , and thus omits the denouement of Biddle 's conflict with Jackson . The inevitable effect of the failure , in the rough justice of history , was to make Jackson seem right and Biddle wrong ; and this impression , especially in the absence of attention to the purpose and functions of the bank , seems in recent years to have been strengthened . I think it needs correction . The Bank of the United States ? the B.U.S . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national institution of complex beginnings , for its establishment in 1816 derived from the extreme fiscal needs of the federal government , the disorder of an unregulated currency , and the promotional ambitions of businessmen . The bank had an immense amount of private business ? as all central banks then had and as many still have ? yet it was even more definitely a government bank than was footnote " Jackson , Biddle , and the Bank of the United States , " Journal of Economic History , VII ( May , 1947 ) , 1-10 . Reprinted , with omissions , by permission of the Economic History Association .  | the Bank of England , the Bank of France , or any other similar institution at the time . The federal government owned one fifth of its capital and was its largest single stockholder , whereas the capital of other central banks was wholly private . Government ownership of central-bank stock has become common only in very recent years . Five of the bank 's twenty-five directors , under the terms of its charter , were appointed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these five might be a director of any other bank . Two of its three successive presidents ? William Jones and Nicholas Biddle ? were chosen from among these government directors . The charter made the bank depository of the government and accountable to Congress and the Secretary of the Treasury . On this depository relation hinged control over the extension of credit by banks in general , which is the essential function of a central bank . The government 's receipts arose principally from taxes paid by importers to customs collectors ; these tax payments were in bank notes , the use of checks not then being the rule ; the bank notes were mostly those of private banks , which were numerous and provided the bulk of the money in circulation ; the B.U.S . received these notes on deposit from the customs collectors and , becoming thereby creditor of the private banks that issued them , presented them to the latter for payment . Banks that extended credit properly and maintained adequate gold and silver reserves were able to pay their obligations promptly on demand . Those that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank upon the private banks was constant , and its effect was to restrict their lending and their issue of notes . In this fashion , it curbed the tendency of the banks to lend too much and so depreciate their circulation . Its regulatory powers were dependent on the private banks ' falling currently into debt to it . The regulatory powers now in effect under the Federal Reserve Act depend upon the opposite relation ? that is , upon the private banks ' maintaining balances with the Federal Reserve Banks . The private banks were then debtors to the central bank ; they are now creditors . The regulatory powers of the United States Bank were simpler , more direct , and perhaps more effective than those of the Federal Reserve Banks , though they would not be so under presentday conditions . It was notorious that large and influential numbers of the private banks and official state banks resented this regulation of their lending power . All but the more conservative found it  | intolerable to be let and hindered by the dunning of the B.U.S . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many of them had the effrontery to insist as a matter of right that they be allowed to pay the central bank if and when they pleased . The effort of various states , especially Maryland and Ohio , to levy prohibitory taxes on the United States Bank 's branches reflects this desire of the private banks to escape regulation quite as much as it reflects the states ' jealousy of their " invaded " sovereignty ; the efforts were economic as well as political . In 1831 , Gallatin commended the bank for its conduct during the twenties ; it had " effectually checked excessive issues " by the state banks ; " that very purpose " for which it had been established had been fulfilled . On the regulatory operation of the bank , " which requires particular attention and vigilance and must be carried on with great firmness and due forbearance , depends almost exclusively the stability of the currency . . . . " The country 's " reliance for a sound currency and , therefore , for a just performance of contracts rests on that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the Bank of England , that " the Bank of the United States must not be considered as affording a complete remedy , " for the ills of overexpansion , " but as the best and most practicable which can be applied " ; and its action " had been irreproachable " in maintaining a proper reserve position " as late as November 1830 . " Though Gallatin did not say so , this was in effect praise of Nicholas Biddle 's administration of the bank . The powerful expansion of the economy in the nineteenth century made it necessary for the regulatory action of the bank to be mostly one of restraint , but there was occasion also for it to afford ease as holder of the ultimate reserves and lender of last resort . One of the first things it did was to end the general suspension that the country had been enduring for more than two years ; and a crucial factor in the willingness and ability of the private banks to resume payment of their obligations was the pledge of the United States Bank that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was " a very early declaration of the view that it is the duty of the central bank to act as lender of last resort . " The regulatory functions of the bank were not always well performed . Its first president , William Jones , was a politician who extended credit recklessly , rendered the bank impotent to keep the private banks in line , and nearly bankrupted it ? all  | in a matter of three years . Langdon Cheves put the bank back in a sound condition by stern procedures that were unavoidably unpopular . When Nicholas Biddle succeeded Cheves in 1823 , the bank was strong in every respect but good will . Biddle repressed the desires of the stockholders for larger dividends , keeping the rate down and accumulating reserves . The art of central banking was not so clearly recognized then as it has since become , but Biddle advanced it , and with better luck he might well be memorable for having developed means of mitigating the tendency to disastrous , periodic crises characteristic of the nineteenth century in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not very discreet . He had an airy way of speaking that shocked his more credulous enemies and did him irreparable harm ; and , when he described the functions of the bank , he contrived to give a livelier impression of its power than of its usefulness . Once when asked by a Senate committee if the B.U.S . ever oppressed the state banks , he said , " never " : although nearly all of them might have been destroyed , many had been saved and still more had been relieved . This was ineffable in a man of Biddle 's exceptional abilities . It put a normal situation in a sinister and uncouth light . A wanton abuse of regulatory powers is always possible , and abstention from it is not to be boasted of ? any more than a decent man would boast of not choosing to be a burglar . By talking so , Biddle made his opponents feel sure he had let the cat out of the bag . For Thomas Hart Benton he had proved entirely too much ? that he had a dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . " Jackson referred in his veto to Biddle 's remark , and Roger Taney was still shuddering at the disclosure many years later . He believed then and he believed still , he wrote , that there was a scheme to close every state bank in the Union . He believed " that the matter had been thought of , and that the manner in which it could be done was well understood . " That people believed such things , Biddle had his own jauntiness , naivete , and political ineptitude to thank . When Jackson became president in 1829 , the B. U. S. had survived what then seemed its most crucial difficulties . The Supreme Court had affirmed and reaffirmed its constitutionality and ended the attempts of unfriendly states to interfere  | with it . The Treasury had long recognized its efficient services as official depository . The currency was in excellent condition . Yet in his first annual message , Jackson told Congress that " both the constitutionality and the expediency of the law creating the bank were well questioned by a large portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that it has failed in the great end of establishing a uniform and sound currency . " There is nothing remarkable about Jackson 's doubts of the bank 's constitutionality , for he did not defer his own judgment to John Marshall 's nor , in general , had the Supreme Court 's opinions attained their later prestige . His statement that the bank had failed in establishing a good currency is more difficult to understand , for it was plainly untrue in the usual sense of the words . But he was evidently using the words in the special sense of locofoco hard-money doctrine , according to which the only good money was gold and silver ; the Constitution authorized Congress to coin it and regulate its value ; the states were forbidden to issue paper and the federal government was not empowered to do so . Jackson , wrote C. J. Ingersoll , " considers all the state banks unconstitutional and impolitic and thinks that there should be no currency but coin . . . . " There were practical considerations no less important than the legal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a means by which a relatively small number of persons enjoyed the privilege of creating money to be lent , for the money obtained by borrowers at banks was in the form of the banks ' own notes . The fruits of the abuse were obvious : notes were overissued , their redemption was evaded , they lost their value , and the innocent husbandman and mechanic who were paid in them were cheated and pauperized : " It is absurd , " wrote Taney , " to talk about a sound and stable paper currency . " There was no such thing . So , in Jackson 's opinion , if the United States Bank was not establishing a metallic currency , it was not establishing a constitutional or sound and uniform one . His words might seem wild to the contaminated , like Gallatin and Biddle , but they were plain gospel truth to his sturdy antibank , hard-money agrarians . Hard money was a cardinal tenet of the left wing of the Democratic party . It belonged with an idealism in which America was still a land of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its aim was to clip the wings of commerce and finance by restricting the credit that paper money enabled them to obtain . There would then be no vast debt , no inflation , no  | demoralizing price changes ; there would be no fluctuant or disappearing values , no swollen fortunes , and no grinding poverty . The precious metals would impose an automatic and uncompromising limit on the volatile tendencies of trade . " When there was a gold and silver circulation , " said an agrarian in the Iowa constitutional convention of 1844 , " there were no fluctuations ; everything moved on smoothly and harmoniously . " The Jacksonians were even more devoted to the discipline of gold than the monetary conservatives of the present century . There was also a pro-bank , " paper-money wing , " which harbored the Democratic party 's less spiritual virtues . Its strength lay with free enterprise , that is , with the new generation of businessmen , promoters , and speculators , who found the old Hamiltonian order of the Federalists too stodgy and confining . These were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats in principle " ; one of the latter wrote sarcastically in the Democratic Review in 1838 , " Being a good Democrat , that is to say , a Democrat by trade ( Heaven forefend that any son of mine should be a Democrat in principle ) ? being a good Democrat by trade , he got a snug slice of the public deposits . " Fifty years before , business had fostered the erection of a strong federal government and inclined toward monopoly ; in the early nineteenth century it began to appreciate the advantages offered by laissez faire and to feel that it had more to gain and less to fear from the states than from the federal government . This led it to take on the coloration and vocabulary of Jacksonian democracy and to exalt the rugged individualism of the entrepreneur and speculator along with that of the pioneer . The private banks and their friends had helped to kill the first Bank of the United States twenty years before , but the strength they could muster against the second was much greater . Herein lies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson became president in 1801 and the situation of the second when Jackson became president in 1829 . Both men disapproved of the national bank and yet were inhibited by its being accepted in their own party and performing well its evidently important functions . There were also the differences that Jefferson was more amenable to reason than Jackson , that he had in Gallatin a better adviser than any Jackson had , and that the bank was under a more passive management in his day than in Jackson 's . But of most importance was the greater pressure the private banks were able to exert  | in Jackson 's time than in Jefferson 's . Between 1801 and 1829 their number had greatly increased , as had the volume of their business and the demand for credit . The records indicate that in 1801 there were 31 banks , in 1829 there were 329 , and in 1837 there were 788 ? an increase of 140 percent during Jackson 's administration alone . These banks were associated to a marked extent with the Democratic party , especially in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1829 than in 1801 , and it did more for Jackson 's victory over the national bank than did the zeal of his hard-money locofocos . De Tocqueville wrote that " the slightest observation " enabled one to see the advantages of the B.U.S . to the country and mentioned as most striking the uniform value of the currency it furnished . But the private banks , he said , submitted with impatience to " this salutary control " exercised by the B.U.S . They bought over newspapers . " They roused the local passions and the blind democratic instinct of the country to aid their cause . . . . " Without them , it is doubtful if the Jacksonians could have destroyed the B.U.S . The Jacksonian effort to realize the hard-money ideals was admirable , viewed as Quixotism . For however much good one may find in these ideals , nothing could have been more unsuited than they were to the American setting . In an austere land or among a contemplative and self-denying people they might have survived but not in one so amply endowed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and acquisitive European stock . Nowhere on earth was the spirit of enterprise to be more fierce , the urge for exploitation more restless , or the demand for credit more importunate . The rise of these reprobated forces spurred the agrarians , and as business itself grew they came to seek nothing less than complete prohibition of banking . Yet they chose to destroy first the institution which was curbing the ills they disapproved , and to that end they leagued with the perpetrators of those ills . Jackson made himself , as de Tocqueville observed , the instrument of the private banks . He took the government 's funds out of the central bank , where they were less liable to speculative use and put them in the private banks , where they were fuel to the fire . He pressed the retirement of the public debt , and he acquiesced in distribution of the federal surplus . These things fomented the very evils he deplored and made the Jacksonian inflation one of the worst in American history . They quite outweighed the Maysville veto , which checked federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which crudely and belatedly paralyzed bank credit . As a result , Jackson 's presidency escaped by only two months from ending like Hoover 's in 1933 . Far from reaching the happy point where the private banks could be extirpated and the hands of the exploiters and speculators could be tied , Jackson succeeded only in leaving the house swept and garnished for them ; and the last state of the economy was worse than the first . He professed to be the deliverer of his people from the oppressions of the mammoth ? but instead he delivered the private banks from federal control and his people to speculation . No more striking example could be found of a leader fostering the very evil he was angrily wishing out of the way . But this was the inevitable result of the agrarian effort to ride two horses bound in opposite directions : one being monetary policy and the other states ' rights . Monetary policy must be national , as the Constitution doubly provides . The agrarians wanted the policy to be national , but they eschewed the practicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthening the national authority over the monetary system , they destroyed it . Where they were unencumbered by this fatal aversion to centralized power , they accomplished considerable . In Indiana they set up an official State Bank , with branches , which from 1834 to 1853 was the only source of bank credit permitted and yet was ample for all but the most aggressive money-makers , who finally ended its monopoly . In Missouri , they established the Bank of Missouri , with branches , a state monopoly which lasted from 1837 to 1857 , when it too succumbed to free enterprise . And in Iowa , another monopoly , the Bank of Iowa , with branches , was in operation from 1858 till 1865 , when free banking penetrated the state under authority of the National Bank Act . These instances indicate that if the hard-money agrarians had had a conception of national government less incompatible with their social purposes , they might have tempered rather than worsened the rampant excesses of nineteenth-century expansion that so offended them . But as it was , they helped an acquisitive democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamilton and by the merchants of Philadelphia and New York and limber it up to suit the popular wish to get rich quick . Wringing their hands , they let bank credit become the convenient key to wealth ? the means of making capital accessible in abundance to millions of go-getting Americans who otherwise could not have  | exploited their natural resources with such whirlwind energy . The excesses of that energy have forced the Jacksonian hardmoney heroics to be slowly undone : the federal government 's authority over money , the Treasury 's close operating contact with the banking system , and the central-bank controls over credit have been haltingly restored . Credit itself , in the surviving American tradition , is not the virus the agrarians held it to be but the lifeblood of business and agriculture , and the Jacksonian hard-money philosophy has been completely forgotten , especially by Jackson 's own political posterity .  | MARVIN MEYERS ( 1921 ? ) is Harry S. Truman Professor of American History at Brandeis University . His book , The Jacksonian Persuasion ( 1957 ) , received the Dunning prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editor of the works of eminent Jacksonians might arrange one volume to portray the revolt of the urban masses against a business aristocracy ; a second in which simple farming folk rise against the chicanery of capitalist slickers ; a third volume tense with the struggle of the fresh forest democracy for liberation from an effete East ; and still another book of men on the make invading the entrenched positions of chartered monopoly . With no undue demand upon editorial resourcefulness , the Jacksonian series might turn next to the party machine , managing a newly made mass electorate through the exploitation of some of the preceding themes . The terminal volume might well rest in the shadow of Jefferson : the patriotic friends of wise and frugal government , equal rights and equal laws , strict construction and dispersed power , resisting the eternally scheming tory , monocrat , and rag-baron . This partial list of possible uses of Jacksonian thought does not quite suggest that Jacksonian Democracy may mean all things to all men . Some omissions have been made with a point : for example , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacksonian Democracy with the rise of abolitionism ; or ( in an exclusive sense ) with the temperance movement , school reform , religious enthusiasm or theological liberalism ; or ( in any sense ) with Utopian community building . Yet the variety of meanings which can command some docu- footnote " The Jacksonian Persuasion , " American Quarterly , V ( Spring , 1953 ) , 3-15 . Reprinted by permission of the American Quarterly and Marvin Meyers . Copyright , 1953 , Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania .  | mentary support is too wide for easy assimilation in a coherent interpretation of Jacksonian Democracy . Here there is , I think , a fair field for the critical examination of the major contending theses and , of greater importance , for a fresh reading of the most obvious Jacksonian sources . The present approach takes its departure from the debunking theses of recent writers like Dorfman and Abernethy , who in their separate ways have corrected a number of major and minor errors by an exemplary regard for original sources viewed carefully in historical context . Yet their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ messages lead them to discount as meaningless a large part of the sustenance of the Jacksonian public , in order to pursue the " real thing " ? i.e. , the objective import of legal and institutional changes . If , for example , in Dorfman 's terms , the major economic consequences of Jacksonian reform politics in New York were to establish free banking and incorporation laws and constitutional limits upon credit undertakings of the state ? then what is the meaning of the highly-charged polemical jargon , the vague class appeals , the invocation of grand principles ? Why , in short , did the language go so far beyond the practical object ? Simply to say " propaganda " does not tell why a particular lingo makes good propaganda and another kind does not . Nor is there obvious reason for regarding the traffic in " propaganda " as less significant intrinsically than the traffic in harder goods . And so these notes return to a staple of pre- or non-revisionist historians , the popular political discourse , in an attempt to identify the social values expressed or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties in such an enterprise are no doubt abundant and serious : the subject matter is in its nature elusive ; the temptation is powerful indeed ? as the debunking writers have been quick to note ? to select passages from selected spokesmen , with considerable neglect of textual and situational context , in order to find some grand motif establishing the spirit of Jacksonian Democracy ; and always one faces the relatively easy out of fabricating some systematic theory of Jacksonian Democrats from fragmentary words and acts , with results which tend to be laborious , intellectually arid , and unrevealing of the qualities of the Jacksonian movement . There is nevertheless a commanding case for examining the sort of values offered to and preferred by the Jacksonian public ; the popular political statement would seem a prime example of  | such communication ; and the first spokesman must be Andrew Jackson . His presidential papers taken in all their dimensions , theory , policy , and rhetoric , and searched for certain constant , elementary moral postures , provide a revealing and somewhat unexpected commentary upon the character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson , most students agree , rose to national leadership on the strength of reputed personal qualities : the blunt , tough , courageous " Old Hero " of New Orleans ? honest and plain " Old Hickory . " " Old " refers to age , of course , but perhaps more to " old-style . " Again , not so much to old-style ideas as to the old ways of our fathers . He could be ? and was in a boy 's capacity ? a fit companion for the Revolutionary heroes . Jackson never figured as the speculative statesman . In his own estimate and the public 's , he was executor of a republican tradition which required not elaboration or revision but right action , taken from a firm moral stance . It is no novelty to say that the world revealed in Andrew Jackson 's public statements appears , like the public image of the man , strikingly personal and dramatic , built upon the great/ struggle of people vs. aristocracy for mastery of the republic . In relation to such issues as the Bank War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , the great body of citizens , demanding only an equal chance ; on the other , their temptors and adversaries , the small greedy aristocracy , full of tricks and frauds , absorbing power and privilege . Yet the grand conflict , as it emerges from Jackson 's public statements , has its ambiguities ? viz. , the variant interpretations of Jacksonian Democracy . Within the gross polemical image of social drama much remains for further explication and explanation . On the side of virtue , in Jackson 's world , one finds the plain republican ? direct descendant of Jefferson 's yeoman hero ? along with Poor Richard and such other , lesser friends . The presence of the sturdy , independent citizen-toiler has been no secret to historians ? yet some interesting possibilities have been missed . In creating the character and role of the plain republican Jackson has provided , I think , an important clue for the interpretation of Jacksonian values .  | " Keep clear of Banks and indebtedness , " Jackson wrote to his adopted son after settling the boy 's debts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence and leave your family so . . . and remember , my son , . . . that we should always live within our means , and not on those of others . " Read this little paternal homily against the familiar public statements . Can it be that Jacksonian Democracy appeals not to some workingman 's yearning for a brave new world ; not to the possibilities of a fresh creation at the Western limits of civilization ; not to the ambitions of a rising laissez-faire capitalism ? not to any of these so much as to a restoration of old virtues and a ( perhaps imaginary ) old republican way of life ? It will be my contention that the Jacksonian appeal evokes the image of a calm and stable order of republican simplicity , content with the modest rewards of useful toil ; and menacing the rustic peace , an alien spirit of risk and novelty , greed and extravagance , rapid motion and complex dealings . In short , we may discover in the political discourse of Jacksonian Democracy a powerful strain of restorationism , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restless projects of innovation and reform ? against qualities so often set down as defining characteristics of Jacksonian America . Of course this is not to say that the Jacksonians ? master politicos and responsible rulers ? designed to whisk away the given world , nor that their public actions yielded such a result . In practice they met issues as they came out of the play of current politics , adapting skillfully to the requirements of local conditions , special interests , and party rule . If the plain-republican theme is a substantial component of the Jacksonian persuasion , it need not dictate the precise policy line or control the objective consequences of party action in order to qualify as significant . The degree of coincidence or divergence is another ( most important ) question which can not be approached until one knows what appeared in that dimension of political life which consists in the effective communication of value-charged language . The Real People Jackson 's contemporary rivals damned him for appealing to class against class ; some modern writers praise him for it .  | Beyond question , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and profoundly antagonistic . But to understand the meaning of such cleavage and clash , one must see them within a controlling context . There is for Jackson a whole body , the sovereign people , beset with aristocratic sores . The relentless and apparently irresistible use of " the people " in Jacksonian rhetoric is reflected in the diary of a wealthy New York City Whig , Philip Hone , who daily grinds the phrase through his teeth ; or , with accumulated effect , in the growling humor of a Whig delegate to the New York Constitutional Convention of 1846 ? " The love of the people , the dear people was all that the gentlemen said influenced them . How very considerate . The love of the people ? the dear people ? was generally on men 's tongues when they wanted to gain some particular end of their own . . . . In the opposition view Jackson ? and Jacksonians generally ? were the worst sort of demagogues who could appropriate with galling effectiveness both the dignity of the sovereign people and the passion of embattled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nasty imputations about demagoguery aside , there are the whole people and the alien aristocracy , and the political advantages which result from the use of this distinction further confirm its validity . Jackson 's notion of the-class-of-the-people is grounded first in the political order , more precisely in the republican order . From this fixed base , and with this fixed idea of the double character of the people , Jackson 's representation of the group composition of society may be analyzed first in the standard terms of Jacksonian scholarship , and then , by what seems to me a necessary extension , in the context of the restoration theme . In the most inclusive and high-toned usage , the people would comprise " all classes of the community " and " all portions of the Union . " From their midst arises a general " will of the American people " which is something considerably more than a fluctuating majority vote ( though the vote for Jackson is acknowledged as a fair index ) . There are interests of a class and sectional character , legitimate and often illegitimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neatly with the main items of the Democratic platform ) . The general will is originally pure ? ( " Never for a moment believe that the great body of the citizens of any State or States can deliberately intend to do wrong . . . " ) ; liable to temporary error through weakness ?  | ( corruptionists will sometimes succeed in " sinister appeals to selfish feelings " and to " personal ambition " ) ; and in the end , straight and true ? ( " but in a community so enlightened and patriotic as the people of the United States argument will soon make them sensible of their errors " ) . A brief , sharp exemplification of this view occurs in Jackson 's argument for direct election of the president . The extent of American territory ? Madison 's chief reliance for controlling the threat of majority faction ? suggests to Jackson the dangerous prospects of sectional parties , which in turn will present sectional candidates and , in the zeal for party and selfish objects , " generate influences unmindful of the general good . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrivances of the complex electoral system . However , " the great body of the people " armed with a direct presidential vote which can express the general " will " must always defeat " antirepublican " sic. tendencies and secure the common good . These " antirepublican " forces are identified as the " intriguers and politicians " and their tools , who thrive on political consolidation , chartered privilege , and speculative gain . Jackson sums up in relation to the bank war : The bank is , in fact , but one of the fruits of a system at war with the genius of all our institutions ? a system founded upon a political creed the fundamental principle of which is a distrust of the popular will as a safe regulator of political power , and whose ultimate object and inevitable result , should it prevail , is the consolidation of all power in our system in one central government . Lavish public disbursements and corporations with exclusive privileges would be its substitutes for the original and as yet sound checks and balances of the Constitution ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be exercised by the few over the political conduct of the many by first acquiring that control over the labor and earnings of the great body of the people . Wherever this spirit has effected an alliance with political power , tyranny and despotism have been the fruit . In these rough outlines there is enough to reconstruct what there is of a Jacksonian theory concerning the people and the classes . I doubt that the job is worth doing in any elaborate way . The Jacksonian persuasion is both more and much less than a theoretic structure ; and Jackson 's " people " are not reducible to a lump-quantity in a formal democratic scheme . What is missing is a sense of the nurture , character , and worth  | of the people as they are represented in Jackson 's public papers . In Jackson 's revealing phrase , there are still " the real people " to be considered . When Jackson speaks of the people ? the real people ? he regularly specifies : planters and farmers , mechanics and laborers , " the bone and sinew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrious folk is marked off within society . It appears to be a narrower group than " the sovereign people " of democratic doctrine ? though it would surely encompass the mass of enumerated inhabitants of the Jacksonian era . Historians who identify the favored Jacksonian class simply as the common man tell too little . Others , who make the separation upon wageearner lines , or by rich/poor , town/country , East/West , or North/South , accept what seem to me variable secondary twits . Jackson 's real people are essentially those four specified occupational groups , whose " success depends upon their own industry and economy , " who know " that they must not expect to become suddenly rich by the fruits of their toil . " The lines are fixed by the moral aspects of occupation . Morals , habits , character are key terms in Jackson 's discussion of the people ? and almost every other subject . Major policies , for instance , are warranted by their capacity to " preserve the morals of the people , " or " to revive and perpetuate those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character of republicans . " And so with the differentiation of classes according to worth : the American " laboring classes " are " so proudly distinguished " from their foreign counterparts by their " independent spirit , their love of liberty , their intelligence , and their high tone of moral character . " At a still higher level within the bloc of favored classes , those who work the land ? " the first and most important occupation of man " ? contribute to society " that enduring wealth which is composed of flocks and herds and cultivated farms " and themselves constitute " a hardy race of free citizens . " The positive definition of the real people significantly excludes pursuits which are primarily promotional , financial , or commercial . This does not mean that Jackson raises a class war against mere occupational categories . ( He was himself lawyer , office-holder , land-speculator , and merchant at various times . ) The point seems to be that virtue naturally attaches to , and in fact takes much of its definition from , callings which involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enters most readily through the excluded pursuits , though it  | may infect all classes and " withdraw their attention from the sober pursuits of honest industry . " As indicated before , vice is to be understood largely in terms of certain occupational ways , the morals , habits , and character imputed to the trades which seek wealth without labor , employing the stratagems of speculative maneuver , privilege-grabbing , and monetary manipulation . Like the Jeffersonians , Jackson regularly identifies the class enemy as the money power , the moneyed aristocracy , etc . There is in this undoubtedly some direct appeal against the rich . The mere words call up the income line as an immediate source of invidious distinction . Yet I would maintain that this is a secondary usage . First , Jackson 's bone-and-sinew occupational classes clearly allow for a considerable income range ? it would be fair to say that upper-upper and lower-lower could enter only exceptionally , while there would be a heavy concentration at the middling-independent point . Income as such does not become a ground for class preference in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jackson links income with good and evil ways . The real people can not expect sudden riches from their honest , useful work . And surplus wealth would in any case prove a temptation to the anti-republican habits of idleness and extravagance , as well as an engine of corruption . Briefly , a stable income of middling proportions is generally associated with the occupations , and with the habits , morals , and character of the real people . More important , however , is the meaning given to phrases like " money power " ? and note that Jackson typically uses this expression and not " the rich . " The term occurs invariably in discussions of corporations and , particularly , of banking corporations ; it signifies the paper money power , the corporate money power ? i.e. , concentrations of wealth arising suddenly from financial manipulation and special privilege , ill-gotten gains . If the suggestion persists in Jackson 's public statements that such is the common road to wealth ? and certainly the only quick way ? then it is still the mode and tempo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to damn the rich before Jackson 's public . Further , the money power ? as I have defined it ? is damned precisely as a power , a user of ill-gotten gains to corrupt and dominate the plain republican order . Any concentration of wealth may be a potential source of evil ; but the real danger arises when the concentration falls into hands which require  | grants of special privilege for economic success . So a wealthy planter ( and Jackson was this , too ) should need no editorial or legislative hired hands ; a wealthy banker can not do without them . Thus , Jackson 's representation of the real people in the plain republican order supplies at least tentative ground for an interpretation of Jacksonian Democracy as , in vital respects , an appeal to an idealized ancestral way . Beneath the gross polemical image of people vs. aristocracy , though not at all in conflict with it , one finds the steady note of praise for simplicity and stability , self-reliance and independence , economy and useful toil , honesty and plain dealing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest value when they breed a hardy race of free citizens , the plain republicans of America . Hard Coin and the Web of Credit As a national political phenomenon , Jacksonian Democracy , drew heavily upon the Bank War for its strength and its distinctive character . The basic position Andrew Jackson established for the Democratic party in relation to money and banking continued to operate as a source of political strength through the eighteen-forties . So powerful , in fact , was the Jacksonian appeal that large sections of the rival Whig party finally capitulated on this issue explicitly for the purpose of saving the party 's life . First , shrewd Whig party managers like Weed of New York , and later the generality of Whig spokesmen were forced to plead in effect : a correct ( Old Whig ) position on banking is incompatible with political survival in America . The standard outlines of Jackson 's case against banking and currency abuses have already been sketched above . Within the matrix of his Bank War , the crucial class split is discovered and the general principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War ? viewed as a struggle for possession of men 's minds and loyalties ? does not simply offer a selfevident display of its own meaning . Out of the polemical language there emerges a basic moral posture much like the one which fixes Jackson 's representation of the republican order . Jackson 's appeal for economic reform projects , at bottom , a dismantling operation : to pull down the menacing constructions  | of federal and corporate power , and restore the wholesome rule of " public opinion and the interests of trade . " This has the sound of laissez faire , it is laissez faire with a difference suggested by the previous discussion of the real people and their natural , legitimate economic interests . Poor Richard and economic man may be given a common enemy with the plain republican ; surmounting serious difficulties , the forest democrat , poor man , and workingman might be recruited for the same cause . Indeed the sweeping effect of Jackson 's negative case may be explained in part by his touching off a common hatred of an all-purpose villain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several particular enemies in the broad aristocracy trap , does it not promise still more winningly a dismantling , and a restoration of pure and simple ways ? Tocqueville , though he reaches an opposite conclusion , suggests very effectively this unmaking spirit : The bank is a great establishment , which has an independent existence ; and the people , accustomed to make and unmake whatsoever they please , are startled to meet with this obstacle to their authority . In the midst of the perpetual fluctuation of society , the community is irritated by so permanent an institution and is led to attack it , in order to see whether it can be shaken , like everything else . But what is it about the great establishment which provokes hostility and a passion for dismantling ? How can the permanence of the Bank , set over against the perpetual fluctuation of society , explain the ceaseless Jacksonian complaint against the tendency of the Bank to introduce perpetual fluctuation in the economic affairs of Society ? There is , I think , another and better explanation of the symbolic import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , veritable incarnation of evil in Jackson 's argument , assumes the shape of " the monster , " which is to say , the unnatural creature of greed for wealth and power . Its managers , supporters , and beneficiaries form the first rank of the aristocracy , i.e. , the artificial product of legislative prestidigitation . The monster thrives in a medium of paper money , the mere specter of palpable value . The bank system suspends the real world of solid goods , honestly exchanged , upon a mysterious , swaying web of speculative credit . The natural distributive mechanism , which proportions rewards to " industry , economy , and virtue , " is fixed to pay off the insider and the gambler .  | To knock down this institution , then , and with it a false , rotten , insubstantial world , becomes the compelling object of Jackson 's case . He removed the public deposits , so he said , " to preserve the morals of the people , the freedom of the press , and the purity of the elective franchise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " will form an era in the history of our country which will be dwelt upon with delight by every true friend of its liberty and independence , " not least because the dismantling operation will " do more to revive and perpetuate those habits of economy and simplicity which are so congenial to the character of republicans than all the legislation which has yet been attempted . " The Jacksonian appeal for a dismantling operation and the restoration of old republican ways flows easily into the course of the hard coin argument . Hard coin , I have already suggested , stands for palpable value as against the spectral issue of the printing press . In plainer terms , Jackson argues before the Congress : " The great desideratum in modern times is an efficient check upon the power of banks , preventing that excessive issue of paper whence arise those fluctuations in the standard of value which render uncertain the rewards of labor . " Addressing a later Congress , Jackson pursues the point : Bank paper lacks the stability provided by hard coin ; thus circulation varies with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property and the whole price level are at the mercy of these banking institutions ; thus the laboring classes especially , and the real people generally , are victimized , while the few conniving speculators add to their riches . A related appeal to the attractions of stability , of sure rewards and steady values and hard coins , can be found in Jackson 's warnings against the accumulation and distribution of the revenue surplus : an overflowing federal treasury , spilling into the states , would produce ruinous expansions and contractions of credit , arbitrary fluctuations in the price of property , " rash speculation , idleness , extravagance , and a deterioration of morals . " But above all it is the banks and their paper system which " engender a spirit of speculation injurious to the habits and character of the people , " which inspire " this eager desire to amass wealth without labor , " which turn even good men from " the sober pursuits of honest industry . " To restore hard coin is to restore the ways of the plain republican order . Dismantling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary first step .  | The Sum of Good Government The one essential credential of public or private worth ? whether of individual , or class , or trade ? is conveyed by Jackson through the term " republican " ; that which is anti-republican is the heart of evil . With all valuations referred to the republican standard , and that standard apparently a category of politics , one might expect some final revelation of the Jacksonian persuasion in Jackson 's representation of the good state . The truth is , on my reading , somewhat different : Jackson rather defines republican by ways of living and working , than refers those ways to republicanism in the strict political sense . The good republic he projects ? and remembers from the Revolutionary days of ' 76 and 1800 ? is on the political side the ornament , the glory , and the final security of the worthy community , not its creator . Jackson 's sketch of a political system congenial to old republican ways uses nothing beyond the memorable summation in Jefferson 's First Inaugural Address : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from injuring one another , shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement , and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned . This is the sum of good government , and this is necessary to close the circle of our felicities . " The literal Jacksonian translation prescribes : the Constitution strictly construed ; strict observance of the " fundamental and sacred " rules of simplicity and economy ; separation of the political power from the conduct of economic affairs . His political appeal both parallels and supports the general themes discussed in previous sections . This is no government of projects and ambitions . It does its simple , largely negative business in a simple , self-denying way . Firm and strong , it trims drastically the apparatus of power . The hardy race of independent republicans , engaged in plain and useful toil , require no more than a stable government of equal laws to secure them in their equal rights . In Jacksonian discourse , government becomes a fighting issue only when it grows too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and judged positively by its republicans and only negatively by its government . The Bank War once more provides the crucial case . Jackson mobilized the powers of government for what was essentially a dismantling operation . His cure avoids with terror any transfer-  | ence of the powers of the Bank to another agency : to give to the president the currency controls and the power over individuals now held by the Bank " would be as objectionable and as dangerous as to leave it as it is . " Control of banks and currency ? apart from the strictly constitutional functions of coinage and regulation of value ? should be " entirely separated from the political power of the country . " Any device is wicked and dangerous which would " concentrate the whole moneyed power of the Republic in any form whatsoever . " We must , above all , ignore petty , expediential considerations , and " look to the honor and preservation of the republican system . " Paradox And so the circuit of Jackson 's public appeal may be closed . Plain , honest men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It reads less as the herald of modern times and a grand project of reform than as a reaction against the spirit and body of the changing world . Jacksonian Democracy , viewed through Jackson 's public statements , wants to undo far more than it wishes to do ; and not for the purpose of a fresh creation , but for the restoration of an old republican idyl . The tremendous popularity of Andrew Jackson and his undoubted public influence suggest that this theme can be ignored only at great peril in any general interpretation of Jacksonian Democracy . We must prepare for a paradox : the movement which in many ways cleared the path for the triumph of laissez-faire capitalism and its culture in America , and the public which in its daily life acted out that victory , held nevertheless in their conscience an image of a chaste republican order , resisting the seductions of risk and novelty , greed and extravagance , rapid motion and complex dealings .  | LEE BENSON is Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania . His previous books include Merchants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Politics 1850 ? 1887 ( 1955 ) and Turner and Beard : American Historical Writing Reconsidered ( 1960 ) . HISTORY never repeats itself , historians do . Commenting upon this phenomenon , Thomas C. Cochran estimates that " history probably suffers more than any other discipline from the tyranny of persuasive rhetoric . " To illustrate his point , he observes that " A. M. Schlesinger , Jr . and Joseph Dorfman . . . may argue about the interpretation of ' Jacksonian Democracy , ' but they both accept the traditional concept as central to the synthesis of the period . " Following his lead , I have focused upon two questions . What empirical phenomena can logically be designated by the concept of Jacksonian Democracy ? Does the traditional concept help us to understand the course of American history after 1815 ? A. The Concept of Jacksonian Deemocracy Although all concepts are logical abstractions , they refer to some empirical phenomena . By definition , they refer " either to a class of phenomena or to certain aspects or characteristics that a range of phenomena have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality , designating types of movements , persons , behavior , or other classes of phenomena . " Analysis of the concept of Jacksonian Democracy reveals that footnote The Concept of Jacksonian Democracy : New York as a Test Case , pp. 329-338 . Reprinted by permission of Princeton University Press , copyright 1961 , Princeton University Press .  | every version contains these elements : I ) Andrew Jackson and his successors led ( really or symbolically ) a particular political party ; 2 ) the party drew its leaders from certain socioeconomic classes or groups ; 3 ) the party received strong mass support from certain socioeconomic classes or groups ; 4 ) the party formulated and fought for an egalitarian ideology that envisioned not only political but social and economic democracy ; 5 ) the party implemented a program derived from or consonant with its egalitarian ideology ; 6 ) the opposing party drew its leaders and mass support from different socioeconomic classes and social groups , and opposed egalitarian ideas and policies . Having identified the kinds of phenomena and relationships that are designated by the concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomena and relationships exist in reality during the " middle period " of American history ? For example , did the Jackson Party advocate and implement a program of economic democracy and social reform ? Or is it more accurate to say that , in general , the Jackson Party denounced and fought against such programs ? 1 . CHANGING DEFINITIONS OF THE CONCEPT To my knowledge , no one has shown that contemporaries used the term Jacksonian Democracy to designate the ideology , values , attitudes , principles , and policies of Jackson Men , the contemporary term for men who supported the Republican Party . At present , we can not be sure who invented the Jacksonian Democracy concept or when historians generally began to accept it . But the concept seems to derive from the frontier thesis associated with Frederick Jackson Turner and to have won general acceptance soon after 1900 . We can be sure , however , that it has meant and now means very different things to different historians , and that attempts to clarify its meaning constitute a major field of work in American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unclarified , it seems reasonable to doubt that it is solidly based in reality . When we examine the literature over time , we find that historians , in trying to abstract from reality a set of phenomena and relationships that could be subsumed under the Jacksonian Democracy concept , had to make assumptions that later proved untenable . In other words , when they systematically collected data that discredited earlier assumptions , they retained the concept by redefining it on the basis of still other erroneous assumptions .  | No matter how the concept has been defined ; it has assumed that a strong causal relationship existed between Andrew Jackson 's real or symbolic role in politics and the progress of movements dedicated to egalitarian and humanitarian ideals or objectives . It has also assumed that during the period from 1825 to 1850 , both on leadership and mass levels , party battles represented reasonably clear-cut ideological and political conflicts between two types of men . In different versions of the concept , the types of men are identified by different criteria , for example , " frontier democrats " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " liberals and conservatives , " " the business community and the other sections of society , " " enterprisers and capitalists . " No matter how the concept is defined , as I read the source materials and analyze the data , its underlying assumptions are , at least for New York , untenable . 2 . CONCEPT VERSUS REALITY Taking New York as a test case , this book has tried to show the existence of an unbridgeable gap between historical reality and the concept 's assumptions about the leadership , mass support , ideology , and program of the Jackson Party . " Old Hero , " it is true , served as the party 's rallying symbol . But the other assumptions of the concept conflict with the available evidence . The leadership of the New York Democratic Party does not appear to have been recruited from " the other sections of society " that allegedly struggled " to restrain the power of the business community " ? to cite Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr . ' s , version of the concept . Neither Schlesinger 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant differences in the class nature of party leadership , appears credible . Instead , the evidence indicates that the same socioeconomic groups provided leadership for both parties . We have also seen that in New York the concept makes erroneous assumptions about the class nature of mass support for the major parties . In one form or another historians have tended to accept Martin Van Buren 's analysis , but the evidence discredits his claims that the Jackson Party championed the " producers " against the " special interests . " According to his persuasive rhetoric , the Jacksonians took the side of the producers in the conflict between " those who live by the sweat of their brow and those who live by their wits . " When we penetrated the rhetorical surface and struck hard data , however , we found that farmers , mechanics , and " working classes " did not form  | the " main-stay of the Democratic party . " Instead of low-status socioeconomic groups , the Jacksonians ' strongest support came from relatively high-status socioeconomic groups in the eastern counties , and relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York . Politically hard-pressed by the People 's Party , the Antimasonic Party , the Working Men 's Party , and finally the Whig Party , the Van Buren faction and then the Jackson Party eventually capitulated and adopted the egalitarian ideology advocated by their opponents . But , contrary to the assumptions of the concept , the Jackson Party attacked rather than sponsored the Whig idea of the positive liberal state functioning to " equalize the condition of men " by enabling " the people to act in a joint and vigorous concert for the common good . . . or , as the Founding Fathers phrased it the general welfare . " Moreover , if action is the real test of doctrine , the Jackson Party in New York stood firmly by its ideology . Instead of vigorously implementing , it uncompromisingly opposed political programs that required the state to act positively to foster democratic egalitarianism , economic democracy , social and humanitarian reform . How then can we reconcile the actual ideology and program with any version of the concept ? The evidence suggests that in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic : after 1828 they voted for candidates nominated by the Republican Party . That party expressed a particular ideology and implemented a program consonant with it , but its ideology and program derived from the old doctrines of states ' rights , strong executive , freedom of conscience , and the new doctrine of negative government . But why equate those doctrines with democracy ? Why make the party that advocated them either the champion or the instrument of the democratic , egalitarian , humanitarian movements that emerged during the second quarter of the nineteenth century ? Both on logical and empirical grounds , it seems a more credible hypothesis that in New York those movements progressed in spite of rather than because of the " Jackson Men " and the " Jackson Party . " 3 . Is THE CONCEPT USEFUL ? In addition to asking what empirical phenomena can logically be designated by the Jacksonian Democracy concept , I have raised the question whether the concept helps us to understand  | the course of American history after 1815 . Since the present book has focused upon a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question convincingly . But two conclusions do appear to be warranted : 1 ) The concept of Jacksonian Democracy has obscured rather than illuminated the course of New York history after 1815 , has distracted historians from the significance of their own work , and has led them to offer interpretations that are contradicted by their own findings . 2 ) Since events in New York are invariably cited by historians who accept some version of the concept , systematic research may find that in other states the concept also does not conform to reality . These two conclusions receive additional support when we examine one of the most recent , and in many respects most penetrating , studies of the period . In what may well come to be regarded as a classic study of banking in America , Bray Hammond argues that the Jacksonian " cause was a sophisticated one of enterpriser against capitalist , of banker against regulation , and of Wall Street against Chestnut . " The last phrase refers to the New York City bankers who , Hammond claims , played leading roles in the campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , operating out of Philadelphia headquarters . Writing in a characteristically ironic vein , he asserts that the " Jacksonian revolution " democratized business " under a great show of agrarian idealism " by humblyborn , rugged individualists who " made the age of Jackson a festival of laissez faire prelusive to the age of Grant and the robber barons . " And he stresses heavily the idea that Jacksonians came up from the farm to do battle with " the established urban capitalists , mercantile and financial " : " In their attack on the Bank of the United States , the Jacksonians still employed the vocabulary of their agrarian backgrounds . The phraseology of idealism was adapted to money-making , the creed of an earlier generation becoming the cant of its successor . Their terms of abuse were ' oppression ; ' tyranny ; ' monied power ; ' aristocracy , " wealth , " privilege , " monopoly ; their terms of praise were ' the humble , " the poor , " the simple , " the honest and the industrious . ' . . . Neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw any discrepancy between the concept of freedom in an age of agrarianism and the concept of freedom in one of enterprise . . . . Notwithstanding their language , therefore , the Jacksonians ' destruction of the Bank of the United States was in no sense a blow at capitalism or property or the ' money power . ' It was a blow at an older set of capitalists by a newer ,  | more numerous set . It was incident to the democratization of business , the diffusion of enterprise among the mass of people , and the transfer of economic primacy from an old and conservative merchant class to a newer , more aggressive , and more numerous body of business men and speculators of all sorts . " In my opinion , Hammond 's treatment of the democratization of business after 1825 represents a major contribution to American historiography and lights the way to further progress . But , as I have tried to show while tracing the movement for free banking , his own researches help to refute the assumption that business democratization in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to any other kind of Jacksonians . Attention is directed here toward showing how , in the passages quoted above , the Jacksonian Democracy concept imposes severe strains upon logical consistency . Were not many of the Wall Street and other New York bankers who worked to destroy the Bank of the United States the very archetypes of the " established urban capitalists " against whom the alleged Jacksonian revolution was allegedly directed ? Did not many of those bankers hold high rank in the Republican Party of Andrew Jackson ? In New York State , did they not hold either high rank or considerable influence in Tammany Hall and the Albany Regency , which contributed so much to Jackson 's election ? Indeed , did n't many of those bankers owe their position as " established urban capitalists " to the " monopoly charters " granted them for long and loyal service to the Republican Party ? Did n't the great majority of the Jackson Party in the New York legislature oppose the movement led and supported by the Whigs to " democratize " banking ? But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe , would agree that they do ? it becomes logically impossible to attribute the democratization of business in New York State to farm-born Jacksonians revolting against established urban capitalists . Another logical inconsistency fostered by the Jacksonian Democracy concept is illustrated by Hammond 's emphasis upon the " agrarian " vocabulary Jacksonians employed to attack the Bank . Were abusive terms , such as oppression , tyranny , monied power , and aristocracy , exclusively or primarily agrarian ? Had they not been used by nonagrarians , too , long before Andrew Jackson became a national political figure and long before business began to be democratized ? Did n't the men who passionately opposed " King Andrew " and his party use essentially the same terms of praise and abuse as the men who passionately  | supported him ? Had not the Antimasons adapted to politics the vocabulary of sectarian abuse , referred to Van Buren 's SafetyFund " scheme " as a " monster " institution , and denounced the " moneyed aristocracy , existing in the city of Albany , which owns the Mechanics ' and Farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms commonly used during the Age of Egalitarianism by large numbers of men in all parties ? Similarly , if most Jacksonians were farm-born , were not most anti-Jacksonians also farm-born ? If some established urban capitalists opposed the party of Jackson , were not others counted among his most ardent supporters ? In short , before we draw conclusions about the class composition of the Democratic and Whig parties , we must systematically analyze the opponents of the " Jackson Party , " as well as its adherents . Since Hammond accepts the traditional concept as central to the synthesis of the period , he , like other commentators beginning with Tocqueville , attributes characteristics and ideas and policies to Jacksonians common to members of both major parties . Thus he emphasizes the importance of the New York Free Banking Act ; but instead of attributing its passage to the long campaign waged by the opponents of the Jackson Party ( Working Men , Antimasons , Whigs ) , he attributes it to the groups that actually fought against the Act , the urban Locofocos and the rural Radical Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conclusion that the Jackson Democracy concept has distracted historians from the significance of their own work and has forced them to operate within an inadequate framework of ideas . B. An Alternative Concept and Hypothesis Since I do not believe that the concept helps us to understand New York history after 1815 , the question arises of whether we can replace it with a more adequate and realistic concept . In a sense , of course , that question is premature ; systematic studies of other states may show that the traditional concept is wellfounded and that New York is , at most , a special case . But suppose it turns out that New York is a representative state and that the findings reported in this book are credible . What then ?  | Let us go far beyond the evidence now available and assume that we must reject the concept of Jacksonian Democracy . Since its rejection forces us to break out of the traditional framework of ideas , we undoubtedly will stumble and fumble around for some time to come . We can tentatively begin , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute the Age of Egalitarianism for the Age of Jackson . Marvin Meyers has recently observed that historians agree " that the second quarter of the nineteenth century is properly remembered as the age of Jackson . " I , for one , disagree . If my assumptions are sound , that caption drastically distorts reality by exaggerating the significance and role of Andrew Jackson , the Age of Egalitarianism expresses the central tendency of the period and does not associate that tendency with a particular party . In Karl Mannheim 's phrase , the caption expresses " the ideology of an age . " No doubt any caption for a period distorts reality ; for example , an increasingly sophisticated defense of slavery developed simultaneously with the victory of egalitarian ideas . But when we substitute the Age of Egalitarianism for the Age of Jackson , we substitute a general phenomenon for a particular individual , and can go on to substitute the concept of egalitarian revolution for that of Jacksonian revolution ( or Jacksonian Democracy ) . Tocqueville 's celebrated dictum to the contrary , Americans were not " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic revolution . " After 1815 , not only in politics but in all spheres of American life , egalitarianism challenged elitism and , in most spheres and places , egalitarianism won . Thus , if we accept the egalitarian revolution concept , we are in a better position to see that during the 1830 's and 1840 's political battles were less over ends than means . The major parties in New York developed the conflicting doctrines of the negative liberal state and the positive liberal state , but in time , both parties accepted egalitarianism as the ideology of the Good Society . We can push this reasoning further : once we develop the concept of the " egalitarian revolution , " we may be in a better position to account for the transformation from the aristocratic liberal republic of the early nineteenth century to the populistic egalitarian democracy of the mid-nineteenth century . One possible answer , or hypothesis , is that the egalitarian revolution after 1815 was largely , although by no means exclusively , the product of the Transportation Revolution which occurred after 1815 and fostered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society and culture . I do not pretend  | that the present study has " proved " that hypothesis ; at the moment , the hypothesis is impressionistic and crude , and it can not even be stated precisely , let alone verified . Before we can test the hypothesis that the Transportation Revolution was the " main cause " of the egalitarian revolution , we must state it differently . As stated , the hypothesis probably does suggest some relationships between the two revolutions . But it is too ambiguous to be tested , and it seems to assume that " impersonal forces " determine human behavior ? a metaphysical assumption that retards historiographic progress by obscuring the fact that history is made by men . When we focus upon men or groups of men , rather than upon " forces " or " factors " ? terms mechanically borrowed from physical scientists who deal with different kinds of causal problems ? we are in a better position to assess the relative importance of determinants . In explaining a sequence of events , we can then claim that certain men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are more precise , more meaningful , more consonant with every-day " common sense " explanations of every-day experience and behavior than are those that purport to assess the relative importance of " economic forces , " " cultural forces , " and the like . Moreover , when we focus upon human beings , we can support our judgments of relative importance by using criteria such as the number of men , their different power to control the apparatus of opinion-making and decisionmaking , their persistence over time in translating ideas into action and objectives into reality . In contrast , it is extraordinarily difficult to find and use criteria to measure the relative importance of " impersonal forces . " Thus I believe that causal explanations of human behavior might better take the form , " Who Caused the Egalitarian Revolution ? " , than " What Were the Causes of the Egalitarian Revolution ? " ( Civil War , American Revolution , English Revolution , French Revolution ) . If this line of reasoning is valid , my hypothesis should specify who ( members of what groups ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1815 . It also should specify why the Transportation Revolution both impelled and permitted them to speed the transition from an aristocratic to an egalitarian society . At present , I can not state the hypothesis in those terms . Nevertheless , it does identify some causal relationships that seem consistent with the relevant data for New York , and the relevant data now available for American history between 1815 and 1860 . It seems reasonable to assert , therefore , that if  | further research and analysis shows that we must reject the Jacksonian Democracy concept and hypotheses derived from it , the concept and hypothesis sketched here warrant consideration as alternatives toward a more satisfactory synthesis of the period .  | Mid-Nineteenth-Century Reform Creative or Futile ? " IN the history of the world the doctrine of Reform had never such scope as at the present hour , " confided Ralph Waldo Emerson in his journal in 1840 . In the past , he noted , many institutions had been accorded respect . " But now all these &; all else hear the trumpet &; are rushing to judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in the Pantheon of the past , and figure as Mythology henceforward and not a kingdom , town , statute , rite , calling , man , woman , or child , but is threatened by the new spirit . " i Such was the bewildering array of reform movements that nothing and no one escaped their influence . The reform movements that swept across America during the first half of the nineteenth century took a variety of forms . The most famous was the antislavery crusade . Less known ones , but equally important , were the movements to improve the condition of such groups as the blind , the inebriate , the deaf , the insane , the convict , and other unfortunate members of society . Some of these reform movements were intended to help individuals and groups powerless to change their condition ; others had broader social and humanitarian goals , including the abolition of war , the remaking of society by establishing model utopian communities , the establishment of greater equality be- footnote ' The Journals and Miscellaneous Notebooks of Ralph Waldo Emerson ( 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , p. 403 . This quote was later incorporated into Emerson 's essay entitled " Man the Reformer . "  | tween the sexes , and the founding of a free system of universal education . Thus reform was characterized by heterogeneity in form as well as in function . It is equally difficult to categorize the ideologies of those involved in reform movements . Some saw social evils arising out of improvident and immoral behavior on the part of the individual . Others believed that an imperfect environment was at fault and that a meaningful solution to the problem at hand involved structural changes in American society . A few viewed reform as being conservative in nature in that it would diminish class rivalries and antagonisms , thereby preserving a fundamentally good and moral social order ; others saw reform in more radical terms and urged fundamental changes in the fabric and structure of society . Similarly , there was little agreement about the use of the state to effect reform , for some regarded state intervention as an absolute necessity while others felt that reform efforts should be confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature , there were a few themes common to them all . In the first place , all reformers by definition were q2-mists . In their eyes no problem was so difficult that it couldne solved ; no evil was so extreme as to be ineradicable ; no person was so sinful as to be unredeemable ; no situation was so far gone as to be beyond control ; and no illness was so severe as to be incurable . Second , an extraordinarily large number of them held strong religious convictions . Although disinterested in and even hostile to the fine points of doctrinal dispute , most were motivated by a firm sense of obligation and stewardship . All individuals , they argued , were under a moral law that gave them a responsibility for the welfare of their fellow man . No individual could ignore this obligation . Third , most reformers believed that science and reason complemented rather than contradicted religious faith . Indeed , reason and science provided the means of fulfilling the moral and religious obligations that bound all individuals . Finally , most reformers recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were catholic in their concerns and shared one other characteristic ; they were frequently involved in more than one type of reform . Horace Mann , for example , first came to national attention as a crusader on behalf of the mentally ill . But he turned later to educational reform partly out of his conviction that the evils and diseases that manifested themselves in later life could be minimized or prevented by proper education and training during  | youth when the individual 's character was unformed and pliable rather than fixed . Mann 's broad interests were fairly typical , for he ? like most activists ? recognized that a multifaceted attack on existing evils was indispensable for social betterment . Many of the intended beneficiaries of reform , it should be noted , were either from the lower classes or else included a disproportionately high percentage of poor . Responsibility for the welfare of such lower-class groups was generally entrusted to those individuals in more fortunate straits ? if only because of the inability of these dependent groups to change significantly the conditions under which they lived . Slaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about their own liberation . Nor could mentally-ill persons , orphans , drunkards , or convicts agitate for the establishment or improvement of institutions that would benefit them . Moreover , reformers had to have both leisure time and a sufficient income to permit them to pursue their careers as social activists . Reform movements , therefore , drew much of their inspiration and personnel from the ranks of the middle class and the well-to-do . Though few middle-class reformers embarked on their activistic career with a clear and cohesive ideology , their experiences with evils often led to sophisticated social analyses . An analytical approach , however , often had a self-extending mechanism in that it was difficult to deal with an individual problem without bringing under scrutiny broader institutional arrangements and structures . The result was a searching analysis that frequently involved judgments about the basic morality or immorality of American society , a judgment that was certain to engender conflict and controversy . Those active in the woman 's rights movement , to offer one illustration , found it difficult to discuss that issue without becoming involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived . Aside from goals , reformers also had to face the question of means . What tactics were appropriate to the problem ? What should be done if slaveowners refused to countenance the idea of abolishing slavery or inebriates to discontinue the use of liquor ? It is clear that most mid-nineteenth-century reformers found it difficult , if not impossible , to avoid making judgments about their country . And such judgments inevitably either confirmed or repudiated time-honored values concerning the legitimacy or illegitimacy of institutional relationships within American society . Whatever the case , it is clear that the searching analysis of the fabric of society that was under way during the first half of  | the nineteenth century did not occur solely within a framework of reason and rationality . Few individuals and groups , after all , possessed the confidence and self-restraint that enabled them to discuss the issues with which they were concerned without becoming emotionally involved . Reformers often experienced an intense internal conflict , if only because their vision concerning what American society was and what it should be were often so wide apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of immorality per se , but as an institution that ultimately corrupted most of Southern society and tainted even those who remained neutral . Southerners , on the other hand , saw abolitionists as a collection of fanatics who did not understand either the slave or the South and who were intent on forcing all others to conform to their own unique definitions of morality and justice . Just as Americans between 1800 and 1860 argued and fought over various visions of what constituted a just and moral society , so historians have argued over the nature , sources , and intentions of reformers . Instead , those historians undertaking a study of individuals and groups seeking changes in American society sooner or later became involved in judgments about these reformers , including their means , goals , and even reasons for becoming social activists . The result has been a bewildering multiplicity of interpretations of the many reform movements that developed during the first half of the nineteenth century , interpretations that more often than not reflected the personal values of the historians writing about the problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominated by scholars who held a liberal ideology and who tended to interpret the past in terms of a struggle between the mass of people on the one hand and narrow , selfish , and grasping special interests on the other . It was not surprising , therefore , that reformers and reform movements were generally held in high esteem . " In that time , if ever in American history , " wrote Alice F. Tyler in her comprehensive study of ante-bellum reform , " the spirit of man seemed free and the individual could assert his independence of choice in matters of faith and theory . The military democracy of the period was a declaration of faith in man and in the perfectibility of his institutions . The idea of progress so inherent in the American way of life and so much a part of the philosophy of the age was at the same time a challenge to traditional beliefs and institutions and an impetus to experimentation with new theories and humanitarian re-  | forms . " 2 The origins of reform , she argued , were to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , transcendentalism , and the democratization of society that resulted from the impress of the frontier . Although most accounts seemed generally favorable toward ante-bellum reform , more often than not they were critical of specific movements . Not all reform movements , argued some historians , were necessarily for the good . The temperance crusade , after all , was led by narrow-minded and bigoted individuals seeking to impose their own moral code upon the rest of the people . Indeed , Tyler in her generally sympathetic survey of reform noted that in back of the temperance crusade " lay the danger , ever present in a democracy , of the infringement by a majority of the rights of a minority and the further dangers inherent in the use of force to settle a moral issue . " s Equally distasteful to historians was the strong current of nativism ? a movement that took a marked anti-Catholic turn during and after the 1830 's and which entered politics in the form of the Know-Nothing or Native American party during the I850 's . Most scholars found it difficult to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set it apart from the general current of reform . ' Much the same pattern was true of abolitionism . Virtually no scholar defended slavery , yet a large number were extraordinarily critical of the abolitionist movement because of its fanaticism and intolerance . Indeed , abolitionism offers a dramatic illustration of the way in which historians have interpreted the past in terms of their own values and the concerns of the present . To Northerners writing in the 1870 's and 1880 's the abolitionists were courageous men and women who were so convinced that slavery was immoral that they were willing to dedicate their lives to its elimination in spite of being ostracized and even endangered by the hostility of their outraged countrymen . Many of these early writers , of course , had themselves been participants in the Civil War ; their works in part represented both an explanation and a justification for their actions . Southerners , on the other hand , flatly laid the blame for the Civil War at the doorstep of the footnote 2 Alice Felt Tyler , Freedom 's Ferment : Phases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Outbreak of the Civil War ( Minneapolis , 1944 ) , p. 1 . " Ibid. , p. 350 . " Ray A. Billington , The Protestant Crusade 1500 ? 1860 : A Study of the Origins of American Nativism ( New York , 1938 ) .  | abolitionists . Some even charged that the intolerance and fanaticism of the abolitionists had aborted a moderate and sensible emancipation movement that had been under way in the South . Such was the position of Robert E. Lee , who told a reporter in 1866 that he had always favored emancipation , and that in Virginia " the feeling had been strongly inclined in the same direction , till the ill-judged enthusiasms ( amounting to rancour ) of the abolitionists in the North had turned the Southern tide of feeling in the other direction . " 5 The Southern view of abolitionism by the early part of the twentieth century had become the dominant tradition in American historiography . One reason for this in part was that a significant number of scholars came from the South and shared the outlook and loyalties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming of the Civil War on the North , they tended to treat the abolitionists as an irresponsible group who had stirred up sectional animosities to the point where an armed confrontation was all but inevitable . Thus in his discussion of the causes of the Civil War , Frank L. Owsley ( in his presidential address before the Southern Historical Association in 1940 ) condemned the abolitionists in harsh and unequivocal terms . " One has to seek in the unrestrained and furious invective of the present totalitarians , " he stated , " to find a near parallel to the language that the abolitionists and their political fellow travelers used in denouncing the South and its way of life . Indeed , as far as I have been able to ascertain , neither Dr. Goebbels nor Virginio Gayda nor Stalin 's propaganda agents have as yet been able to plumb the depths of vulgarity and obscenity reached and maintained by George Bourne , Stephen Foster , Wendell Phillips , Charles Sumner , and other abolitionists of note . . . . Neither time nor good taste permits any real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be said again that nothing equal to it has been encountered in the language of insult used between the nations today ? even those at war with one another . " But not all the hostility of historians toward the abolitionists can be attributed to sectional partisanship alone , since many of ' footnote Robert E. Lee , Recollections and Letters of General Robert E. Lee ( New York , 1924 ) , p. 231 , cited in Fawn M. Brodie , " Who Defends the Abolitionists ? " in The Antislavery Vanguard : New Essays on the Abolitionists , edited by Martin Duberman ( Princeton , 1965 ) , p. 58 . ' Frank L. Owsley , " The Fundamental Cause of the Civil War : Egocentric Sectionalism , " Journal of Southern History , VII ( February , 1941 ) , pp. 16-17.  | these scholars came from other regions of the country . The dislike of these individuals arose not out of sympathy with the institution of slavery , but rather out of a distaste of the fanaticism of the abolitionists and their incessant quarrels over tactics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general apathy ? even hostility ? toward the plight of black Americans that was characteristic of the first three or so decades of the twentieth century , a fact that made it all the more difficult to attribute wisdom or sincerity to the abolitionist movement . A few scholars also noted that not all abolitionists were committed to the proposition that blacks and whites were equal . Consequently , the allegation that abolitionists were " insincere " and " hypocritical " seemed to have some substance . The result was a constant and subtle denigration of the abolitionist movement in historical literature . In one highly influential study published in 1933 , for example , Gilbert H. Barnes argued that abolitionism was an outgrowth of the evangelical religious revivals of the 1820 's and 1830 's that could be linked to such preachers as the Reverend Charles Grandison Finney . Associated with these revivals was a spirit of reform that led some individuals to regard their own moral regeneration as evidence of the need to redeem sinners elsewhere . The concern of the abolitionists , noted Barnes , " was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rebuke which every inhabitant of the Free States owes to every slaveholder . ' Denunciation of the evil came first ; reform of the evil was incidental to that primary obligation . " The portrait that Barnes drew of some of the abolitionists was scarcely flattering . Another reason for the denigration of the abolitionists was the use by scholars of insights and concepts borrowed from the social and behavioral sciences to inquire into the motives of reformers . It was not difficult to interpret fanaticism in psychiatric terms and thus reduce abolitionism to a form of social or psychological pathology . Hazel Wolf , for example , described the behavior of individual abolitionists as obsessive and paranoic in nature . All of them , she wrote , were " eagerly bidding for a martyr 's crown . " 8 David Donald , in an essay that has become a classic since its publication in 1956 , resorted to social psychology to explain the behavior of the abolitionists as a reform group : footnote ' Gilbert H. Barnes , The Antislavery Impulse 1830 ? 1844 ( New York , 1933 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freedom 's Altar : The Martyr Complex in the Abolition Movement ( Madison , 1952 ) , p. 4.  | Descended from old and socially dominant Northeastern families , reared in a faith of aggressive piety and moral endeavor , educated for conservative leadership , these young men and women who reached maturity in the 1830 's faced a strange and hostile world . Social and economic leadership was being transferred from the country to the city , from the farmer to the manufacturer , from the preacher to the corporation attorney . Too distinguished a family , too gentle an education , too nice a morality were handicaps in a bustling world of business . Expecting to lead , these young people found no followers . They were an elite without function , a displaced class in American society . Some ? like Daniel Webster ? made their terms with the new order and lent their talents and their family names to the greater glorification of the god of trade . But many of the young men were unable to overcome their traditional disdain for the new money-grubbing class that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be successful in politics ; family tradition and education prohibited idleness ; and agitation allowed the only chance for personal and social self-fulfillment . . . . They did not support radical economic reforms because fundamentally these young men and women had no serious quarrel with the capitalistic system of private ownership and control of property . What they did question , and what they did rue , was the transfer of leadership to the wrong groups in society , and their appeal for reform was a strident call for their own class to re-exert its former social dominance . Some fought for prison reform ; some for women 's rights ; some for world peace ; but ultimately most came to make that natural identification between moneyed aristocracy , textile-manufacturing , and Southern slave-grown cotton . An attack on slavery was their best , if quite unconscious , attack upon the new industrial system . ' While the majority of historians were unfriendly in their treatment of the abolitionists , the older and more favorable views held by Northern writers in the 1860 's and 1870 's did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ? especially when it began to be increasingly apparent that the problem of blackwhite relationships was becoming more and more tense as a result of a growing militancy within the black community and the general discrediting of racist theory ? the beginnings of a change in the existing unfavorable portrait of abolitionism footnote ' David Donald , Lincoln Reconsidered : Essays on the Civil War Era ( New York , 1956 ) , pp. 33-34 . For a critique of Donald 's thesis see Robert A. Skotheim , " A Note on Historical Method : David Donald 's ' Toward a Reconsideration of Abolitionists , ' " Journal of Southern History , XXV ( August , 1959 ) , pp. 356-365.  | began to be evident . Dwight L. Dumond , for example , showed considerable sympathy for the abolitionists in his study of the origins of the Civil War in 1939.10 The broadening of the civil rights movement and the struggle for equality in the 1950 's and 1960 's further shifted the framework of the debate , for it was difficult , if not impossible , for historians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . Indeed , by the 1960 's a significant number of historians clearly sympathized with the abolitionists , and their approach now seemed to be dominant . In a major study on antislavery in 1961 Dumond began by stating his own viewpoint in clear and straightforward language : The course of the men and women who dedicated their lives to arresting the spread of slavery was marvelously direct and straightforward . They denounced it as a sin which could only be remedied by unconditional repentance and retributive justice . They denounced it as antithetical to the foundation principles of the nation , contrary to both natural law and moral law . . . . These people were neither fanatics nor incendiaries . They appealed to the minds and consciences of men . They precipitated an intellectual and moral crusade for social reform , for the rescue of a noble people , for the redemption of democracy.tl Dumond was not alone in rehabilitating the abolitionists . Aside from the publication of numerous favorable biographies , there was a clear tendency to write about the movement in friendly , even glowing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1965 explicitly rejected earlier views of abolitionism as a movement of maladjusted and evil fanatics . Indeed , in the concluding essay Howard Zinn argued that abolitionist radicalism was highly constructive when compared with the extreme inhumanity of slavery.12 Indicative of the current trend is the first selection by Donald G. Mathews , which analyzes the arguments and rhetoric of the abolitionists and argues that they were neither irrational nor fanatic . The abolitionists as agitators were not attempting to change the values of Americans ? rather they were trying to extend them to human beings who were generally considered footnote " Dwight L. Dumond , Antislavery Origins of the Civil War in the United States ( Ann Arbor , 1939 ) . 11 Dwight L. Dumond , Antislavery : The Crusade for Freedom in America ( Ann Arbor , 1961 ) , p. v. ' Z Martin Duberman , ed. , The Antislavery Vanguard : New Essays on the Abolitionists ( Princeton , 1965 ) , pp. 417-451.  | to be outside of society . Nor were the men and women who spent much of their lives fighting against slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted that many slaveholders were good people , that not all were sinners , and that slavery was a complex institution . Nevertheless , slavery involved the exercise of arbitrary and absolute power . Such power enabled good Southerners to live with an immoral and evil institution . The absolute power of whites over blacks , moreover , corrupted not only individuals , but the South as a section as well as the entire nation . The abolitionists ultimately rejected the idea that proper social agitation was ameliorative . They opted instead for an ideology that sought to change society so that there would be no oppression of one human being by another . Matthews ' interpretation reflects the more sympathetic views of abolitionism characteristic of historical literature during the last few decades . Historians , however , have not treated all reform movements in the same manner as they have abolitionists . Indeed , during the 1950 's and 1960 's , when fissures and flaws in American society began to appear more pronounced , scholars began to view the reform movements of the mid-nineteenth century as harbingers of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The theme of social control , to cite one example , tended to loom larger even in the writings of scholars who were in no way identified with the hostile critique of American history associated with the " New Left " school of historiography . Historians began to suggest that the motivation behind the actions of many reformers , either consciously or unconsciously , was to impose some form of social control over those whom they were ostensibly trying to help . Religious benevolence ? clearly a major theme in mid-nineteenth century America ? underwent a sharp re-evaluation , for example . Clifford S. Griffin , noting the phenomenal increase in the number of national societies established for such benevolent purposes as education , conversion , temperance , peace , antislavery , moral reform , and the dissemination of the Bible , saw in them more than merely the disinterested exercise of charitable impulses . As more and more people confronted political and social upheavals , and the homogeneity of American society splintered before their very eyes , many turned to religion ? especially Protestantism ? as the only social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and safety . " A theocratic state where moral legislation buttressed and embodied a re-  | ligious code was clearly impossible to institute within the United States . Both clergymen and laymen , therefore , turned to new national societies they founded for theocratic purposes . Such societies , organized to promote religious benevolence and charity , embodied also a belief on the part of their trustees that God wished all men to obey His laws , and that these societies were the proper and legitimate interpreters of God 's laws . Most of the leaders of these societies were relatively well-to-do , and viewed religious benevolence as a means of social control . " Religion and morality , as dispensed by the benevolent societies throughout the seemingly chaotic nation , " argued Griffin , " became a means of establishing secular order . " That this version of morality strengthened the status quo and ensured the retention of power in the hands of affluent groups was hardly surprising.13 In a similar vein Michael Katz was critical of those historians who had interpreted the educational reform movement as merely an outgrowth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy . " Very simply , " he wrote , " the extension and reform of education in the mid-nineteenth century were not a potpourri of democracy , rationalism , and humanitarianism . They were the attempt of a coalition of the social leaders , status-anxious parents , and status-hungry educators to impose educational innovation , each for their own reasons , upon a reluctant community . " 14 Those community leaders promoting education sought a school system that would simultaneously harmonize America 's economic growth with a business-oriented value system that would prevent the violent consequences that had accompanied the rise of industrialism in countries such as England . Educational reform , moreover , was not a consequence of a broad and diverse coalition of various social and economic groups ; rather it was imposed on a society by leaders who identified education with their own interests and values . Consequently , education did not gain the allegiance of working- and lower-class groups , who reacted adversely precisely because the schools obviously did not serve their particular needs . After analyzing a number of local case studies in Massachusetts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals . footnote 13 Clifford S. Griffin , Their Brothers ' Keepers : Moral Stewardship in the United States , 1800 ? 1865 ( New Brunswick , N.J. , 1960 ) , pp. x ? xiii . 14 Michael B. Katz , The Irony of Early School Reform : Educational Innovation in Mid-Nineteenth Century Massachusetts ( Cambridge , 1968 ) , p. 218.  |  The schools failed to reach their ends , first , because those ends were impossible to fulfill . They failed , second , because of the style of educational development . Educational reform and innovation represented the imposition by social leaders of schooling upon a reluctant , uncomprehending , skeptical , and sometimes . . . hostile citizenry . Social and cultural antagonisms that delayed and made difficult the achievement of innovation could not be simply erased after new schools had been built . From on high the school committees , representing the social and financial leadership of towns and cities , excoriated the working-class parents . They founded schools with a sense of superiority , not compassion . They forced education , and they forced it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community to accustom itself to novel institutions or ideas about the length of school life . School committees hoped to serve their own ends and the ends of the status-seeking parents that supported them ; one of those ends involved the unification of urban society . Ironically , their ideology and style could not have been better designed to alienate the very people whom they strove to accommodate in a more closely knit social order . In making the urban school , educational promoters of the midnineteenth century fostered an estrangement between the school and the working-class community that has persisted to become one of the greatest challenges to reformers of our own times.15 The themes of social control and imposition of reform have by no means been confined to religious benevolence or education . In the second selection Joseph R. Gusfield , a sociologist by profession , analyzes the temperance movement in much the same manner as Donald , Griffin , and Katz viewed their reform movements . To Gusfield temperance was a " symbolic crusade " in that it had unconscious roots far removed from the outward form that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes , represented the manner in which a cultural group acts to preserve , defend , and enhance the dominance and prestige of its own style of living within a total society . During the Federalist era temperance attracted a declining social elite bent on retaining its power and leadership . This elite " sought to make Americans into a clean , sober , godly , and decorous people " ? a people that reflected the values of New England Federalists themselves . By the 1840 's temperance had become a reflection of the tensions between native Americans and immigrants or between Protestants and Catholics . Those who favored temperance , in short , saw the curtailment of the use of liquor as a means " of solving the problems presented by an immigrant , urban poor whose culture clashed with American Protestantism . " footnote 5 Ibid. , p. 112.  | Much of the literature pertaining to reform , therefore , has been as much a commentary on the values held by the individual historian as it has been the creation of a supposedly objective past . Those historians who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a particular reform movement have generally written about it in a favorable and approving manner . Those who disagreed tended to find unconscious or semiconscious forces at work that made reform an instrument of social control , often by well-to-do groups seeking to retain or extend their power and authority . Within this framework the historian , in effect , had taken on the role of social critic . Nevertheless , some historians found such an approach too limiting or circumscribed to serve as a satisfactory means of explaining reform movements . To classify some reforms as good ( i.e. , abolitionism ) and others as less than good ( i.e. , temperance , religious benevolence , and education ) posed some difficulties . One such difficulty arose out of the fact that reformers tended to be eclectic rather than narrow in their concerns . More often than not , an individual active in one reform movement was likely to be active in several others , though perhaps not with the same degree of intensity or involvement . Horace Mann and Samuel Gridley Howe , to cite only two cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish facilities for the mentally ill and deaf , dumb , and blind , as well as abolitionism . To characterize one of these movements as " bad " and another as " good " raised serious intellectual problems . A " good-bad " dichotomy also tended to obscure for some historians a more general issue ; namely , what was responsible for the pervasiveness of reform during the first half of the nineteenth century ? Had there been only a few reform movements , each could have been explained in terms of a particular and specific situation . Abolitionism , for example , could be viewed simply as a response to the existence of slavery . But the fact of the matter was that considerably more than a dozen reform movements were operating during the first five decades of the nineteenth century . Was it not plausible to argue that something within American society that transcended a particular evil or void was responsible for this state of affairs ? To Merle Curti , a scholar writing within the Progressive tradition of American history in the early 1940 's , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination of Enlightenment beliefs ? faith in reason , natural law , and the idea of progress ? and a liberal humanitarian religion that assumed the  | goodness of man and the perfectibility of the individual . Two other intellectual trends also played a role in stimulating reform : romanticism , with its enthusiasm of man as a human being without reference to a person 's status in terms of inheritance and education ; and utilitarianism , which insisted that all institutions be judged by standards of social utility rather than tradition or custom . Social and economic tensions ? especially those brought on by the recurring swings in the business cycle , likewise stimulated individual reform movements . Labor leaders , to cite but one example , fought against exploitation by employers ( including slaveowners ) , and added their voices to the movement for free public education because education clearly served the needs of their constituents . All these considerations gave rise to a current of reform that drew strength and sustenance from all strata of American society . " Many scholars , however , were less confident about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform movements , they noted , necessarily resulted in a good outcome . It was true that certain institutions ? notably slavery ? were abolished . Yet those who had fought to do away with slavery failed to eradicate the roots of racial prejudice that gave rise to a crisis of massive proportions in the United States in the mid-twentieth century . In his seminal work on slavery , published in 1959 , Stanley M. Elkins provided a major reinterpretation of the abolitionists in particular and reformers in general . To Elkins the most distinctive feature of American society in the early-nineteenth century was the general breakdown of a number of key social institutions . The older establishments that had stood for order and stability ? the church , the bar , the Federalist party , the eastern merchant aristocracy ? had been stripped of their power by the 1830 's and replaced by an almost mystical faith in the individual . With formal institutions losing their influence , a new kind of reformer emerged who did not rely upon such agencies to bring about social change . The pressures on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution or organization ; there was no necessity to consider the needs of a clientele and there was no urge to spell out a program that was sound both tactically and strategically . On the contrary , reformers tended to be so free that their thinking was " erratic , emotional , compulsive , and abstract . " Above all , they became preoccupied with a sense of footnote 16 Merle Curti , The Growth of American Thought ( 3rd ed. : New York , 1964 ) , esp . Chap . 15 . The first edition of this book appeared in 1943.  | self-guilt regarding society 's problems . The result was an emotional demand for a total solution . When abolitionists sought to abolish slavery , for example , they did not feel impelled to discuss institutional arrangements in their proposed solutions to the problem . They treated slavery not as a concrete social issue , but as a moral abstraction . Protest , therefore , occurred in an institutional vacuum , and reformers were never called upon to test their ideas in concrete situations or offer programmatic solutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ description of the abstract and moral nature of American reform and its failure to come to grips with concrete and specific problems . " In the third selection in this chapter John L. Thomas attempts to synthesize many of the diverse and even conflicting interpretations of ante-bellum reform . Beginning originally as a romantic faith in perfectibility and confined to religious institutions , wrote Thomas , reform quickly overflowed its barriers and spread across society and politics . Curiously enough , the religious impulse that gave birth to reform was conservative in both political and social terms . Arising out of a reaction to democratic politics , egalitarianism , and demands for church disestablishment , religious leaders began to organize benevolent societies to strengthen what they viewed as America 's essentially Christian character and to save the nation from infidelity and ruin . By the time Jackson entered the White House , such associations formed a vast network of conservative reform enterprises that were supported and staffed by clergy and wealthy laymen who served as self-appointed guardians of America 's morals . What was not anticipated , however , was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that assumed all men could be saved and that man 's improvement was a matter of immediate consequence . Defining social sin as the sum total of individual sin , reformers worked to regenerate and to educate individuals . Moral regeneration of the individual , then , would lead ultimately to the disappearance of social problems . Reform , therefore , involved footnote " Stanley M. Elkins , Slavery : A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life ( Chicago , 1959 ) , pp. 140 ? 222 . Several historians , on the other hand , have argued that reformers and abolitionists were more realistic than most of their countrymen . See in particular Aileen S. Kraditor , Means and Ends in American Abolitionism : Garrison and His Critics on Strategy and Tactics , 1834 ? 1850 ( New York , 1969 ) ; and James M. McPherson , The Struggle for Equality : Abolitionists and the Negro in the Civil War and Reconstruction ( Princeton , 1964 ) .  | a broad moral crusade , but with a strong anti-institutional bias , since it was based on the concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , Thomas was echoing Elkins ' argument about the nature of mid-nineteenth century reform . Even the communitarian experiments , Thomas noted , were antiinstitutional institutions , for they involved an abandonment of political and religious institutions in favor of an ideal society giving full rein to the free individual . It was not until after the Civil War that a counterrevolution took place . In the course of the war both a revival of institutions and a renewal of the organic theory of the state occurred . The romantic perfectionist individualism characteristic of the first part of the nineteenth century declined sharply as a result . In surveying the large body of scholarship dealing with antebellum reform , one is struck by its ambivalent nature . On the one hand , the idea of reform has always appealed to historians , most of whom have been sympathetic to a liberal , reformist , secular ideology . On the other hand , these same historians could not help but note that mid-nineteenth century reform movements had failed in the sense that later generations of Americans ( including their own ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reform inevitably implied an implicit judgment of failure . The theme that reform had failed tended to vary in intensity ; the greater the perception of unresolved problems in their own society , the more likely were historians prone to see earlier reform movements in terms of their shortcomings . Consequently ? with some exceptions ? scholars since the I950 's have tended to emphasize the failures of reform rather than its achievements . Yet these same scholars have often been vague about the standards which they were employing in judging the past . The result has been to complicate further the task of evaluating antebellum reform ; the absence of hard and fast criteria seemed lacking , and most scholars appeared to be employing a personal and often unstated subjective standard in their evaluations . As long as Americans continue to disagree over what constitutes the proper framework and structure of their society , the nature of ante-bellum reform will continue to be a controversial subject among historians . In examining activists who sought to change society in the past , historians will probably ask the same questions as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mid-nineteenth century reform ? Were the goals of reformers conservative or radical ? Were re-  | formers responding to objective social evils ? Or did their activities embody psychological and group frustration ? Did these reformers really achieve their objectives . If not , who or what was responsible for their failures ? Were the tactics of reformers appropriate to the goals and objectives they were seeking ? Were the American people prepared to organize their society in such a way that justice would be granted in an equitable manner ? These are only a few of the issues that scholars have faced and probably will continue to face when dealing with the problem of ante-bellum reform .  | DONALD G. MATHEWS ( 1932 ? ) is Associate Professor of History at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill . He is the author of Slavery and Methodism : A Chapter in American Morality , 1780-1845 ( 1965 ) . THE abolitionists as agitators and moralists tried to change the mind of the American democrat . They appealed to his better nature and thundered against his fallen condition in pulpit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negroes the same opportunity that white men had to participate in the nation 's destiny . The goal was noble indeed , but the movement which tried to change American society was , as all human enterprises , compromised by the diverse motives , ideologies , and activities of its adherents . Historians have remarked upon the abolitionists ' ambivalence towards Negroes and reminded us that radial antislavery men were not always and everywhere social egalitarians . Even as they tried to change prevailing attitudes , some abolitionists apparently shared in various degrees many of the prejudices of their contemporaries ? scarcely an earth-shaking discovery . And there are other supposed internal contradicts s cherished by students of ante-bellum America : abolitionists , were involved in a religious crusade that became political ; they emphasized pietistic perfection and individual voluntarism while searching for a valid social ethic that took into account a kind of pristine environmentalism ; they agitated against slave where it did not exist , etc. , etc . Part of the ambiguity that s supposedly shrouds antislavery history involves the assumption of any scholars that , since abolitionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Slavery : The Critique Behind the Social Moveme t , " Journal of Southern History , XXXIII ( May , 1967 ) , pp. 163-182 . Copyr gilt 1967 by the Southern Historical Association . Reprinted without foo note &; by permission of the Managing Editor .  | ing to destroy slavery , they . could not have understood it . Careful investigation , however , will show that this assumption is untrue . Considering the many contrasts already on a long list , it may seem tiresome to add another . Nevertheless , in reading what abolitionists said about slavery and slaveholders , one gets the distinct impression of exaggerated rhetoric and elaborate condemnation on the one hand combined with astute insight , humane sympathy , and wide knowledge on the other . In fact , if one takes Herbert Butterfield 's advice to practice " imaginative sympathy " in dealing with the past , he may almost conclude that abolitionists were right when they claimed to be able to understand slavery better than anyone else since they were " uncorrupted by a bribe . " In any event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of popular oratory there was a legitimate critique of slavery . In order to discuss this critique it will not do to make distinctions between rational and irrational , sensible and nonsensical , sober and emotional abolitionists , since these categories are too vague and invidious for serious discussion . But it might be useful for the historian to make a distinction between the various functions of abolitionism , between its functions as a social movement , as a largescale agitation , and finally as a legitimate and thoughtful critique of the institution of slavery . Once these distinctions are made , it may be easier to see that abolitionists held a balanced view of slavery even as they attempted to change prevalent attitudes towards it . Gilbert H. Barnes first emphasized the intimate relationship between abolitionism and revivalism . Since the publication of his book in 1933 it has been generally accepted that the same kind of preaching which forced men to their knees in religious revivals enticed many of them into the antislavery movement . The social strain resulting from the great changes in American society during the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the evangelicalism that increased the number of Methodists , Baptists , and even Presbyterians throughout the nation . Along with the revivalistic fervor in the churches came movements which-enlisted people in various causes . Each had its prophets , its special vocabulary , its fears , enemies , and ideal vision of society . Each in some way catered to the special needs of people . Whatever those special needs might have been , thousands of people joined the abolition movement in some capacity . They  | were encouraged to do so by itinerant organizers who built up a network of local and state agencies and saw to it that the ideas of the movement were broadcast and perpetuated by subscription to one of the many antislavery periodicals . Slogans such as " immediate emancipation without expatriation " emerged from the endless discussions and articles which poured forth from the publicists who shaped the ideas of the movement . Along with the slogans often came the same lack of humor and viciousness of language which characterized the Great Revival 's attack upon sin , the Democrat 's attack upon Whig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at conversion either in religion or politics . Thus , when reading abolition literature , one is not called upon to explain away its exaggerations , but to understand them as a function of a movement which existed to perpetuate itself regardless of the value of its goals . As revivalists had been taught to be specific and harsh and to allow no " false comforts for sinners , " so abolitionists acted in relation to slaveholders and slavery as they labored to build a movement . When they addressed those whom they hoped to convert they were as uncompromising as William Lloyd Garrison promised to be in the first edition of his Liberator . Unconditional attack was simply the approved method of the temperance reformation and the revivals ; abolitionist crusaders saw no reason to discard weapons that had been so successful in previous sallies against evil . In reading controversial literature , the historian is under an obligation not to be too easily offended and to appreciate the shocking impact which disputants wanted to create with their propaganda . For even behind rhetoric characteristically " vicious " is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the student should understand . Stephen Symonds Foster was infamous for his pamphlet , The Brotherhood of Thieves , in which he accused the Methodist Episcopal Church of possessing less virtue than all the brothels in New York City . Although the statement was not especially delicate ( William Lloyd Garrison thought it especially inappropriate in the Methodist stronghold of Syracuse , New York ) , neither is it prima facie evidence of irrationality . By clearly defining the virtuous and nonvirtuous ( abolitionists and antiabolitionists ) , it not only bound the faithful together but also highlighted one of the main tenets of abolitionist belief by calling into question the respectability of an organization which prided itself on its respectability . Quite apart from the form in which the words  | came from Foster 's outraged pen , he was attacking the Methodist clergy for hypocrisy . Those good men supposedly opposed prostitution and yet refused to condemn a system in which women were bought and sold with no legal rights either as people or as wives and mothers . The point Foster was trying to make in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of prostitution and not another was a false morality . What he demanded was a transvaluation of middle-class values . By making such a demand , Foster and his colleagues were adherents of a peculiar kind of social movement ? one that made them into agitators . As agitators they were not attempting to reconstitute American values but to extend the normative power of those values to a group of people hitherto considered beyond the pale . Abolitionists , or at least their articulate spokesmen , were fully aware that they would have to overstate their case in order to move the balky , stubborn American democrat . The master agitator William Lloyd Garrison explained his situation quite succinctly : " In demanding equal and exact justice we may get partial redress ; in asking for the whole that is due us , we may get a part ; in advocating the immediate , we may succeed in procuring the speedy abolition of slavery . But , if we demand anything short of justice , we shall recover no damages ; if we ask for a part , we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon sweet reason and careful analyses presented to the proper authorities , their efforts would have been as proper and pathetic as the quietistic witness of Southern Quakers . As agitators abolitionists knew that the dispassionate understanding of a problem was of interest only to intellectuals and that most Americans scarcely fit into that category . That the abolitionists used passionate and disruptive agitation to gain their ends is not evidence that they did not understand slavery ; rather , it is proof that they understood Americans . The problem was not only agitation , but agitation across most of the lines which divided Americans into smaller communities . Wendell Phillips spoke for the entire abolition movement when he outlined the problems of communication he and his comrades faced . If the nation had been merely a market , abolitionists would talk in dollars and cents , if a college , they would load their " cannons with cold facts , " if a church , they would talk of " righteousness , temperance , and judgment to come . " But since abolitionists lived in the world of " thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and wicked , " they would                     