@@774321

txt  | student acquire standards that are high but attainable and that lead him on continually to seek greater excellence . 9 . The learner has time and means for judging his own performance , to tell how well he is doing . Without such standards he can not continue to learn beyond the time when a teacher is available . Learning in the field of health education , as in other fields , is not dependent upon a particular arrangement of teachers and students . The student learns as the several conditions of learning are met for him . Some conditions may be met within the school , but even more opportunities to practice the behavior sought in health education will ordinarily be found outside the school . Health educators will find it necessary to use ingenuity , as they work with their students , if they are to provide all the essential conditions for learning . CONSUMER EDUCATION In recent years , industry has become as conscious as health education of behavioral research ? perhaps even more so . Increasingly , industry has applied the growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its products and services . This inevitably raises questions relating to the healthfulness of the items involved and their proper use and possible abuse . How can a young person learn to evaluate the seemingly innumerable health and health-related products and services offered via radio , television , newspapers , magazines , and other advertising media ? What guidelines can tomorrow 's families use to judge the claims made for the probably more numerous and fantastic products of the future ? Already they are so cleverly promoted and advertised as to puzzle the most cautious consumer . Fortunately a growing number of producers and distributors are realizing the value of honesty in health advertising . They recognize their obligation to the public and discharge it with integrity . Others , disturbingly , resort to misstatement , distortion of fact , misleading word associations , and even to outright fraud . Often , before the law can stop them , they have done incalculable harm and milked the public of thousands of dollars . Self-Diagnosis and Self-Medication Recently it has been estimated that the public spends about $566 million a year on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely self-prescribed.2 This amounts to an average monthly expenditure of about $18 for each American family . Vitamin supplements account for the greatest proportion ? about $350 million , most of which could be better spent for food . Some $148 million is spent on laxatives which are usually unnecessary and sometimes dangerous , 3 and $68 million is spent for aspirin , much of it needlessly . Usually these products are comparatively harmless , but they represent an unnecessary expense to which must be added the millions thrown away each year on " cures " for everything from colds to gout . Two categories of products and services are of special concern to health ? education : those relating directly to health such as nonprescription drugs and those influencing health indirectly such as weight-reduction plans or devices . In either case , it is important for the potential customer to appreciate the need for evaluating health advertising and to have at his command effective tools for appraisal . Resources for Appraisal There should be no trouble in teaching young people how to evaluate the first category of products ? those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedies and standard first aid items , drugs should not be used without medical advice . Even the so-called household drugs are hazardous if used for persistent pain , when signs of infection are present , when sores fail to heal , in excessive dosage , or in any chronic complaint . The greatest threat of self-medication , however , is that it so often delays proper treatment until good results are difficult , if not impossible , to obtain . What to do about other products and services ? the kind that influence health indirectly ? is not so easily stated . For example , how could one check on a vibrator sold for weight-reduction purposes , a " vitamin supplement , " or a new product that supposedly will remove hair safely ? In the area of services , how is it possible to determine the merits of a newly introduced health insurance footnote S American Medical Association . " New AMA Campaign . " AMA News 3:1 ; October 3 , 1960 . Hook , Charles W. " Laxatives : $148 Million Fraud . " Today 's Health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a recently established medical practitioner , or the worthiness of an unfamiliar health agency ? Young people should learn that their primary resources for evaluating health products and services are usually found in their own communities ? their own physician , health department , medical society , better business bureau , and local hospital . Also , they should know that most of such resources have state and national affiliates to which they will refer when the information is not locally available . The appropriate agency is usually not only willing but anxious , for the good of all concerned , to investigate a questionable matter . Evaluative Criteria To call upon available resources whenever the slightest doubt exists about a product or service would hardly be practicable . So it is important for high school youth to become familiar with ways of screening out obvious nostrums and quack devices promoted by modern " medicine men . " Young people need only learn a few easily-remembered yardsticks : 4 1 . Are the facts stated in clear , simple language without resort to confusing technical terms ? ( Long " scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Are the claims acceptable in terms of common sense and logical reasoning ? ( The careful consumer will not be convinced by holes burned in handkerchiefs or by the amount of fizz produced by a tablet. ) 3 . Does the advertisement play upon common fears , dread of disease , or superstitious beliefs ? ( " Do you have tired blood ? " and " It could be your kidneys ! " would be examples of such scare techniques. ) 4 . If research is cited to prove a point , was the research conducted by an unbiased scientific organization ? ( A manufacturer 's research department , for example , could be biased. ) 5 . If research is cited to prove a point , were the findings published in recognized medical or dental journals ( state , regional , and national periodicals of the health professions and publications approved by them ) ? 6 . If opinions of scientific authorities are cited to support a statement , are these persons identified by name , position , place of residence , and professional standing ? ( " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but means nothing. ) footnote ' Hein , Fred V. " Evaluating Health Advertising . " NEA Journal 49:57 ; January 1960. // 7 . Are the scientific authorities cited in support of a particular point properly qualified in terms of that specific issue ? ( Competency in one field does not necessarily carry over into another. ) 8 . Are the statements approved or accepted by professional medical , dental , and public health associations ? ( If one is n't sure of the answers to the above questions , check with the local medical society or health department . ) Knowing how to obtain the facts about health products and services is an important consumer skill today . In the years ahead , with a growing number of even more diverse products and services , this ability is likely to become increasingly valuable . It is of utmost importance for the individual to learn to be an intelligent consumer in those areas that may affect his life and health .  | Man 's life span ? average life expectancy at birth ? has reached an all-time high . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survive , on the average , some 70 years ? the proverbial threescore and ten . During all of these years , he may also expect a richer , fuller life with a healthier outlook , less disease , a more healthful environment , and a higher standard of living than at any previous time in history . Public health and other service agencies assure him of a safe water supply , arrange for sanitary waste disposal , check the healthfulness of the food he eats , set adequate housing standards , regulate the safety of public buildings he frequents , and in other ways safeguard his health and safety . Available to him are the best prepared and equipped physicians and dentists in the world . They can immunize him against many serious diseases , determine the quality of his health by examination and testing , prescribe for his illnesses , repair the results of his injuries , remove malfunctioning organs and malignancies , and counsel him on a variety of health problems . With modern roads and vehicles , he has easy access to hospitals and medical centers supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life-saving purposes . There are specialized areas and services for varying conditions and all ages , beginning in infancy and extending into senility . There is a variety of skilled technicians whose work supplements and reinforces the efforts of physicians and nurses . When medicines are  | needed , today 's physician has at his command prescriptions so effective that they have been labeled " wonder drugs . " Also at man 's service is a vast array of research programs and projects , operated by literally an army of scientific workers in the field of health . In recent years , there has been a tremendous expansion of the manpower , funds , and facilities devoted to research in medicine and public health . Already this research has brought great dividends in the betterment of human health , and it promises even more . Research , without doubt , holds the key to the eventual end of disease , disability , and premature death . Yet the millenium for health lies far in the future . The Problems Ahead Many serious health problems persist . Today 's youth must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the days ahead . Some carry over from earlier generations , their conquest sure but the time uncertain . Tuberculosis is a case in point . This disease can be wiped out within the lifetime of the young people in school today if all that is known about it is used to best advantage . Other problems are still developing . Air pollution is a good example . As yet , because many contaminants can not be seen , most people have not sensed the magnitude of this modern menace . Here , too , solution is possible if people are willing to do what is necessary . Health education , if properly directed and with appropriate consideration for motivation , can help equip youth to meet and solve these problems for themselves and their families . It can indicate to them that many aspects of health are intimately personal and entirely up to the individual . Who but the one concerned can remember that important annual health examination or the biannual dental checkup ? And who but the one afflicted can know about the suspicious lump , hidden by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Health education can also impress upon each youth that , in matters of health , he is his brother 's keeper . Alone , no one can provide for the fluoridation of the community water supply , control an outbreak of communicable disease , or share the risks in health insurance . Health improvement in the years to come will depend not only upon the individual initiative of today 's young people but also upon their capacity for cooperative action to promote the health of others .  | Health education in schools today has an obligation to help boys and girls learn how they can best discharge their individual and group responsibilities for solving the anticipated health problems of the future . If they are to carry out these responsibilities effectively , they will need to understand the nature and scope of the problems they are likely to face and the most probable approaches to their solution . Changing Disease Frontiers History will record that almost simultaneously with the advent of Sputnik an effective vaccine against paralytic poliomyelitis became available . The latter achievment had far greater significance than polio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the last major communicable disease then on the increase . Earlier , the other big killers among these illnesses had been brought under at least partial control in the United States . In the years ahead , it remains for health education to do the rest of the job . True , there will be new vaccines ; old ones will be refined ; new preventive procedures will be perfected . Nevertheless , health education faces a major problem in attempting to motivate the public to take advantage of these protective measures . In the secondary school , this will require a new teaching emphasis , with greater attention to : 1 . The importance of obtaining medically recommended immunizations for children during the first few months of life , with periodic reinforcement according to local conditions and regulations 2 . Family responsibility for maintaining proper immunization status and for carrying out other recommended measures to control communicable disease . Chronic Illness Meantime , ahead in their struggle with communicable disease , medical scientists will be able to focus their efforts on the growing specter of chronic illness . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other chronic conditions may continue to show an apparent increase . This is to be expected with improved diagnosis and with more people living to the ages when they are most subject to degenerative diseases . Great scientific breakthroughs undoubtedly lie ahead in connection with the chronic illnesses . Already spectacular advances , have been made , including new technics in heart surgery , blood  | vessel transplants in vascular disease , radioactive isotopes and chemotherapy in cancer , new drugs and surgical techniques in tuberculosis , and oral drugs in diabetes . Steadily , as time goes on , new and more potent weapons against the degenerative diseases will be found . But every evidence points to evolutionary rather than revolutionary progress . Preventive measures , including periodic medical examinations and prompt care when early signs or symptoms appear , will continue to be the best defense against these chronic conditions . Again , this poses a difficult problem for health education . How can young people be motivated to seek needed preventive services in the years ahead ? Despite new medical methods , it is the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can compel him to get the needed care . Health education will be the chief reliance . To prepare youth to face the problems of chronic illness intelligently , health education will be concerned with teaching boys and girls to : 1 . Appreciate the fact that today 's best security against chronic and degenerative disease is found in periodic health examinations and prompt care when suggestive signs or symptoms appear 2 . Realize that the early indications of disease should be termed " life-saving signs " instead of " danger signals " 3 . Understand that learning the facts about even a dread disease is a means of replacing unwholesome fear with healthy respect . NUTRITION EMPHASES Americans will eat " high on the hog " in the years ahead . Faster transportation and new methods of food preservation , probably including the use of antibiotics and radiation , will make more of all foods available all over the world all year round . For the first time in history , the world can look forward to all of its people having enough to eat every day . This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Africa , and other underdeveloped areas where , until now , existence has been possible for so many only at the barest subsistence level . " Creeping Overweight " In the United States and some other countries , however , this same bounty could result in the vastly greater problem of obesity  | and degenerative disease . Already " creeping overweight , " as it has been labeled , is a major health problem in the United States . Increasingly , young people seem to tend in this direction , and among the adult population there are an estimated 20 million with overweight problems ? five million of those dangerously obese.5 Unfortunately , the overweight problem is growing , as is the incidence of heart and blood vessel disease , diabetes , arthritis , and liver disorders . These and other chronic ailments strike the obese especially hard and often . Weight control involves a judicious combination of rational exercise and right diet . It is mostly a matter of adjusting the intake in calories to the outgo in terms of activity . Nutritionists and physiologists , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Choices Obesity is not the country 's only nutritional problem . Many young people eat too much of the wrong kinds of foods and too little of the right kinds . They cloy their appetites for essential nutrients with poorly-selected , between-meal snacks . Worse yet , they fall for fad diets and nutritional fallacies . Fortunately , the Department of Agriculture has recently developed a simple blueprint for food selection6 to substitute for the more complicated " Basic Seven . " The new plan divides essential foods into four easily-recalled groups : enriched whole grain bread and cereals , milk and milk products , meat and meat substitutes , and fruits and vegetables . The " Fundamental-Four Food Plan , " as it might be called , makes wise selection of a balanced diet relatively simple and , because it stipulates portions , helps in " calorie containment . " The nutrition problems young people are likely to face in the future suggest new directions for health education in secondary schools . These include : 1 . Emphasis on increased understanding of the need for a proper balance between eating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Life Insurance Company . " Overweight Shortens Life . " Statistical Bulletin 32:1 ; 1951 . ? U.S. Department of Agriculture . Foods for Fitness . Leaflet No. 424 . Washington , D.C. : Superintendent of Documents , Government Printing Ofice , 1958.  | 2 . Use of simple guides such as the " Fundamental-Four Food Plan " to aid in the intelligent selection of foods and the procurement of a balanced diet 3 . Stress on learning experiences which show that magic pills , vitamin tablets , mineral supplements , and special " health " foods can not substitute for a proper diet 4 . Demonstration of the fact that weight control is not a matter of crash diets , skipped breakfasts , or elimination of certain foods . PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND HEALTH Will the coming years bring push-button , armchair existence in which a premium will be placed on avoidance of exercise and physical activity in any form ? Or will the days ahead , with the increasing leisure that is inevitable , mark a time of turning from physical drudgery to enjoyable physical recreation ? Such a transition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this transition is successful depends largely upon today 's parents , teachers , and youth leaders . Physical activity is only one avenue of recreation . But in the days to come , the use of the physical ? for education and in recreation ? will become increasingly significant . Thus , the quality of today 's physical education and physical recreation programs will determine this vital aspect of living for tomorrow . Lately there has been a growing appreciation of the importance of proper exercise in weight control and in the prevention of degenerative disease . There is increasing evidence also that exercise is a significant factor in maintaining the health of the cardiovascular system , perhaps even in the inhibition of the aging process . A subjective sense of greater well-being as a result of exercise is hard to prove but equally hard to deny . That human beings are integrated individuals is a generally recognized concept . They have intellectual , emotional , social , and spiritual components . But none of the other components can reach their fullest realization without attention to the physical . With growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integral part of life , health education for healthful living in the future will : 1 . Familiarize all pupils with elementary principles of the physiology of physical activity ? the why and how of exercise 2 . Emphasize the need for physical recreation as a replacement for the decreasing activity in daily living  | 3 . Stress health practices relating to physical recreation , including showering , sanitation , personal grooming , and control of communicable disease 4 . Acquaint pupils with certain exercise precautions , including the need for periodic medical examinations , the hazards of the week-end exercise orgy , and the safety factors in physical recreation . UNSEEN HAZARDS TO HEALTH In the days ahead , hidden hazards to life and health will become increasingly important . The problem of air pollution has been present for a long time , and now there are the added dangers of contamination of soil , water , and air by radioactivity . The biggest environmental health problem of the first half of the twentieth century was how to provide citizens with a safe water supply and sanitary waste disposal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health must turn its attention to controlling air pollution and preventing radiation contamination . Air Pollution Contrary to the popular impression , the problem of air pollution is not confined to factories and other industrial installations ; another major source of dangerous contaminants , for example , is motor vehicle exhausts . With growing industrial mechanization and more and more automobiles , trucks , and buses clogging the streets and highways , the problem will become increasingly difficult and complex . Whether called " smog " or " smaze , " air pollution remains a major public health menace . In its worst form , it has caused the death of susceptible persons and made countless others seriously ill . In its milder form , it is a source of continuing irritation to almost everyone and makes some people chronically ill . Also , there is considerable suspicion and some evidence that its contaminants may be a significant factor in the growing incidence of lung cancer . Radioactivity The National Research Council has estimated " safe limits " of radioactivity , apart from natural or background sources , at about ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is ) , it is believed that each person now receives , on the aver-  | age , less than half that amount. ? That seems to be well under the " safe limits " of exposure ( although not all authorities agree ) , but this safe situation could change . With even the smallest nuclear explosion or the operation of even the most modest reactor unit , thousands of fission fragments are produced . Each of these is invariably radioactive and , unless something is done to prevent it , may be conveyed to any person in any part of the world . Thus , stringent controls will be essential , not only to protect the present population but also for the sake of future generations . Only a people sensitive to these unseen hazards and alert to the need for their control can be expected to support protective procedures . Health education , therefore , faces a new and challenging task calling for : 1 . Greater emphasis in health teaching on the growing problem of air pollution , its effect on health , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears concerning the medical use of radiation by teaching the facts about its careful employment and control 3 . Increased attention to alerting pupils to the potential problems of radiation and radioactive waste in the environment and the necessity for proper controls . Tomorrow 's Tensions As the pace of living increases , tensions build up accordingly . This is evident in the greater stresses of present-day living as compared with those a decade or two ago . One wonders if , in the years ahead , with rapidly increasing speeds , constantly expanding activities , and ever extending horizons , such tensions will become almost overwhelming . Anxiety is also increased by the thought that the individual can do very little about the threat of atomic bombs or intercontinental missiles . True , even in this favored land , man has always been threatened in one way or another ? from the days of the Indians through World War II . But always before , the individual could do something about it ; he could either fight or flee , whichever action seemed most expedient . With stresses mounting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relieve his tensions ? Will he bury his footnote ' National Academy of Sciences ? National Research Council . Biological Effects of Atomic Radiation . Washington , D.C. : the Council , 1956. p. 21-22. // head in the sand , withdrawing from reality ? Will he resort to tranquilizing drugs or seek solace in alcohol or narcotics ? Or will he find a way to deal with the problems and live with the speed of the space age ? Education can help youth find the way . It can help them learn to seek relief from tensions in good reading , good music , and other arts and crafts ; to use nature 's tranquilizers ? her streams , her forests , her mountains , and lakes ? to ease the stress of the workaday world ; to turn to golf , hiking , tennis , archery , to all sports as constructive outlets for energies and aggressions . The schools share responsibility for helping youth learn these things ? not only their technics but also their application and values for mental health . Thus , far from being fads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation education will assume new significance in the years to come . In the area of mental health , each will assist boys and girls to understand and appreciate : 1 . That problems and perplexities are the common lot of man and a natural part of living 2 . The need to learn constructive ways of dealing with problems , anxieties , and stresses 3 . The values of counseling and the fact that seeking help is not a sign of weakness or inadequacy 4 . Sound approaches to personality development and to learning to live and work effectively with others . HEALTH RESPONSIBILITIES AND RELATIONSHIPS A most important part of preparing young people for healthful living is to help them develop sound attitudes toward their responsibilities for individual , family , and community health . . rust as there are some aspects of health that only the individual can ensure for himself , so there are others that only a family can provide for its members and still others that only a community can secure for its citizens . The purity and wholesomeness of the food supply is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieving a measure of independence that would permit them to have an improper diet even though the family food supply was adequate . On the other hand , even if the youth in a family were properly motivated , they could not get a proper diet if the food for the family was  | poorly selected or improperly preserved or prepared . Similarly , without help from the community ( education , regulation , inspection ) , neither the individual nor the family would have any guarantee of the safety or adequacy of the food purchased . The relationships evidenced in this example are typical of those in other areas of health and emphasize the interdependency of the individual , family , and community in matters of human welfare . Each has definite responsibilities , and each has important contributions to make to the good of all . Individual Responsibilities Much has been spoken and written about the right of the individual to health ; not as much has been said about the individual 's responsibility for his own health . Yet there is no part of living that depends so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the past , measures for health maintenance demanded individual responsibility only to a limited degree . The development of pure water supplies , pasteurization of milk , and other sanitary accomplishments were achieved through social action in which the individual may have participated as a citizen , but was required to take no further responsibility . Future accomplishments , however , depend to an even greater degree upon the individual 's assumption of responsibility for his own health . It is the individual who must consult his physician for early care , avoid obesity and alcoholism , and drive his automobile safely . These things can not be done for him . They require both information and motivation.8 This country has reached a stage in health advancement when what the individual does about his own health is more important than what can be done for him . By precept and practice , health education can help young people learn to realize the importance of self-reliance in health . Goals for the adolescent in terms of this attribute have recently been defined and , in substance , may be classified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Nation . Buildivy America 's Health . Report to the President , Vol. 1 . Washington , D.C. : Superintendent of Documents , Government Printing Office , 1951. p. 1 . e Adapted from the Report of the School Health Evaluative Study , Los Angeles County Tuberculosis and Health Association , 1959.  | Personal Living Goals 1 . Cooperate in health appraisal , accept and adjust to his changing body , have good poise and body mechanics , keep himself in good physical condition . 2 . Grow in his capacity for independence and decision-making , express his emotions in acceptable ways , understand his sex role , develop a satisfactory philosophy for living . 3 . Know reliable sources of health information , select health products wisely , be able to distinguish between ethical medical practice and quackery , avoid the use of harmful substances. 4 . Take advantage of available immunizations , seek prompt attention when danger signals of disease appear , care for himself properly when ill , do not practice self-medication. 5 . Develop appropriate safety skills , foresee the consequences of foolhardy action , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations Goals 1 . Participate effectively with his peers , work well with people of other ages , have concern for other people , their plans , successes and failures . 2 . Appreciate his own home and family , understand the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood , prepare for future family life . 3 . Appreciate the importance of a family physician and dentist , choose health products and services wisely , feel an obligation for the safety of others , help to maintain the safety of his home . Community Living Goals 1 . Know school-community health resources , be interested in improving school-community health conditions , participate in appropriate schoolcommunity health activities . 2 . Participate in discussions of school-community health problems , serve on health and safety committees as opportunity permits , report unhealthy or unsafe conditions to proper authorities . 3 . Understand in general the qualifications of ethical practitioners of medicine and dentistry , be alert for frauds and quackery , appreciate the health professions as useful careers . Family Responsibilities Trends in American family life have led to less association between members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes less family stability . In terms of health , this can mean an unfortunate breakdown in daily living practices . For example , when both parents work and perhaps leave home before the children are ready for school , good organization is required to assure proper breakfasts . The same may be said for many other aspects of health supervision . In the next generation , this problem could become even more difficult .  | In each phase of family life , there are implications for health . Health is a factor in choosing a suitable marriage partner , in maintaining family solidarity , in the proper development of children . Health responsibilities accompanying marriage can be taught in the best of taste to the benefit of secondary school youth ; so can those specifics of family-life education having direct application to health , such as selecting medical and dental advisers , obtaining needed health services , securing health insurance , providing adequate housing , food , and clothing , and developing desirable health behavior within the family jurisdiction . In the past , health teaching at the secondary school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal health and community health . With marriages now occurring at an earlier age and problems of marital adjustment and family management arising soon after , there is good reason to identify a third area ? family health ? as a focus for teaching attention . Through appropriate emphasis of this area , health education can make a significant contribution to preserving the integrity of the family as well as to its own goals of health . Community Responsibilities It is natural for young people to be interested , first , in the activities of their own age group ; next , in the affairs of others close to them in their daily living ; and , only remotely , in factors of community life that do not affect them directly and are not readily discernible to them . It is important , however , for youth to study the organization and functions of health departments , medical and dental societies , voluntary health agencies , and other groups that contribute to health at the local , state , national , and international levels . Young people need to learn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities , the personnel and facilities that protect their health and safety , and the problems that remain to be solved . They need to study , debate , and discuss the current state and national health issues . They need to learn about health needs in the rest of the world and the efforts being made to meet these needs . Probably most of all , they need to participate in school-community projects or activities that will help them gain an appreciation of service to others . Health teaching must actively and deeply involve young people if it is to develop in them an appropriate sense of responsibility  | for the health of others . A practical example of such involvement was presented by one high school in which the health classes surveyed local health conditions and then used the needs revealed by the survey as the basis for their study of community health.lo This type of information , relating to state as well as local needs , is available for similar purposes in most places . Sources include state and local health departments , other governmental agencies , medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reports and surveys of health conditions in the United States provide a similar approach at the national level . For example , the National Office of Vital Statistics of the Public Health Service provides periodic reports on diseases , mortality records , and the like . The Division of Public Health Methods of the Public Health Service makes extensive surveys annually of illness in the United States . The Health Information Foundation , several times a year , publishes reports of studies of health resources and conditions throughout the country.11 A recent illustration of valuable material concerning national health conditions was the summary report on preventable health problems made to the House Committee on Appropriations of the Eighty-Sixth Congress.12 Critical study of these and other similar reports will not only broaden the view of secondary school youth but also improve their capacities for discrimination and evaluation . International health is a matter of increasing concern with the growing realization that improving world health is a matter of self-interest as well as a humanitarian consideration . With the modern advances in transportation , distances have shrunk to the point where an outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem in the United States tomorrow . At the same time , more rapid communication and improved information media have brought this country closer to the health needs of the rest of the world . Study of the reports and recommendations of the World Health Organization and the World footnote 10 West Los Angeles Health Committee . Community Survey . Los Angeles : Los Angeles County Tuberculosis and Health Association , 1956 . " Copies of these reports may be obtained from Health Information Foundation , 420 Lexington Avenue , New York 17 , N.Y . U.S. Department of Health , Education and Welfare , Public Health Service . Ten Preventable Public Health Problems . Issue No. 73 . Washington , D.C. : Social Legislation Information Service , October 24 , 1960.  | Medical Association can help young people recognize the importance of international cooperation in matters of health.13 How far one 's concern for the health of his fellow man extends is , in one sense , a measure of maturity . This is not true , of course , if one 's concern is too visionary to be practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted as doing things for people that they should learn to do for themselves . Within realistic limits , however , health education has the opportunity and responsibility to extend the health horizons of young people . Today these horizons reach beyond the individual to his community , state , nation , and world . Tomorrow they may stretch outward into space . REFERENCES HEIN , FRED V. , AND FARNSWORTH , DANA L. Living . Third edition . Chicago : Scott , Foresman and Co. , 1959. 406 p . NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION AND AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION , JOINT COMMITTEE ON HEALTH PROBLEMS IN EDUCATION . Health Education . Washington , D.C. : National Education Association , 1961 . Chapter 5 , " Health Education ? Attitude and Behavioral Change , " p. 95-113 . PAUL , BENJAMIN DAVID , AND MILLER , W. B. , EDITORS . Health , Culture and Community . New York : Russell Sage Foundation , 1955. 493 p. footnote " Materials are available from World Health Organization , United Nations , New York , N.Y. , and from World Medical Association , 10 Columbus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Excellence HEALTH AND SAFETY EDUCATION Excellence in health ? and in the related field of safety ? encompasses many factors . It includes a high level of vitality and a long life . It involves acquiring knowledge and developing favorable attitudes toward those practices and beliefs that foster the improvement of health . It signifies appreciation of the importance of health to the individual and to the society in which he lives . It represents the application of good judgment to matters involving health . It includes stability of mind as well as capacity of the body . Purpose is of major importance  | in any phase of human life . High levels of vitality and great longevity have little significance if these potentials for creative effort are diverted into less noble enterprises . Thus the educator faces a challenge to excellence not only in health itself but also in terms of concepts , attitudes , purposes , and judgment . Excellence in health should mean a long enough life to permit the individual to capitalize on his natural talents for both individual satisfactions and the improvement of mankind . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not reach the age of his greatest genius has denied both himself and society the fruits of his creativity . This applies in every field of human endeavor , whether it be science , music , literature , or athletics . When man lives a long time , he has at least the opportunity to express any talents that he might have ; when he dies prematurely , all his possibilities are lost . If within one generation , 20 gifted persons should lose , on the average , 20 years of their productive lives by premature deaths from preventable causes , society would lose 400 years of genius in that single generation alone . What might those 400 years have produced for the good of the world ? Mere longevity is not sufficient . One who lives many years at a low level of vitality may be a constant burden to family and society . It is only when men have the energy to carry out their creative thoughts that productive efforts emerge to shape a better life for society . Challenge of Concept To achieve excellence in health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health is such a universal phenomenon , its definitions have been broad and varied . These many concepts might be condensed into one which specifies vitality for maximum creativity over the period of a person 's lifetime . But even in these terms , the problem of concept is a difficult one . No one can say just how much vitality each person should have . No one can judge accurately how much capacity for creativity an individual may have . Even in the creative person whose genius is demonstrated , it is not known what creations have gone unexpressed because of insufficient vitality or inadequate motivation . Concepts of health , therefore , constitute a challenge to excellence . Without adequate concepts , leadership will be unlikely to provide sufficient direction to achieve high levels of health . i f health educators meet this challenge of concept , the doors will be  | opened to still greater progress , the ultimate limits of which are completely unknown . Challenge of Significance Excellence in health can never be achieved on a broad scale unless its vital significance is made clear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over insignificant things . Few are likely to strive for excellence in the field of health unless its importance is well understood . Not only must the importance of health to the individual be clarified in terms of the goals he seeks for himself , but the significance of health to society in general must be made clear . Only the medical historians have adequately emphasized the role of health and disease in the rise and fall of nations and civilizations . No population can long sustain a position of world , or even regional , leadership in the presence of extensive illness , low vitality , and short life . Senseless stress and tension among segments of society are often the product of poor mental health among leaders . No national or world leaders with emotional instability can provide the constructive , sane , balanced administration necessary for peace and understanding throughout the world . Good health is basic for individual , family , community , national , and international activities on a productive and creative scale . It is the sick man , or the population of low vitality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the illness is healed and the capacity for self-support and independence is established . Nations throughout the world can be arranged in order of international leadership ? whether in science , literature , art , music , statesmanship , or other productive categories ? on the basis of the average length of life in these countries . Nations whose people have a short life expectancy lose too many productive citizens too soon to be able to compete successfully with those nations whose citizens have a significantly longer life span . Out of these added years come many inventions , scientific discoveries , and original and superior productions in every field . Challenge of Purpose To have good health is not enough . Life must have purpose . Health alone , existing merely for itself , can have little meaning .  | When high levels of vitality and long life are associated with some major constructive purpose or ideal , then health comes to have its ultimate values . Even in the individual 's personal life , health must have a purpose . For the athlete , the restriction of smoking and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance . For the soldier in the field , physical fitness has meaning because it is essential for survival and attainment of military objectives . For the scientist , physical endurance has meaning when it enables him to spend long hours in a laboratory and work at a pace consistent with his driving enthusiasm . Even at the international level , there must be moral purpose in the extension of human life . There are no humanitarian values when population expansion and increase in the general health level have aggressive , nationalistic , or political purposes that end in war . Challenge of Orientation There is challenge in the orientation of school administrators , faculties of schools of education , boards of trustees , and teachers in general as to the nature and significance of school health programs . Many school administrators , because they lack professional training in school health , look on health education as a relatively trivial matter , perceive the school nurse as representing the entire school health program , or are indifferent to any possibilities that are not required by the school code or other legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others must be brought to a better understanding of why the schools must be concerned with the health of the child , in terms both of its meaning to the learning process and of the broader implications of social progress and world leadership . A common misconception existing in the minds of many school administrators who are interested in the development of a sound approach to the health of the child is that which emphasizes the school health service over the curriculum of learning experiences . It can not be too forcefully stated that the school exists as a social institution for the one basic purpose of teaching . On logical grounds , this means that the curriculum of learning experiences in health must take precedence over the provision of health services . It may be true that , for the minority of children whose health problems are detected and corrected because of school  | health services , the increase in learning capacity may make these services of greater significance . For the great majority of normal , healthy children , however , it will be the instructional experiences that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitality and life . Better orientation of the faculties of schools of education can be the key to better understanding of school health programs , their relationships to the health and educability of children , and the strength and vitality of a population . Orientation of boards of trustees represents a more immediate means for improving existing health and safety programs . School boards carry a large share of the legal powers associated with secondary schools , and there is a continuing need for orientation and education of school board members because of their limited terms in office and their nonprofessional status in the field of education . Orientation of school administrators is much easier when their boards of trustees request a well-rounded health program , or when schools of education include courses in school health in the administrative curriculum . Challenge of Knowledge It is unlikely that human health can be maintained or improved on a broad scale without public knowledge of a large body of factual information . Even when concepts and attitudes are sound , health judgments and practices must rest upon a basic fund of knowledge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more research , better distribution of knowledge , and better education in this field . The tremendous amount of current research in the fields of medicine , public health , safety , and the many allied health sciences ensures a steady flow of greater knowledge . One challenge to the health educator comes in keeping up with the flood of new facts on health that are emerging from the thousands of laboratories and research projects . Even without the constant research , there is sufficient information now available to improve the health of the nation and the world . A great challenge to excellence in health education lies in making this information available to all , in translating the technical materials into nontechnical form which can be used by the teacher and understood by the general public . The individual must have broad health knowledge on which to base his decisions and actions .  | Challenge of Attitude Social psychologists long ago established relationships between attitudes and performance . An individual 's health attitudes will affect his acquisition of facts as well as his application of them . A knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action will be taken . Most people know about the protection that immunization gives , but many will not avail themselves of this service . Although Chapter 5 stressed the significance of attitude formation , the fact must still be faced that ways and means of favorably affecting attitudes have not been fully discovered . A challenge to excellence in health is the need for psychologists to learn more about the motivations , beliefs , and other intangibles that influence attitudes . Basic research is needed to discover more effective ways to develop and foster favorable attitudes toward desirable health practices . The problem of attitudes , however , is not confined to the individual alone . Attitudes toward protection of the group are possibly of greater significance than attitudes toward one 's personal health . It is important to know why the tuberculous patient may be uncooperative and indifferent to the hazard that he creates for others . It is important to know more about the origins of group attitudes at the adolescent level as well as in other segments of the population . Study of health attitudes over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of problem areas and for the intelligent and effective improvement of these attitudes . Within every culture resides a stubbornly resisting body of health superstitions and practices that will not yield readily to new facts and discoveries . Knowledge alone is not sufficient to guarantee intelligent action in the protection and promotion of health . It is a challenge to health and safety education to discover more effective ways of influencing human behavior and affecting attitudes in order to overcome these superstitions . Challenge to Judgment Concept , attitude , knowledge , and purpose may have an incomplete effect upon human health if judgment is faulty . Sometimes , judgment seems to be associated with a natural instinct for recognition of the significant as compared with things of lesser importance . Sometimes sound judgment seems to be as-  | sociated with a natural grasp of human affairs and personal relationships rather than with factual knowledge . Sometimes judgment seems to come from experience and situation analysis . Whatever the origins of sound health judgment , developing it constitutes a challenge to the educator . The problem-solving technique of teaching seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not required that people have cancer in order to learn about the hazards of this disease ; yet if educators can create in the classroom problem situations that call for the exercise of judgment , they may be able to develop this quality without risking impairment of vitality or length of life . Sound judgment in consumer buying in the health field appears to have particular significance . Funds spent for unscientific services or for quack products and remedies not only place the health of the buyer in jeopardy but also reduce the economic capacity for proper medical care . A dollar spent unwisely in the field of health may have far greater detrimental effects than when it is expended in some other area . How to teach wisdom in the purchase of health services and health products is a vital challenge . Health educators who spend their efforts solely in the transmission of health knowledge will find this approach inadequate . Learning situations that foster the exercise of judgment may be as important as the communication of knowledge itself , although it should be obvious that good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Challenge of Practice Unless the individual learns to practice sound health habits , then all other efforts have failed . It matters little if attitudes are right , if judgment is sound , if knowledge is factually correct , or if concepts are enlightening if there is no application of these things in the life of the individual or the group in which he lives . The secret of practice is strong internal conviction plus the capacity for acting on it . Creating this state of affairs is a challenge to the educator . Motivation of a high order is necessary for the individual to overcome the inconvenience , the forgetfulness , the superstitions , the indifference , the fears , and the other factors that may hamper the application of knowledge in the field of health . The child or adult who is afraid of the dentist may not go  | to him for proper dental care , even though he knows he should seek this professional attention . The person who has religious scruples against the recognition of a communicable disease may not seek proper medical care for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The individual who is raised in a community with a cultural background that fears hospitalization may not turn to the resources of this social institution even though the need for hospital care is desperate . Community support for the health protection of all represents sound health practice on a group rather than an individual basis . No one person can expect to be confronted with all the multiple health problems affecting a population . He can act and think , however , in a manner which shows that he recognizes the hazards that may exist for the total community . When he votes favorably for desirable health legislation , when he fosters group and community measures for the protection of human health , he is demonstrating in group practice what may not be necessary for him as an individual . There is a challenge to the educator to find a way to overcome the many factors that may prevent the individual or group from practicing well-established health principles . He must find a way to stimulate the individual to practice those behaviors that modern medical and public health sciences have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Challenge of Religion Certain minority groups , with basic concepts and beliefs that conflict with the findings of medical science , will not likely accept the scientific facts on which health education is constructed . One of the problems confronting the field of health education is convincing these groups that there is no basic conflict between those measures that promote vitality and prolong life and any philosophy or faith that has the true welfare of humanity at heart . A common meeting ground for such conflicting concepts lies in the promotion of vitality and the protection and extension of the life of the individual . Fundamentally , health education and all religions have the common objective of promoting man 's welfare . Spiritual strengths and wholesome religious beliefs can be matched and reinforced by the strengths of vitality and long life that come from the lessons , experiences , and researches of the health sciences .  | Both science and religion seek truth and fact above all else . A challenge to both educational and religious leaders lies in the acceptance of good from both fields , health and religion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are willing to make adjustments in their beliefs for the good of the individual , there may be some hope that a resolution of differences can be found . Challenge of Evaluation The results of health education must be measured by new and different principles . The customary tools of measurement used for evaluating results of instruction in other fields such as mathematics , history , and English are not adequate . The purposes of health education are different from those that stress the acquisition of technical knowledge , often with emphasis on preparation of the gifted child . The purposes of health education are primarily those of maintaining or improving the level of vitality and lengthening the span of life for all persons , regardless of their intellectual status . These purposes can not be measured by paper-and-pencil tests . They can not be appraised properly within any short time . They must be considered in terms of influence over an entire lifetime . It is possible that a single bit of factual knowledge in the field of health may save a life tomorrow , next year , or 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of health education be evaluated ? There is a paramount challenge to educators to conduct longrange research that will establish the effects of this instruction over the lifetimes of hundreds of thousands of persons . Only then can there be a true assessment of the impact of health education upon society . This kind of long-range research need not be restricted to the causes of accidents , the prevalence of illnesses , levels of vitality , and differences in the life span . Theoretically , it should be possible to assess the losses and gains for society when gifted , creative , and productive persons live long lives At high levels of vitality , or die long before their normal biological expectancies . Thus , the challenge to health education is both to discover differences in vitality and length of life among those who have had health instruction , as compared to those lacking this instruction , and to strive to discover what those differences , if such exist , mean to society in terms of lasting contributions in science , literature , art , and other fields .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent a challenge to action . Enough knowledge now exists to save thousands of lives each day . The application of these facts represents the immediate challenge ; the discovery of new facts is the challenge of the future . Individuals , communities , and nations do not live in isolation . There must be concerted and coordinated action for the promotion and protection of human lives if maximum results are to be attained . Superficial differences in viewpoints between professions , academic fields , communities , nations , and races must be resolved in a common desire to achieve maximum results for the welfare of humanity . Achievement of this coordination of effort and action is a major challenge that will not easily be met , but difficulty of accomplishment should never be a deterrent to action . In the meanwhile , each individual must do whatever he can , even though he recognizes that he alone can not gain a full victory over disease , accident , and premature death . Out of multiple individual efforts can come the composite accomplishment , but progress will most certainly evolve more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Action must not wait , however , until all can work together . The challenge is to do something ? now ! REFERENCES ANDERSON , CARL L. School Health Practice . Second edition . St. Louis , Mo. : C. V. Mosby Co. , 1960. 530 p . BYRD , OLIVER E. School Health Sourcebook . Stanford , Calif. : Stanford University Press , 1955. 373 p . GROUT , RUTH E. Health Teaching in Schools . Third edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1958. 359 p . HAAG , JESSIE HELEN . School Health Program . New York : Henry Holt and Co. , 1958. 533 p . HARNETT , ARTHUR L. , AND SHAW , JOHN H. Effective School Health Education . New York : Appleton-Century-Crofts , 1959. 421 p . HEIN , FRED V. , EDITOR . Fit To Teach . Washington , D.C. : American Association for Health , Physical Education , and Recreation , a department of the National Education Association , 1957. 249 p . IRWIN , LESLIE W. ; HUMPHREY , JAMES H. ; AND JOHNSON , WARREN R. Methods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : C. V. Mosby Co. , 1956. 367 p. // KILANDER , H. FREDERICK . School Health Education . New York : Macmillan Co. , 1962. 500 p . NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION AND AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION , JOINT COMMITTEE ON HEALTH PROBLEMS IN EDUCATION . School Health Services . Washington , D.C. : National Education Association , 1953. 486 p . NEMIR , ALMA . The School Health Program . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1959. 428 p . OBERTEUFFER , DELBERT . School Health Education . Third edition . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1960. 547 p . SCHNEIDER , ROBERT E. Methods and Materials of Health Education . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1958. 382 p . TURNER , CLAIR E. ; SELLERY , C. MORLEY ; AND SMITH , SARA L. School Health and Health Education . St. Louis , Mo. : C. V. Mosby Co. , 1957. 466 p . WHEATLEY , GEORGE M. , AND HALLOCK , GRACE T. Health Observation of School Children . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1956. 488 p.  | Health and Physical Fitness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a fantastically movable skeletal system . Wherever two bones come together , there is a joint where smooth surfaces permit movement . Ligaments hold the bones together and limit the amount of movement . The moving is performed by nearly 650 muscles that are attached to these bones . In a 150-pound man , the bones weigh about 21 pounds and the muscles more than 60 pounds . The muscles are composed of uncounted millions of tiny cylindrical fibers , each about the thickness of a fine  | hair , with an average length of about 11/4 inches . Each fiber receives a slender nerve strand that may fire up to 75 nerve impulses into it each second . The more impulses per second , the stronger is the contraction . Five to six quarts of blood , distributed through some 5 billion tiny tubular vessels or capillaries with a total length of 1500 miles , bring oxygen and food to all body parts and carry off their wastes . In rest , the blood makes between one and two trips a minute from heart to lungs , back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the heart . During strenuous exercise it may make nine such trips in a minute . To pump the blood is the work of the heart . Even at rest , the heart handles about 11 tons of blood a day , pushing it out under a pressure of about 3 pounds per square inch . Food is fuel for the body machine and also substance for its growth and repair . Unused food is stored as fat . If man could utilize gasoline , his body could run about 11 days on a gallon . Uncounted miles of nerve fibers comprise man 's brain and nervous system . Here in thousands of centers are made the infinite varieties of connections that determine all body movements and the limitless thoughts , memories , imaginations , and split-second judgments of each day . Fitness means keeping this complex mechanism in good working order . Everything one does affects his body machine for good or bad . The purpose of this chapter is to suggest ways by which exercise of the right kind and amount will help attain and retain fitness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The purpose of training is to keep muscles , heart , circulatory system , lungs , and other organs in good condition . The purpose of practice is to develop skill in the use of the body . Thus man trains his muscles to develop greater strength and his heart for greater endurance ; but he practices shooting baskets , serving a tennis ball , or playing the piano in order to perform more excellently . The development of skill is largely a matter of learning , in the brain . This takes much repetition and is time-consuming . The training of muscles , heart , and lungs generally means stimulating these organs to grow and renew themselves by performing activities that tax them beyond their normal use . This is known as overload . It  | should be pointed out that attainment of the highest skill always depends on the availability of sufficiently strong and well-developed muscles and other organs . Thus a basketball player whose leg muscles are strong can learn to jump higher and more accurately than one with weak muscles . Strength Human muscles are astonishing machines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can pull 140 pounds ; two square inches can pull 280 pounds . The right kind of exercise makes muscles grow stronger in a hurry . A muscle that is just able to lift 100 pounds will be stimulated to grow when it is exerted to lift about 40 to 50 pounds ( or about one-half of its maximum strength ) . Recently it was discovered that only one such contraction , held for a few seconds just once a day , makes muscle strength grow as fast as it possibly can . Repeating the exercise several times a day usually has no further effect . Thus contracted once daily for a week , the average muscle will be 4 percent stronger after one week , 8 percent after two weeks , and so on , until it can grow no stronger . Since most people have no way of measuring their muscle strength exactly , it is easier to tell them to contract their muscles to maximum , or until they quiver , for a moment just once a day . If a muscle is never required to exert itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not grow at all . If only exerted to less than one-fifth of its maximum strength , the muscle will actually get weaker . One purpose of exercise is to keep muscles so strong that they will do the day 's work easily and painlessly . For this reason , exercise should be a little more strenuous than regular work ? it should be an overload . Good trainers employ this principle in many ways to train athletes for competition . Flexibility and Agility For one 's body to move easily and efficiently , the joints must permit plenty of movement . This is known as flexibility . When joints are not used in large movements in all directions , the ligaments tend to tighten and one becomes " stiff . " This is particularly noticeable in older people . Flexibility is best maintained by using all joints regularly through the full range of motion for which they are adapted .  | Strength combined with flexibility is necessary for agility . Given enough strength and flexibility , a clumsy person may become agile through practice . Endurance and Fatigue Endurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a long time . The more endurance one possesses , the longer he may postpone the onset of fatigue . Fatigue is sometimes defined as " loss of use due to use . " As long as a muscle or other organ receives enough food and oxygen , and as long as any waste products that it produces are promptly carried away , that organ continues to function . If function stops because the food supply or other necessary substances are used up , it is a case of fatigue of exhaustion . This is uncommon but may occur in instances of long marches , channel swims , and marathon runs when food is not taken en route . The much more common cause of fatigue is the accumulation of waste products because the circulatory system either fails to supply enough oxygen to prevent the formation of wastes or fails to remove such waste products promptly . Because these waste products interfere with necessary chemical changes , this kind of fatigue is called fatigue of depression . In any event , endurance depends in large measure on a strong , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distance runner at rest beats 50 to 60 times a minute . The heart of an average nonathlete must contract 70 to 90 times . But the athlete 's heart is not lazy . With 60 beats , it pumps more blood than does the nonathlete 's heart with 80 , because it is pumping more blood with each beat ( almost 3 ounces instead of only 2 ) . During exercise , it speeds up correspondingly less . Why is it good to have a slow heart ? Only when the heart is resting between beats can blood flow through the blood vessels in its walls to bring oxygen and food . In a slow heart , these rests are longer . In this way , a heart beating 60 times per minute gets about 18 days more rest each year than does the 80-beat heart . Exercise , when continued for a long time , is good for the heart . Trained hearts are larger , stronger , slower , and steadier . Activities of strength , such as weight lifting and short sprints , develop powerful body muscles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athletes , therefore , balance such exercise programs with dis-  | tance running , basketball , water polo , or other sports that develop heart and lungs for endurance . Many sports are good endurancedevelopers . There is no scientific foundation for the old-fashioned notion that exercise injures the heart . The term " athlete 's heart , " to mean a heart supposedly injured by athletics , has disappeared from scientific and medical writings . But a heart already injured by disease or other factors may suffer extra abuse under exercise . When the motor of a car is in good shape , fast driving will not hurt it ; but when the pistons slap and the bearings rattle , even slow driving is bad for it . Heart specialists now recommend carefully controlled exercise programs for many patients who are recovering from heart disease . Smoking speeds up the heart unnecessarily . What is even more serious , it often contributes to real and lasting damage by the time a smoker reaches middle age . Posture Poor posture does not cause tuberculosis or other diseases of the internal organs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aches in shoulders , back , and feet . Poor posture also spoils a person 's appearance and decreases his physical efficiency in standing and moving . The average modern man uses his muscles as little as possible , and today 's labor-saving gadgets really pamper him . The resulting muscle weakness shows in three places . First , many men and most women are weak in hands , arms , shoulders , and upper trunk muscles . Consequently , their chins protrude and their shoulders sag . Second , weak abdominal muscles , accented by a layer of fat , allow the pelvis to sag . This tips the spine forward in the lower back , and the resulting sway-back invites low back pain . Third , many people have weak , aching , and deformed feet and can not enjoy movement of any kind . Instead of walking with every foot muscle and pressing the tips of five toes to the ground with every step , they just stump along . With their feet encased in poorly fitting shoes , they seem to walk over their feet as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high heels do n't help matters . With age , it all gets worse . Soon a person leads with his chin , his belly , and his bunions . This need not be . It can be prevented and corrected with simple exercises . Throwing the shoulders back is not a good exercise .  | The pelvis , at the bottom of the spinal column , is the foundation of posture . If the pelvis is held in proper position , the spinal column will be properly poised and the shoulders will take care of themselves . If the muscles of the upper trunk and neck are properly strengthened , the head will be held correctly . If muscles of the legs and feet are properly developed and not hindered by poorly fitting shoes , they will bring the foot into proper position . Here is an easy way for any person to determine if the shoes he wears are good for his feet . Either barefooted or in stocking feet , stand with full weight on one foot on a piece of thick cardboard . With a soft pencil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a pair of scissors , cut out the foot shape and put the piece into the shoe . If the piece does not fit properly , the shoes are doing the feet an injustice and in time will produce pain and permanent deformity . Relaxing Body and Mind In physical fitness , relaxation is just as important as exercise , but it is not often understood . Correctly defined , relaxation is " zero activity . " The man who says he gets his relaxation on the golf course is really speaking of diversion . Diversion of the mind from the problems of the day is a very important value of games and sports , but it is not relaxation in the true sense . Relaxation means reducing muscle activity all over the body to as near the zero level as possible . The muscles themselves do not need such relaxation , or even sleep . In fact , muscles recover faster from hard work when they continue in moderate activity . However , sleep and relaxation are needed by the central nervous system , especially the brain . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to it from the eyes , the ears , the skin , the internal organs , and especially the muscles . To give the brain a chance to rest , one must reduce all of the incoming impulses to as near zero as possible . This means turning off the light , closing the eyes , cutting out all kinds of noise , making clothes and temperature comfortable for the skin , regulating visceral functions through hygienic eating and elimination , and ? hardest of all ? relaxing the muscles of the limbs , trunk , face , eyes , and speech until every bit of tension is gone . Everything in this fast-paced , modern life seems to work against relaxation . There is good reason to believe that such conditions as high blood pressure , some forms of heart disease ,  | stomach ulcers , and colitis are aggravated , if not caused , by the tensions that so-called civilized living generates in people . Fortunately , the individual can do something about this if he is willing to work at it . Following are a few suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most difficult to master . Avoid unnecessary noises such as bellowing radios and honking horns . Sleep in a quiet place . Develop a pleasing , well-pitched voice . Wear well-fitting , comfortable clothing . Toes should not touch the end of stocking or shoe . Always rest in dim light or darkness . Rest eyes frequently by closing them or looking far off into the distance . When resting , relax all muscles . This is called total relaxation . When working , relax all muscles except those actually needed for the job . This is called differential relaxation . Relaxation is a skill that requires much time and practice to learn . Here are a few helpful hints . Contract the muscles of arm and hand until the feeling of tension is recognized . Now relax these muscles until the feeling disappears . Next time , contract the muscles a little less and again let go . Repeat this until every bit of tenseness is gone . Then try the same on other muscles of the body , one after the other ? arms , legs , thighs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , eye , and tongue muscles . When one has learned to relax completely , falling asleep will be easy . In fact , even without sleeping , a person will find that his thinking slows down , actually stopping for a while . Songs that run through his head will stop when he relaxes his tongue and voice muscles . From just a few minutes of complete relaxation , he will get surprising recovery of mental powers . For the proper learning of relaxation , as for every other skill , it is best to take instruction from one trained to teach it . Exercise and Weight Control Too many Americans are overweight ? a condition that very likely shortens life . Control of body weight is probably the best way a person has within his power to lengthen his own life . Exercise requires the body to burn up more food , but this extra oxidation is surprisingly small . Exercise for reducing weight is  | complicated by the effect of exercise on appetite and the intake of food . Moderate exercise , if not accompanied by greater food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; if , however , exercise is vigorous enough to stimulate the appetite , it is possible that more calories will be taken in than are " exercised off . " For these reasons , no weight reduction program is likely to be successful without some attention to diet , certainly not the much advertised programs of effortless slenderizing . Taking pills to reduce hunger is not without danger . Most obesity is due to overeating ; however , before starting a strenuous weight reduction program , a person should seek his physician 's advice to make sure that he is no rare exception . Then he can take off weight by following a few simple rules . First , plan to lose not more than two or three pounds a week . Second , decide to develop new eating habits . Simply taking smaller helpings , no seconds , and no between-meal snacks may be sufficient . Third , each day take in fewer food calories than needed , but never stint on such essential foods as milk , eggs , lean meat , fruits , and a variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a regular , moderate exercise program that does not stimulate the appetite . For example , an hour of table tennis a day for 17 days will take off 11% pounds . A small amount of extra exercise every day makes sense . The common practice of trying to lose several pounds on an occasional week-end " exercise binge " is likely to prove disappointing . Principles and Rules About Exercise Muscular strength increases throughout childhood and adolescence , usually reaching a maximum between the ages of 26 and 30 in men and considerably earlier in women . Then follows a gradual decline . The heart and circulatory system also tend to lose performing ability and resilience for rapid recovery after exercise . These changes vary considerably with the individual and depend on living habits as well as on constitutional disposition . Precluding accidents , a normal , healthy child can not do himself permanent organic injury by physical exertion ; however , among persons over 40 , physical examinations and observation of the individual 's reaction to exercise will disclose large numbers who need to restrict exercise . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscular strength , and skeletal proportions . These  | differences impose greater limitations on women in activities of strength , speed , and endurance . In spite of these limitations , women have always shown marked capacity in activities requiring hard work and staying power . With the possible exception of heavy lifting , falling from heights , or other activities involving greatly increased intra-abdominal pressure , women will profit from most forms of exercise . Exercise has been shown to be beneficial in some purely functional menstrual disorders . During the menstrual period , exercise should depend on the individual 's menstrual experience and her reaction to physical work at that time . Some women may not need to modify their exercise at all , while others may desire to reduce it . A few may require rest . The time of day for exercise may well be in accord with individual inclination and other determining circumstances . Evidence as to the effect of exercise on digestion indicates that great physical exertion does not necessarily interfere significantly with digestion , though strong emotion may do so even when unaccompanied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meals . On the other hand , coaches seldom permit athletes to eat heavily before competition involving emotional strain . All persons should be declared by medical examination to be organically sound before performing strenuous training routines or engaging in competition . Such medical examination should be repeated at least once every four years ( yearly for varsity athletes ) and whenever there is reason to suspect any health problem . Persons who are out of training should not engage in strenuous competition , especially with persons who are in training . Persons should not compete with those of disproportionate size , endurance , or skill when these are significant factors . The ability to recuperate after exercise is a good guide at any age . Recuperation should be reasonably prompt . If breathing and heart rate are still greatly accelerated at the end of ten minutes after exercise , and if there is marked weakness or fatigue persisting after a two-hour rest period , restlessness with broken sleep after retiring for the night , or a sense of definite fatigue the day following , the exercise has been too severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of training and physical strength .  | There is ample evidence that blows to the head cause permanent and irreparable damage to the brain . Boxing , which is the only activity in which blows are purposely aimed at the head , can therefore not be recommended as a desirable activity until such blows are forbidden . Training for any athletic event contributes more to physical fitness than does the event itself . For this reason , intramural competition , which usually is undertaken without preparation , falls short of contributing maximally to fitness . Good , hard physical conditioning is one of the surest safeguards against injury in any athletic or gymnastic activity . Proper clothing , safe equipment , appropriate warm-up , and freedom from fatigue are also essentials for satisfactory and safe competition . Activities such as tumbling , rebound tumbling , and other apparatus work should always include the most careful attention to safeguards ? training belts , appropriate mats , padding on frames , and the ever-present , well-trained spotter . Every gymnast should also be a good spotter . Weight training , in which weights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuable adjunct to training for many forms of athletic competition . Weight lifting for the sake of establishing records in lifting weights is not harmful when done properly . However , it should be practiced in moderation by growing boys ' under 18 years of age because of possible damage to the epiphyseal cartilages of growing bones . The possibility of such damage is also the main reason why tackle football , which involves hard body contact , is deemed undesirable for boys below the tenth grade . Challenge to Education Health and fitness are not ends in themselves . They must be considered as means that enable the individual to be a more effective parent , worker , and citizen for a longer time . Thus the real goals of education for health and fitness are the addition of years to life and ? what is more important ? the addition of life to years . The individual in today 's world is glibly promised healthy living if he but buy the right bottle or brand . He is urged to wake up with coffee , stay awake with pep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is advised to take vitamins to increase the  | appetite , special tablets to shut it off , and an expensive " shaking course " to bring the caloric outgo into balance with intake ? all without painful exercise or dietary restrictions . He steers with power , shifts gears with buttons , and tunes TV from an E-Z chair . For pleasure he smokes something up front of a filter that protects from the irritation that is up front . He is advised to drown his worries with wine , reduce his tensions with tranquilizers , and deaden his pains with aspirin . Obviously , such assortments of artificial supports to body and mind are the prescriptions of peddlers and shysters who make dividends out of man 's difficulties . With them , education can form no alliance . The goal of the high school could well be to help its students develop those inner resources that will permit them to work and play , sleep and wake , alert and relax body , mind , and viscera ? all without external , artificial aids . For only then is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AND OTHERS . Exercise and Fitness . A collection of papers presented at the Colloquium on Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960. 248 p . HEIN , FRED V. , AND RYAN , ALLAN J. " The Contributions of Physical Activity to Physical Health . " Research Quarterly 31:263 ? 85 ; May 1960 . HETTINGER , THEODOR . Physiology of Strength . Springfield , Ill. : Charles C. Thomas , 1961 . JACOBSON , EDMUND . You Must Relax . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1957. 284 p . STEINHAUS , ARTHUR H. How To Keep Fit and Like It . Chicago : Dartnell Corporation , 1957. 78 p.  | Physical Skills The core of physical education is physical skills ? the process of acquiring them and of maintaining and improving them . In physical education , youth progress toward mental , social , and emotional goals , as well as toward physical achievement , through physical skills . Though these nonphysical areas may be considered indirect learnings and not exclusively derived through physical education , their achievement is an integral part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; educators must teach their meaning . To acquire strength is not enough ; they must  | teach its control . To achieve organic vigor is not enough ; they must teach how to maintain it . To learn skills is not enough ; they must teach their values . In Dr. Oberteuffer 's words : The heart of modern physical education is in the development of skills in a variety of activities chosen appropriately for and by the individual in relation to his interests , needs , and capacities . Hence , the core of teaching in physical education is to teach , to instruct , to show , and to demonstrate the skills of the myriad of activities used in a program ) . The consideration in this chapter is physical skill as a vital and basic part of physical education 's contribution to youth ? not as a separate entity , because it can not be separated , but together with those areas which comprise all the facets of a human being . It must be clearly recognized that learning anything involves the whole organism . In some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in others , but in every instance the process of learning involves the total being and not merely the " intellectual " parts of him.2 Only if this is kept constantly in mind can physical skills be fully and honestly discussed . The common denominator of physical skills is activity or movement . Movement is a living quality . Without life there is no activity . Only through physical action can the endowed potential of the individual be fulfilled in growth and development , maintain its organic vigor and endurance , increase the years of active participation , and meet the demands of today 's social culture . Physical educators are dedicated to the belief , physiologically proven , that man demands physical movement . In this they are alone , for no other area in education concentrates its efforts upon this fundamental truth . The body is the means , the instrument for experiencing and for the expression of the integrated response of the total unity ? the personality . It is , therefore , the means of living and learning . It is essential that it be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self . Teachers of physical education should face realistically the grave fact that mistakes in body education are ' Oberteuffer , Delbert . Physical Education . in personality education . Movement , the stuff with which physical education is concerned , is the fundamental element in human life 3 Youth in secondary schools are in the later stages of the growth and development process . Secondary teachers must deal with youth at a time when the range of variations is broad and individual differences are pronounced . They must accept the individual as he presents himself and plan for his achievement . They must strive to continue his developmental process within his own limitations . Physical educators must help him help himself reach a state of physical well-being . They must inspire him to improve his skills ; for youth , like adults , are active in those things which they do well . For lasting values , there must be skill ? not necessarily championship skill , but skill nevertheless . The educator must ascertain the student 's understanding of the need for activity so that maintenance and improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability becomes a matter of individual pride . In considering physical skills , there are two points of special importance . What physical abilities may be expected of early adolescents ? What physical skills have been included in the elementary school physical education program ? The abilities of the adolescent age have been well covered in all good professional programs of education . Research studies have shown the strengths and weaknesses to be expected from most of the students . Programs of physical education are based upon these generally accepted criteria . This theoretical starting point has been extremely useful and has served well in the past . Now , however , we must become more specific . Although attention is being directed to adolescence , it must be remembered that childhood precedes it . All experiences in children 's activity need to be considered in planning for youth . The activity programs of the elementary schools , and those of public and private recreation , have been improved and are continuing to improve . The actual physical skills which freshmen possess when they enter high school can no longer be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Physical Education . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1954. p. 125-26.  | school physical educators , as a whole , have surpassed their colleagues in secondary school and college in establishing for their students attainable standards of achievement in physical skills . In order to reach these standards , they have expanded the old methods of teaching and created new ones . They have copied some of the traditionally accepted procedures of the secondary schools in physical education and athletics . They have proved that better techniques of teaching mean that more boys and girls possess more skills . What does this mean for the secondary school ? First , it means that the teachers need to know their students ' present physical skills and past experiences in movement . Second , it means that physical educators can no longer be isolationists . The program has no meaning , no stability , no future for youth , if it does not build on the students ' existing base of experience . Third , it means that , individually and collectively , locally and nationally , secondary school programs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create , to invent , and to evaluate new techniques , new methods of teaching physical skills . It is time to broaden horizons , to experiment , and to stimulate students to reach for happiness and satisfaction in physical accomplishment . Skill is a learned process , developed through action ? " the conscious acquaintance with and mastery of all parts of the body that may properly come under voluntary control . " 4 All movement is not skilled . Movement which is consciously controlled and efficiently executed produces skill . The degree of skill is in direct proportion to the amount of control and the success of execution . Mastery of physical movement is a continuous process from birth . Development of skill is based upon principles of movement . Jesse Feiring Williams , in Principles of Physical Education , says : Physical education should exemplify in all activity the principles of movement . There are six well-known principles of movement . These are derived from an analysis of human structure and observation of persons who are able to perform very successful movements . They have their roots in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , physiology and kinesiology of man . footnote ' Cowell , Charles C. , and Schwehn , Hilda M. Modern Principles and Methods in High School Physical Education . Boston : Allyn and Bacon , 1958. p. 144.  | Williams ' " principles of movement " are these : 1 . Opposition ? use of opposite parts of the body . 2 . Energy-activity ratio ? correlation of parts of the body for the purpose of securing the result sought with the least expenditure of energy and with the most favorable adjustment of the body at all times . 3 . Qualitative adjustment ? application of speed or force to movement at the proper time . Speed , strength , and endurance are qualities that may be added to movements after form has been determined . 4 . Follow-through ? continuation of the moving part in the line of motion at the time of impact . This is basic to good performance . 5 . Objective focus ? attention upon the immediate objective rather than upon subjective sensations. 6 . Total assembly ? good movement involves the whole body and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole neuromuscular organism is activated to an end . ' During adolescent years , the body reaches its maximum powers in the use of its musculature and in its capacity to learn motor skills . During this period , physical education can make its greatest contribution . Secondary school physical educators have a complicated task . Youth have all degrees of physical skills , rhythmical sense , and ability to learn physical activities . There are those who need to improve their control and execution of movement . There are others who are ready for concentration on the finer points of specific skills . All , however , are eager to discover particular activities that require skills which they are capable of acquiring and which will bring them enjoyment and satisfaction . Random action , which expresses a need of the child , is not enough for the youth . He wants action , too , but for additional reasons . He has changed the goal of activity , as an end in itself , to a goal in which the activity is desired for some other purpose . Perhaps it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Schwehn write : " We continually think of skills and abilities without considering the purposes these skills and abilities are to serve . Purposes tell us why students want ability and should , therefore , receive first consideration . " 6 To meet the abilities , interests , and needs of youth , the secondary school physical education curriculum should contain a broader range of activities footnote " Williams , Jesse Feiring . The Principles of Physical Education . Seventh edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1959. p. 252-56 . " Op. cit. , p. 21.  | with instruction at a higher level than that of the earlier school years . A broad and varied secondary school curriculum might well include activities in the following categories : Movement fundamentals Games , sports , and athletics Rhythmic activities Aquatics Self-testing activities These categories have been chosen because there are different skills required in each , or there are different emphases on the same skill . Movement Fundamentals In this chapter , movement fundamentals mean primary action : basic locomotion ? walking , jumping , hopping , running ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reaching ; posture ? standing , sitting , walking ; relaxation ? partial , complete ; elemental skills ? throwing , kicking , striking ; and adaptations of these in daily living . Although many of these actions are found in other categories , the emphasis differs . Movement fundamentals are concerned with skills which all students use . The desired goal is control of the body in all the demands made upon it , from making the bed and carrying out the garbage to shoveling the walks and doing the ironing . Physical attractiveness in male or female is increased by smooth , controlled bodily movements . Physical poise ? the proper relationship of the various body segments in static positions or in movement ? is a coveted attribute . Unknown or untried capabilities , rather than actual physical limitations , may be the cause of poor control . Through movement fundamentals , the skills necessary in efficient daily living can be taught . As these skills are learned , satisfaction in movement may encourage further participation in activities in other areas . When daily tasks consume the supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students , it would be well to emphasize movement fundamentals to help them in improving skills for more efficient performance and greater physical poise .  | Games , Sports , and Athletics The primary actions found in movement fundamentals provide the basic skills required in sports and games . Walking and running are , of course , basic to all activities which may be included in this category . In addition , each sport emphasizes its own particular skills . Since no two sports demand the same skills in the same manner or to the same degree , a wide variety is most desirable for the high school student . Youth need to be strengthened symmetrically to keep opposing muscles in a balance of strength . A broad program which includes all gross bodily movements will encourage all-round development . The skills demanded by games and sports include skill patterns , locomotor patterns , and spatial relationships . The manner in which a student is able to combine these three will determine his ability in a particular sport . These are common elements in most game activities . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volleyball serve , the basketball pass , and the bowling delivery . The slide or shuffle is desirable footwork in tennis , basketball , badminton , and softball . The jump-and-reach is indispensable in basketball , volleyball , and speedball . Sports , in nearly all instances , have a moving object which requires bodily adaptations to its speed , direction , spin , and distance . Understanding of movement and transfer of learning can be encouraged by pointing out the similarities which are present in various sports and games . Team , dual , and individual sports provide end products of importance to the individual . Organic vigor , bodily control , strength , and endurance are developed in each player . Sports provide one of the few opportunities in society to make a supreme physical effort . The surest sign that a student will possess an abiding interest in an activity is the possession of skills above the dub , or beginner 's , class . Rhythmic Activities Rhythmic activities , which generally include all kinds of dance , are part of man 's cultural heritage . Man has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his body alone , man has told of his joys , sorrows , aspirations , and desires . Each period in history has its accompanying dance patterns and styles . The development of society can be followed in the changes of the  | dancing of its people . Dancing is a part of man 's social life and , as such , demands skills which are vital to man in his society . Certainly , this is sufficient reason for including rhythmic activities in the physical education curriculum for youth . Physical educators are indebted to Elizabeth Burchenal who , more than any other person , encouraged folk dancing in schools . These dances of the people demand rhythmical skills of body movement as well as an appreciation of their national origins . In combined study or core programs , folk dancing is the most readily integrated area in physical education . Social and square dances ? actually American folk dancing ? are a synthesis of all the folk dances brought by immigrants into this country . In keeping with their heritage , youth need to know how to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in adolescence . Couple dances , as found in both social dancing and square dancing , assist youth in their adjustment . Physical education can not neglect these skills if it is to make its full contribution to the development of the students it serves . Creativity is by no means exclusive to dance . However , it is more generally identified with an original choreography than with a cleverly executed dodge in basketball . Original , inventive actions are special contributions which society seeks in its people . Aquatics The need for aquatic skill is well stated in the American Red Cross publication , Life Saving and Water Safety . Man did not and does not naturally belong in the water . He lives , walks , eats , and sleeps on land . His whole physical make-up , posture , body temperature , breathing apparatus , shape and arrangement of arms and legs , specific gravity , functions , everything has been developed and is arranged for terrestrial living . There is literally nothing to indicate that there is anything natural about his aquatic activities , yet an unbounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and physical structure have not only urged him into the water but have prompted him to develop a form of locomotion suited to his needs in the new element . He has found comfort , relaxation , and enjoyment in the experience , but at the same time experience has taught him that in the water there are definite limits beyond which he can not safely go and that there is a certain amount of knowledge of water conditions which he must acquire . ' footnote ' American National Red Cross . Life Saving and Water Safety . Garden , City , N.Y. : Doubleday and Co. , 1956. p. 1 .  | Real safety in water is largely a personal matter ? a matter of knowledge combined with skill . The lack of skill in this area is most dramatic , for it may be a matter of life or death . This fact becomes more crucial with the ever-increasing recreational opportunities and interests which center in and on the water . Scuba diving , water skiing , use of small craft , and fishing are some of the popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skills for comfort , enjoyment , and perhaps survival . Individual swimming skill is the primary need in aquatics . This means the ability to move and to control the body in water . It includes what to do on the surface and underwater and how to do it . Constant attention needs to be directed to the prevention of accidents and the control of conditions which may cause dangerous situations . These aquatic skills can readily be included in the physical education program for youth , provided facilities are available . Fortunately , communities are realizing the importance of these skills , for there are increased swimming opportunities in schools and recreational programs throughout the country . Self-Testing Activities Specific framework or limitations in self-testing activities are unnecessary . Actually , all physical skills are self-testing . As speed , accuracy , form , or control is improved , the individual is participating in self-testing activities . There are , however , certain desirable physical activities which do not fit into the previous categories . Tumbling , gymnastics , apparatus work , and track and field , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even though participants in these activities may be working as a team , the individual skill of the performer is the thing that counts . He initiates and controls his own action . There are no other variables ? no bounce or spin on the ball , no pass from a teammate , no change in tempo , no complicating medium in which to move . The only goal to reach is a better performance than the last time ? better speed , better distance , better form , better control . Activities in this group are most closely allied to those in movement fundamentals . Self-testing activities , however , add such vital physical skills as climbing , hanging , swinging , inverted positions , body rolls with or without apparatus . With the possible exception of swimming , no other activities demand more arm and shoulder strength . Tumbling and stunts on parallel bars , horse ,  | stall bars , and trampoline require balance , agility , strength , and endurance different from that required in other activities . Courage and maximum physical effort are part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing a little bit more , going a little bit farther , moving a little bit faster with each trial . If this knowledge can be applied to those participating in self-testing activities ? as in fact , all activities ? the needs of physical skills for youth will be met . CONCLUSION The best assurance that youth will have continuing interest in and desire for physical recreation lies in his knowledge , his skill , and his satisfactions in physical activities . All activities in the secondary school physical education curriculum , and each skill these activities require , are designed to do two things : first , to develop each youth 's motor ability to the highest possible point ; and second , to develop his appreciation for movement and his desire to continue it . There is recreational potential in all physical skills . Realization of this potential depends upon a broad background of skill experiences so that each youth may choose the activity or activities which will bring him the greatest personal joy . It is impossible in this chapter to do more than suggest categories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education curriculum for youth . A wealth of material in books , pamphlets , and articles , concentrating on specific skills in each of the categories , is available . This vast amount of material , in itself , is further proof that the focal point of physical education is physical skill . Clearly defining the physical educator 's position , Eleanor Metheny writes , " The basic concern of physical education is , and always has been , man and his capacity for voluntary movement . " 8 It is through the use of voluntary muscles in movement that physical educators are able to make a distinctive and unique contribution to youth and to mankind . footnote e Metheny , Eleanor . " Objectives for Physical Education : Movement , Motivation and Meaning . " ( Symposium ) Physical Educator 16:83 ; October 1959.  | REFERENCES BROWNELL , CLIFFORD L. , AND HAGMAN , E. PATRICIA . Physical Education ? Foundations and Principles . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1951. 397 p . BUCHER , CHARLES A. Foundations of Physical Education . Third edition . St. Louis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CASSIDY , ROSALIND F. Curriculum Development in Physical Education . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1954. 399 p . COWELL , CHARLES C. , AND SCHWEHN , HILDA M. Modern Principles and Methods in High School Physical Education . Boston : Allyn and Bacon , 1958. 327 p . METHENY , ELEANOR . Body Dynamics . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1952. 225 p . MEYER , MARGARET H. , AND SCHWARZ , MARGUERITE M. Technic of Team Sports for Women . Third edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1957. 422 p . MILLER , DONNA MAE , AND LEY , KATHERINE L. Individual and Team Sports for Women . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1955. 502 p . OBERTEUFFER , DELBERT . Physical Education . Revised edition . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1956. 479 p . SHEPARD , NATALIE MARIE . Foundations and Principles of Physical Education . New York : Ronald Press Co. , 1960. 352 p . WESSEL , JANET A. Movement Fundamentals . Second edition . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1961. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; AND CASSIDY , ROSALIND . Supervision in Physical Education . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1956. 352 p . WILLIAMS , JESSE FEIRING . The Principles of Physical Education . Seventh edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1959. 389 p.  | CHARLES C. COWELL Social and Emotional Development One of the astounding results of recent research is recognition of the interrelationships between physical , mental , emotional , and social aspects of developmental progress in youth and the interweaving of their deviations . Every aspect of development toward maturity is related to every other aspect . Motor skills play an important role as a vehicle for social development , for much social interaction centers around physical skill . Motor ability is highly related to the emotional features of a child 's behavior . Participation in play and games gives youth many opportu-  | nities for experiencing the thrills , risks , failures , or successes that make for morale and emotional equilibrium . The pupil who is always the last one to reach the finish line , who always misses the ball , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest , whose every contact with another contestant is a moment of defeat has little chance of wholesome social and emotional development .  | Human beings are indivisible . In every school task , intellectual , emotional , and volitional processes play a part . All clinicians , psychiatrists , and mental hygienists agree that emotional and social learnings are important and that real education is an emotional and social as well as an intellectual experience . They consider the true purposes of education to be to help people meet difficult situations with success , solve life 's problems satisfactorily , grow to meet their needs , and therefore make wholesome adjustments to the persistent problems of living in a complex world . Mental hygiene is concerned primarily with the education of the emotions and with the development of well-adjusted personalities by intelligent training of children and youth and wise educational management of situations in which they are placed . Practically all clinicians agree that youth 's failure to enter into normal social play activities is a symptom with valuable clinical significance . Physical education teachers are not merely muscle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanical reflexes ; they are " development supervisors , " guardians and developers of human personality . They are vitally concerned with the development of organic power ( strong muscles , increased vitality , greater ability to resist fatigue ) and neuromuscular skills , of course , but they are also interested in what happens to human personality as a result of these . As educators , they are interested in those significant changes in personality which constitute new insights , values , attitudes , outlooks , knowledges , and skills . They realize that the expressions of feelings and emotions , like ideas , are products of education and experience . One must be just as interested in what basketball does to Johnny as what Johnny does with the basketball , just as interested in what field hockey does for Mary as what Mary does in field hockey .  | The main function of physical educators is to help the student learn particular content . They should always remember , however , that the student is also acquiring certain fringe benefits in the form of concomitant learnings related to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students develop into competent citizens who understand the kind of world they live in and their relations to others . " l For this , no better laboratories exist for diagnostic and remedial teaching than the playground , the gymnasium , the swimming pool , and the athletic field . If physical educators believe the whole child needs attention , they should recognize very early that mental health is just as important as physical health . Importance of Satisfying Basic Personality Needs The needs of human beings are manifold and varied . A need is a source of energy which can be transformed into expression but not destroyed . In looking at the behavior of people and trying to understand it , educators must assume that some source of energy or directional force within the individual causes the various manifestations of behavior they observe . They may think of this hypothetical source of energy as a need . They may think of the terms needs , wants , motives , tensions , wishes , and desires as vaguely synonymous . The adolescent is highly energized , but inadequate outlets are provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result . The school as a cultural agency aids children and youth in learning to tolerate unpleasant feelings , to accept substitute objects for their gratifications , and to adopt new forms of behavior that fits into the culture pattern . This is a process of education and of socialization to which physical education and recreation activities make a major contribution . Education is something more than disciplining the mind and producing mathematicians and scientists . It is a process of socialization in which the individual develops mental health or ill health , emotional stability or instability . Emotion is the result of events taking place in the cortex as well as in the lower centers ; otherwise , desires could not be shaped and refined and needs satisfied in socially acceptable ways . If emotions could not be footnote ' Cantor , Nathaniel F. " Function and Focus in the Learning Process . " Journal of Educational Research 45:226 ; November 1951.  | directed and shaped , political propaganda would be ineffective and advertising not very lucrative . The problem here is to take a cue from psychiatry and examine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of curricular activities . Curricular experiences represent education from the point of view of the means employed to achieve objectives . Method refers to ways of organizing learning experiences to guide human growth and development . The nature of the " what " and " how , " as expressed in terms of secondary school curriculum and method , determines the extent to which the curriculum meets the various needs of adolescents . In classes are found the nonparticipants , the early and the late maturers , the oversized , the overweight , the undersized , the underweight , the timid and shy , the " show off , " the hostile and antisocial , the fearful , the loafer , the rejected isolate , the overly introspective , and the self-depreciator . All these emotional disturbances and social maladjustments have causal factors . The physical well-being of youth is a primary factor in the quality of physical growth ; emotional well-being is a primary factor in mental and personality development . There is a relation between the rate and pattern of a student 's physical growth and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine the rate and pattern of his intellectual and personality growth . Factors which influence either type of growth will influence both . When educators really apply the whole-child philosophy to physical education , they recognize that students have personalities as well as bodies and that the concept of need-satisfaction is closely related to mental health . A teacher may appraise his effectiveness in meeting the social and emotional needs of his students by asking himself whether they have opportunities for : 1 . Participating socially in intramural sports , interest clubs , talent exhibitions 2 . Developing close friendships with the same sex 3 . Developing close friendships with the opposite sex 4 . Appearing in a socially applauded , prestige-gaining role 5 . Achieving the acceptance and approval of their peers 6 . Belonging to desirable , particular groups to which loyalty may be given 7 . Developing insight into their own personalities with help in objective appraisal of personality assets and liabilities  | S. Making their own decisions and choices , achieving self-direction and independence 9 . Being protected from the ravages of excessive and unequal competition 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and changes taking place during adolescence 11 . Minimizing fear of failure , punishment , criticism , and sarcasm by proper emotional climate in the gymnasium and pool and on the playing fields 12 . Feeling accepted , being wanted , and belonging 13 . Knowing the limits of individual freedom by generally agreed-upon requirements , such as certain codes of behavior or training rules in athletics 14 . Broadening interests and appreciations by trying different activities 15 . Accepting responsibility and leadership . Good physical education is a biosocial phenomenon , concerned with both the biological and social adjustment of people . It recognizes that adjustment is the process by which people meet their needs and that learnings are retained most strongly when they have great significance to the ego . Students learn those things which are necessary for adjustment and , perhaps , little else . Building a Philosophy of Life One 's philosophy represents the value system that he has evolved and personally cherishes , the means by which he interprets events and controls his actions . Values are the most important motivating factors of human life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the directive agencies which , in very significant ways , mold and condition human behavior . Attitudes and values , along with ideas , interests , and beliefs , represent major personality factors which guide and channel the student 's perception and learning and aid him in making choices of means and ends . Since most secondary schools teach no formal logic , ethics , or religion , one may rightfully ask , " Where do adolescents acquire the philosophy that determines their thinking and action ? " Unfortunately , many young people have been left to seek consistency of values merely by trying to harmonize the mores of their respective homes , the conflicting theologies of the churches , and the rather inconsistent system of required and elective courses at school . Physical education shares with other school areas , including individual and group guidance , the task of helping pupils find a  | desirable value orientation and providing situations for practicing behavior in harmony with it . Learning in physical education involves modifications of value patterns , since the values acquired influence behavior of great importance both to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The essence of any physical education or recreation program is found in its values ? its policies and preferences , its moral commitments , its loyalties , its standards of excellence , its measures of success , its teachings by which students should live . For instance , one very urgent issue in athletic programs today is the creation , validity , and survival of values related to codes of conduct in line with the supposed educational purposes of athletics . This calls for planned , experience-centered , evaluative learning . Sportsmanship must be used functionally , not merely verbalized . A society is held together by a system of values around which its institutions have developed . Individual personality becomes integrated when conflict in personal values is kept at a minimum . When the teaching of the two parents is at variance in the home , when the teaching of parents is at variance with the precepts of the school , when social practices and approvals often seem to be opposed to moral codes , then emotional conflict results in a sense of uncertainty and insecurity that lead to unhappiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have a common social and educational philosophy , and that each area ? physical education , mathematics , and the others ? should operate with a set of values common to the institution as well as with a few unique values of its own . What would happen to students if a school operated under a value system which really made the best principles of mental hygiene , operationally defined , the functional goal of every teacher ? What improvements would be seen if values of citizenship or health were operationally defined so that educators could teach for them and have some basis for evaluating the degree to which they become incorporated into the respective value systems , or philosophies , of the students ? As a search for a value underlying all things , religion perhaps represents the most comprehensive of all the possible philosophies of life . The values of this country woven into the Constitution ' footnote Woodruff , A. D. " Personal Values and the Direction of Behavior . " School Review 50:32-34 ; January 1942.  | sprang from the Hebraic-Christian ethic and the democratic traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and individual initiative . Character represents some value organization within the individual which acts as a guarantor of stability . As values grow , the self-portrait becomes more clearly tied to them . The interests , ambitions , attitudes , hobbies , values , ideals , and tastes developed in physical education and elsewhere are the forms of mental organization which make important contributions to the character of students . As a result of experience , the individual comes to value certain objects and conditions which contribute to his well-being and give direction to his life . Good physical education nurtures important social and emotional trait disciplines . In terms of simple specifics dealing with moral values essential to democratic education , students learn through physical education activities : 1 . To recognize that the group can achieve where the individual alone can not 2 . To share difficult undertakings with teammates because of a struggle together for a common goal 3 . To take turns and share 4 . To be loyal and not disappoint a buddy , the coach , the team , or the school 5 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against talent ; it is performance and conduct , not the color of skin or the social standing , that matter 6 . To develop to the utmost their individual potentialities , and yet to realize that each is a member of society and has obligations to others 7 . To maintain the moral significance of play by adhering to rules , codes , and standards . Democracy has its roots in the play experiences of children and youth . Developing the moral values which comprise democracy is an important function of physical education . The primary social task of physical educators is to make these principles clear , to show how they are used in social thought and action , and to provide experience in using them in the gymnasium , in the pool , and on the athletic field . A student who is truly educated responds with a different set of values . Physical education is obligated to contribute to this distinguishing criterion of an educated person , and adolescence is a proving ground for all the preceding training in the development of those value judgments that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the result of a social philosophy which fosters diversity among individuals . Individual thinking is encouraged . No single pattern of officially approved beliefs and values is set up for others to accept . Development of both individual and group responsibility is encouraged . Men are not classified either as " leaders who always lead " or as " followers who always follow . " People are united by developing the realization that all profit by the individual talents of each other . The differences that build interdependence also enrich living . Evaluating Individual Differences To say that individuals differ is to state an axiom . All biological and psychological characteristics in the population ? height , weight , the ability to think in abstractions ? tend to distribute themselves in the form of a normal distribution curve . This means that most cases tend to be near the average and that , as one goes above or below the average , the number of cases decrease until , at some distance from the average , very few cases , if any , are found . In any given ninth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are girls ; some are heavy , some light ; some are strong and some are weak ; some are skilled and some are unskilled ; some are agile and others are lethargic ; some are physiologically mature , others are still pubescent . Even emotional and personality characteristics seem to approach a me re or less normal distribution . Frequently , the boy or girl who is poor in one achievement excels in another ; however , with a narrow range of activities , neither pupil nor teacher will discover this . Since high school students inevitably differ , educators must not expect the same performance of all . Dr. Gallagher3 points out that the menarche normally takes place between the ages of 10 and 17 . Since interests vary with levels of development , varied experiences are needed . What appeals to one may be rejected by another . Girls who mature early are generally physically stronger . A boy 's strength usually doubles between the ages of 13 and 17 . At each chronological age level , the strongest is usually about three times as strong as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be considered in order to construct a satisfactory physical education program . To be effective , the teacher must try to combine the best of group instructional techniques with careful attention to individual needs . footnote ' See Chapter 1 , page 10.  | Guidance in Physical Education Guidance is based on an understanding of the ways in which individuals differ . It means helping students establish goals and improve their plans for reaching those goals by understanding their strengths and weaknesses ( individual differences ) and how best to develop goal resources ( means of reaching the goal ) . This involves application of the principles of self-understanding , selfdetermination , and self-direction . Areas which can now be called educational guidance , vocational guidance , health guidance , and personality guidance indicate the scope of the guidance field . In most schools , guidance supervisors give major attention to the first two areas and treat the others rather superficially , despite the fact that educational and vocational success is positively related to high achievement in the other two areas . In health and personality guidance , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers should be encouraged . Actually , the most fundamental evaluation instrument in the health guidance area is an adequate health examination . After this come skill , muscular strength , endurance , cardiovascular efficiency or general physical fitness . In personality guidance , degrees of leadership , sports participation , social adjustment , and other valuable guidance data are measurable and can be shown on individual profile charts , as can the physical-status items . Because of the informality of studentteacher relationships and the fact that physical education teachers often have continuous class contacts with the same students for two or more years , data resulting from objective status appraisal are available for the guidance of students . Teamwork between the guidance supervisor and physical education teachers has been conspicuous by its absence ; the latter have seldom been able to supply objective data , and the former has not always comprehended the importance of such data when it was provided ? in understanding the personality structure of a particular boy or girl . Physical education data of value in guidance should be an integral part of a measurement and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in physical education . Data appearing on a profile chart has marked advantages for showing a student 's standing on different tests or parts of a single test . The general picture can be seen at a  | figure  | glance . It is easier to note the particular strengths and weaknesses , and the statistical amateur finds the results much easier to understand . A sample of such a profile chart for a preadolescent boy in a Saturday morning " fitness " program at Purdue is reproduced on the opposite page . Note that the profile shows particular strengths and weaknesses in physical performance . The scores on the two test batteries ( athletic aptitude and motor fitness ) represent composite scores on a few items which have been found , by the process of multiple correlation , to be as good for prediction as the sum total of 15 items . The sociometric personal distance score indicates the general acceptance by the boy 's group peers , and his leadership score gives the results of the use of the Partridge Leadership Ballot . The norm by which performance was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was divided into three comparable groups of similar degree of maturity and body structure by the McCloy classification formula ( 20A + 611 + W ) . T scales , which made all scores comparable , were made for each profile item for each of the three categories . It can be seen that this record is helpful in guidance because it is based on objective evidence and reliable descriptions of behavior , shows trends of abilities and interests , provides a means of recording measurements in comparable and meaningful terms , shows the interrelationships between separate items , has high " glance value " permitting rapid generalizations regarding trends in development , and is administratively convenient and quickly reproducible by photostatic or similar process . Although the profile chart illustrated was used for boys , similar types may be developed for girls . Classification schemes for girls , however , are not as statistically valid because of greater physical variations . For girls , classification by such instrument as the Scott Motor Ability Test is desirable . From many sources , teachers and parents must find ideas and principles that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of growing up to be healthy and effective in modern society . Society and its institutions , including the school , need reorganization that will incorporate adolescents into society in a more vital way by somehow making possible more immediate , useful , and responsible participation in the world today . The growing rate of delinquency , mental and emotional disturbance ,  | and social maladjustment could , no doubt , be reversed as a result of social and institutional change that creates a. more vital place for youth . This is possible and must be achieved within the framework of democracy . With the support of parents and educational administrators , physical educators should share the burden of proving this with a revitalized philosophy and program . Learning To Live and Work Together Games , with their internally consistent sets of rules and their prescribed penalties , form rather early a basic value system which underlies judgment of what is good or bad in citizenship ? nationally and internationally . Centuries ago , Plato stated , " The plays of children have the mightiest influence on the maintenance of laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be subject to laws , for if they are arbitrary and lawless , how can children ever become virtuous men , abiding by law ? " Since physical education is a biosocial phenomenon , teachers deal in applied biology and in applied sociology . They seek to discover the conditions which will progressively change the individual effectiveness and social behavior of youth . In physical education , there is a splendid chance to observe this progression in the process of socialization . At first , child play is of a solitary nature . Each child plays by himself or treats other children like inanimate objects . At about two years of age , he begins to engage in semisolitary play , which takes the form of parallel activities . Children play side by side but not necessarily together . In the nursery school , play becomes cooperative to a small degree , and two or three children will use their blocks to build a joint project . This group-structuring continues to increase with age . Five-year-old children are imitating objects and people and are acting out assumed roles . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group games of simple nature , such as " tag " and " follow the leader . " In early adolescence , interest develops in more highly organized team games , along with rituals , symbols , and badges of various types of organizations , with definite rules to hold members together . This stage is the most significant of all periods , for it provides the major basis of cooperative participation in adult community life . In adolescence , group thinking and feeling are prominent in highly organized team games . Now the role of the " generalized other , " emphasized by the late George H. Mead , becomes a neces-  | sity for sound social adjustment . For example , in order to play any position successfully on a baseball team , each player must understand the role of all eight other players . Each must adjust to all other teammates and consider himself in terms of the organized group ? the team . Hence , he learns to control his behavior and submerge his own ego in conformity with the demands of an integrated social system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group living because they : 1 . Supply youth with a sense of purpose and direction 2 . Offer an appropriate opportunity for self-testing which seems important to the development of youth 3 . Give a basis for judging the behavior of individuals ? oneself and others 4 . Provide experiences in recognizing that the achievement of goals depends on using the contribution of each member 5 . Give the group a common orientation and a basis for unified action 6 . Help each team member realize that he needs to be in a position to make his best contribution by showing superiority in some particular skill 7 . Help fix a sense of right and wrong , fair and foul , moral and immoral 8 . Contribute integrating factors in the culture by developing common interests , loyalties , and enthusiasms 9 . Foster understanding across class lines and increase the intimacy of association with different socioeconomic classes 10 . Encourage upward social mobility ? the transition of an individual from one social stratum to a higher one ? because of the social value placed on athletic success and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leadership Summary of research on leadership shows that attributes such as height , athletic ability , vitality , social adaptability , energy , and health are associated with leadership . Sociometric devices now measure the patterned relationships between members of groups and determine the currents of influence that tend to decrease or increase the personal distance between individual members of any group . These indicate that it does not take long for students to know each other 's personality well enough to place one another on a preferential scale of acceptance with considerable accuracy . The democratic student leader is one who senses the prevalent needs of the group and knows how best to meet these needs . He  | has attributes similar to the characteristics of the successful teacher : kindly consideration of others , use and recognition of praise , fairness , a sense of humor , patience , and similar ways of contributing to the basic personality needs of pupils indicated earlier in this chapter . These attributes inspire confidence in others and influence them to think and act in a desired direction , for a leader is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social effectiveness , can be acquired by experience ; therefore , it can be learned in the gymnasium , in the camp , and on the athletic field offering stimulating situations with potentialities for leadership training . Furthermore , these places and situations provide daily performance tests in social effectiveness and leadership . Leadership is the most important single factor in the success of the physical education program . During the first quarter of the present century , much attention was devoted to training student leadership by means of the Leaders Corps . This fine idea was introduced into the schools from the Young Men 's Christian Association where early leaders got their training , first as junior leaders and later as senior leaders . Unfortunately , as programs became less formal , student leadership became weaker until today it is virtually nonexistent for boys in many schools . Because of the Girls Athletic Association ( GAA ) , the leadership in girls programs has not suffered to this extent . To become leaders , students must be helped to develop those personality attributes of which leadership is a function and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more opportunity for leadership experience . Coeducational Activity Providing opportunities for heterosexual social adjustments and mutual understanding is an important developmental task of physical education and adolescence , and a vital part of preparation for home and family life . Coeducational planning of social-recreational activities , performing committee work , acting as host or hostess , and operating noon-hour mixers frequently fall to students under the guidance of physical education teachers . Noon-hour programs in mixed table tennis , volleyball , archery , shuffleboard , dart baseball , deck tennis , box hockey , and social dancing are normally welcomed . Outside activities such as stunt nights , picnics , splash  | parties , square dancing , skating parties , and scavenger and treasure hunts become part of the school-centered recreation program related to physical education and contribute to the goals of coeducation . Coeducational intramurals in volleyball , table tennis , badminton , bowling , archery , box hockey , golf , skating , folk dancing , horseshoes , softball , and captain ball may be encouraged . Furthermore , direct instruction in mixed physical education classes in some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values inherent in such procedures . In some schools , boys and girls are taught similar skills in separate classes for a specified number of periods and then are brought together for the coeducational phase which becomes the culminating activity for whatever unit is being taught . Frequently , teams of boys and girls are formed , with instruction continuing as the tournament is being conducted . Culminating activities for the units may be round-robin tournaments in volleyball , mixed doubles in tennis , and planned events in swimming . In all cases , students should play an important role in planning and directing the tournaments . IN SUMMARY Physical education is interested not only in the development of organic power and motor skills but also in their effects upon the individual personality . With proper professional leadership , social and emotional learnings acquired in physical education can be of paramount importance to individual adolescents and to society . The function of physical education teachers is to be sensitive to the needs of adolescents ? especially those needs best met in physical education situations : physical well-being , companionship , belonging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heterosexuality . Value judgments ? philosophies of life ? are products of learning . Physical education shares with other school areas , including individual and group guidance , the tasks of helping adolescents find a desirable value orientation and providing opportunities for practicing behavior in harmony with it . Physical education teachers should seriously apply the principles of individual differences in helping adolescents understand  | that , in the growth process , all boys and girls do not mature at the same time and that " normality " includes a considerable range of individual differences . Personality guidance , as an area of general school guidance , is a function of the close cooperation of physical education teachers and the guidance supervisor , based on objective data concerning human behavior in the gymnasium and on the playing fields . Physical education is a biosocial phenomenon ; it socializes youth by inducing them to work together for common ends , helping mutual understanding , establishing rights and duties , and giving them a sense of group membership and group unity . Physical education experiences should contribute to the realization of democratic ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and emotional learning by identification with and imitation of teachers who are significant persons in their lives . The fact that physical education teachers often serve as models for those students who are emotionally drawn to them stresses the importance of the teacher as a potentially powerful determinant of behavior . REFERENCES COWELL , CHARLES C. " The Contributions of Physical Activity to Social Development . " Research Quarterly 31 : 286-306 ; May 1960 . COWELL , CHARLES C. Scientific Foundations of Physical Education . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1953 . Chapter 7 , " Problems of Mental Hygiene and Guidance , " p. 138-65 . COWELL , CHARLES C. , AND SCHWEHN , HILDA M. Modern Principles and Methods in High School Physical Education . Boston : Allyn and Bacon , 1958. 327 p . PURDUE UNIVERSITY , DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR MEN . Charting the Development of Intermediate and Junior High School Boys in Motor Fitness and Its Correlates . West Lafayette , Ind. : Southworth 's Bookstore , 1959. 23 p.  | Adapted Physical Education Peals of laughter and enthusiastic shouts from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The joyous sounds were an invitation to step through the doorway and join in the excitement . One glance at the teams playing bat ball told the story . The " wheel chair " team was competing against the " crutch team . " When the " wheel chair " team was at bat , the pitcher bounced the light ball to the batter , who hit it with his fist . When the " crutch team " was at bat , the teacher placed the ball on a stand that was adjusted to the proper height , and the batter hit  | the ball with a crutch . Of course , they " ran " the bases ? and in surprisingly fast time , too . The happiness that emanated from this gymnasium was sufficient proof of the need for such a program for all young people with physical disabilities . If every school administrator , physician , parent , and teacher of physical education were privileged to witness such an exhibit of tenacity and sheer enjoyment , then the handicapped would not be deprived of physical education in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar ones do every day , in a school having pupils of all ages with severe disabilities . It is a public school , in a large city , with a gymnasium and a swimming pool that are staffed with qualified teachers and therapists . The school was built to meet the physical , social , mental , and emotional needs of the pupils who attend . The boys and girls have permanent handicaps , but they are learning to adjust to them and to obtain the most from life . Fortunately , these young people are receiving the best that education has to offer . This actual story shows that even severely physically handicapped pupils can enjoy their physical education classes , and it certainly proves that regular physical education activities can be modified to meet the needs of pupils with various lesser degrees of physical handicaps and disadvantages . PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED YOUTH Too frequently , parents have overprotected their handicapped children and , in severe cases , have almost isolated them from the activities of others . In every community live a number of handicapped boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cope with their problems , the school should include a broad program of health and special educational services . The school healthservices personnel , teachers of physical and health education , and parents should form a team that works together closely . It is normal for the adolescent to want to expand his social circle , join clubs , try out for teams , and generally increase and vary his activities . Physically handicapped youth can make these adjustments only slowly , and they often become despondent because they are outdistanced by eager classmates . A good program of physical education will be geared to meet the individual  | needs and physical capacities of every student so that the physical , emotional , and social adjustments can be made as easily as possible . A daily period of varied physical education activities , including some competitive sports , will help greatly to satisfy these needs . Clearly , there is much satisfaction derived from learning game skills and handling the body effectively . As important as physical education is for normal boys and girls , it is even more important for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this space age when education is being streamlined to offer " opportunities for all , " what are the schools offering the handicapped ? Are they successfully educating the whole child , or are they neglecting the physical aspects ? The program in physical education for those with physical disabilities too often falls into one or more of these indefensible patterns : The students are assigned to do clerical work for teachers . They are designated as locker aides and spend their so-called activity periods in a gloomy and often poorly ventilated locker room . They are assigned to study hall . They are required to observe and then to write a report on the class activities . None of these patterns provides opportunity for participation . Special Objectives of Adapted Physical Education Adapted physical education should provide a program , based on thorough , periodical medical examinations , of carefully selected activities for each student who is unable , because of some physical disability , to participate in part or all of the regular program . These activities should not only develop and maintain basic muscle tone ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following should be included among the objectives accepted by administrators and teachers for the adapted physical education program : 1 . To provide an individualized physical education program to meet the immediate needs of students with temporary and permanent disabilities 2 . To provide opportunities for those with permanent disabilities to learn skills that are suitable for use during postschool years 3 . To encourage the students to engage in group activities that will enable them to make better social and emotional adjustments 4 . To return those with relatively mild physical defects to regular physical education as rapidly as possible 5 . To assist pupils in developing healthful and intelligent attitudes toward their handicaps.  | Conduct of Adapted Physical Education Program Every secondary school pupil should be required to participate in as comprehensive a physical education program as possible . There is no valid reason for disabled boys and girls , bursting with enthusiasm and energy , to be forced to sit on the side lines and watch their more fortunate classmates engage in vigorous , health-giving , pleasurable activities . For a detailed description of an eminently successful program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the secondary school level for a number of years , the reader may consult the guide approved by the Board of Education of the Philadelphia Public Schools . Highlights of this program , including essentials of any good adapted physical education program , are summarized in the following paragraphs . For participation in a modified program , disabled pupils may be assigned to selected activities in regular classes , to special individual or group programs within regular classes , or to special separately-organized classes . The best plan will depend upon local conditions , the total number of handicapped pupils , and the particular types of handicaps which the pupils have . The pupil whose restriction of activity is slight can best be placed in a regular class . When the total number of handicapped cases of all kinds in a school is small , it is usually advisable to assign these pupils to regular classes . However , they must be assured of adequate supervision . Whenever there are a number of pupils with more than minor handicaps in a school , it is highly desirable to arrange special classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education should be assigned to these classes . Assignments to adapted physical education classes will have to be considered in preparing the master schedule . In scheduling the special classes , a school may wish to consider the use of zero periods , alternate lunch periods , club periods , after-school periods , or other possibilities . The school doctor should process all requests for restriction of physical activities . After examining and talking with the pupil , he should inform the teacher of the activities advisable for the pupil . While awaiting such information from the school doctor , the teacher should eliminate the pupil from participation in any physical education activity . During this brief period , the  | pupil may be assigned to related reading or nonvigorous clerical or assisting duties . Physical education activities can be modified for physically handicapped pupils in any of the following ways : 1 . By decreasing the duration of the activity 2 . By decreasing the tempo of participation 3 . By omitting certain movements or the use of certain body parts 4 . By substituting more appropriate activities 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a given pupil will depend upon the nature and degree of his individual handicap and must conform to the detailed recommendations of the examining physician and the instructions forwarded to the teacher by the school doctor . The program for a single pupil may include some modifications of all five types listed above . Decreasing the duration of the activity will frequently constitute sufficient modification . When body-conditioning exercises are being performed , the pupil can be instructed to repeat exercises a certain number of times only . In a softball game , the distance between bases can be shortened . The length of quarters in a basketball game can be reduced . The number of required points for " game " in volleyball may be decreased . A pupil may perform a single forward roll and then rest before repeating , instead of doing successive rolls . The number of successive throws , catches , bounces , or other movements by an individual can be limited as necessary . In other cases , it will be necessary to decrease the tempo of participation . The pupil may need to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class . Dancing may be restricted to slow dances such as the minuet and the tango . The pupil whose sustained running must be limited may play goalie in a soccer game . The tempo of a volleyball game may be decreased by reducing the size of the court or increasing the number of players on a team . Increasing the number of required rest periods in any game will result in a slower tempo . Pupils with certain types of physical handicaps will sometimes find it necessary to omit certain movements or the use of certain body parts . A pupil with a leg defect may be limited to performance of only the arm movements of the " jumping jack " exercise .  | One with a foot defect may perform the arm movements of an Indian dance while remaining in a sitting position . A pupil wearing leg braces may receive a thrown football while standing instead of running . A pupil with only one arm may play tennis , although he will have to omit the standard form of the service . In many cases , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more appropriate activities . If push-ups in a front support-lying position are too strenuous , push-ups in a kneeling position or against a wall in a standing position may be substituted . A pupil with a major disability of the feet and lower legs may do exercises in the hang on the rings instead of exercises with the horse or mats . In throwing events , a short accuracy throw may replace a throw for distance . Instead  --  of competing for height in the high jump , a pupil may jump for form only over a low height . Game rules may be modified , permitting the softball batter , for example , to bunt only . In any adapted program , there will be some activities which must be eliminated completely for certain pupils . A pupil with a chr-onic or permanent knee injury should eliminate broad jumps and dismounts from the high horizontal bar . One with an arm or shoulder defect may be excused from all exercises in a supportlying position . A pupil with leg braces may need to eliminate all dance activities . It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all inverted positions . Almost all popular physical education activities can be modified for use in the adapted program . Sports and games provide important and satisfying educational experience for pupils who are restricted to moderate activity . In addition to modifying factors related to intensity , duration , and tempo , sports call for extended precautions because of their competitive nature . Usually , the rules must be changed to ensure moderation . Revisions will frequently include some combination of the following adjustments : reduction in size of playing area , limitation of one player 's sustained activity , limitation of an individual 's over-all amount of activity , elimination of undesirable game elements by modification or substitution . In apparatus activities and other gymnastics , emphasis should be placed on selection of simple exercises of short duration which involve only a moderate expenditure of energy . Dance activities are suitable if the less vigorous types are selected , the tempo adjusted , and the duration of participation limited . Swimming  | activities , very valuable and satisfying to many pupils with physical handicaps , frequently require less modification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of body support . In the adapted program , additional emphasis can be placed on some of the less vigorous activities such as shuffleboard , table tennis , suction darts , quoits , and golf putting . For extreme cases , some of these may be done in a sitting position . Frequent , intermittent , short periods of rest may be indicated with any activity . INDIVIDUAL REMEDIAL PHYSICAL EDUCATION Individual remedial physical education is another specialized area of the general physical education program . It is concerned with the improvement or correction of orthopedic defects . In the past , this phase of the program has often been neglected . Far too many educators believed that children would naturally outgrow their deviations and reach maturity as well-aligned individuals with good posture and body mechanics . It is now known from observation and from working with secondary school youth that this is not the case . In a high percentage of cases , functional posture deviations become structural after approximately 16 years of age . The most rapid period of organic growth and physical development takes place during the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most pronounced postural deviations occur . The case of a functional scoliosis that grows progressively worse and develops into a structural scoliosis presents a serious health and aesthetic problem . Because students spend so much of their time in school , it becomes the school 's responsibility , in large measure , to detect deviations while they are still only functional . This necessitates periodic medical examinations , with appropriate follow-up of the defects that are discovered . The follow-up in this case is , first , removal of the cause or causes and , second , provision of a remedial physical education program taught by a specially trained teacher . Objectives of Remedial Physical Education The objectives of remedial physical education may be stated as follows : 1 . To remove the cause of the deviation 2 . To improve the over-all bodily alignment  | 3 . To improve or correct posture and foot deviations through the use of carefully selected exercises for each individual 4 . To motivate students to want to continue practicing good posture and body mechanics until they become a habit 5 . To motivate pupils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that should be corrected , improved , or arrested are : 1 . Anteroposterior deviations : forward head , round shoulders , kyphosis , lordosis , and any combination of these 2 . Lateral deviation : scoliosis 3 . Deviations in foot and leg structure and function 4 . Nonorthopedic defect : dysmenorrhea . Conduct of Individual Remedial Program An individual remedial physical education program can not function effectively without medical cooperation . The doctor examines the pupils and provides referral forms to the remedial teacher . If a nurse is available , she can be made responsible for scheduling the doctor 's appointments with the pupil and teacher and for assisting in the follow-up cases which need additional attention by parents and orthopedic surgeons . The services of an orthopedic consultant in this field are highly desirable . Remedial physical education is often put on a voluntary basis because it is given in addition to the regular physical education classes . Usually , the written consent of a parent should be obtained for enrollment of the student in this type of physical education . Individual remedial physical education can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individualized instruction is required . Rarely are the deviations in two or more students exactly the same . There are varying degrees of deviations and of individual differences among the pupils . Specific remedial exercises must be selected for the individual , not for the group as a whole . Furthermore , the remedial teacher must study each case and , with the assistance of the physician , determine the cause or causes of the various deviations . Muscle tests to determine the length and strength of particular muscle groups must be administered and their results recorded if suitable selection of exercises is to be made . To this end , the teacher must be trained in the correct testing techniques .  | Additional reasons for the separation of orthopedic cases from the regular physical education students are these : Effective individualized instruction can be given only in small classes . Only a teacher who has had specialized training in this area should instruct the classes . Students must work according to their own speed and physical capacities . Precise written records must be kept for each orthopedic student . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for each period . Ideally , most students should report for a daily period of remedial physical education . Much improvement can be attained with fewer periods , but no one should be enrolled who can not attend classes at least two periods per week . Much repetition and progression are essential for correction or improvement . Obviously , the time will arrive when remedial periods can be reduced for many students from five to two per week . In communities really interested in posture education , special remedial gymnasiums are included in the school building plans when finances and space permit . However , attractive remedial rooms that meet the regular school health requirements can be and often are converted from ordinary classrooms and other areas of unused space . Much of the basic remedial equipment and apparatus can be made in the school shops by carpenters employed by the board of education , and many times by the remedial teachers themselves . Basic equipment essential to the remedial gymnasium includes a full-length triple posture mirror , two or three sections of stall bars , several benches , stools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horizontal ladder , a set of adjustable rings , a plinth or table , a posture grid with a plumb bob suspended from it , a set of wall pulleys , a pedograph , a podiascope , several wands , inexpensive resistive equipment made with strong springs , a bulletin board , several straps for ensuring localization of exercises , and mats . The teacher with initiative and imagination can easily devise the simple equipment needed for the basic exercises . Although it is actually unnecessary to have much equipment , it is desirable to have a variety because it diversifies the program and minimizes the boredom which is likely to result from much repetition of identical activity . The diagnosis made by the doctor and the tests administered by the teacher are the determining factors in the selection of remedial activities for each student . The prescribed exercises  | are best recorded on individual exercise cards and placed alphabetically in a file . The exercises must be changed according to the current needs of the students , and a record of all changes should be kept . If an exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more vigorous one ; likewise , if the exercise is too difficult , a milder one or a milder form should be substituted . Execution of the exercises by the students demands constant observation and correction . Remedial physical education can become boring unless the teacher is alert enough to keep it stimulating . It is not difficult to motivate the pupils in a number of ways . Muscle tests serve as one source of motivation . Test results , if recorded on a chart and posted , stimulate the pupil to want to better his past performance . Purposeful , inexpensive equipment also provides a great measure of interest . Strong resistive springs to facilitate the strengthening of particular muscle groups , visible scales to measure achievement immediately , a light or buzzer attached to equipment to serve immediate notice to the student of good or poor position , and well-placed mirrors are only some of the means for encouraging pupils to exert more effort . In addition to motivating devices , it should be emphasized that the use of straps is important for " fixing " body parts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made as interesting as is the ability of the teacher to imagine and devise equipment . Evaluating the Remedial Program Evaluation , obviously , is an important part of the remedial program . This should be an on-going process by the physician , the teacher , the parents , and the student himself . Periodic written records of the student 's progress or lack of it will give an accurate picture of the value he derives from his activities . Periodic posture photographs , although not portraying the situation accurately , are valuable references for evaluating the effects of the exercises . Progress charts usually can be counted on to challenge students to better their own records . Periodic evaluation by the school physician , with advice by the remedial teacher , is an important gauge in determining the release or continuance of the student in the program . Parents can render valuable assistance in evaluation by presenting written reports on the work done at home by the student . It may be helpful to suggest that  | the school report mark can be determined readily on the bases of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods . QUALIFIED TEACHERS ARE NEEDED Adapted and remedial physical education is an essential part of a complete physical education program . However , these two areas are often omitted from the total program because physical educators feel they have received inadequate preparation for teaching them . Qualified teachers are urgently needed in these areas of physical education . To meet the need , more emphasis must be focused on adapted physical education in the teacher education institutions . Many physical educators have had no training or experiences in the education of the handicapped . There is a need for student teachers to devote a portion of their time to this field . Only through observing active handicapped students at play can teachers realize that these boys and girls are not fragile beings to be protected by being kept on the side lines . It is only through actual work with handicapped pupils that teachers can gain the knowledge and insight to deal with them . Inservice education in these fields is also a vital need . There are few colleges and universities conducting courses in these subjects during late afternoons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers can take advantage of them . However , a well-qualified teacher or supervisor can readily conduct an inservice course for those who are interested in broadening their knowledge and skills . Qualified supervision plays an important part in the on-the-job training of teachers of adapted and remedial physical education . Probably nothing is more valuable and important to the new teacher than the on-going guidance provided by a supervisor . The aim of supervision is the improvement of instruction ; all teachers need this assistance . It is usually profitable for the teachers who need help to observe in schools where there are strong teachers and programs . Further , it is highly beneficial for all remedial teachers in a community or area to meet as a group to discuss improvements in the program , to observe demonstrations on newly approved equipment , to discuss mutual problems , to present committee reports , and to exchange workable ideas . Another valuable technique is  | to have the supervisor encourage the establishment of teacher committees that will function for the expansion and improvement of the program . An official written program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communitywide basis and to avoid the inclusion of unapproved material . Finally , teachers in the program should be encouraged to use imagination and initiative in devising new equipment and exercises , to be used , however , only after approval by the city director of physical education and the head of the school medical services . Much remains to be done throughout the country in these areas of physical education . Physically handicapped youth have been neglected too long . Educators must put forth more thought and greater effort to provide suitable opportunities in physical education . The handicapped must be given every opportunity to experience the happiness that accompanies success . Every student is entitled to the best that education has to offer . Certainly the handicapped are entitled to equal opportunity with the others . They must be guided to live as normally as their disabilities permit . The goal of every community should be to organize a program of adapted and remedial physical education in every school . The door is wide open to render greatly needed service . REFERENCES BUCHER , CHARLES A. Foundations of Physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mosby Co. , 1960. 501 p . DANIELS , ARTHUR S. Adapted Physical Education . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1954. 538 p . EWERHARDT , F. H. , AND RIDDLE , G. F. Therapeutic Exercise . Philadelphia : Lea and Febiger , 1947. 152 p . FOOTE , DOREEN . Modified Activities in Physical Education . New York : Inor Publishing Co. , 1945. 101 p . GARDINER , MARY DENA . The Principles of Exercise Therapy . London : G. Bell and Sons , 1953. 260 p . HAWLEY , GERTRUDE . The Kinesiology of Corrective Exercise . Philadelphia : Lea and Febiger , 1949. 192 p . LICHT , SIDNEY H. , EDITOR . Therapeutic Exercise . Vol. 3 of Physical Medicine Library . New Haven , Conn. : Elizabeth Licht , 1958. 893 p . PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS . The Modified Program in Physical Education for Pupils with Temporary or Long-Term Physical Handicaps in  | Senior High , Technical High and Junior High Schools . Philadelphia : Board of Education , 1956 . PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS . Program in Individual Remedial Physical Education for Junior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia : Board of Education , 1955 . STAFFORD , GEORGE T. Sports for the Handicapped . Second edition . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1947. 334 p . STAFFORD , GEORGE T. , AND KELLY , ELLEN D. Preventive and Corrective Physical Education . Third edition . New York : Ronald Press Co. , 1958. 395 p . STONE , ELEANOR B. , AND DEYTON , J. W. Corrective Therapy for the Handicapped Child . Englewood Cliffs , N.J. : Prentice-Hall , 1951. 315 p . WILLIAMS , JESSE FEIRING . The Principles of Physical Education . Seventh edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1959. 389 p . WILLIAMS , JESSE FEIRING ; BROWNELL , C. L. ; AND VERNIER , E. L. The Administration of Health Education . and Physical Education . Fifth edition . Philadelphia : W. B. Saunders Co. , 1958. 387 p.  | Planning for Physical Fitness in the Years Ahead Equipping students to plan and pursue intelligently their own physical fitness in postschool years is an important function of secondary schools because a large percentage of students terminate their formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one needs scientific information as well as attitudes and values which lead toward a determination to live healthfully . To provide basic information with many implications for secondary school physical education , this chapter presents scientific information about life from conception to death , with sec-  | tions devoted to the early years and to aging . It presents a pioneering statement of standards for adult health and fitness . It makes some specific suggestions for physical education teachers . Life : Conception to Death Life begins with the fusing of the sperm and egg into a single cell . Although microscopic , the cell contains the potentials for growth and development into a complex , complete human being . It is nourished and protected by the mother and given time to form into a structure with all functions needed for life . As soon as the organism is able to sustain itself , birth occurs . The child must then secure its own oxygen , digest its own food , and set its own pattern for life . Whether it is a pattern for good health or destruction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made . Physical structure and functions are influenced more significantly during the early years than at any other period in life . Damage to the human organism during the early growing period probably can never be fully corrected . The individual 's health destiny is determined to a significant degree quite early in life . The infant grows into childhood and adolescence ? the period for the development of potentials . The body , the mind , the emotions , and the individual as a social being gradually develop . The rate varies with each individual . The independent traits , qualities , and abilities also vary in development and capacity . Because of the unity of structure and function in good health , such variation is of major concern . The practices of the child in the physical aspects of living ? diet , rest , exercise , relaxation , protection from unfavorable elements ? will be reflected in his development . Similarly , the practices of the mind , emotions , and the social interrelationships will determine the nature of development and organic unity . Barring disease and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the individual as a vigorous physical being , with wholesome attitudes and desirable skills , can be developed during this period by design . Accomplishment of this potential can result only when scientific discoveries are known and practiced in the home , the school , and the community ? and , more importantly , when they are accepted by the child as a desirable and happy way of life .  | When the individual reaches maturity , the growth potential is practically reached and will remain basically the same throughout life . The forces , conditions , and practices which have stimulated and nourished growth will no longer have any significant bearing . The organism will still be influenced , favorably or unfavorably , but not in the same way . In characteristics and abilities , the individual is a different person at maturity . The mind is more efficient and skillful ; the body has more strength , coordination , and agility ; the emotions are conditioned and more completely regulated by the mind ; the individual is more skillful in his interpersonal communications . Reproduction will start the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of the race ? is thereby sustained . The height of the powers of the individual is reached during maturity , and the powers also are gradually lost during this period . The ways of life of the individual will determine when the height is reached , the extent of it , and the beginning and rate of decline . During the postadolescent period , the power of the individual to hold and maintain what has resulted from his growth and development becomes a struggle . He may become stronger , more skillful , and mentally more efficient during this period . However , regardless of effort and human care , decline is inevitable . Objectives , then , are to maintain fitness , develop new abilities and interests , and delay the beginning of the decline as well as the rate of decline . Functional levels can be maintained longer if care is given to the body through exercise and hygienic practices . All vital organs of the body need care , especially the heart , circulatory and respiratory systems , the muscular and digestive systems , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , develop new physical abilities and interests , and delay decline of their bodies is affected by their secondary school physical education experiences . Such programs should teach scientific facts about health and exercise , including amounts , kinds , and frequencies recommended at all ages of life . The programs should help adolescents develop a variety of skills , for adults tend to pursue physical activities for which they developed skills as adolescents . Attitudes should be taught , because maintenance of fitness depends to a large extent upon feelings and beliefs about the importance of " living in health and fitness . "  | Life During the Early Years The human organism is strongly influenced by its habitat ? physical , social , and biological . This is particularly true during the early years . Until the mind is able to make critical judgments , the individual needs to be guided and protected from the influences of the environment . The child grows and develops rapidly during the early years . The changes involve the entire body and all vital organs , both in structure and function . Cell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human organism . The procedure , in good health , is systematic and orderly . Many factors are related to growth and development . All are important because of the physiological values and needs during growth and because of the patterns developed during early life . Favorable growth and development during the early years are essential for good health and efficiency throughout life . Exercise is one of the most important health factors . It favorably influences growth during the early years and develops the functional powers and skills of the individual during maturity . Properly planned and regulated , exercise can remake the physical limits of the individual , particularly during the early years . The muscular , respiratory , and circulatory systems of the body , in particular , contain the potentials of the individual for health , physical power , and endurance . Exercise , along with other life essentials , will translate the ingredients of the body into physical power . The extent is determined by the quality of the human mechanism , the quality and quantity of the ingredients , and the frequency , duration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are determined by the nature of exercise itself , the development of human power and health becomes a planned and precise scientific matter . Nutrition greatly affects growth and development of the child . Food serves as the source of energy . The greater the expenditure of energy , the larger are the food requirements . Proper nutrition is essential for proper growth . Reports indicate that improved nutrition in this country is reflected in the increased stature of the American girl and boy . Studies also show the effects of inadequate diets on German youth during two war periods of food shortages and rationing . Both weight and height showed retrogression because of insufficient caloric , protein , vitamin , and mineral content in the diet . Undernourished children are  | underactive . Underactive children become underdeveloped because of the inactivity itself and because of improper nutrition .. The nutritional requirements for a child are an individual matter . Exercise and activity , skeletal development and needs , muscular development and strength , adipose tissue and amounts , and energy status and needs are all factors which must be reviewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established . Proper balance of carbohydrates , proteins , and fats with the essential caloric , mineral , and vitamin content , according to needs and activity , becomes the requirement for proper growth and development . Adequate nutrition is needed for a body to have appropriate symmetry , acceptable posture , muscular strength , ability to sustain stresses of endurance , and abundance of vitality to play . Vitality for play adds another favorable factor ? exercise . Causes and effects operate in both directions ? nutrition for energy and energy for exercise in order to develop the energy potential . Play of a wholesome and enjoyable nature is as important to a child 's well-being as are the requirements of exercise and nutrition . Fun and happiness that the child experiences in daily life are the basis not only for proper social and emotional growth and development but also for proper physiological growth and development . Through play , the child does much to develop feelings of security as he expresses himself through movement , finds success and satisfaction , is accepted by others , develops mentally , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play , is a part of growth and development , the basic elements which will cause the child to desire and enjoy wholesome play must be identified and applied . The first of these elements is creativity . The child must discover or learn for solid satisfactions . The adult leader can provide numerous opportunities for discovery in any play-situation . The child also needs the satisfaction of companionship ? someone to be with , someone with whom experiences can be shared . He enjoys games when the element of self is placed with or against someone . The opportunity for success and for the enjoyment that goes with it provides a challenge . The potentials for failure and for understanding the success of others make this element an important factor for proper development . Other elements which will cause the child to play and enjoy playing are skills for successful participation in an activity and opportunities to be out-of-doors.  | Work responsibilities represent a basic element for potential happiness . Deep satisfactions result when something important to the child has been accomplished . The child must be challenged and obligated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted and accomplished , but it has added significance , from the standpoint of health , if the factors of exercise , nutrition , and enjoyment are part of the requirements and the challenge . Sleep and rest are essential for optimal growth , development , and health . During periods of rapid growth , the organism demands more sleep . The anabolic processes occur largely during this period . The well-rested organism is able to participate more intensely in activities , adding favorably to growth and development . Restoring and developing the energies needed for an active life are essential during early years . Sleep and rest are more important at this period than at any other time during the life of the individual . Exercise , nutrition , play , work , sleep and rest ? these important health factors related to optimal growth and development must be recognized as part of the child 's life and actions . In a recent report by Campbell and Pohndorf on the physical fitness of American and British youth , ' it was found that British youth , both girls and boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precisely , the British boys were superior to boys in the United States , but both groups improved with age ( 10 years to 17 ) . British girls were also superior , but the American girls either showed little improvement or actually regressed with age . In some combination of the factors related to child growth and development , American children are inadequate . It is truly a serious matter when one recognizes that losses at this period of development will never be regained . What can secondary school physical educators do to improve development during the growing years ? Paying attention to present and future needs of their students , they can teach about exercise , nutrition , play , work , sleep and rest , the importance of physical fitness , and preparation for parenthood . Some of this teaching can be done as students learn and participate in physical activities ; some can be done through classroom work and assigned or suggested reading . Physical education should help footnote 1 Campbell , William R. , and Pohndorf , Richard H. " Physical Fitness of British and United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1961 . Chapter 2 , p. 8 ? 16.  | prepare students to achieve significantly during their student days , to " live in fitness " during their postschool life , and to raise children healthfully . The Aging Process During the process of aging , both internal and external forces cause changes in the human organism . Living involves stresses of many kinds ; external stresses cause internal changes . Internally , the functions of the nervous system maintain resistance during stress . The human organism attempts to maintain a steady state of functions ( homeostasis ) . The strength and quality of the human tissue will determine the level of balance of the human body between internal and external forces . The level itself will also affect the physiological functions of the body and , in turn , the aging process . Stress . Selye2 reports that response to stress includes three reactions : first , the direct effect of the stresses upon the body ; second , internal responses which stimulate tissue-defense ; and third , internal responses which stimulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is usually the outcome of a struggle for self-preservation of parts within a whole . This is true of individual cells within man , of man within society , and . of individual species within the whole animate world . Adaptation is determined by the balance of operating forces . Maladjustments are related to general physiological malfunctions , such as heart , circulation , and kidney disorders . The process of aging is retarded or advanced by many factors . Some stem from the internal mechanisms of the body , some from the external environment ? both animate and inanimate . The internal factors are the quality of the internal functions and vital organs . The external factors are the stresses which are placed on man and his reaction to them ? the nutritional habits of the individual and the status of body weight ; the exercise habits of the individual and the frequency , intensity , and duration of exercise ; the nature of the individual 's work , whether physical or nonphysical ; the fatigue status and its chronic nature ; and the individual 's physical environment and resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ footnote Selye , Hans . The Stress of Life . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , 1956.  | Physiological age is not determined by the time of birth but rather by the total amount of wear and tear on the body , the expenditure of energy in relation to supply . When expenditure exceeds supply , retrogression begins . Exposure , as a conditioning process to prepare the person for such life , is not recommended by scientists . Exposure to stress leaves a scar , and the cumulation of such scars establishes the physiological age of the individual . Physiological age , not chronological age , determines health and time of death . Selye states that the individual rarely dies of old age , but nearly always death is due to a vital organ which is prematurely worn out , diseased , or both . Stress is a factor in the malphysiological functioning of the body . Imbalances occur . The efforts of the individual for balance cause additional stress . The cumulation results in the inability of the individual to meet the demands of daily living . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , emotional . Hospitals report an increase of 250,000 emotionally disturbed patients each year . It is tragic for each person , but particularly for the three out of five who will never leave the hospital . It is the complete destruction of the body even though some life exists . Nutrition . Inactivity is the most important single factor causing overweight . Food intake has not been adjusted to the highly mechanized , sedentary existence peculiar to modern Western societies . The individual 's life must be reorganized either to regulate food intake to the level of physical activity or to increase physical activity to the level of food intake . Bortz3 reports that an intimate reciprocal relationship exists between aging and diet , exercise , and rest . Experiments indicate the value of limited caloric intake plus exercise to promote longevity . In controlled experiments , animals given all the food they wanted , and with limited exercise , shortened their life span to half that of animals on restricted food plus exercise . It is the muscular system that holds the key to a long and healthy life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bortz also reports that adversity in the form of altered food supply , inactivity , trauma , disease , or complete disuse leads to deterioration which may go on to dissolution . In these instances , cholesterol and fatty acids have more opportunity to settle in crevices in the blood vessels . footnote ' Bortz , Edward L. " Exercise , Fitness and Aging . " Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960 . Chapter 1 , p. 1 ? 9.  | Reports consistently state that lack of exercise is an important factor in raising blood cholesterol . Exercise , of course , entails considerable expenditure of energy . A sedentary man requires about 2400 calories per day . For a physically active person , the amount may be at least doubled . Contrary to belief , exercise does not cause an increase in food intake . This is true when such habits have already been established , or if the individual has always been active . A sedentary man can increase the amount of exercise but not his food intake . The increased activity will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced . If , however , activity is decreased , appetite does not decrease proportionately . The result is more reserve than is used and an accumulation of fat . Exercise is a major factor in weight control as well as in other physiological processes . Physically active people tend to have more uniform weight . It is of major importance for an athlete either to continue his activity in later years ( which rarely happens ) or to cut his food intake considerably . Because athletes have been active , the use has matched the intake . A cut in activity then becomes a serious matter , and overweight frequently results . This is one reason why longevity studies do not demonstrate the worth of exercise when athletes and nonathletes are used as subjects . As recently as 70 years ago , man consumed 6000 to 6500 calories per day ? and used them ; today his needs are 2400 to 2800 calories . Women needed 4000 to 4500 calories 70 years ago ; today they need only 1800 to 2200 . This change is due to less physical work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so over one-third of the American population is obese . This condition is the beginning of health trouble . Bortz states from his hospital experience that cancer occurs three times as often in persons who are 25 percent overweight as in persons who are normal in weight or slightly underweight when the first sign of the tumor has been identified . This is only one disease which is associated with overweight . Fatigue . Fatigue is the result of overusing or overloading any given function of the body until it gradually loses its ability to meet the requirements . It is the relationship which exists between wear and repair . If one is able to repair the organism during its use , fatigue will be long delayed . Fatigue can occur in all functions of the organism ? physical , emotional , social , and  | intellectual . It is directed and precisely related to a specific function , although it is sometimes difficult for the human mind to identify that function . In fact , identification and measurement of mental and emotional fatigue , as it truly exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible , at the present time . Only when fatigue is so severe that it significantly influences the circulatory-respiratory systems can results be determined . Dill , 4 in distinguishing types of fatigue , states that in work of long duration the oxidation of carbohydrates or fat occurs , while intense work of short duration is accomplished without oxidative reactions ; these occur during recovery . Dill summarizes the characteristics of fatigue resulting from all-out exercise of short duration : The work is chiefly anaerobic ; the oxygen debt is a measure of the anaerobic energy transformed . The 02 debt has two forms ? alactacid and lactacid . The alactacid debt is paid in a few minutes ; lactacid debt is paid about one-twentieth as fast , in about one and one-half hours . There is an increase in the resting 02 consumption , but not a debt in the true sense . Diffusion of lactate is rapid from the tissue cells producing it into blood plasma and thence to less active muscles . In exhaustive exercise of longer duration ( 10 to 15 minutes ) , there is time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The total amount of accumulation may be larger than in exercise of short duration . Also , 02 and CO2 are at their highest level during the exercise , as well as the heart rate and cardiac output . Economy of effort is also an important factor in the longer exercises and the level of fatigue . The fuel for such work is largely carbohydrates . Fatigue may be caused by exhaustion of carbohydrate reserve , accompanied by depletion of blood sugar . Fitness for exhaustive work of long duration depends upon a minimum of wasted effort and also upon a high capacity of the respiratory-circulatory systems for supplying 02 to the tissues . Work . The working conditions and the job itself will influence the health status of the individual as well as the levels of morbidity and mortality . Raab , 5 in a summary of statistical evi- footnote Dill , David B. " Fatigue and Physical Fitness . " Science and Medicine of Exercise and Sports . ( Edited by Warren R. Johnson . ) New York : Harper and Brothers , 1960 . Chapter 20 , p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heart Disease from Lack of Exercise ( Neurohormonal Pathogenic Mechanisms ) . " Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960 . Chapter 2 , p. 10 ? 19.  | dente , supports this statement . Studies dealing with exercised and nonexercised groups in physically active and sedentary occupations show that those individuals in the highly physical occupations have the advantage in health . The less active or underexercised individuals have an earlier and greater cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and their cardiac performance under stress is inferior to that of the trained sportsman or lumberjack . Karvonen 's work in Finland also supports these findings.6 Deterioration , which determines the length of life , is hastened or delayed by factors which can be managed by the individual . Karvonen reports that sports which cause marked changes of the cardiovascular system , manifested , for instance , by an increase in heart size , do not shorten life but may prolong it . The frequency of nonfatal illness ( 40-59 years ) , judged by electrocardiographic findings associated with coronary heart disease , was significantly lower among lumberjacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-term training , as required for skiers in Finland , appears to have a beneficial effect on the cardiovascular system , either by increasing the myocardial reserve or by suppressing the cholesterol level and thus protecting against coronary heart disease . Hedley7 concludes that those occupations with a low death rate from reported coronary heart disease require considerable physical activity , and those with a high rate are occupations considered sedentary . High death rates were found among business executives , lawyers , judges , and physicians ; those with low death rates were farmers , coal miners , and general laborers . It is also reported that those occupations having the highest death rate from coronary heart disease not only require a high degree of mental activity but also involve considerable anxiety and stress . Several occupational studies reported by Taylors conclude that the incidence of death rate from heart coronary was less in occupations requiring physical activity . It is recog- footnote ? Karvonen , Martti J. " Some Effects of Long-Term Exercise on Health and Aging . " Health and Fitness in the Modern World . Chicago : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 223-27 . ? Hedley , O. F. " Analysis of 5,116 Deaths Reported Due to Acute Coronary Occlusion in Philadelphia , 1933-1937 . " U.S. Weekly Health Reports 54 : 972 ; 1939 . ? Taylor , Henry L. " The Mortality and Morbidity of Coronary Heart Disease of Men in Sedentary and Physically Active Operations . " Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960 . Chapter 3 , p. 20-39.  | nized that other factors are involved ? psychological and nutritional ones in particular . Environment . The environment itself has favorable or unfavorable aspects for health . This is due in part to educational and cultural levels and in part to physical elements . The most important , of course , is the former . Sti119 reported the average length of life in 46 countries . The range was from 71.0 years ( Netherlands-male ) and 73.9 ( Netherlands-female ) to 32.5 years ( India-male ) and 31.7 ( India-female ) . The difference in life span between male and female was found to be greatest in Finland ( 6.4 years in favor of female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of male ) . The average of the Western populations of the world is 60.1 years ( male ) and 65.7 ( female ) , compared to 45.5 years ( male ) and 44.9 ( female ) in countries of the Far East . It is interesting to note that the difference in life span between the sexes , as compared to 6.4 years in Finland , is 3.4 years in Norway , 2.9 years in Sweden , and 2.3 years in Denmark . It is evident that factors beyond the natural biological advantages or disadvantages determine those differences . Norris and Shock10 report that muscle strength and ability to maintain coordinated muscle work decrease with age from a peak at age 30 . The maximum rate of 02 uptake and maximum lung ventilation during exercise also showed a marked decline with age . During submaximal work , however , an increase in lung ventilation with an increase in age is found . Maximum heart rate decreases by about 40 beats per minute from age 20 to age 75 . Mechanical efficiency of muscular work is shown to decrease more in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decreased . Slowing of the physiological recovery processes from exercises and failure of coordination of the basic physiological functions may be partly responsible for the reduced performance of older people . footnote 9 Still , Joseph W. " An Attempt To Show the Links Which Connect the Social-Psychological and Physiological Events Which Result in Coronary and Other Thromboses , with Some Suggestions for Breaking the Connections . " Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960 . Chapter 6 , p. 52-67. io Norris , Arthur H. , and Shock , Nathan W. " Exercise in the Adult Years ? with Special Reference to the Advanced Years . " Science and Medicine of Exercise and Sports . ( Edited by Warren R. Johnson . ) New York : Harper and Brothers , 1960 . Chapter 24 , p. 466-90.  | Probably most significant are the differences in physiological aging and the effects of activity and ways of life upon structure and function of vital organs . Between the ages of 30 and 55 , there are marked individual differences . Montoye , " in a review of literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life of the individual is more important than sports participation during early life . This would appear reasonable since the effects of exercise during early years will not maintain itself throughout life unless appropriate activity is continued . In a report on aging and longevity , Mateeff12 states that the struggle for a better life has brought about improvements in living conditions in homes and at work . Regulated working hours , opportunities for recuperative rest and sleep , improvement in nutrition , and development through physical exercise have had beneficial influences on the organism . In Russia the average length of life , since the revolution , has more than doubled ? from 32 years to 67 . Also , developments in control of disease have lowered the mortality rate . Now , because man lives longer , other diseases such as arteriosclerosis and cancer have developed . These are diseases which are manifested after continuous and prolonged action of various harmful factors on the organism . Smoking , for example , requires decades to manifest results . The level of plasma cholesterol , resulting from obesity , must also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from such deleterious practices as smoking , excessive drinking , and overeating , and if he then exercises or performs hard physical labor , a considerable prolongation of life may be expected . Mateeff cites research on the value of cerebral activity against senile involution and the value of daily water applications to the body . The ordinary and brush massage should not be disregarded . The nervous reaction to these practices reflects favorably on physiological functions of the body . Cold water applications are beneficial if the organism is prepared to react favorably . It is of particular importance that control of senescence begin early footnote 11 Montoye , Henry J. " Sports and Length of Life . " Science and Medicine of Exercise and Sports . ( Edited by Warren R. Johnson . ) New York : Harper and Brothers , 1960 . Chapter 27 , p. 517-22. 1 ' Mateeff , Dragomir . " Morphological and Physiological Factors of Aging and Longevity . " Health and Fitness ' in the Modern World . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1961 . Chapter 1 , p. 3-7.  | in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aging process once it has started . Practices should start during childhood . Exercise . Exercise is probably the most important factor in the development and maintenance of good health . It certainly plays an essential part in developing and maintaining the physiological functions of the body , particularly respiration and circulation . Bortz states that exercise is a master-conditioner for the healthy and a major therapy for the ill . He says that exercise establishes a dynamic homeostasis to increase the ability of the organism to respond to life 's physical , emotional , and social demands . Bortz also indicates that the waning of power with age can be minimized with exercise . The basic tissues in which alterations appear with age are the skeleton , musculature , arteries , and nerves . All are related to diet , exercise , and rest . Raab reports that habitual lack of exercise leads to a deficiency of vagal cholinergic and sympatho-inhibitory mechanisms in cardiac functional regulation . The result creates a threat to myocardial health . Balke , 13 in his exercise research , states that there can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more efficiently than untrained men , that the plasma cholesterol is reduced with training but that the working cholesterol level always rises in the more fit individuals . In comparing the active and sedentary groups ( ages 19 to 65 ) , Balke found that in the sedentary group the functional physiological capacities diminish with age . However , regularly active individuals have a much greater potential in general , and , in later life , are able to compete successfully with the younger persons . Exercise and training aid the individual in the utilization of metabolic reserves . Exercise causes physiological changes in the human organism . The frequency , intensity , and duration of exercise determine the nature of the changes . Brouha14 reports that exercise improves each bodily system 25 percent or less , but , when taken together , all the effects may result in an improvement of total performance footnote is Balke , Bruno . " The Effect of Physical Exercise on the Metabolic Potential : A Crucial Measure of Physical Fitness . " Exercise and Fitness . Chicago : The Athletic Institute , 1960 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lucien . " Training . " Science and Medicine of Exercise and Sports . ( Edited by Warren R. Johnson . ) New York : Harper and Brothers , 1960 . Chapter 21 , p. 403 ? 16.  | as high as 100 percent . Both the magnitude and duration of work which can be done are improved . Brouha summarizes the changes which may be produced by strenuous training or exercise : 1 . Increased muscle strength and improved neuromuscular coordination 2 . Greater mechanical efficiency as measured in terms of lower oxygen consumption for a given amount of work 3 . Greater maximum oxygen consumption 4 . A higher maximum cardiac output with less increase in pulse rate and blood pressure during submaximal exercise 5 . More economical ventilation during exertion and greater maximum pulmonary ventilation 6 . Lower blood lactate for a given amount of exercise , i.e. , capacity to perform more work aerobically ; and ability to push self to a higher blood lactate before exhaustion , or the capacity to perform more work anaerobically 7 . Quicker recovery in pulse rate and blood pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exertion . Though adolescents may be little interested in longevity , each youngster 's interest in his own body is great . In addition to teaching about the effects of stress , nutrition , fatigue , work , environment , and exercise upon health , upon ability to use one 's body , and upon one 's sense of well-being , secondary school physical education should suggest adult exercise programs for future use by present-day students . Secondary schools should , of course , help students develop physical skills and interests in adult physical recreation . Furthermore , attention should be given to self-testing procedures and to developing persons who will become family and community leaders for fitness and physical activities . Almost all secondary schools should give far more emphasis to personalized physical education designed to produce people who will " live in fitness " now and in the future . Standards for Health and Fitness : The Adult Health , fitness , and aging are correlated qualities . Although the basic principles expressing valid physiological relationships can be developed , setting standards becomes complicated because of individual differences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type , nutritional practices , exercise patterns and history , disease and defects status and history , hereditary  | stock and history , emotional status reactions and actions , attitudes and conditions associated with work , physical and animate environments ? nature of health relationships and stresses , and the status of the individual in the degree of repair of the human organism from work and stress , or the status of fatigue , both temporary and chronic . The specifics for health and fitness standards , therefore , must be individualized , but the basic principles apply to all . The only requirement is the supporting scientific evidence . Regardless of hereditary stock , whether good or poor , the individual is physiologically influenced by the way of life he practices . The seriousness of the results depends on the quality of the organism itself , the extent or magnitude of the practices , and ? most important ? the length of the practice . It is reported that , because man now lives longer , bad health practices have time to take effect and the incidence of certain diseases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be reflected during adulthood , and lack of systematic exercise during adulthood will reflect in the health-fitness status of the individual . Failure to exercise systematically is one factor in reducing the quality of health and feelings of well-being and in decreasing length of life . This is particularly true when one engages in other unfavorable health practices . Exercise is a major compensating health factor . In conclusion , an attempt will be made to translate scientific evidence into standards for desirable health practices of the adult individual . A completely valid differentiation between the various age groups for each health facet is difficult . It would seem , however , that the general direction for practices is of most importance . The individual , through knowledge about himself , can individualize the emphasis within each age group . Bad practices or disregard of favorable practices in any of the eight health components upon which the standards are based will result ? regardless of the individual ? in lowered health and fitness , an increase in the incidence of morbidity , and a decrease in the potential mortality level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the health and fitness of adults . It can guide secondary school health and physical education teachers as they seek to prepare students to live a long life " in health and fitness . "  | figure  | However , the attitude toward the method of enacting that role must change , and this will come about only as education dedicates itself to excellence instead of mediocrity . Physical Education : A Part of the Whole Physical education , as an integral part of education , must solve its own dilemma in its quest for excellence , but the crest of its search will rise and fall with the tide of general education . Physical education is obliged to note this relationship , and intelligent physical educators will lend their strength to education in general as they seek to improve physical education in particular . Physical education must positively identify the unique aspect of its contribution to the total education of the individual and then seek to strengthen that contribution and intensify its quality . The basis upon which any sound program of physical education must be built is found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Without basic physiological movement , there is no human life . Principles of movement can be found in the constant throb of the pulsating heart , in the expansion and contraction of the lungs , in the impulses of the nervous system as they leap synapses and travel through the intricate network of cells , in the peristaltic squeeze of the digestive system , and in the muscular system with its contraction and relaxation phases which encourage gross motor activity of the entire being . While man is alive , he must move physiologically in some way . The basic physiological pattern of life provides existence only , and the human being wants more than mere existence . For a rich , full life , man must interpret his ideas , his thoughts , his insights , and his dreams to other men . The basis of this interpretation once again lies in movement . Sometimes this movement is in very specialized patterns , such as vocal control or finger dexterity . Much more often it is in bold and exciting patterns of gross body movement ? movement which reflects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , movement which expresses the personality , movement which gives meaning to life itself . The Movement Principle in Education Physical education must concern itself with the basic ingredients of movement and must stand firmly for the study of movement in the total educational pattern of the individual . Movement can be effected in many ways : It can be the result of  | simple motor coordination skills such as running , walking , hopping , skipping , and jumping . It can be utilized as the core of sports activities and find its outlet in the play patterns of people . It can be the basis of aquatic activity . It can provide the foundation of corrective therapy . It can find an outlet in meaningful dance forms and patterns . All these activities are the bedrock of physical education , and the study of movement in each of these situations provides the underlying continuum of the unique subject matter that concerns physical educators ? the self-movement of man . This is not a new approach to physical education . It is the original and basic approach recognized as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Romans , Egyptians , and Chinese . This tenet was basic in most programs of physical education until the early twentieth century in the United States , when a series of educational circumstances swung the rudder so abruptly that the movement principle of physical education was neglected and personality and socialization were emphasized . Sargent , Roberts , Hetherington , Wood , Hanna , Hitchcock , McCurdy , Ling , Jahn , and hundreds of other leaders in physical education set their sights boldly on the principles of human physiological movement as the basis of man 's existence . It is time to return to that principle . It is a good principle and one that necessitates no apology for being interested in the body of man as the sine qua non of human life . In the acceptance of movement as the " cutting edge " of physical education and as its unique contribution to the educational system , it is necessary to acknowledge that each individual has basic differences . Just as there are individual differences in heart rate , respiration rate , reaction time , metabolic rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so are there differences in gross movement patterns . Each person must be taught with reference to what he may become from what he is . For example , because of sexual differences that are biological , psychological , and sociological , it is absurd to believe that " girls should be able to do everything that boys can do . " Physical education programs for boys and girls must be taught in a different way because the limitations and the potentialities of the sexes are different . Just as it is important to acknowledge that the majority of girls will not be as strong as most boys , the majority of boys will not mature as rapidly as most  | girls , the majority of boys will be taller than their sisters , and the majority of girls will have greater fat tissue than their brothers , so it is equally important to acknowledge that within each sex there are even greater individual differences . Consideration of Skill Levels An intelligent physical educator will be cognizant of these facts and will gear his program of movement to the concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with by differentiation of skill levels . For excellence in a physical education program , such differentiation is essential . Individual differences must be dealt with in all of education , and the problems of scheduling students according to skill level instead of chronological age could be solved with facility if skill levels were recognized in all subjects . Such scheduling would do much to promote excellence . Foremost among the physical educator 's duties is the task of utilizing movement as a means of ensuring simple biological fitness for each individual . Fitness is clearly an individual matter , but it can be measured generally by the degree that a person is able to function in the life which he leads . Certainly the individual must be fit enough to meet emergencies as well as his daily living requirements , and an optimum level of strength , agility , coordination , flexibility , and endurance is indicated . There is only one way that this level can be reached and that is through movement ? essentially , movement employing the physiological principles of overload . In other words , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he thinks he can do , and the movement pattern must be intensified each succeeding day until the optimum need is met with facility . Because exercise is specific , overload is a necessity . In the majority of physical education programs , the students are not pushed hard enough . Unless a student comes out of class evidencing some aspects of purposeful fatigue , the class has probably done little to encourage fitness of the organic system . To achieve excellence , physical education classes must be " doing " classes , not " talking " or " showing " classes . It has been estimated that , in many physical education classes , not more than 5 to 7 minutes of each 45-minute period are spent in physical activity of any intensity . This is a real indictment of physical education , and physical educators must seek to remedy it .  | Coaches of extramural athletics are much better at using activity than are the average physical educators . Technique drills , conditioning exercises , and warm-up exercises have their place as methods by which total activity can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Games do not always provide the same opportunity for continuous activity . One wonders how often movement is possible for an individual as an outfielder in baseball , as a goalie in soccer or hockey , as a team member in volleyball . Excellence of movement insists upon fitness , and fitness is completely dependent upon the opportunity to move . It is a vicious circle and one that the physical educator must purposely plan to utilize . Utilization of Purposeful Tensions Another way in which the physical educator should utilize movement is in the concept of purposeful tensions and differential relaxations . The actual study of relaxation has significance only as it is related to tension . Too many people have sought to eliminate muscular tension in life and to emphasize relaxation for tranquillity and serenity . Nothing could be worse . In order to effect movement , there must be the tension of contracting muscle tissue . To deny this tension can be a frustrating emotional experience . There is a time when tension ? purposeful tension ? is the best sort of response to a given situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulting state may be conducive to the onset of a stress syndrome brought about by psychological stressors . Physical education should emphasize the role of purposeful tension and provide outlets for its use . Almost any elementary school teacher recognizes this principle , and the elementary school program is studded with certain times throughout the day when the children can walk , run , leap , hop , and jump . These are often planned recess periods , but , in lieu of these , the elementary teacher will move her children in activity within the classroom . Somehow , in the desire to foster maturity , the basic principle of movement involving purposeful tensions is lost . It is too bad that in today 's society there is an identification of nonmovement with sophistication and maturity . Movement patterns are tolerated in the young , and the same patterns are discouraged in adolescence and adulthood for fear that the movement indicates a childlike approach to life . It is acceptable for a small child to run and jump into a pile of leaves , but his teen-age brother is  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little girl to jump rope for hours , but her older sister may be chastized for " acting like a baby " if she attempts to do the same thing . The avenues open for purposeful tensions for adults are even more limited . Only games ? preferably individual and dual sport activities ? are available to the adult for movement patterns . So often these activities involve both facilities and equipment . Consequently , purposeful tension is denied the adult , and some type of sublimation takes place . Many European countries have social patterns which sanction and encourage physical activity for their adult populations . The average American adult , however , can find approved activity only in limited patterns of work and play , and usually he is the poorer for such restrictions . In a physical education program for excellence , there is a place for principles of planned relaxation . Because many people identify relaxation with sleep , a program which seeks to teach relaxation techniques often is criticized by curriculum committees and ridiculed by the public with the comment that " you do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sleep . " However , as the tempo of the times increases , the ability to effect relaxation at will is more generally regarded as a valuable asset . A number of different procedures may be used to teach relaxation techniques . Each one has certain attributes , and the effectiveness of each must be measured in terms of the results it produces . Here , especially , certain distinct individual differences may be noted . Psychic and social pressures are a keen source of agitation , and there are times when these stimuli must be resolved before physiological relaxation may be effected . A program of excellence in physical education will utilize the best relaxation techniques available and make them a part of the movement program in each specific activity taught . Combined with purposeful tension , relaxation techniques can do much to guarantee that each student will be able to meet the situation at hand with what Eleanor Metheny describes as " maximum results with minimum effort . " It is the obligation of excellent physical education programs to teach safety skills , and upon these skills may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , basic skills that will allow any individual to operate with safety in his world are necessary . The elementary physical skills are essential for survival . In addition , certain specific skills in aquatics are desirable , and  | special attention should be given to such emergency skills as knowledge of kinesthetic principles to avoid injury and minimize normal physical hazards such as falling . Movement and Health In line with the emphasis of movement upon the biological aspects of the individual 's education are certain concepts of motion which can do much to prevent body pathology . There is increasing evidence that continual exercise may be a deterrent to cardiac conditions . There is certainly ample evidence to point up the fact that exercise helps in weight control . The results of muscular action are reflected in the organic function of the bodily systems . Physical education can claim with verity that activity and movement assist in digestion , increase respiration , abet elimination , and facilitate circulation . These results of a normal , wellplanned program can not be ignored in the emphasis toward a program of excellence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strive for excellence is the study of activity as an alleviator of stress . Hans Selye , a Canadian physiologist whose work has attracted attention , terms any upset of the body which makes it deviate from its normal homeostatic level as a state of stress . Selye claims that the stress syndrome is divided into three phases : the alarm reaction phase , the resistance phase , and the exhaustion phase . Stress may be caused by physiological , psychological , and social stimuli called stressors , and , regardless of the type of stressor , the body tends to react in a usual pattern of adaptation called by Selye " the general adaptation syndrome . " Obviously , extensive movement imposes a stress upon the body that may be intensified by both psychological and sociological inferences in the situation . Hence , a game or contest which involves movement not only will disturb the homeostatic balance because of that movement but also will probably be fraught with connotations of win and lose , success and failure , and loyalty and indifference . It is reasonable , therefore , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the body , and much may be learned about the individual 's reaction to a stress situation by watching his reaction to a sport . This , undoubtedly , is inferred in Roger Bannister 's statement that " sport is a diversion with no purpose beyond providing a testing ground , larger than a chess board , but smaller than life itself . "  | Exercise as a Tranquilizer As the stressor is imposed upon the individual , the body reacts in alarm and certain stress products are released . Most of these reactions are triggered by the endocrine system and provide the body with the ability to meet and resist the stressor . However , there are times when the alarm reaction seems to create as many problems as it solves . This appears to be especially true in moments of great emotion , when the body is literally bathed in " its own juices . " There is some belief that frequency of great emotion may be deleterious to the individual . Nancy Gross , a stress psychologist , has emphasized that at such times there seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the best way to " use up the juices . " While exercise has the potentiality to impose a stress upon the body , it also can act as a tranquilizer . Now this concept is not new ; instead , it has an age-old ring . The childish tantrum , the slammed door , the fight resulting from idle gossip , the jump for joy , the hand-clapping excitement ? all are good examples of the fact that the body insists upon movement when it is subject to emotional duress . As a matter of fact , if that natural movement is denied under the guise of maturity , reserve , or any other socially induced pattern of behavior , there is a good chance that the body will seek motion in its own way , and heart palpitation , tics , nervous gestures , indigestion , and a number of other pathological results of stress will become manifest . The physical educator must recognize the potentiality of activity to alleviate certain stress products and inform his students of ways in which they might meet their own needs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , punch a bag , work out on the parallel bars , decisively defeat an opponent at tennis , or lunge with force in hockey than to become a pathetic mortal unable to control bodily reactions and a probable subject for therapy . Physical educators must be sure that , in their effort to use activity as an ataraxic , they do not become overly enamoured with activity as therapy . Such a concept is a specialized field and demands specialized training , but this is not to say that a physical education program of excellence should not be concerned with the normal strains of today 's living and the use of movement to neutralize those strains . In addition to what a program of activity can do for the biological organism , it is important to note the meaning of skill  | abilities in other connotations . Movement as an expression of life creates self-assurance in many situations . There seems to be a general theme prevalent today that each person reacts best in a climate of security . To a certain extent , such a tenet undoubtedly has great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the endeavor to surround the student with security , he is being deprived of the adventure of insecurity . This is tragic . Certainly , sport provides the opportunity to test oneself in a situation where there is security of method but no security of outcome . There is ecstasy in testing oneself against the unknown . Roger Bannister , telling why he tried so hard to break the four-minute mile , explained that man needs a way to test himself and that the real joy of sport lies in the integration of mind and body in simultaneous tension . Bannister clarified his generalizations by saying that , before man reaches the breaking point in his test of himself , he is able to see if he has the ability to exert muscular force over a distance and within a time ; he has been able to test his neuromuscular coordination ; and he has had the opportunity , at a higher level , to judge the entire pattern of the game . Bannister 's first two criteria for judgment of movement with a purpose are purely physiological in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but his third criterion touches on one of the more subtle innuendoes of movement in sport ? the psychological implications . The Wonder of Insecurity For one to be able to find himself through his behavioral reaction to a situation where he knows the rules , where he understands the regulations , and where he can measure the outcomes is an experience to elicit wonder and awe . Education has made everything so safe these days that the spirit of risk is often lacking . Certain physical activity can still provide that particular psychic pattern of insecurity , and it seems apparent that physical education should contrive to make skill patterns more difficult rather than easier and safer . Why not play the youngster until his " tongue is hanging out " instead of resorting to judicious substitution that fosters specialization , reduces risks , and denies the participant a real opportunity to test himself ? An excellent program of physical education will offer the wonder of insecurity ? the chance to test oneself in an important way . Self-testing activities should play an important part in any physical education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well worth the accidents hazarded . Rebound tumbling , apparatus activities , stunts , and gymnastics are all essential parts of any program which believes that risk is a part of proving individual excellence . Sport also provides the opportunity for self-judgment and selfknowledge . Everyone at some time has been surprised by his own reaction to a game situation ? the time when he unexpectedly became irritated with his badminton partner , the horror of the goal that was not scored because a teammate was not trusted to make the shot , the undue concern about winning when it had been believed that it really made no difference . Such opportunities for self-knowledge are not so lucidly presented in life itself , and the opportunity for self-judgment with regard to life is not available in the same succinct outline that sport can offer . It is easy to believe , with the Duke of Wellington , that the Battle of Waterloo had been won on the playing fields of Eton . Sport offers the opportunity to see reactions under pressure ; it assists in self-discovery during periods of inductive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a role that man can understand . Johan Huizinga , in his classic Homo Ludens , has said that " play is voluntary activity or occupation executed within certain fixed limits of time and place and according to rules freely accepted but absolutely binding . " Thus , through movement in games , man begins to see himself not only in relation to the game but also in relation to other men . In a world of increasing " togetherness , " this discovery of reasonable interaction is a necessity . Three Levels of Interaction In situations involving movement , it is usually possible to interact with others through play ; because of the game situation , it is possible to interact on a very objective basis . Mankind is usually able to judge his peers on essentially three levels . The first is the simple biological level where acceptance or rejection is based upon appearance , association , and prejudice . The second is the action level where admiration or disapproval is based upon conduct , in spite of the biological self and the interpretation of that self . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously , what people do is more important than how they look . The third , and probably the highest , level of interaction is the idea level . This implies that , regardless of the impressions from the biological and conduct levels , acceptance or rejection is based  | upon merit of ideas . This third type of interaction is not readily achieved , but it can happen . In group situations in physical education , it is always possible to interact with people on the action level , and sometimes interaction can be effected on the level of ideas . In a game of basketball , it is pointless for a player to decide if he approves of his opponent 's appearance ; skill ability and performance are the important things . It may even be possible to approach an opponent at the third level , as the player and his team attempt to interpret his strategy . The excellent program of physical education will capitalize on the situations made available through group activity . Sport ? one of the methods of utilizing human movement ? also has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emphasis on winning , the concept of an understanding loser gains a special distinction which the physical educator should comprehend , accept , and preserve . There seems to be tremendous stress placed today upon the fact that the loser must have a reward of some type , almost because he decided to risk losing . Hence , the honor roll supplements the valedictorian , and the quiz-show loser wins a Cadillac . The public is orientated toward winning and toward success , and it is increasingly difficult to accept failure and loss . America has made a cult of winning , even extending that cult to the realm of scientific discovery . In all game activities , there must be a loser as well as a winner . How fortunate physical educators are to be able to teach the idea of losing . How good it is for a player to be able to lose a game and not find himself wanting in the loss , losing not because he was bad but because he was not as good as his opponent . Anything worth playing is worth playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet there is nothing tragic in not being the best , and losing can verge on the wonderful . Physical education activities guarantee that this concept will always be a part of the educational pattern of the player , and the program of excellence will stress the wonder of loss as well as the splendor of victory . Pattern of Self-Discipline There is yet another behavioral pattern which is a concomitant of a sound physical education program ? the pattern of self-discipline and dogged perseverance . Boys and girls and men and  | women will practice hours on a specific skill pattern in order to perfect it . A twelve-year-old has been known to shoot baskets incessantly so that he will improve in his basketball ability . No one forces him to practice ; he practices because the outcomes of perfecting that particular skill seem worthwhile in his twelveyear-old society , and he will voluntarily discipline himself to achieve his goals . It would seem that this form of self-discipline might be applied to other methods of self-discovery , and it should be an intricate part of a worthwhile physical education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another thing of participants ? accountability . There is no game unless there is a judge ; there is no dance recital unless there is an audience ; there is no standard for excellence of form unless there is a critic . Even when a child plays sandlot baseball , he has to designate an umpire to call the balls and strikes and determine the outs . Sport and game situations demand that the player face up to the immediate behavior with real candor . A man is accountable for his actions and , in the realm of an excellent physical education program , judgment of the action is just . When the consequences of behavior are avoided by ruse , cheating occurs . It is the job of physical educators to insist upon integrity of purpose . Movement also makes possible the opportunity to express oneself in a nonverbal context . This is adventure outside the linguistic limits of the usual social interpretations of intelligence . Many people can do better than they can articulate . The selfexpression of the dancer , the diver , the skater , the fencer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adventuring with the personality which enriches the individual and makes a unique contribution to the heritage of society . In keynoting the contributions of a physical education program of excellence to the physical , psychological , and social aspects of personality discovery in education , it would be amiss to overlook the spiritual emphasis that human self-movement encourages . Matthias pointed out that " to carry on bodily activities without experiencing the stirring of one 's soul is really quite impossible . " This is certainly true in the attainment of certain movement patterns . The sheer wonder of reshaping human clay , the grandeur of the coordinated body executing a leap , the divinity of team effort , the awe of psychophysical patterns , and the salvation of human understandings ? these are the spiritual aspects of mobility ; these are stirrers of the soul .  | Concurrently with any excellent program of physical education for the typical student runs an adapted program for the atypical . Such a program takes into account the special nature , needs , and desires of the atypical and once again , allowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he is and help him realize what he may become . An adaptive program is expensive and takes special understanding , but it is as essential to excellence as a program for the typical . With some adaption , it will accomplish the same ends , plus specific therapy in certain individual instances . Although the challenge for excellence with the program of physical education is centered mainly in schools , there is a real need for sound physical education programs for the postschool group . The purpose of these programs should be different from that of recreation programs utilizing similar activities . The community may sponsor the program , but educators should administer it and continual progress in individual education through human self-movement should be realized . High school graduation should not herald the end of organized education for anyone . Adequate Facilities and Faculty Naturally , excellence of a physical education program can be fostered only if the facilities are adequate and the teaching is superior . With the tremendous increase in students clamoring for more and more educational opportunities , the large spaces needed by physical educators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building upon playing fields and compartmentalizing gymnasiums or making them into multipurpose rooms . Administrators will be convinced that adequate physical education facilities are needed only as they are convinced that the physical education program is meaningful in the total educational picture and that the teachers of physical education are committed to a well-rounded educational opportunity for all . Physical educators must make a good case for the constant use of their own facilities , and this will require more careful planning of schedules . If , with juggling , one heavily scheduled field could do the work of two , this consideration should become a part of the physical educator 's thinking . Adequate facilities do not always mean quantity , but rather selectivity and quality . In the selection of the excellent teacher , there is no room for anything less than the best . Teachers of physical education should  | come from accredited colleges where their teacher-preparation emphasized the scientific bases of physical education and stressed a liberal arts background . They must be intelligent , articulate , intellectual persons who have a concern for the totality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the total educational field . Unfortunately , good physical educators are too often people who express themselves best through movement and , hence , are not articulate in their field . An excellent program of physical education needs as its champion a person who can communicate with the other disciplines and interpret physical education to the academicians . Physical education has produced too many teachers who were fascinated with their own speciality and did a good job but who were unable to communicate with their academic peers . This dilemma can be solved as superior schools turn out young teachers who believe in the challenge of excellence for their specific subject matter , which concerns the movement of man . As physical education does its part in passing on the heritage of the race and providing the framework for the acquisition of skills and attitudes which will foster new knowledges , insights , and relationships , it will transcend mediocrity and emerge into an era of excellence . The challenge is immediate . Not to accept it means educational death . Physical educators have never turned their backs to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellence .  | Education for Leisure Many forces account for the increased leisure of today 's vast majority of citizens . Life expectancy has been extended until " three score and ten " is now an actuality . Although the total population has doubled since 1900 , those 65 years of age and over have quadrupled . Gerontology has contributed more vigor to the average person 's later years to keep pace with a longer life expectancy . The advent of automation is ushering in an era that staggers the imagination , with prospects of fewer hours per workday and fewer workdays per week . Whether  | one subscribes to the imminent 30-hour week or the projected 2-day week , he stares at an awesome prospect . It can turn out to be far from an unmixed blessing ; it can constitute an unbridled force of horrendous proportions . RECREATION 'S POTENTIAL Statistically , the average person has close to 120 days of leisure per year . That makes every third day a day of leisure . In addition , the average worker has at his disposal five hours of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herald an era of unparalleled enrichment and well-rounded living . Recreation can be described as an activity that reflects a free choice , is participated in during one 's leisure time , and is worthwhile in its results . Among activities within its scope are music , dramatics , storytelling , arts and crafts , outdoor education , camping , aquatics , social recreation , dancing , games , athletics , and sports . During his play experiences , a child reveals much of himself . Moreover , when children do what they are most interested in doing , they are in a most impressionable and pliable state . Consequently , a competent leader can serve as a positive force toward bringing out the best in a youth . Through close observation , he can also detect faulty behavior tendencies in their early stages and prevent their development . In the realm of publicly supported recreation , the community school contributes to the handling of the recreational needs of all age groups . The Dictionary of Education defines it as " a school that is intimately connected with the life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational needs of all in the community ; sometimes serves as a center for many community activities , and utilizes community resources in improving the educational program . " Whether or not a local community school exists , it is obvious that any school can enhance recreational opportunity . The American Association of School Administrators and the Educational Policies Commission have advocated for some time that public school properties be kept open for public use during after-school hours . Recreational activities are the ingredients out of which a bountiful leisure can be realized . They are not merely " take it or leave it " outlets during one 's free time ; they are essential for  | well-rounded living . In fact , recreation is a necessity of life . As no other force in life , it can serve as a buffer against the rigors of day-to-day stresses of modern day living . Regardless of the degree of complexity in one 's work , the body craves changes of rhythm , setting , and activity . The need to do what one wants to do when it suits most can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to neutralize the splintering effects of hurry , strain , worry , insecurity , anxiety , and " the double-quick and triple-action " pressures of an increasingly complex society . The Need and the Danger The more demanding , complex , and automated that productive enterprises become , the greater is the need for recreative pursuits . In fact , specialization of labor and mechanization of minute tasks accentuate the need for release from mounting pressures . Moreover , the need for restoring creativity to workers ' lives is essential . Certainly , all of this takes into account the fact that true leisure is something one earns . As Margaret Mead aptly expresses it : Unearned leisure is something which will have to be paid for later . It comes under the heading of vice ? where the pleasure comes first and the pain afterwards ? instead of virtue , where the pain or work precedes the reward . ' Time can weigh heavily on one 's hands . Some will question , with justification , whether a long workday of interesting endeavor with little if any leisure is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sterile array of aimless off-the-job outlets . Such indiscriminatory behavior can constitute a drain on society . In fact , civilizations have been known to topple as a consequence of vacuous interests and " drifting . " This is a danger that education must recognize and challenge . To ignore its insidious nature can but result in reaping a whirlwind . With increased mechanization and automation , the gap between work and play inevitably widens . The enervating experiences brought on by monotonous tasks and minute contributions toward the finished product require compensatory recreational footnote ' Mead , Margaret . " The Pattern of Leisure in Contemporary American Culture . " Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 313 : 11 ; September 1957.                     