@@773427

txt Thomson was not trying to suggest that Chicago was actually German , but he was expressing his pleasure at the size of the German element . Insull saw the challenge in converting Chicago , the isolationist capital of the midwest , to a crusade against Germany on behalf of democracy . One of America 's top financiers , Roger Bacon , told a Frenchman in 1914 that there were not more than fifty thousand Americans in the entire United States who favored joining England and France in the war against Germany . Creel was the leader of propaganda in America after March , 1917 , but Insull was the leader of that propaganda during the first two and one-half years of the First World War . He directed both English and American propaganda lieutenants . Sir Gilbert Parker , the chief of the English propaganda mission to America in 1914 , possessed no real skill in approaching the Americans . He thought it would be quite sufficient to discuss English aspirations with the so-called American upper classes . Insull explained to him that the American press had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy it , American financiers would help , but England would have to grant special favors to help win the sympathies of American journalists . Sir Edward Grey was horrified at the prospect of being personally interviewed by American newspapermen , when it was first suggested to him in January , 1915 . But Insull succeeded in persuading the English that it was necessary to make concessions of this kind in order to win the Americans . McDonald shows that there were frequent meetings between Insull and George Creel . The former was the teacher , and the latter was his very able pupil . Insull managed to pass a sufficient amount of official and confidential information to England during the period of American neutrality to warrant his being imprisoned for espionage as one of the leading English agents in America . However , thanks partly to the effort of Insull himself , the Anglophile position became trump , and Insull received only tributes and acclaim for his war work . Insull was the hero of the business world in the 1920 's . Although he managed industrial assets worth billions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ' five million as late as 1926 . The economic depression struck the 170 = United States in 1929 and Insull fought a hard battle for several years to maintain the solvency of the many utility companies which he directed . He did not sell short and make his own profit as did many of the Wall Street men . He thought of saving the companies for which he was responsible . It is remarkable that he was able to carry on for two years in view of the prevailing trend of treachery and deception among his associates . By Christmas , 1931 , it was obvious that he had lost the fight . He resigned the last of his many directorates in June , 1932 and departed for Paris . It was at this point that he became the scapegoat for guilty men . He was suddenly accused in absentia of causing the collapse of numerous business firms through dishonest practice . In the meantime , Insull had left for Italy . President Hoover submitted to pressure and asked the Duce to seize Insull on October 9 , 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Greece . Hoover 's successor , Franklin Roosevelt , vowed to punish Insull . The Greek government at first refused to surrender him to the United States , because his case was not covered by the terms of the Greek-American Extradition Treaty . But McDonald shows that American pressure was brought to bear on the Greek government , and he calls it " blackmail . " Insull fled from Greece but he was seized by the Turkish authorities at the request of the United States . He was brought home , handcuffed and placed on trial October 28 , 1934 . The guilt of Insull had been assumed in advance and the outburst of hatred against him in the American press resembled the outbursts of hatred against the Kaiser during the First World War . Insull , like the Kaiser , was innocent of the rabid accusations directed against him . He stood several trials and he was acquitted every time . Far from being exceptionally crooked , Insull was in reality a paragon of virtue so far as the business ethics in his field of enterprise were concerned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed to leave America . He died of a heart attack in a Paris subway on July 16 , 1938 . The master of the lie during the First World War had been morally assassinated by the lie . There was no logical 1.71 connection whatever between these occurrences on the stormy sea of current events . In the meantime , American revisionism on the historical events leading to the European war in 1914 and American entry into the war in 1917 had scored a signal triumph . But the triumph was destined to be of short duration . The fruits of revisionism were swiftly swept away after Pearl Harbor . The United States was signatory to a treaty in Paris in 1949 which , among other things , declared that Germany was solely responsible for the outbreak of the European war in 1914 . It was like a page from Orwell 's 1984 . The trend of deceit has continued since that time in relation to these questions . Sydney B. Fay of Harvard was a very disapppointed man when he recently read Barbara Tuchman The Guns of August , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a popular account of the 1914 crisis by the granddaughter of Henry Morgenthau . Fay had disclosed the willful deceit of Henry Morgenthau in 1920 . Forty years later he was confronted by a new edition of antirevisionism presented by his own publisher . This experience brought home to the Harvard historian that the glorious American historical research in the 1920 's and 1930 's had been wilfully and deliberately forgotten . However , Fay has not given up hope . He knows that the repercussions of Pearl Harbor can not dominate the scene of American historical research forever . 172 As in the case of the First World War , there are two distinct problems involving American historians and their approach to World War II origins . 1939 may be compared to 1914 so far as the outbreak of war in Europe is concerned . 1941 may be compared to 1917 in terms of American participation . It was not evident at the outset of either conflict that direct American military intervention would take place . The pros and cons of such intervention were hotly debated in both instances . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in the debate which finally culminated in America 's declaration of war against Germany . After 1939 , on the other hand , there was relatively little discussion of responsibility for the European war . Almost everyone assumed that there was no problem involved . This attitude prevailed throughout the war years and into the cold war period which followed the war . It was expressed by Louis Gottschalk in the Journal of Modern History , March , 1948 : American historians seem to be generally agreed upon the Kriegsschuldfrage ( war guilt question ) of the second World War . . . even though some politicians and writers have tried to raise a controversy regarding the origins of its Japanese-American phase . Gottschalk is conceding less than three years after the close of the Second World War that there is some controversy about 1941 . On the other hand , he is asserting that there is general agreement about 1939 . His assertion is correct , since the first significant book introducing a new interpretation on 1939 was not published until 1961 : A. J. P. Taylor , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London , 1961 ) . If one agrees that the American historians , as well as the American public generally , are still seeking to assimilate their experiences from the Second World War period , the origins of conflict in Europe in 1939 must possess relevance to their understanding of these experiences 173 along with the events concerning 1941 . If Gottschalk 's assertion in 1948 was made at a time when there was no published research in depth on 1939 , it necessarily reflects a mere assumption rather than a historical judgment . There has been considerable controversy since the appearance of Taylor 's book between those who feel that he has raised an important issue and others who charge that he has merely been mischievous . The war in 1939 began as a conflict between Germany and Poland . Taylor has little difficulty in demonstrating that German foreign policy during the years before the beginning of the German-Polish diplomatic crisis in March , 1939 , was aiming at cooperation with Poland . He also demonstrates that the Germans hoped to reach a lasting accommodation with the outbreak of hostilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for the British and French declarations of war against Germany on September 3 , 1939 . In other words , he is assigned the sole guilt for a conflict against three nations with which he was hoping to establish friendly relations . Taylor does not really attempt to determine the final responsibilities for 1939 . He is content with presenting enough data and analysis to show that easy assumptions about the 1939 situation are unwarranted . There are many indications that American historians will soon become engaged in some important discussions about the origins of the conflict in 1939 which may prove to be comparable in importance to the earlier discussions about 1914 . There is no advantage in the present context to explore the implications of the 1939 situation in detail . The generalization of Gottschalk in 1948 has continued to apply down to 1963 . It has sometimes been argued that Charles C. Tansill , The Back Door to War ( Regnery , Chicago , 1951 ) , introduced the problems connected with 1939 in the process of describing the problems in 1941 . The same thing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The World Crisis in American Foreign Policy , 1937-1941 ( 2 vols. , Harper , N. Y. , 1953 ) . There is no doubt that both of these studies have 174 introduced important factual material concerning European events in 1939 and they contain some trenchant observations about European conditions . For instance , Tansill shows that President Roosevelt was interested in creating a breach between Germany and England after the Munich Agreement in 1938 , and Langer and Gleason demonstrate that Germany was unprepared for a major European war in 1939 , having failed to plan for such a dire eventuality . Such contributions in both instances are subordinate to the main theme of tracing American foreign policy , and they do not relate to a comprehensive presentation of the European situation . For that matter , Taylor 's book is actually a suggestive essay on European diplomatic events between the First and Second World Wars rather than a study in depth . The latter can only be feasible if based upon an intensive study of Polish , French , German and Italian primary sources , along with such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly restricted to the use of German and Italian archives and those by Tansill and by Langer and Gleason to the American archives . Probably one of the most surprising gaps in modern historical writing , particularly in the light of the 1914 contrast , has been the paucity of research on 1939 during the first generation after the event . Be that as it may , there is a very considerable amount of literature by American historians concerning 1941 . The first major American work on the Pearl Harbor disaster was written by a non-professional historian and editor of the Chicago Tribune , George Morgenstern , Pearl Harbor ( Devin-Adair , N. Y. , 1947 ) . Morgenstern had worked intensively in the records of the several congressional Pearl Harbor investigations and had met many of the personages connected with the formulation of American military and diplomatic policy . The following year , after Morgenstern 's achievement , witnessed the appearance of Charles A. Beard , President Roosevelt and the Coming of the War , 1941 ( Yale University Press , New Haven , Conn . ) . Beard had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance of his books on the American Constitution and Jeffersonian Democracy more than thirty years earlier . He 175 was the only American scholar who had presided over both the American Historical Association and the American Political Science Association . His academic prestige was very great . His description of the events leading to Pearl Harbor was much more thorough and detailed than had been true of Morgenstern 's account . Yet both narratives ended with the same conclusion , namely , that Pearl Harbor would probably never have taken place had it not been for the unnecessary provocations and vagaries of President Roosevelt 's policy in the Far East at a time when the Japanese , both civilian and military leaders , would have preferred a peaceful accommodation with the United States rather than war . Beard , in particular , showed that Pearl Harbor paved the way for a vast expansion of communism throughout the world . As might be expected , the assertions of Morgenstern and Beard provoked a counter-attack from those historians , and they were many , who were inclined to defend every important phase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Franklin D. Roosevelt was probably the most popular President in American history . Basil Rauch , Roosevelt : From Munich to Pearl Harbor ; A Study in the Creation of a Foreign Policy ( Creative Age Press , N. Y. , 1950 ) , was the first major counter-attack directed against Morgenstern and Beard . It was quickly followed by Herbert Feis , The Road to Pearl Harbor : The Coming of the War Between the United States and Japan ( Princeton University Press , 1950 ) . Although Feis was inclined to be somewhat more conciliatory toward the Japanese nation than was Rauch , the two pro-Roosevelt historians agreed very closely in their main argument . Their thesis in turn followed the direction of President Roosevelt 's Chicago Bridge speech of October 5 , 1937 . Their case was based upon the assumption that there was a more or less permanent alliance among Germany , Japan and Italy directed against virtually all of the other nations . Since these books appeared several years after the opening of the cold war in 1947 , their authors were cautious in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that communism was nothing like the threat to American security from the three nations mentioned above . 176 The balance between revisionist and anti-revisionist books on Pearl Harbor has been virtually maintained since 1950 . Feis went on to publish four additional major studies about American foreign policy during the Second World War . ' On the revisionist side , Frederic R. Sanborn , Design for War ( Devin-Adair , N. Y. , 1951 ) , concentrated on the contrast between Roosevelt 's public policy pronouncements and secret diplomacy . Tansill 's Back Door to War , previously cited , was based on unpublished State Department documents which revealed that President Roosevelt encouraged the British to go to war in 1939 and then considered the best means of obtaining America 's full involvement after Great Britain encountered serious military difficulties in 1940 . Very interesting in this connection is a seldom cited book by Sydney Rogerson , Propaganda in the Next War ( Geoffrey Bles , London , 1938 ) . Rogerson was a British intelligence officer , and he began his study for a series edited by Captain B. Liddell-Hart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War . The thesis of this remarkable book was that these same tactics would not work again in the event of a second conflict . Rogerson then proceeded to detail a manner in which the United States could be brought into a war against Germany through the backdoor by successfully promoting a Japanese-American conflict . This is what happened less than four years later , and it explains the title of Tansill 's book . Both Tansill and Sanborn contributed to a revisionist anthology on 1941 , edited by Harry Elmer Barnes : Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace ( Caxton , Caldwell , Idaho , 1953 , 679 pp . ) . The slogan for this publication was borrowed from John Quincy Adams and it included the following passage : America goes not abroad in search of monsters to destroy . She is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all . She is the champion and vindicator only of her own . Barnes explains in the preface that this project was deliberately conceived as an answer to Basil Rauch , and his first major attempt to cope with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contained so many errors that it offered an inviting target which was certain to attract the 177 eager participation of leading revisionists . In addition to Barnes , Tansill and Sanborn , the formidable team included William Henry Chamberlin , George A. Lundberg , William L. Neumann , Percy Greaves , and George Morgenstern . Morgenstern 's contribution , " The Actual Road To Pearl Harbor , " offers a considerable extension of the thesis in his 1947 book . Morgenstern was able to cite convincing evidence that the freezing of Japanese commercial assets and the de facto blockade of Japan by President Roosevelt on July 25 , 1941 , was certain to produce war unless some new modus vivendi was achieved . For instance , Morgenstern notes that " Grew ( American Ambassador to Japan ) was under no illusions after the imposition of the embargo concerning what the effect would be : The obvious conclusion is eventual war . ' " 2 There is an astonishing parallel between American policy toward Japan in 1941 and Polish policy toward Germany in 1939 . In the latter case , the Poles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans until confronting them with a mobilization and a threat of war . Some observers have suggested that events in Bohemia explained this Polish attitude , but the records show that the Poles were actually eager to produce the collapse of the rival Czech state . After initiating a crisis , the Poles refused to negotiate for a solution . Much the same happened in 1941 . There had been friction in Japanese-American relations since the Panay incident in 1937 , but the impression prevailed that the United States was eager to reach a lasting agreement with Japan in order to concentrate American attention on Germany . It has sometimes been suggested that the Japanese alliance with the Germans and Italians convinced Roosevelt that these three nations constituted a monolithic bloc . However , later records show that Roosevelt was fully informed of serious friction between the Japanese and their European allies . As a matter of fact , the Japanese were far more considerate toward English and American property interests China than toward the Germans and the Italians . The administration recognized prior to July , 1941 , that Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was emphasized by Ambassador Grew both before and after the sudden blockade of Japan . 178 The evidence collected on this point by Morgerstern and others is surveyed by Anthony Kubek , How the Far East was Lost : American Policy and the Creation of Communist China , 1941-1949 ( Regnery , Chicago , 1963 ) : Had a modus vivendi with Japan been reached ? and it could have been reached with far fewer concessions at the expense of China than were later to be made to Soviet Russia at Yalta ? almost certainly the war with Japan would thereby have been averted , particularly in view of the German reverses in Russia in the winter of 1941-19423 Morgenstern and the other revisionists showed that Hull , the American Secretary of State , was sorely tempted to negotiate an agreement with the Japanese plenipotentiaries Nomura and Kurusu as late as November 25 , 1941 . There was constant interference from Harry Dexter White , principal assistant of Henry Morgenthau , Jr . It was later proved that White was a communist agent . Hull was ' finally persuaded to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points of this note which , included the abandonment of the Japanese position in Manchuria in the face of the Soviet Union and the Communist Chinese , rendered impossible a negotiated settlement . It was very much like the Polish refusal to discuss the Danzig crisis with the Germans during the entire period from March to September , 1939 . First , the acute crisis was created , and then a position precluding any sort of negotiated compromise was adopted . Grew was undoubtedly right in predicting that only war could result from such a situation . The fact that the United States was successfully intercepting all of the secret diplomatic instructions from Tokyo to the Japanese envoys in Washington , D. C. has been cited by the revisionists again and again to prove that the American authorities knew that the Japanese efforts to reach an agreement even at considerable Japanese sacrifice were sincere . The attack on Pearl Harbor was a desperate expedient to be embarked upon only if it became obvious that every effort to compromise had failed . Of course , no revisionist has ever gone so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pearl Harbor . This would be a nonsensical position for anyone to take in view of the disasters which have overwhelmed Japan 179 after 1941 . What the revisionists do claim is that the Japanese were very reluctant to be goaded into war . It can truthfully be said that the revisionists have thus far failed to persuade the majority of professional historians to adopt their views . For instance , none of the leading American college textbooks on world politics have accepted the revisionist position and some do not even cite a single one of the revisionist books in their bibliographies . The antirevisionist interpretation of the events leading to Pearl Harbor is presented no less indefatigably today than it was fifteen years ago . Roberta Wohlstetter , Pearl Harbor , Warning and Decision ( Stanford University Press , 1962 ) admits that Roosevelt and Marshall should have warned Kimmel and Short in Hawaii to prepare for an inevitable Japanese attack several days before the assault actually took place . However , she regards their failure to do this as a typical example of human frailty , human ignorance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right time . She accuses the revisionists of merely parading wisdom after the event . Hers is a sort of make-believe world . Stanford 's Ralph Lutz frequently tells the story of his conversation with a naval intelligence officer telephoning from Washington , D. C. , the Sunday before Pearl Harbor Sunday . Lutz , like many other experts , knew that the American note of November 26 , 1941 had virtually precluded further talks . He also knew that the American Navy was concentrated at Pearl Harbor and that Naval maneuvers since 1931 had demonstrated the feasibility of an attack against that place . Therefore , he made the routine remark in his telephone conversation of November 30 , 1941 that he supposed everything possible was being done to alert the Honolulu commanders . He received the equally routine response that naturally everything was being done . And yet the record shows that Kimmel and Short were being informed as late as December 7 , 1941 , that there was no serious crisis in American-Japanese relations . Had Hawaii been alerted , the Japanese task force would never have struck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Japanese military leaders to the task force headed for Hawaii . ISO The full details of the extent of official American knowledge about secret Japanese plans have been revealed . Admiral Theobald , The Final Secret of Pearl Harbor ( Devin-Adair , N. Y. , 1954 ) appeared eight years before the Wohlstetter book . It was followed by Admiral Kimmel 's Story ( Regnery , Chicago , 1955 ) . These books presented full proof that the authorities in Washington deliberately withheld from the military authorities at Pearl Harbor the information which would have prevented the Japanese attack . But Roberta Wohlstetter , knowing that she has the backing of no less a naval authority than Admiral Samuel Eliot Morison , dismisses all this as understandable human frailty which appears sinister only to these who are guilty of over-refined speculation . Morison of Harvard won out over Brodie and Sprout , naval historians of Princeton , in receiving the commission from President Roosevelt to write the official American naval history of the Second World War . This account , based on a large number of specialized studies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston during the period from 1947 to 1962 . In Volume III , The Rising Sun in the Pacific , 1931-April , 1942 , the basic arguments used by Roberta Wohlstetter in her study were first presented . Revisionist pressure did not produce any indication of an intention to retreat on the part of the anti-revisionists . Although the research possibilities in connection with Pearl Harbor are by no means exhausted ( there are several plans for new multivolume studies ) , there has been little revelation of essential new details since the books of Theobald and Kimmel appeared in 1954 and 1955 . For instance , Walter Lord , The Day of Infamy ( Holt , N. Y. , 1957 ) presents some new aspects on the operations of the Japanese task force without adding any new details on American policy . The author does not always draw the most logical conclusions from his own data , which more often than not conform to the revisionist approach rather than that of the anti-revisionist conclusion . Especially interesting in this connection , however , is the fact that Holt , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a book containing very little new information . 181 The passage of time has helped to reveal that the Pearl Harbor tragedy is only one facet of a much larger situation . Stanford 's Thomas Bailey ( The Man in the Street , 1949 ) has taken the position that President Roosevelt had no choice other than to deceive the American people about his aims and intentions because of the allegedly deplorable ignorance of the American people about world affairs . Whether or not such a thesis can be sustained , quite apart from the fact that the doctrine is incompatible with the traditional American conception that the American president is j us c another representative of the American people , will depend very much on how the larger issues of this period are treated . The dominant interpretation today insists that an alliance among the United States , English imperialism , and Soviet communism was absolutely indispensable in order to save the world from the bad example of German authoritarianism . As long as this hypothesis remains dominant , the revisionists on 1941 will be accused of concentrating too much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only hope to come into their own , so far as public opinion is concerned , when many other questions and problems have been dealt with . The issues between the revisionists and anti-revisionists on Pearl Harbor were publicly debated at the American Historical Association meeting at Chicago , Illinois in December , 1950 . Even at that time , with the facts preponderantly on their side , the revisionists had no difficulty in winning the verbal engagement . During the last thirteen years , although the number of titles remains approximately in balance , the factual margin on the side of the revisionists has continued to increase . It seems fairly safe to predict that the debate will be resolved eventually in their favor if the day comes when they receive an impartial hearing . This day will not come so long as the overwhelming majority of professional American historians continue to believe that an alliance between the United States and Soviet communism was indispensable in 1941 in order to save the world . 182 A lasting transformation of the American position in relation to the diplomacy of the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3rd term , and 4th Roosevelt term completed by Truman , 1941-1949 ) . There had been a comparatively brief period of attempting to impose American ideals by force in the Eastern Hemisphere under Woodrow Wilson , 1917-1920 . The final rejection of the League of Nations and the Treaty of Versailles was followed by a return to normalcy under Harding 's leadership . No such return to America 's traditional position took place following the Rooseveltian great adventure , 1941-1945 . Under Truman 's leadership the United States moved into the front position on the anti-Communist side in the Cold War which the President himself inaugurated by proclamation to Congress on March 12 , 1947 . In the real sense of the word , however , this result was achieved by British diplomacy . There have been many studies on isolated aspects of the pre-World War II European situation such as the Munich Conference or the Spanish Civil War , and there have also been a number of studies on the Cold War , but American historians have been slow to grasp the central British role in bringing about either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is because studies in depth on these crucial subjects have hitherto been conspicuously lacking . For instance , the authoritarian regimes , despite their many faults , had little to do with the decisive immediate events leading to the general European War , 1939 . The decisions of Lord Halifax in London , and the British diplomatic pressure at Warsaw , Paris and Rome led to the war . No doubt Litvinov was seeking to promote a Franco-German war during the 1930 's , but France was pushed into war in 1939 by England rather than Moscow . No doubt President Roosevelt hoped that England would go to war against Germany in 1939 . But the American Chief 183 Executive was in no position to exert decisive pressure , and the English leaders were able to arrive at their own decisions without his help . No doubt Hitler was quite willing to fight against any and all comers if cornered . But the German leaders would have preferred peace to war so far as Britain , France and Poland were concerned . No doubt it was easy to claim that Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his non-aggression pact with Hitler on August 23 , 1939 . But the British policy of forcing a unilateral blank-check guarantee on Poland on March 31 , 1939 , before attempting to negotiate an alliance with the Soviet Union , precluded Polish-Russian cooperation in the event of war . With the British Empire behind them , the Poles had no intention of voluntarily allowing a single Red Army soldier to appear on their territory . The preservation of peace in 1939 would have been comparatively easy had Halifax and his small group of collaborators in London favored it . But they were willing to go to war ? not for British military security which they already possessed ? but for British prestige and the preservation of their leadership in Western Europe . The Second World War closed with the United States in the role of moderator between the crumbling British Empire and the advancing Soviet Union . British calculations had failed . The Soviet Union did not become a second-rate power due to blows received during the German preventive war against Moscow . The U.S.S.R. was a much greater power than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union was no doubt the most serious miscalculation of the British leadership . Halifax did not wage war in 1939 in order to deliver mastery of the Eastern Hemisphere to the Communists . Under the circumstances existing in 1945 , it is not surprising that the United States did not return to their traditional position after the war . On the contrary , the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. were soon formulating world-wide decisions and busily interfering in the affairs of belligerent and neutral nations alike . Germany , Japan , Italy and many other lesser nations were vanquished . France was weakened by her 1940 defeat , and even more by her so-called liberation , in which twenty times as many Frenchmen were slaughtered 1 84 by the resistance within one year than had previously been killed throughout the entire German occupation . ( See France : The Tragic Years by Sisley Huddleston . ) Poland was a Soviet sattellite , the victim of the power to the East which Poles traditionally hated and feared first and foremost . Probably most galling to the British leaders was the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the U.S.S.R. and the British Empire . This situation continued until the British Foreign Office came forward with its bluff of withdrawing from the British sphere of interest in Greece and Turkey . The result was the Truman Doctrine of March , 1947 . Hence the United States did replace the British in leading the so-called containment of Communism . The British gladly exchanged roles with us and resumed their traditional position as the moderator par excellence in world politics . Today they are busily trading with Red Cuba and Red China while we vainly seek to boycott those Communist countries . Great Britain , unlike Israel , is not technically neutral in the Cold War . But the Anglo-American alliance usually appears to be a very one-sided affair . The British are consistently the nation most favored by official America . Recently the United States attempted to pressure the Western Continental European nations into admitting Great Britain to the Common Market on terms of special advantage for the British . The attempt failed , but it offered fresh confirmation to the Continentals that America is usually inclined to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean War is intelligible only within the context of the Cold War . This fact is fully understood by Denna Frank Fleming , professor of international relations at Vanderbilt University , and to date the leading American historian of the Cold War . It has often been asked how an American professor with sympathies as pronouncedly leftist as those of Fleming can continue to write articles and to publish research with such equanimity on a subject as delicate as the Cold War itself . Fleming undoubtedly has the courage of his convictions , and for years he has enjoyed the special protection and support of IIarvie Branscomb , a former 185 Rhodes scholar , who , until recently , was Chancellor of Vanderbilt University . Fleming was born in Illinois in 1893 . In his 1928 Ph.D . thesis at the University of Illinois , The Treaty Veto of the American Senate ( published by Putnam , N. Y. , 1930 ) , he deplored the failure of the United States to ratify the nefarious Versailles Treaty , which did so much to create the conditions later successfully exploited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After an early period of teaching in Washington , Iowa and Illinois , Fleming received an appointment at Vanderbilt University in 1938 . He was heaped with honors following the Second World War . He received several Fulbright teaching fellowships in Europe and Asia , and he was appointed Director of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation ( 1950 ) . He also joined the Executive Council of the American Association of University Professors . The key to Fleming 's popularity was to be found in his support of the Litvinov brand of collective security prior to the Second World War and of any and all Rooseveltian policies in connection with the war itself . A typical example of Fleming 's work during this period is While America Slept : A Contemporary Analysis of World Events from the Fall of France to Pearl Harbor ( Abingdon-Cokesbury Press , Nashville , 1944 , 269 pp . ) . Like President Kennedy , Why England Slept ( second edition with preface by Henry Luce , 1962 ) , Fleming seems to suggest that one nation or another is asleep when it does not follow policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt and Denna Fleming were asleep so far as any real recognition of the threat from world Communism to our country is concerned . D. F. Fleming , The Cold War and its Origins , 1917-1960 , Vol. 1 , 1917-1950 ( Doubleday , N. Y. , 1961 ) , is far and away the most impressive presentation of Cold War events leading up to the Korean War . The author has conducted research in depth on a wide range of important problems . Since his narrative is pro-Soviet from beginning to end , he naturally takes special pains in seeking to establish a rapport with his American reader at the outset . He begins with an appeal to his traditional Midwest background : 1.86 As a University student in 1914 I was aware that a big war was likely to break out in Europe at any time , but I was as isolationist as my Mid-Western countrymen until the deepening of the struggle convinced me that our neutrality in World War I could not be maintained . ' Fleming went on to describe his devotion to the League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that the United States was not a member . However , by the time the League was formally dissolved in 1943 , the new United Nations organization was coming into being . Fleming makes a plea for peaceful American competition with Communism : I have never doubted that we can compete successfully with communism , if we place our main reliance on non-military methods . The lesson of World War II was that the losing side must not plunge the world into another world war in order to restore and improve its position . We had just permitted Germany to do that , with calamitous consequences . Nevertheless , after 1945 we ourselves at once assumed the position of a loser ' Fleming warns his reader that recent wars , including the ones Fleming himself has advocated , have been " the source of the vast expansion of communism in the world . " The reader is expected to realize that situations leading to war can only be a profit to Communism , never to the United States . Another argument by Fleming is the contention that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1945.3 Fleming explains to his readers that he has attempted to improve the quality of his work by reporting how situations look from the other side . He expresses special thanks to Robert Oppenheimer and Harvie Branscomb for support of his project . Fleming offers the following generalization about the present world situation : Our lives are made uneasy now by the Russian Revolution of 1917 resulting in the creation of a rival system to our own . ' One wonders if perhaps it is not just a little more than that . The United States in the past has thrived on peaceful competition with rival systems . However , the satanic Communist tyranny that began its campaign for world mastery after 187 seizing power in Russia in 1917 , is a little different from the earlier rivals of the United States . The fifth chapter of Fleming 's first volume , which is still part of his introductory material , refers to the " crucifixion of Czechoslovakia at Munich . " His twenty-first chapter , which deals with the origins and course of the Korean War , refers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression in the latter case that the Americans were very much more to blame for the sufferings of the Koreans than were the Soviet Russians . Fleming accepts the Nuremberg trial verdict on sole German guilt for the preventive war which Germany launched against the Soviet Union on June 22 , 1941 ( Chapter VI , ff . ) . There is no mention of the Soviet violation of the non-aggression pact with Germany in the seizure of Bukowina and part of Moldavia in June , 1940 . ( These territories were beyond the demarcation line for Soviet claims accepted by the Germans at Moscow . ) There is no mention of the Communist role in overthrowing the legal Yugoslav government in March , 1941 , thus wrecking the neutrality policy of Yugoslavia . There is no mention of the terrorist campaign carried on by the Communists in Germany and the German-occupied territories during the year before the outbreak of the German-Soviet War . There is no mention of the massing of Soviet troops on the German border in 1940 at a time when there were practically no German troops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats to Finland after the Soviet victory over Finland in March , 1940 , and of Soviet proposals to establish their control throughout the Balkans and in Turkey . In short , Fleming has suppressed all of the provocative Soviet policies which contributed to the outbreak of war . There is no mention in either volume of his study that the Communists are striving for world mastery . On the other hand , Fleming contends , without any proof , that Hitler 's program was based on the concept of world mastery for Germany . Since all of the historians agree that it was one of Hitler 's major objectives to subordinate German policy to British policy in world affairs , the riddle of how Hitler could possibly have been working for 188 world domination in the style of the Communists remains unexplained . It is Fleming 's fundamental position that the " German Fascists , " and not the Communists , were the real threat to the United States during the 1930 's . He never bothers to introduce any evidence to support this view , but he heaps contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he cites the New York Times , July 24 , 1941 , for Truman 's statement that the United States ought to help Germany against the Soviet Union if it appeared that the Soviet Union was winning the European War . Of course , Truman was promptly called to account by Roosevelt for this realistic pronouncement . Fleming , in 1961 , uses this statement by Truman as an argument against Roosevelt 's successor . This leaves no doubt , in view of the present world situation , that Fleming 's sympathy for the Soviet Union and Communist policies is not only robust but indestructible.5 Fleming even goes so far as to deny that President Roosevelt made any mistakes in policy at the Yalta Conference which delivered North China to the Communists and confirmed the decision that only the Red Army would be allowed to capture Berlin , Prague and Vienna . Fleming refers to the critical accounts of Yalta diplomacy as the so-called " Yalta myth . " 6 In his treatment of the Korean background , Fleming relies heavily on George M. McCune , Korea Today ( Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outbreak of the Korean War . Fleming emphasizes the fact that Red Army forces arrived in Korea before the Americans : Korea was divided first as a matter of military convenience and courtesy . Russian troops entered Korea on August 10 , 1945 . American troops did not land in South Korea until September 8.7 Fleming also emphasizes that the proposal to divide Korea along the 38th Parallel originated in the United States . He seeks to present Kim Il Sung as a progressive leader in the style of Owen Lattimore 's earlier interpretation of Mao Tse-tung . He praises the North Korean dictator for the March , 1946 land reform , and emphasizes that " there was much loyalty to the North Korean regime from the start . " 189 The land reform in South Korea on March 22 , 1948 , consisted primarily in the disposition of former Japanese holdings while the large Korean estates were spared . Fleming considers that the more conservative policy in the South eliminated any chance for enthusiastic popular support for the South Korean regime . He constantly stresses the idea that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and that the regime in the South pleased only a small reactionary clique . Fleming believes that " although nearly three-fourths of the twenty-four million Koreans were in South Korea , the character of its government made its ultimate survival doubtful . " The implication that it might have been well to permit North Korea to conquer South Korea is inescapable . Fleming is on solid ground when he cites two speeches by Truman 's Secretary of State Dean Acheson ( National Press Club , Washington , D. C. , Jan. 12 , 1950 ; San Francisco , March 15 , 1950 ) . Acheson definitely did create the impression in these speeches that the United States , following the withdrawal of American troops in 1948 , would never intervene militarily in Korea , regardless of what happened in that country . It is equally true that Acheson was perfectly well aware at the time he delivered these speeches that there had been serious military incidents on the demarcation line since the autumn of 1949 , and that his words might well be construed as an invitation to the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are indisputable ' facts , and Fleming can not be criticized for citing them . However , it is more difficult to excuse what he does to some of the related details . Fleming reveals that the pro-communist officials in the United States State Department were able to obtain Acheson 's approval on December 23 , 1949 for a private circular to American diplomatic missions abroad explaining the alleged need for the Communist acquisition of Formosa . However , news of this nefarious betrayal of America 's ally , Chiang Kai-shek , leaked out on January 3 , 1950 . The circular was withdrawn , but President Truman , at his news conference on January 5 , 1950 , refused to indicate that the United States would do anything to prevent the Communist seizure of Formosa . It was 190 obvious to everyone , in view of the demoralized condition of the Chinese Nationalist forces at that time , that the Red Chinese could conquer Formosa with ease unless they were blocked by the American fleet . It appeared fairly obvious by January 13 , 1950 , that both Formosa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Senator Tom Connally of Texas , who represented the administration on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , told U. S. News t World Report ( May 2 , 1950 ) that he was " afraid that South Korea would have to be abandoned . " Connally went on to make a specific prediction that the Communists would soon capture both Formosa and Korea . In the meantime , Acheson was busily engaged in putting pressure on Syngman Rhee . He threatened Rhee in a note on April 7 , 1950 that the United States would terminate every kind of aid to South Korea if unscheduled new elections were not held in the near future . Rhee had no choice other than to hold the elections at an adverse moment on May 30 , 1950 . His Government Party won only 47 of the 210 seats in the Assembly . Bi-partisan foreign policy was the vogue in the United States at this time . Grenville Clark , the chief Democrat Party theoretician , and John Foster Dulles , the principal Republican theoretician , were in agreement on all of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 20 , 1950 , less than five days before the outbreak of war . This prompted the Communists later to contend that he was on a mission to complete the preparations for the unleashing of the war . Surprisingly enough , Fleming follows the Communist approach to this question : " Was it possible that the North Koreans were the ones who were surprised ? " 8 He cites John Gunther , The Riddle of MacArthur ( Harper , N.Y. , 1951 , p. 165 ) to support his contention . Gunther claimed to have heard one of MacArthur 's aides in Japan exclaim on June 25 , 1950 : " The South Koreans have attacked North Korea ! " Fleming quickly admits that North Korea was far better prepared militarily than South Korea . For instance , the North Koreans had a large force of heavy tanks ; the South Koreans did not have any tanks . However , he refuses to 191 admit that this is relevant to responsibility for the conflict . His thesis is based on the assumption that the South Koreans could have responded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the certainly that they would speedily receive American aid despite the recent public declarations about American policy . Although a polemicist such as Fleming would scarcely take a final stand on the basis of information supplied by an irresponsible journalist such as John Gunther , Fleming is very emphatic in arguing that , regardless of the responsibility in Korea , Stalin was not to blame . In probably one of the most remarkable of his many inaccurate characterizations , Fleming refers to " the cautious Stalin . " 9 Was Stalin cautious in the days when he was robbing banks in Tiflis , and consorting with habitual criminals by choice ? Was Stalin cautious when he pushed the collectivization of agriculture simultaneously with the heavy industry five-year plan ? Was Stalin cautious when he doublecrossed Hitler again and again after the defeat of France in 1940 ? Was Stalin cautious when he pushed ahead the Communist plan to conquer all of China before the Soviet Union had exploded her first atomic bomb ? But it ought to be evident at this point that Fleming 's Stalin , like the Socrates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Especially typical of Fleming 's approach is the abuse heaped upon the South Korean leader . The following is a typical example : Since June , 1950 , we have learned a great deal about the Koreans . We have certainly learned , for example , that Syngman Rhee was abundantly capable of starting the Korean War 10 Fleming creates the impression that President Truman made up his own mind on the spot at Independence , Missouri , to intervene in Korea . This assertion strikes one as somewhat incongruous in view of Truman 's prolonged mental agony on the question of what to do with the atomic bomb in 1945 . In any case , Truman 's order for the commitment of the American air and sea forces was not issued until June 27 , 1950 , after he had returned to Washington , D. C. On that same day , Truman decided to defend Formosa against possible Red Chinese attack . Three days later , he ordered the commitment 192 of the American ground forces in South Korea . In the meantime , the United Nations General Assembly had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation , commissioning the United States to support the South Korean cause against North Korea . It seemed to some critics as though the power of deciding between peace and war had been transferred from the American Congress to the United Nations General Assembly . This is the thesis of Chesly Manly , U. N. Record , Ten Fateful Years for America ( Regnery , Chicago , 1955 ) and A. Widener , Behind the U. N. Front ( The Book Mailer , N. Y. , 1955 ) . Fleming created the impression that American policy in South Korea had been wrong-headed and reactionary from the start . For instance , the Americans had refused to recognize Lyuh Wooh-Hyung as President of the Provisional Government in South Korea in September , 1945 . The reader might receive the impression that the People 's Republic convention which elected Wooh-Hyung was fairly representative of the South Korean people . Such myths are effectively dispelled in Kenneth Ingram 's History of the Cold War ( Finlayson , London , 1955 ) . Ingram points out that there were no less than 133 other political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time Wooh-Hyung was elected by his party . " One of the most conspicuous features of American military intervention in Korea in 1950 was the relationship between the American government and the United Nations organization . Fleming plays down the U. N. issue in his account and emphasizes instead the contrast between American and Soviet Cold War policy . By contrast , V. Orval Watts , The United Nations : Planned Tyranny ; Comments on the Dream and the Reality ( Devin-Adair , N. Y. , 1955 ) , stresses American and Soviet commitments to the U. N. He states the following about Truman 's intervention in Korea : President Truman , for example , helped to transfer power from Congress to the President and from the President to the United Nations when he established a precedent in the vitally important matter of declaring war . This transfer of power came from his decision to put American forces into the Korean War without 193 consulting Congress , on the ground that the United Nations ordered American troops to be used in an international police action . " " Watts does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations General Assembly resolution taken in the absence of the Soviet delegation . It is somewhat ironical to find Watts , who is staunchly anti-Communist , taking this stand ; whereas , Fleming , who is much more tolerant toward Communism , neglects the opportunity to introduce this point against the American case on Korea . The reason is not far to seek . Fleming 's position is based upon the assumption that support of the United Nations is the best approach in seeking a lasting accommodation between the United States and the Soviet Union . Watts recalls that : The Soviet representatives returned , vehemently protesting that the Security Council had acted illegally , as indeed it had ( i.e. , in recommending General Assembly action while the Soviet delegates were absent ) , The Charter provided no such method of by-passing the Military Staff Committee and thus depriving the Soviet Chief of Staff of his share of authority over the U.N . forces defending South Korea . What kind of a Government is it in which this sort of thing can go on ? 13 The same approach , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sisley Huddleston , Popular Diplomacy and War ( Rindge , N. H. , 1955 , pp. 138 ff . ) . The expected answer is that such a government is a farce . The basic philosophy behind the United Nations was not world government but a preponderant league of states to maintain the peace However , there was a strong intellectual trend in America from the outset to convert the United Nations into a world government . The argument was twofold : ( 1 ) American unity had proceeded from a delegation of sovereignty by sovereign states ; ( This is the approach of Carl Van Doren , The Great Rehearsal , 1947 ) ( 2 ) that preponderant leagues of states to maintain peace had failed . ( This is the approach of Robert Sherwood , Roosevelt and Hopkins , 1948 . ) As a matter of fact , preponderant leagues of states to maintain the peace have never been tried for more than a few years . The last real effort along these lines ended with Lord Castlereagh 's suicide in 1822 . The Leagues of Nations never constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word . Germany and Russia were not allowed to join the original League , and Japanese affiliation was only nominal . The United States refused to join it . The principal League of Nations powers from 1920 onward were Great Britain and France . Yet the British , far from concluding an alliance with France , were perpetually engaged in undermining the French security system in Europe and in limiting French aspirations abroad . The British contended that they had no obligation to form an alliance with France after the United States refused to do so . Under these circumstances , any talk of a preponderant league of states to maintain the peace at Geneva was fatuous nonsense . When Stanhope proposed a preponderant league in Europe after the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 , he sought to attain an adequate basis for it . It was evident that the Quadruple Alliance which he achieved was a good start . It included Great Britain , France , Austria and Prussia . Unfortunately , the entire edifice was wrecked in the wake of the 1720 depression which swept Europe . Benito Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stanhope tradition . Had Great Britain , France , Germany and Italy been able to form a sort of concert of the principal powers in 1933 , a good start would have been made toward engineering a league of preponderant states . It seemed for a brief moment at the time of the Munich Conference in 1938 that this goal might be achieved . On the other hand , there was no prospect whatever of success in this direction at the time of the San Francisco Conference in 1945 . Friction and suspicion between the Soviet Union and the British Empire were much in evidence by that time . Unless a genuine accommodation could be achieved among the United States , the British Empire , and the Soviet Union , there was no prospect whatever of making a good start toward organizing an effective league of preponderant states . After the proclamation of the Cold War by President Truman in March , 1947 , any talk of the United Nations functioning in this capacity also appeared to be errant nonsense . People had to make a choice . Either they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sour Grapes , " that a league of 195 preponderant states such as the U. N. envisaged was not a good idea in the first place ; or they could contend that the U.N . ought to be scrapped because it embodied merely an illusion . Those who took the former position were inclined to press onward toward world gvernment . The latter , and not the league , was the answer to them . This raised the question of how states , such as the United States and the Soviet Union , who could not even maintain a conventional alliance , were supposed to be able to amalgamate their respective sovereignties into a world government . There appeared to be no way of squaring the circle so far as the contrasts in the American and Soviet ways of life were concerned . Was the world government to be based upon the Soviet or the American model ? It could not be based upon both . Although the professional historians have been understandably reluctant to deal with this theme in depth , it can be safely stated that the preponderant inclination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government and the abandonment of the American independence proclaimed in 1776 . It will be the task of the next section to explain why this is so . Opinions in such matters are based on prejudices because the necessary data and objective criteria are lacking . The attitude toward the Korean War in the final analysis will be determined by the attitude toward the United Nations . American intervention in Korea was a great victory for those who advocate the transformation of the United Nations into a world government . The strategic issues in Korea were minor , particularly since General MacArthur was denied his request to extend the scope of operations beyond the Korean area . The military balance in the world is not likely to be affected to any measurable extent whether Korea is united under Communists or divided as it is today . Korea is primarily a devastated nation that requires economic assistance and as such is automatically dependent on some neighboring system . The United Nations issue , rather than the Cold War balance , was at stake in Korea . American 196 soldiers bravely died for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a war waged by their country , but a conflict resolved upon by a sort of mythical world government . The Korean War demonstrated that the Cold War depends very largely on the decisions made in relation to the United Nations . Those who advocate scrapping the United Nations oppose the appeasement of world Communism . Those who favor the transformation of the United Nations into a world government favor the appeasement of world Communism . So far there have been no recorded exceptions to this rule on the part of prominent writers . The Cold War since 1947 has been a phony Cold War . The reason for this is to be found in the fact that in America , the leader of the anti-Communist bloc , there is a much greater and more articulate desire to appease world Communism than to oppose world Communism . This follows with relentless logic from the conclusion that the failure to establish a preponderant league of independent states must be followed by an experiment in world government . Bernadotte Schmitt , in his presidential address to the meeting of the American Historical Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the following statement : In 1960 , both the United States and the Soviet Union have publicly proclaimed their abhorrence of war and insist that they are working for peace . Schmitt exhorted American historians to assist the two rival nations at this work . He did not advocate an alliance between the United States and the Soviet Union . This had proved impossible following the close of the Second World War . Instead of that , he favored the more ambitious goal of the subordination of both American and Soviet policies to the United Nations . The same approach was recommended by Allan Nevins and Henry Steele Commager in their televised discussion of current issues at the Huntington Library , San Marino , California , on July 31 , 1963 . Both men castigate American hatred of Communism as the greatest obstacle to the realization of this dream . They could not very well do 197 THE otherwise and maintain a position consistent with the premises of their argument . An effort to proceed to world government in the world today must of necessity be predicated upon a campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . Theodore Lyman , The Diplomacy of the United States ( Wells &; Lilly , Boston , 1826 ) , made the following comment about America 's position in the world during the Presidency of John Quincy Adams : America is not a member of the holy alliance ( 1815 alliance of Protestant , Catholic , and Greek Orthodox nations ) ; she is not connected with any nation by the form of her government , or by situation , or by firm compacts . But she is one of the great confederation of Christian states . One of those powers who , by religion , arts and sciences , compose what is called the civilized part of the world ? It was stated in the previous chapter that a league of preponderant states has never been given a fair trial . The inference was clear that an effort in this direction would deserve serious consideration . For instance , one need only imagine the effect on the Eastern Hemisphere of a diplomatic alliance among England , France , Germany and a non-Bolshevik Russia . But a development in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American participation in such a combination . President Polk 's 1845 corollary to the Monroe Doctrine is virtually ignored today . The corollary stated that the Monroe Doctrine was predicated upon the supposition that the decadent balance-of-power system had nothing to seek in the Western Hemisphere . Lyman stated in 1826 that the leadership of the United States in this hemisphere was a very natural thing . The United States was the first colonial nation to shake off the bonds of imperial despotism . The scope of her resources and the skills of her people completed the picture of her natural law leadership . The idea of a world divided between Western and Eastern Hemispheres need not be relegated to the age of John Quincy Adams . It is 199 ' still a fact that the Eastern Hemisphere faces problems in terms of the large number of contending states which are special to that area . Hence , the need for a league of preponderant states in the Eastern Hemisphere . So long as the Pan-American system works , there is scarcely any need for American participation in such a system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the statement of Lyman that the United States is not connected with other nations by their form of government . Lyman was advocating the continuation of American independence , and not some policy of Chinese isolation behind any great wall of one sort or another . Lyman was not opposed to international commerce , international conferences , the presence of foreign scholars , or any international measures of a general practical nature . He was opposed to such alien ideas as entangling alliances , military intervention abroad , and world government . He could afford to oppose these things with relentless logic in 1826 when the United States , in comparison with the present day , were relatively poor and weak . It is manifestly much easier to advocate these American values today . But it is not being done by most scholars because , for one reason or another , they favor the surrender of America 's independence and the creation with Communist participation , of one monolithic world state . Consider the role of America 's most popular contemporary theologian , Reinhold Niebuhr . Donald B. Meyer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of California Press , Berkeley , 1961 ) , explains that Niebuhr enjoys his popularity because he has attacked typical American traditions such as aloof independence and neutrality , and because he has advocated American global crusading on a vast scale . Meyer makes the following comment in relation to one of Niebuhr 's major works , The Nature and Destiny of Man ( 2 vols. , Scribner 's N. Y. , 1941-1943 ) : Niebuhr directed his unhappiness in 1941 upon a moral attitude . He feared America 's sense of detachment and distance from the war . He feared American complacency , an emotional attitude ? complacency in a world of agony . He feared that victory would amount to a harvest reaped by America from the sacrifices of America 's allies ? 200 It is interesting to contemplate the luxury of being concerned because one 's country is not in danger of becoming involved in war . Then there is the additional luxury of fearing that one 's compatriots are too calm and too happy in a world of agony . As a consequence , Niebuhr advocated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased the agony of the rest of the world . For instance , it helped to turn Eastern and Central Europe into a permanent chaos of bullets and murder . Niebuhr also feared that the Soviet Union might bear a heavier burden in warfare than the United States . Imagine the luxury of being concerned that perhaps the losses of Communism are too heavy and that the losses of the United States are too light ! And yet Meyer 's summary of the attitude characteristic of Niebuhr is a fair and accurate one . The antithesis between the values of Lyman in the age of John Quincy Adams and the values of Niebuhr in the age of Franklin Roosevelt , is almost complete . Meaningful communication between individuals so widely separated intellectually would be difficult if not impossible . Niebuhr seems to know that President Roosevelt was God 's special instrument in the twentieth century . He might have had a difficult time convincing someone like Lyman that Roosevelt was not the anti-Christ . Stalin , Hitler and Churchill , with all their faults , were at least responding to genuinely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although not measurably threatened by the war in the Eastern Hemisphere , into a program of global intervention which greatly accelerated the spread of Communism . There has been a vast change in American intellectual values since the days of John Quincy Adams and the promulgation of the Monroe Doctrine . The problems are analyzed in a general way in Richard Hofstadter , AntiIntellectualism in American Life ( Knopf , N. Y. , 1963 ) . Hofstadter recalls that " the American mind was shaped in the mold of early modern Protestantism . " There was a general belief in the importance of education , and no stress at all on the need for an intellectual elite . As Hofstadter puts it : 201 Perhaps the most decisive testimony of the changed situation of twentieth-century intellectuals is that after 1890 it became possible for the first time to speak of intellectuals as a class . Hofstadter then proceeds to explain that this class was in rebellion against the American way of life : After about 1890 . . . American writers and other intellectuals became a more cohesive class than they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conservatism , and took up arms against American society . Before this , intellect in America had been mostly associated with the maintenance of old values Hofstadter notes that : The intellectual class emerged after 1890 as a force standing somewhat to the left , and during the great depression much of it moved to the far left . Hofstadter adds that : They were trying far more than ever to espouse political causes that supposedly represented the case of the people against special interests ? it does not matter for this purpose whether these causes were conceived in the Populist , Progressive , or Marxist traditions . Hofstadter is careful to avoid a direct commitment on the role of Marx in the development of American intellectual radicalism . He feels himself on safer grounds in discussing the roles of Darwin and Freud , and he insists that their influence was enormous . Hofstadter himself does not conceal his own admiration of Darwin and Freud . In fact , he complains that " to this day , the language of most secondary-school biology texts is guarded , and evolution is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes with evident disgust that in a recent public opinion poll the number of young people who affirmed that " man was evolved from lower forms of animals " was slightly less , 35% , than those who denied this hypothesis ( 40% , with 24% do n't knows ) . Hofstadter 's indignation would be more intelligible if the Darwinian evolutionary hypothesis of the descent of man had in any way been proved . Darwin asserted the hypothesis , and simultaneously denied the Christian doctrine of man 's creation by God . However , the proof for Darwin is still lacking . By the same token , Hofstadter presents a ringing defense of Sigmund Freud and his impact on American educational institutions in general and on the American intellectual in particular . He even goes so far as to assert that whatever " bad consequences " have been found in Freudian doctrine were " misconceived " by poorly informed Freudian disciples.5 Hofstadter is thus evasive about discussing Marx and openly enthusiastic about Darwin and Freud . Perhaps it would be no exaggeration to state that Darwin , Marx , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general . Darwin destroyed the faith of American intellectuals in Christianity . Marx destroyed the faith of American intellectuals in America 's institutions . Freud demolished the personal ethics based on the Christian tradition in favor of his own personal system of values. ? It was still possible for William M. Sloane to contrast European democratic radicalism with American conservatism in 1895 : The thought of his ( Heinrich Heine ) time , as of the present day among the scholars of the continent , displays an intense weariness of the past , a yearning to be rid of the old failures and to try new experiments . Quite the contrary is characteristic of America , which , though neither optimistic nor pessimistic , is essentially conservative and melioristic . The democracy of Europe is young , radical , and fierce , that of English America , though determined , has the modesty of long experience . The two are antipodal , and the evidence of this is conclusive wherever they are brought into juxtaposition , as they are so constantly on our own shores . Radical democracy in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so destroy all greatness both in the making and in the writing of history : The new radical Marxian , Darwinian and Freudian doctrines were busily at work in America when Sloane recorded his own views . They had not yet had time to transform the American scene . Another American historian , Albert Bushnell Hart , was able to say in 1898 that : " The Americans are one of the most conservative of all peoples , and their whole political system rests on a respect for precedent . " " 203 By 1906 , the American scene was rapidly changing . As J. Franklin Jameson , the editor of the American Historical Review , put it : It may well be that the historical writers of the next generation will lay all their emphasis on social and economic history . But even after the tide has set in the direction of economic and social history strongly , even violently , as is the manner of American currents , even in that socialistic millenium toward which we are no doubt advancing , it is at present hoped that students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social movement , however penetrated with the conviction that economic forces have controlled our human destinies , will yet remember that for the last 400 years the actual form in which human life has mainly run its course has been that of the nation ' In the meantime , while American intellectuals were losing their faith at home , they were being asked to devote their attention to foreign affairs . The following statement is from a lengthy article by an anonymous high-ranking British General Staff officer which appeared in the American Historical Review , July , 1911 : For the first time since Mahomet II converted the Church of St. Sophia into a Mahomedan mosque , the armies of the East have repulsed decisively the armies of the West , and Christians have fallen back before the unbaptised ( Russo-Japanese War-1904-1905 ) . But for the two great Anglo-Saxon communities , east and west of the Atlantic , so proud and confident in their population , in their wealth , and in their mighty possessions , the Manchurian Campaign sounds also another and even graver note of warning , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may meet with sudden and deep humiliation , if national preparation for defence is neglected , and the spirit of self-sacrifice for the national good is subordinated to the desire for individual comfort , individual ease , and so-called individual freedom . The evil effect of pure individualism is , we may gladly admit , more and more fully recognized by Anglo-Saxon democracies as regards the internal life of a nation ( i.e. , the new transition towards socialism ) but it is still obstinately ignored as regards the duty of that personal military service , upon the performance of which the continuance of the existence of the nation may depend . A further example of preparation for possible tests of valor abroad may be seen in the typical quoting of foreign 204 predictions that the United States was about to depart from their traditional foreign policy in favor of new alliances . Roland G. Usher , cites the following from his review of a book by the leading German historian , Hermann Oncken ( American Historical Review , January , 1915 ) : In conclusion , he says , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( America ) now to be found . But the further it progresses along this row , the more it will be drawn into the net of world antagonisms , the more it will be compelled to take sides with the great coalitions , and the more it will lose the early peculiarity of continental isolation with all its advantages in an age in which the Great Powers and their dependencies stretch around the globe . ' Increasing skepticism toward religion , toward American politics and constitutional practice , toward the traditional American economic system , was accompanied by a skeptical attitude toward traditional American foreign policy . It was an age of revolt against the values of the past , accompanied by a naive willingness to embrace whatever new doctrines arrived from abroad . One encounters this in C. J. H. Hayes , " The History of German Socialism Reconsidered " ( A.H.R. Oct. 1917 ) . It must be emphasized that Hayes is discussing German organized Marxism . He comments as follows : Too much has been said about its international policies and its merely tactical manoeuvers in German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions to the Germany of the present and of the future . This naive praise of a supposedly beneficent Marxism was considered perfectly normal by the 1917 editors of the principal American historical journal . This was the era in which Marxism triumphed in Russia . William Roscoe Thayer describes some of the changes very bluntly in his article " Vagaries of Historians " ( A.H.R. , January , 1919 ) : In the nineteenth century , however , came the revelation , now generally accepted among intelligent peoples , that the earth is not the centre of the universe , and consequently man 's cosmic position has completely changed . The modern key word for solving the enigma is evolution , development , growth , not special creation according to theological assertions and guesses. 205 Thayer then proceeded to apologize for his own comparatively old fashioned way of looking at the matter : But in general I feel that the less an historian has to do with science , the less he deliberately admits and assumes scientific aims and conclusions , the better . In other words , although Thayer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually pseudo-scientific ) trend , he dared pit only his feelings , not his intellect , against it . Above all , in academic circles one was expected to apologize for one 's Christian affiliation . The trend away from American nationalism in favor of world government was clearly reflected in Frederic A. Ogg and Charles A. Beard , National Governments and the World War ( Macmillan , N. Y. , 1919 , 603 pp . ) . These authors insisted upon deducing from the World War experience that modern nationalism was obsolete . Ogg subsequently established a reputation at the University of Wisconsin as the leading American authority on comparative constitutional government . Beard later renounced the prevailing internationalist vogue . Probably no leading American scholar was ever denounced more fiercely by the majority of his colleagues than Dr. Beard at the time his final volume on Franklin Roosevelt 's foreign policy appeared in 1948 ( see especially S. E. Morison , " History through , a Beard , " Atlantic , August 1948 ) . His internationalist colleagues regarded him as a sort of apostate . In his review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July , 1919 , J. M. Callahan noted that : For international government Dr. Ogg favors a league of nations with power to enforce peace by appropriate machinery and by acceptance of certain restrictions on the sovereignty of states . The accent was on the drift toward world government rather than on alliance of independent states to maintain the peace . The complacency of the dominant internationalist school among American historians was rudely shaken by the American economic depression of 1929 and the drift toward authoritarianism abroad . For a short time it appeared that the tendency to express skepticism about traditional American 206 ideas and values would be replaced by a return to American nationalism . This mood was reflected in Theodore Clarke Smith , " The Writing of American History in America from 1884 to 1934 ( A.H.R. , April , 1935 ) : It may be that another fifty years will see the end of an era in historiography , the final extinction of a noble dream and history , save as an instrument of entertainment , or of social control , will not be permitted to exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Historical Association to disband , for the intellectual assumptions on which it is founded will have been taken away from beneath it . My hope is , none the less , that those of us who did form what may then seem an age of quaint beliefs and forgotten loyalties , may go down with our flags flying . It would be interesting to speculate on what the chances might have been for a new trend in American historical thought had the Rooseveltian adventure in world intervention not been rewarded with superficial success . At the time of the Atlantic Conference in August , 1941 , both Roosevelt and Churchill were inclined to assume that the Soviet Union would go down to final military defeat before the end of 1941 . Had that happened , a successful Anglo-American invasion of the European continent would have been a dubious prospect at best . Failure to conquer Europe might well have strengthened a trend toward traditional American values at home . But that was not to be , and the internationalist trend continued with greater vigor than ever before after V. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of affairs was reflected in the presidential address to the American Historical Association of Bernadotte E. Schmitt in New York City on December 29 , 1960 . Schmitt had experienced some difficulties during the 1930 's because of the drift away from internationalist views at that time . Twenty years later , the picture had changed completely . Schmitt was considered to have been vindicated by the policies of Roosevelt , Truman and Eisenhower . His election to the presidency of the American Historical Association was regarded as symbolic justice . His presidential address was largely autobiographical and most of the audience received it as a sort of oracle . 207 Schmitt recalled that he began his professional historical studies at Oxford University in October , 1905 . His 1910 Ph.D . thesis on " British Foreign Policy and the Enforcement of the Treaty of Berlin , 1878-1887 , was published by the University of Wisconsin Press in 1917 . Schmitt had written a strong defense of British balance-of-power politics , and his first great period of popularity came with our entry into the First World War . Schmitt 's talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This was derived from what Swedish Chancellor Oxenstierna was supposed to have said to his queen at the close of the Thirty Years War : " with how little wisdom the world is governed . " Schmitt 's use of the expression was meant to apply to the alleged excesses of traditional nationalism . It seemed noteworthy to Schmitt that the American Ambassador in Berlin reported on July 27 , 1914 that there was " reason to believe matters will be arranged without a general European war " ; it was only on July 31st that Gerard reported that " Russia 's mobilization makes war inevitable . " But these two testimonials are in no way a proof that the American diplomat was naive . There was , in fact , every reason to believe that a general war could be averted until the Russian general mobilization took place . There was also good reason to believe , as late as September 2 , 1939 , that a second general European war could be averted . It has been one of the weaknesses in his historical writing that he tends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally happened had to happen . Whatever he has written in his post-1914 work is permeated with his own awareness of the supposedly inevitable catastrophe . In reality , there was nothing inevitable about the 1914 and 1939 disasters . To regard them with such fatalism merely encourages the possibility of future disasters on a comparable scale . In his 1960 lecture , Schmitt deprecated the Grosse Politile ( 48 vols. of documents on events leading to 1914 ; generally regarded as the best published collection of its kind ) . He expressed admiration for the title selected by the new Cambridge Modern History for the 1898-1945 period : The Age of Violence . Schmitt contended that German diplomacy before 208 1914 was " singularly maladroit . " This is an accurate characterization , but it is noteworthy that he did not apply some comparable appellation to the deceptive British foreign policy of 1914 , or to our own American policy of the same year . President Wilson sent Colonel House on a mission to Europe in 1914 in the hope of arranging a coalition among the United States , Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain . It would be difficult to imagine a more unrealistic diplomatic strategy on the eve of the First World War , when Great Britain and Germany were heading two rival alliance sytems . There are many further examples of Schmitt 's habitual one-sidedness . For instance , he claimed that the Brest-Litovsk separate peace between Germany and Russia in March , 1918 , proved that the Germans were every bit as " avaricious " as the allied propagandists claimed . Schmitt was not bothered by the fact that this myth had been exploded many times . In the Peace Conference in 1918 , General Hoffmann asked Joffe , one of the Soviet delegates , why the Reds were asking for the return of Congress Poland ( former grand duchy of Warsaw transferred to Russian rule at the Congress of Vienna in 1815 ) when the overwhelming majority of the Polish people were resolutely opposed to Bolshevism . This was an age of self-determination , and Hoffmann insisted to Joffe that the Polish people would never vote for Bolshevism . Joffe replied that they certainly would do so if the Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of time . Not one square inch of former Russian territory was annexed by the German Empire at Brest-Litovsk in 1918 . What Germany did do , however , was to protect a number of newly independent nations , such as Poland and Finland , from Bolshevik conquest and terror . It was typical for Schmitt to seek to disguise these obvious facts and to suggest an interpretation diametrically opposed to them . Equally interesting was Schmitt 's vigorous defense of Wilson 's deliberate attempt to foment a Marxist revolution in Germany in October , 1918 . This has been widely considered as one of the greatest crimes of modern diplomacy , which resulted in the loss of thousands of lives . The German parlia-209 mentary system in October , 1918 , had evolved to a point where it was indistinguishable from the British system ( apart from the fact that Germany remained a federal state along American lines , rather than a unitary state along English lines ) . As in England , the German cabinet ministers were responsible to the German parliament ( Reichstag and Reichsrat ) . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in existence since 1867 , was broader than England 's limited suffrage ( until 1928 ) . Nevertheless , and quite apart from military victory , President Wilson did everything he could to encourge the German subversives to overthrow this system in order to introduce Marxist chaos and confusion . He told the Germans several times in public notes that they would not even receive decent peace terms unless they overthrew the existing domestic political system within Germany . No greater inducement to the bloody riots and revolts of the period November 1918 ? November 1923 could be imagined . Many an apologist for Wilson has expressed doubt about this particular policy . It was typical of Schmitt that he vociferously defended it before his American professional colleagues in 1960 . Equally typical is Schmitt 's refusal to admit the obvious fact that the 1919 peace treaties were totally at variance with Wilson 's Fourteen Points which , except for Point 2 on freedom of the seas , constituted a solemn contractual armistice agreement between Germany and the Allies . By the same token , Schmitt denounced the Hoare-Laval Pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since been obvious that it was French failure to consolidate her alliance with Italy in 1935 which enabled Hitler to challenge the French status quo and alliance system in Western and Central Europe . Had the Hoare-Laval Pact succeeded , Ethiopian independence would not have been destroyed , France and Italy would not have been separated diplomatically , and Hitler would not have been granted his exceptional opportunities . However , it is also a well known fact that the Hoare-Laval Pact failed because English Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin lacked the moral courage to stand behind Sir Samuel Hoare , his foreign secretary . This is particularly noteworthy when one recalls that Baldwin had 210 fully approved Hoare 's Paris diplomacy in advance . Of course , the Hoare-Laval Pact was denounced by the Soviet Union as well as Baldwin . This was because Soviet Foreign Minister Maxim Litvinov was deliberately seeking to promote a FrancoGerman war and to frustrate French attempts to pacify Europe short of war . It would have been surprising indeed had Schmitt not denounced the Hoare-Laval Pact in the strongest terms in his address at New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schmitt warmly defended the British foreign policy of August , 1939 . After all , this policy led to the general European war which Schmitt had personally been advocating ever since the Munich Conference . It is amusing to study Schmitt 's elaborate efforts to defend the Soviet Union for concluding her non-aggression pact with Germany on August 23 , 1939 . This is indeed a paradoxical situation . Schmitt simultaneously praises Halifax for promoting war and Stalin for pursuing a neutrality policy . Equally noteworthy is the bland contention that the eventual German preventive war against the Soviet Union had been inevitable ever since September 1 , 1939 . In reality , complex developments preceded that war and the numerous efforts by Hitler to arrive at a lasting accommodation with Stalin have been thoroughly documented by Phillipe Fabry and a large number of other historians . It is typical of Schmitt to gloss over the complex events and simply to contend that one catastrophic development or the other was inevitable from the beginning . It should also occasion no surprise that Schmitt warmly approved of the English unconditional surrender policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted by President Roosevelt at Casablanca in 1943 . The following is typical of Schmitt 's process of reasoning The agreement to insist on Germany 's unconditional surrender ' has also been criticized on the ground that it prolonged unnecessarily the resistance of Germany . I am not convinced of this . It must be remembered that in 1918 Germany surrendered on condition that peace would be based on Wilson 's Fourteen Points . The Germans later complained that the Fourteen Points had been ignored in the Treaty of Versailles . Unconditional surrender ' guaranteed that the Allies would not have to meet that reproach a second time . 211 In other words , break a treaty with your adversary on the first occasion , and in the next , wipe him out completely to avoid the charge of bad faith . This is undoubtedly an interesting approach , but certainly no one would contend that it remotely resembles an approach based upon traditional American ethics . Hofstadter and others have pointed out that the early generations of independent Americans tended to be men of faith , confident about their views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its future . The intellectuals after 1890 , who became a separate class , were men of skepticism : skeptical toward Christianity and toward America 's future as an independent nation . Their approach was primarily negative . They talked about internationalism , it is true , but Porter Sargent , Sr. , one of America 's leading educators , sagely observed that men often speak of things more frequently when they are slipping away . Sargent spent the decade before 1914 travelling around this planet of ours without ever having to use a passport . There was less talk about internationalism then than there is now . But there was also more genuine internationalism , in the constructive sense of free travel and communication than there is today . By the same token , the suppression of the independent national states of this world might well annihilate nationalism without creating an internationalism in any way equivalent to what men enjoyed within the old pre-1914 system of national states . Many of the later historians are skeptical toward what men once possessed while being simultaneously naively hopeful about the Brave New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humanists . Skepticism , like any other frame of mind , has its place . But it is tragic when men seem to be skeptical and negative toward their most precious assets , and naively hopeful about human forces which , in the long run , are likely to do them only harm . Coping with problems of this kind is undoubtedly part of the challenge facing American education and American historical scholarship today . George Bancroft wrote history in the spirit of American nationalism and , despite his unorthodoxy , of Christian faith . The subsequent denial or deprecation of nationalism and Christianity by a multitude of American historians meant that a vacuum remained to be filled . The major attempt to meet this challenge has come to be known as the New History . In discussing his experiences at Columbia University around the turn of the century , James T. Shotwell makes the following comment : Beard ( i.e. , Charles Beard ) and I later differed very much in outlook . He became an isolationist and I went into the field of international relations . Both Beard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) as the pioneer in what he termed " The New History . " 1 The New History was actually born at Columbia University , the institution of higher education which also provided the leadership for the twentieth century trends in American public education . Although the question has never been adequately examined , it would seem that a more exotic birthplace for this school of historical writing than New York City was required . Otherwise , it is difficult to explain why the disciples of Robinson have placed so much emphasis on their supposed debt to the German historian , Karl Lamprecht . The actual connection between Robinson and Lamprecht was artificially established . Their ideas on history are about as far apart as were the thoughts of Hegel and Marx on philosophy and political economy . However , it can at least be argued that Marx derived his system , both thought and method , by reversing Hegel , by placing his sole emphasis on materialism in the same way that Hegel had insisted on emphasizing idealism . 1 n the case of Robinson and Lamprecht there does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be said is that Lamprecht 213 ' was already a celebrity when Robinson was just beginning to establish his own reputation . As a matter of fact , Robinson never did become the author of any truly major works . He published some articles , essays , and secondary school textbooks . There was talk about a forthcoming history of the western world , but it was never completed . Robinson 's reputation was established in the classroom , and some of his former students became extraordinarily influential on the American intellectual scene . The unsuspecting Lamprecht was lured into visiting America in 1904 to give some lectures at Columbia . The myth about the transplantation of Lamprecht 's ideas to America followed . It ought not to be forgotten that German historical scholarship enjoyed extraordinary prestige in America in 1904 . During the preceding period , there had been as many as four thousand American graduate students at German universities in a single year . By the same token , the prestige of German scholars in America today has fallen very low due to the military defeats of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberate , conscious effort to recall the earlier situation . Harry Elmer Barnes , A History of Historical Writing , ( 2nd ed. , Dover , N. Y. , 1962 ) deals with Lamprecht in the intellectual context of the nineteenth century Romantic revolt against the Enlightenment : It was left for Lamprecht nearly a century later to take over what was really valuable in the Romanticist doctrines and to work them over into his famous theory of historic development as a process of transformations and mutations within the collective psychology of both a nation and community : As in the case of other profound German historians willing to philosophize about history , it is true that Lamprecht was constantly in danger of being misunderstood . For instance , he made use of " collective-psychological dominance . " Lamprecht was dealing with German history on ' a broad scale from the end of the Carolingian Dynasty in the tenth century down to the industrialization of modern Germany . He hoped to be able to characterize meaningfully certain epochs of German history ( high middle ages , late middle ages , reformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological 214 dominants in no sense imply a desire on the part of Lamprecht to promote collectivism or socialism . Although Lamprecht was primarily interested is social and economic history , and no less conversant with the works of Marx than with the works of Hegel , he was first and foremost an idealist who merely wished to give the material factors of history their just deserts . For instance , unlike Robinson , there is no trace in Lamprecht 's 15-volume history ( published between 1891 and 1911 ) of any attempt to undermine , discredit , or disavow either Christianity or nationalism . Robinson was forever attacking both Christianity and nationalism . In the opinion of many distinguished critics , Lamprecht wrote the most stimulating and useful general history of Germany ever produced . Needless to say , the competition in this field from the days of Niebuhr down to the present day of Wahl and Schnabel has been formidable indeed . Robinson wrote pointed and provocative essays and textbooks lacking original research . Lamprecht opened up entire new vistas on the basis of original research ( i.e. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not separate from the rest of Germany and become an independent state ) . Robinson was more interested in illuminative reasoning and the exploitation of the primary research done by others . Lamprecht hoped to increase the factual knowledge of his compatriots about German history . Robinson was primarily interested in debunking such facts as were already known . The approach of Lamprecht was overwhelmingly affirmative and positive toward his subject . Although Robinson professed to believe in the perfectibility of man and the creation of Utopia here on earth , his approach toward the past achievements of man , whether in America or elsewhere , was primarily negative . Both men attracted gifted and ardent followers because of the brilliance of their minds , but their contributions were entirely different . Lamprecht was seven years older than Robinson . The latter was firmly established at Columbia and the former at Leipzig when Earl Wilbur Dow , " Features of the New History : Apropos of Lamprecht 's Deutsche Geschichte , " appeared in the April , 1898 American Historical Review . Dow 215 agreed enthusiastically with Lamprecht that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The reasons for Dow 's hopeful enthusiasm are not far to seek . Fifty years earlier , George Gervinus , one of the greatest German historians , had exclaimed in despair that Leopold von Ranke was turning up so much primary source material in the European archives that only specialized monographs , but no works of synthesis , would be possible in the decades ahead . It is the nature of all human knowledge to seek eventually to simplify the universe even if this means to falsify it . Darwin 's idea of the descent of man from protozoan slime seems amazingly simple compared to the complex and subtle doctrines of Christian theology so that many scholars tended to accept Darwin 's theory without really questioning whether or not it was actually true . Lamprecht claimed to be in a position to generalize meaningfully about the complex trends of history . He believed in the use of the related disciplines , such as psychology , sociology , and economics , as well as geography and political science . This seemed to conform with the developing American pattern . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American historians , particularly when we recall that in those days , unlike today , most of them could read German fluently . James Harvey Robinson , The New History : Essays Illustrating the Modern Historical Outlook ( Macmillan , N. Y. , 1912 ) , remarks that " in its amplest meaning History includes every trace and vestige of everything that man has done or thought since he first appeared on the earth . " 3 Robinson liked Lamprecht 's general approach because " it is clear that in treating history for the general reader the question of selection and proportion is momentous . " He believed that conventional historical writing placed too much emphasis on great men , political events at the top level , and military history . He was on strong ground in regarding the end effect as disproportionate , and in praising Lamprecht 's sense of proportion . Besides , Robinson was intensely anti-Christian . Although Lamprecht did not attack Christianity , he had very little to say about strictly theological questions in comparison 216 to someone like Ranke , who had very nearly entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth century because of the " regenerative workings of the new spirit of Enlightenment . " This was the era in which Diederot said that mankind will not be free until the last king is strangled in the entrails of the last priest . In other words , the Enlightenment constituted an attack on the traditional values of Western civilization , even though individual figures , such as Voltaire , were , conservative in their practical politics . Robinson complained that the " disproportionate fondness for political and military affairs " had discouraged historians from understanding " ourselves and our fellows and the problems and prospects of mankind . " He contended that " the present has hitherto been the willing victim of the past ; the time has now come when it should turn on the past and exploit it in the interests of advance . " In other words , Robinson believed that overthrowing all of the traditional values would facilitate human progress . This is why he opposed the Christian emphasis in history and denounced Hegel for exhorting the Germans " to be the bearers of the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marx , who " denounced those who discover the birthplace of history in the shifting clouds of heaven instead of in the hard , daily work on earth . " Robinson was careful not to identify himself 100% with Marx , but he claimed that the Marxian dialectic " serves to explain far more of the phenomena of the past than any other single explanation ever offered . " Robinson was inclined to consider the works of Marx as offering the most light for mankind , and the Christian Bible as the manifestation of darkness . Above all , Robinson insisted that the humanist doctrine of man 's ultimate perfection on earth was the only valid approach to history . He exulted that " not until the 18th century did the possibility of indefinite human progress become the exhilarating doctrine of reformers , a class which had previously attacked existing absolutes in the name of the good old times ' ( i.e. , Thomas More 's Utopia ) . Robinson conceived history as the domain of science from which the Christian religion should be totally excluded : 217 Now ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history is a scientific truth , the attempt to trace the slow process of change is a scientific problem , and one of the most fascinating in its nature . It is the discovery and application of this law which has served to differentiate history from literature and morals , and which has raised it , in one sense , to the dignity of a science . Like other materialists , Robinson embraced Darwinism as final truth rather than as a mere hypothesis : Even today I find that members of the guild are some of them inclined to deny that man 's descent from the lower animals is , strictly speaking , an historical fact , although they would concede that Henry II 's descent from William the Conqueror is such . Robinson believed that " the discovery of organic evolution was the culmination , riot the beginning , of a philosophical revolution . " Robinson saw in evolution the fulfilment of the Enlightenment dream of a world of pure reason . He opposed the idea of different human races and advocated a melting pot for all mankind . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a destructive revolution find his unqualified approval ; he is inclined to ridicule those who disagree : Yet not a few have dared to look back with regret , even with yearning , upon that ancient regime whose ruins the Assembly so plentifully sowed with the salt of its contempt . Carthage has been destroyed ! In other words , Robinson considers that the ravings of a ' few Jacobin deputies have deprived the French people of their earlier tradition extending over many centuries . Robinson is willing to cite a contemporary French conservative authority such as Charles d'Hericault , but only after first labelling him " a hopelessly reactionary royalist . " Robinson reserves special venom for what he considers the vestigial remnants of the spirit of conservatism . He denounces conservatives because of their Christian reluctance to accept Condorcet 's dubious theory about " the indefinite perfectibility of man . " Robinson contends that " the conservative is a perfectly explicable and inevitable product of that long , long period before man woke up to the possibility of conscious betterment . " The following is Robinson 's own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long , long time since human history began , when a species of apes , probably closely allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee of the African forests , found itself able to go on its hind legs without the assistance of its fore limbs , leaving these free to become even more dexterous arms and hands . This is the spirit of Robinson , who claimed to be the scientific historian , although he has no shred of proof to offer in support of Darwin 's assumption about a possible evolutionary connection between animals and man . Needless to say , the type of tirade which so often characterizes the polemical writings of Robinson is nowhere to be found in Lamprecht , the supposed prototype of the much glamorized New Historian . Harry Elmer Barnes , The New History and the Social Studies ( Century , N.Y. , 1925 , pp. 204-205 ) , quite rightly observes that Robinson as a historian was less rigid in his application of theory and method than was Lamprecht . This was possible because Lamprecht 's respect for tradition was a force for restraint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man must have no respect for tradition whatever . Needless to say , this represents the modern pagan view as opposed to the Christian view . Robinson had many brilliant individual insights , but he was naive in his acceptance of materialist theories and in his disregard of the human wisdom from the past . If Robinson be accepted as one of the first intelligent men upon earth , what sort of opinion can the critic who accepts this viewpoint have toward mankind ? Barnes admits that : Lamprecht has exerted a deep influence upon many of the European historians , as well as upon progressive historians in America , where , in 1904 , he delivered in the form of a series of lectures his most extensive explosition and defense of his historical method and point of view . ' But Barnes suggests that in the narrow sense one might as well attribute Robinson 's approach to Francis Bacon as tt Karl Lamprecht . Karl Lamprecht , Americana : Reiseeindruecke , Betrachtungen , Geschichtlichc Gesamtansicht ( Heyfelder , Freiburg im 219 Breisgau , 1906 Americana : Travel Impressions , Observations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the travel experiences of the Leipzig historian from July to November , 1904 , which culminated in his Columbia University lectures for the New Historians . This account is memorable for several reasons . In the first place , it reveals the vast gulf between Lamprecht 's thought and Robinson 's . Secondly , it is remarkable for its insights concerning the increasing difficulties in the relations among the United States , Great Britain , and Germany . Lamprecht did not live to witness the outbreak of the First World War . But the Anglo-French entente cordiale had been concluded in April , 1904 , and Lamprecht knew that the British leaders were in the process of associating their country with the continental alliance combination hostile to Germany . Lamprecht was thinking ahead about the possible role of the United States in the event of a European conflict . He was inclined to be deeply pessimistic after his trip . He personally favored a diplomatic alignment among the United States , Great Britain and Germany in the style which Cecil Rhodes had advocated . However , there now seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predicted that the United States would adopt a policy favorable toward Great Britain and her allies and hostile toward Germany in the event of a general European conflict . Above all , Lamprecht was not impressed with what he saw of the German-American community in the different sections of the United States . Of course , there were many brilliant exceptions , but the German-American community did not have much prestige in comparison with several of the other American ethnic groups . Lamprecht believed that this disappointing reputation was deserved . He was convinced that Americans of British stock , and possibly even Americans of Slavic stock , were surpassing the Americans of German ethnic background in the American environment . Lamprecht imagined that Germany ' dismal political record from 1648 to the reunification in 1871 might have something to do with making the Germans less effective than other groups in a new environment with new loyalties . 22() Unlike Robinson , the German historian was a nationalist . He noted with some sadness that the Teutons of world history have tended to teach that the hate of one 's own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation in his studies of German and English history . He was not entirely fatalistic about the inevitability of the disaster which actually took place in 1914 . He recognized that Germany was not a world power in the style of the British Empire or the United States , and hence not a real competitor . Her dimensions were much more modest . Her rank was something like that of Prussia among the European powers of the eighteenth century . But Lamprecht knew that the new Germany had an impressive defensive military capacity , and he hoped that other nations would recognize that fact : " if you attack her , you will have another seven years ' war . " ' Due to Lamprecht 's earlier extensive studies in the field of Americana , it is not surprising that his account showed considerable insight into American institutions and trends . For instance , despite all the muckraking and the strenuous activities of the Progressives , Lamprecht had no difficulty in identifying the United States of 1904 as a predominantly conservative country . New trends , such as the New History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American scene . The followers of Robinson distinguished themselves in the eyes of their leader by their strenuous bombardments against the American Christian tradition . Not every American professional historian considered himself to be a disciple of Robinson by 1929 or 1930 , but it is nonetheless true that attempts to condemn Robinson 's basic premises were usually looked at askance by the guild . James H. Breasted , " The New Crusade , " in American Historical Review , January , 1929 , presented some aspects of his recent research into the history of Egypt as though the achievements in this field were somehow relevant in discrediting Christianity . This is noteworthy when one recalls that Breasted was elected President of the American Historical Association in 1928. 221 Breasted contended that the " appearance of civilization for the first time ( italics his ) is the most remarkable event in the history of the universe , insofar as it is known to us . " At that time he was still contending that the first major human civilization originated in Egypt . He referred condescendingly to the process known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization was imported from Europe , much as one might import perfume or champagne . The civilization in Japan was imported from China . Breasted contended that every human civilization except that of Egypt constituted an example of pseudomorphosis because it was imported from somewhere . Breasted suggested that " there was no hewn stone architecture anywhere on earth when the pyramids of Giza arose . " Breasted hoped that his audience was agreeing with his logic , and probably most of them were . If evolving the first human civilization was in fact the most important human achievement , and if this achievement took place before the Christian era , it must follow from Breasted 's reasoning that the achievement of pagan Egypt was more momentous than the revelation of Jesus Christ or any other events which have transpired since that time . Breasted praised John D. Rockefeller , Jr . for supporting his research efforts over many decades , and he called his research activities a " modern quest for the Holy Grail " and a " new crusade " which was intensified by " feeling a deep reverence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new dispensation was to be based upon the rejection of Christianity and the glorification of man instead of God . This was one of the most important central assumptions of the New History . It was precisely such an attack upon Christianity which had been lacking in Lamprecht , supposedly the foreign patron saint of the New History . James Harvey Robinson succeeded Breasted as President of the American Historical Association in 1929 . Robinson recalled in his presidential address , " The Newer Ways of Historians , " that when he spoke to the guild nineteen years earlier his theories were received " somewhat blankly , with a touch perhaps of hostility . " However , during the past two 222 decades the situation had greatly changed . As Robinson put it : Tonight I only fear that what I have to say will appear to you all too commonplace since the temper of thought has undergone a mighty change in the last twenty years . Many a novelty has in that interval flattened into a platitude . In the category of former novelties one might class the denunciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer novelties but part of the dominant view . Robinson put the matter very concisely in relation to nationalism : National history seems to us more provincial than formerly it did . Fichte could , after the battle of Jena , assure the Germans that they were an original people with an original language ? such was the state of ignorance in his time . In all fairness to Robinson , it ought to be conceded that he never was an expert on early nineteenth century German history . It is still somewhat dubious for Robinson to have misunderstood Fichte so completely . Modern language researchers thoroughly support Fichte 's statement that the German language , like the Russian language , is in fact a socalled Ursprache ( language with a continuous development from the stone age ) . This would not be true of the so-called modern hybrid languages such as English , French and Italian . So far as the ignorance in the time of Fichte is concerned , this was in fact the greatest period in German letters , and this opinion remains generally accepted today . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so commonly accepted by 1930 : Civilization ' is taking on a new meaning from what it had for older writers . It is what Graham Wallas ( admiring biographer of the English Jacobin , Jeremy Bentham ) calls our social heritage , ' as distinguished from our animal heritage . In other words , apart from the hypothesis about the evolutionary descent of man , the emphasis is on civilization as the record of man in his gregarious activities . There is no place for the older spiritual values in this theory . 223 Robinson expressed his enthusiasm for Russia 's Pavlov and observed that : The discoveries in animal psychology are by no means irrelevant to man 's conduct in all times . They may well influence one 's reflections whether he read the New Testament or the Morning Times . Robinson comes out strongly in favor of a trend toward world government via League of Nations , World Court and the World Bank . He notes that " it may be that the last mentioned , the World Bank , may ere long be speaking more convincingly than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First World War revealed the bankruptcy of the historians who served old values such as Christianity or nationalism . He asks and answers the following : Did such knowledge as historians had arduously accumulated of the past serve to make them wiser than their fellows ? Hardly . In all countries they were unable to overcome their native susceptibility to the prejudices of their particular tribe . They gulped down propaganda which in a later mood they realized was nauseous . They were , in short , easily sold out , and their studies had not prepared them to assess a sudden emotional crisis much better than the man in the street . I am not thinking especially of ourselves . But in retrospect our motes appear about as sizable as the beams of British , French and German historians . There is much wisdom in what Robinson says about the illusions of wartime historians , but this does not mean that fundamental values such as Christianity and patriotism need be assessed as fair-weather values to be served when the results are auspicious and to be discarded the first moment things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper on the following excessively dogmatic humanistic note : " The growing recognition that we are super-animals , not degraded angels , is making clear what was once dark . " In The Human Comedy , as Devised and Directed by Mankind Itself ( 3rd edition , Harper , N.Y. , 1937 ) , Robinson went the full length in advocating the use of history by professional historians as an instrument of Messianic crusading to achieve the perfectibility of man . Of course , this meant substituting propaganda for real history . Robinson , however , insisted that such a use of history would be the fulfillment of the most perfect and effective application of modern science : 221 Modern scientific research , in spite of its professed aloofness and disregard of human feelings and motives , has succeeded in unfolding at our gates so new a world in its origins , development , workings , and possibi'ities of control in the interest of human welfare ( italics mine ) that practically all of the older poetic and religious ideas have to be fundamentally revised or re-interpreted . ' Robinson believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet it is highly imperfect ; but some day it may well become the most potent instrument for human regeneration . " ' Robinson successfully unleashed a storm of criticism against Christianity and traditional American nationalism by American historians . It was not the first storm of this kind , but it was the most severe and it continues unabated after Robinson 's death . Verne Paul Kaub , Collectivism Challenges Christianity , ( American Council of Christian Laymen , Madison , Wisc. , 1961 , 249 pp. ) bitingly dedicated his study : To all those valiant pastors , of every faith and creed , who , braving the scorn of the liberal intelligentsia , continue to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and Him crucified . Robinson , unlike Lamprecht , believed that modern historical research ought to attack the highest human values in a dogmatic fashion in order to create a brave new world . Robinson insisted on describing his approach as scientific and objective . In reality , he proved to be a victim of the same illusion which plagued the eighteenth century Age of Enlightenment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human reason . One of the greatest tasks confronting the historical guild in America today is the liberation of American historical science from such illusions . In the meantime , there is no doubt that the outlook of the New History is still the dominant outlook among the American professional historians today .                     