@@774205

txt  | The Politics of Primitive Unification runs a current of pent-up dissatisfaction , and the army is there to ward off any fundamental attack upon the existing system . It may at first glance appear strange to credit the military with maintaining order in countries where so often it is the military which disrupts the political life of the country with violence and coups d'etat , as it has done in Egypt , Iran , Guatemala , Peru , Bolivia , and Ecuador . ( By one count there were thirty-one revolutions in Latin America in the decade following World War II . ) Yet there is no contradiction in the fact that the army keeps order and at the same time causes most of the violence . In states run by traditional elites , violence is frequent but rarely disturbs the fundamental order . First of all , the violence is generally brief and claims few victims . The revolutions and attempted revolutions are palace revolts that scarcely touch people outside high government circles except to provide them topics of conversation . The president and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes tense and citizens of the capital may even stay indoors for an afternoon , but the next day the shops reopen , the inhabitants take their evening stroll , and calm is restored . Second , such palace revolutions may change the personnel without changing the complexion of the group in power . The grip of the landed artistocracy generally remains unshaken , and officials often play musical chairs in a manner distressing to a population which may briefly have hoped for some genuine change or reform . The change in ruling personnel may even help protect the existing system , for it allows integration into the ruling group of ruthless and potentially dangerous persons who otherwise might become totally disaffected and turn against the system . In a stagnant society dominated by a landed aristocracy , the paths of upward mobility are  | few . Military careers provide the surest opening for the ambitious and disadvantaged , and palace revolts give access to more permanent sources of wealth and power to those who have shouldered or shot their way into high government office . They offer a means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in underdeveloped countries , and they give access to control of mineral riches , which may be leased to or withheld from foreign companies ? for a price . In view of all this , it seems appropriate to regard the violence as a safety valve protecting the integrity of the underdeveloped system . The third role of the military , however , is genuinely the reverse of the other two . Not only in those underdeveloped countries that have long been independent but also in some of the newly independent states run by traditional elites ( as in the Middle East ) , the military in recent times has become a spearhead in movements to unseat the traditional elite and move toward genuine modernization . The currents of modernization are sweeping the world . It would be a mistake to credit the military with their origin , but it does appear that , in underdeveloped countries ruled by traditional elites , military leaders are often the first men of power to desire economic and social modernization . The cases of Egypt , Japan , and Iraq come to mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a revolt of the palace guard was put down ruthlessly but may presage things to come , and China , where the army led the revolution of Sun Yat-sen . In underdeveloped countries , the armed forces are relatively modern and therefore potentially a most revolutionary institution . Military leaders are often in contact with , sometimes even trained by , the military establishments of powerful modern countries . They are aware of the worth of modern weapons and modern military techniques , and they possess a common yardstick for measur-  | ing military success : victory in battle . One may argue fruitlessly about differing sets of values , differing religions , and different types of societies , for in these areas there may exist no commonly held standards of judgment . But armies are supposed to win battles , and military leaders who have been defeated by the superior power of Europeans have become rapid converts to European military methods . It may take longer in underdeveloped countries than elsewhere for military leaders to realize that modernization of the army is possible only if the society modernizes as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to topple the old system and impose a new one more to its liking . This modernizing role of the military in countries still dominated by a traditional elite is in some ways parallel to the role played by Westernized intellectuals in the countries recently freed from colonialism . In most of the latter countries , the military does not initially play an important part in politics . Under colonialism , military forces were foreign-led , and in the fight for liberation revolutionary activity was more intellectual and political than military . What rebel forces existed were paramilitary , and only now ? after independence ? are genuine military forces , traditions , and a military class beginning to develop . Yet we must guard against the error of thinking that this state of affairs is permanent . In these countries , too , the military may come to constitute an important segment of the elite in years to come . Political Institutions In the older underdeveloped nations , as in the new , political institutions are stunted and do not extend down to the masses of the population . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolute monarchs , such as Afghanistan and Ethiopia , political parties are nonexistent , and in the past one-party governments , some outright dictatorships , have been common ( as in the Dominican Republic , Venezuela , Paraguay , and Mexico ) . In recent years , multiple-party systems have become more usual , but one party is often heavily dominant . Even where two or more parties compete effectively , party membership is often drawn from relatively restricted groups near the top of the social scale while the bulk of the population is not admitted . Equally defective is the development of the governmental bureaucracy . In traditional societies the government performs few if any services for the people , and its functioning , except for the collection of taxes , rarely extends into the countryside . Bureaucratic standards are not modern . Public administration is part-time , inadequate , and corrupt . A recommendation from the powerful is a sine qua non for a public job or for any governmental attendance to one 's needs , and underpaid public employees stretch their salaries by selling favors and by moonlighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their countries , and it is a convenient fiction to think they do . In reality , however , they generally have little knowledge of or interest in the desires of the ruled , and they lack the political tools to reach the masses and band them together for any national purpose . When it comes to economic modernization , the old underdeveloped countries are not so pressed as the newer nations . Even though their economies are in some cases more advanced , they are not ruled by elites who seek so rapid a rate of change . When they do turn to industrialization in earnest , they will find their relatively greater unity  | an advantage compared to the situation in the nations only recently freed from colonialism , where the problems of national unification and economic modernization must be solved simultaneously . They will also find that their own political unification is far from complete . CONCLUSION To summarize , the main function of politics in the first stage of national political development is to unify a group of people who have few ties . In all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the colonies , in the new underdeveloped nations and in the old ? this is a period of nation-building in which political parties and bureaucracies develop and grow . During this period the groundwork is laid for the economic advance which is to follow , but even at the end of the period national unification is only partial and does not include the entire population . Politics without economic modernization does a very imperfect job of unifying the country , and primitive unification seems a fair name for its accomplishments . In all countries , though to differing extents and at different rates of speed , destruction of the old agricultural , social and economic system begins in the period of primitive unification and proceeds as the period progresses . It is this economic and social change , as well as the political developments themselves , which shift the focus of political life during the second stage of political growth from unity to economic development . The experience of countries in stage two is the subject of the three chapters that follow .  | Industrialization , the pride of powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the backward , presents an immense challenge to the political system of any nation . New rulers , new rules , new distributions of wealth and power , new habits , and new ideologies are not produced without a strain . Industrialization , where it has occurred , has been accompanied by great political upheaval , and it seems safe to predict that new upheavals will take place as the rest of the world races into economic modernization . The primary function of politics in the second stage of national growth is to deal with economic modernization . No other period in a nation 's history gives as clear a picture of the way in which economic change shapes political institutions and political policies in turn direct the path and the pace of economic change . It is this relation-  | ship between politics and economic modernization that we shall explore in dealing with the politics of industrialization . To date , industrial nations have achieved their status through three quite different systems : bourgeois politics , stalinist politics , and fascist politics . Each has solved the problems of economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least these three choices before there , and although the contest is usually put in terms of democracy versus communism , neofascist solutions should by no means be ruled out . Which path to progress will today 's industrializing nations choose ? Upon the answer hangs not only their own future but that of the rest of the world as well . To understand why nations make the choices they do , it will be helpful to view these three systems not simply as competing ideologies but as three alternative ways of dealing with industrialization . They differ in their response to common problems . Specifically , they differ in who holds the reins of government , who provides the capital for economic development , and how fast this development is allowed to progress . We shall examine each system in some detail , but let us begin with the oldest and most widespread of the three : bourgeois politics . THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT It is a common error to confuse the bourgeois politics of the nineteenth century with the mass democracies of the twentieth . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in a certain sense democratic , and that almost universally bourgeois democracy has in time turned into mass democracy . Yet the two are  | distinct , and the distinction is important . Bourgeois politics were characteristic of industrializing nations ; mass democracy is a political system of fully industrial nations . Although one system laid the groundwork for the other , they differ in fundamentals . The most important difference lies in the fact that under the political rule of the bourgeoisie , the vast majority of the population was prevented , in large part through restrictions on the franchise , from exercising any significant influence upon government . This difference in popular control should not be passed over lightly , for unless proper weight is given it , the course of economic development and the contribution of government to industrialization can not be clearly understood . Nor will one understand the effect of industrialization on political development and the birth of the mass democracies , which we shall examine later . The popular version of the role of bourgeois politics in guiding the national economy is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our day with the problems of industrializing their countries , bourgeois politics do indeed appear to have followed the maxim of governing best by governing least . The early bourgeois governments of the United States and Western Europe did not plan ; they did not carry the major burden of saving ; they did not map the strategy of modernization ; and they did not direct the major economic efforts . Private initiative created the savings , invested them in capital goods , modernized production and distribution , and created the wealth that eventually made the citizenry rich and the nation powerful . Private actions brought about the changes that flung up the cities , filled them with migrants from the countryside , and changed the work , home , and leisure lives of entire  | populations . The government looked on . Or so the story goes . There is both truth and distortion in this version of events . First , let us dispose of a crucial exaggeration . Government was not totally inactive . In important ways it extended positive help to those who industrialized the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government did the job itself . It is true that in many key areas the government was merely an interested bystander , but government inaction should also be properly evaluated . Neutrality aids the stronger party in a dispute ; so it was with the bourgeois governments . By remaining inactive , they gave a free hand and a clear field to the budding capitalists who reorganized the national economy . Thus government inaction was also an important form of aid . If one accepts this view and counts both direct and indirect government assistance , the total contribution of bourgeois politics to industrialization is impressive : 1 . Bourgeois politics gave the deciding voice in governmental councils to those who wished to modernize the economy and industrialize the nation and at the same time kept out of power those whose interests conflicted with major elements of the industrialization process . 2 . Bourgeois politics were crucial in the creation of savings for investment . Government helped decisively in increasing production and in holding down consumption to a level where it did not consume the savings destined for reinvestment. 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely necessary for economic development . By doing this , the government speeded the breakup of the old preindustrial peasant system , helped usher in a modern social structure , and provided a pool of labor for the new manufacturing in-  | dustries which formed the backbone of the industrial system . Let us examine briefly each of these important contributions . NEW RULERS It is difficult to see how a nation could industrialize if the national government remained firmly in the hands of groups who opposed such change . Not surprisingly , the major political development of the period of industrialization ? bourgeois , stalinist , or fascist ? is the shift of predominant political power from the landed aristocracy to the new industrialists , be they private capitalists or government bureaucrats . In the bourgeois democracies from the last quarter of the eighteenth century to the last quarter of the nineteenth , in country after country ? in England , France , Germany , the United States ? the bourgeoisie took over political power and control . The bourgeois claim for greater voice and power was well founded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the old aristocrats and possessed greater managerial skills . Certainly the experience of the new-rich in running their farflung affairs gave them greater competence in mastering the business of government , which had ceased to deal with dynastic considerations . The success of the new economy was becoming a matter of life and death to a larger and larger portion of the population , and the policies and actions of government were crucial to the new economy . Most important was the growing economic power of the new industrialists . The state itself was becoming dependent upon their wealth , both to run its concerns at home and to provide a major  | source of its power in international affairs . Inevitably , those who directed the new economy insisted upon being heard , and their demands were granted . The Nation Is Enlarged The shift from aristocratic to bourgeois control of the machinery of the state meant a tremendous change in the national participation of the nation 's citizenry . Not only were a greater number of people included in national , as distinct from local , life ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The contrast with dynastic times was striking . As noted earlier , the dynastic " nation " was the king and his court . The rest of the population was less part of the nation than part of the estate of the crown and of the nobility . Moreover , the aristocrats had many more ties with one another across national lines than they had with their subjects at home . With the accession of the bourgeoisie to power , fundamental changes took place . The nation was enlarged to include the new middle classes ; and the bourgeoisie , in contrast to the aristocracy , was highly nationalistic . In addition , the population at large , though still excluded from political participation , was drawn much more closely into the national unit . With the agricultural and industrial revolutions , the masses lost their social isolation and their economic self-sufficiency . They became , in short , dependent upon the national economy and upon the national state , and their final integration into the national unit was begun , though its conclusion was to be the major achievement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the bourgeoisie came to power varied from one country to another . So did the amount of strife produced by the shift in the power position of the two elites . In no case was the transition entirely peaceful ,  | but there were great differences in the amount of violence . England suffered riots and disorders , and Germany experienced the revolutionary shocks of 1848 , but in the United States and in France the aristocracy in control could not and would not share governmental power until a major revolution had shaken loose its grip . The French nobility 's rigid defiance of the demands of the French middle classes is legendary . Nor was the demand of the American middle classes that they be represented in the British parliament acceptable to the aristocracy then ruling Britain . How could it have been ? How could the demands of a colonial bourgeoisie be granted when similar demands were denied at home ? Thwarted and hemmed in by a colonizer that regarded the colonies its estate to plunder as it saw fit , the American middle classes revolted . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European brothers . Although they had to fight free of the mother country before they could rule , once free they were under far less pressure to share their power with an aristocracy . In Europe , no matter how radical the revolution , the hold of the aristocracy could not be fully eliminated . Attempts to extirpate aristocratic privilege and power resulted only in weakening the hold of the landed gentry . After each major advance by the bourgeoisie ? after the French Revolution , even after the English Reform Bill of 1832 ? the aristocracy regained much of the ground it had lost ; the bourgeoisie in Europe had to lay siege to the citadels of governmental power again and again before its victory was complete . Shared Power Indeed , there was virtually no time when the bourgeoisie ruled entirely alone . During its long and bitterly  | contested climb to power , the bourgeoisie was the junior partner of the aristocracy . The aristocracy continued to hold the major governmental posts and used the power of government to resist the expansion of the new economy and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gradually , however , the bourgeoisie gained the upper hand , and by the middle of the nineteenth century the bourgeoisie was supreme everywhere in industrializing Europe . Even after the middle classes had gained power , they did not rule alone but shared their power with the aristocracy , which now in its turn assumed the role of junior partner , but still had interests to be protected and a voice to be heard . Later , when the movement that was to transform bourgeois politics into mass democracy began to gather momentum , the bourgeoisie began to share control of the machinery of the state with the mass of the population . Although the beginnings of historical periods are always difficult to locate precisely , the mass movements had started by the last third of the nineteenth century ? in Germany with the unification of the country , in the United States after the Civil War , in England by 186o or 187o , and in France with the fall of Napoleon III . The bourgeois period is a bridge between the dynastic state and the mass state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power closed the gap that had developed when political power remained in the hands of the aristocracy while economic power had shifted into the hands of the merchants , moneylenders , and the new breed of industrial magnates . The closing years of the bourgeois period saw the masses beginning to rise in political power . The roots of the next stage of political development , indeed , can be traced to the success of the bourgeoisie in mobilizing the masses in their own battle for recognition .  | Popular Participation The masses played an important part in bringing the bourgeoisie to power . Whatever the form of the battle , whether parliamentary negotiation or bloody revolution , it is doubtful that the bourgeoisie could have won without popular support that was both wide and deep . In Germany , France , the United States , and England , it was the active support of a majority of the population that tipped the balance in favor of the bourgeoisie . Certainly this was the case in France , where the Revolution mobilized the vast majority of the people in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revolution was wide . But popular participation was also important in England , where no revolution took place . It should not be forgotten that the parliamentary maneuvering that led eventually to the Reform Bill of 1832 transpired in a country shaken by turmoil and strife . The Bristol riots , the burning of Nottingham Castle , the mutinous crowds in the streets of London forced the hand of the king and the nobles , and Parliament was changed from an instrument of aristocratic rule to one where the old and the new rich shared power . Thus it seems justified to say that the victories of the middle classes should be considered popular victories as well , because the masses had much to do with bringing them about . Popular Exclusion On the other hand , they were not popular victories so far as sharing the spoils was concerned . The population at large was not included in the democratization of the state , which extended only to the bourgeoisie . The mass of the population , which had propelled the new-rich into a position of power , was left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , writing about England , sums up well the difference between the attitude of the new middle classes toward the old aristocracy and their attitude toward the working population : The 1832 revolution . . . had handed political power over to the middle classes from the aristocracy . The new rulers indeed contrived for many years to act through members of the upper class . Scarcely a member of the Grey cabinet was not either a peer or an heir to an old or recent peerage . But these Whigs , and in due course the Tories who succeeded them in office , were directly responsive to middleclass opinion and needs . They were even less than the old Government responsive to working-class opinion , for they had no fear of it . The working class had been kept outside , and the exclusion was entirely successful . ) Everywhere , with the bourgeoisie firmly in the saddle , control of government was related to the possession of property . The franchise , later to become the major formal means of popular control , was restricted to a tiny fraction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years had still to elapse before the masses gained a full political voice and were finally integrated fully into the nation . At the height of middle-class rule , the common people were shut out from any role in government . The importance of this exclusion can not be overstressed . It was as crucial an aspect of bourgeois politics as the placing of the bourgeoisie in control of the national government , for the function of the middle classes to create capital for industrialization could not have been carried out under existing conditions if the working class had been given governmental protection against economic expansion at its expense . Footnote  | GOVERNMENT AID TO INDUSTRIALIZATION The bourgeois governments of Europe and America aided industrialization in many ways , direct and indirect . Direct assistance included , first of all , actions helping to uproot the old order , whose ethos was by nature hostile to rapid economic development . Aristocratic privileges , feudal obligations , guild regulations , peasant rights ? all found their legal basis undermined by the new governments . Recognition of property rights and hostility to privilege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerating pace the web of economic arrangements woven over hundreds of years was torn beyond repair . The fabric of hierarchic rights , duties , and privileges that governed life in the countryside and in the cities was cast aside . The laborious arrangements through which the guilds controlled production and producers , limiting the one and protecting the other , were increasingly disregarded and rendered inoperative . The old ties that kept the peasant on the land and guaranteed his rights there were destroyed . The new principles of economic organization were freedom of work and freedom of contract , and everywhere the strong , the aggressive , the experimenters were freed of legal restraints and allowed to use their property to increase production and maximize profits . At a later date , the bourgeois governments took another important step in providing the legal framework for capital investment when they sanctioned the joint stock company , a financial practice that had evolved in advance of governmental sanction but which required legal recognition before it could operate effectively . In addition to providing a framework for capital invest-  | ment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Prussia , where tradition and circumstances favored governmental intervention in the economy , the government established mines and ran them , created factories , and imported machines and technical personnel from England . The French government also was more active in its direct economic activities than is generally recognized . It too built factories and imported machinery , opened technical schools , and advertised the new machinery and the new techniques at fairs . In general , governmental initiative existed in proportion to the availability of private energy and will . When private initiative failed , government often stepped in . In England , government initiative was at a minimum and private initiative was greatest . In Germany , the reverse was true . All the bourgeois governments were active in providing the communications network required by an industrial society . The French engineering corps built roads and canals and supervised and aided others in building them . Nor should we forget the direct contribution of the American Army engineers to American communications , particularly waterways , and the massive aid and enormous gifts in land and in cash awarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who built roads , canals , and railroads . Another way in which governmental action aided industrial expansion was by enlarging the amount of currency and credit . One can only be amazed today at the ingenuity early industrial leaders exercised to pay their workers . In England and elsewhere , private money was resorted to or workers were paid in shifts so that the money expended by the first shift was again available to pay the second . Each of the bourgeois governments set up  | banks which increased the flow of currency and expanded credit . The Bank of England enjoyed quasi-official status ; the French government set up banks in Paris and pushed banking into the provinces ; and no student of American politics can forget the early government 's vigorous stand in favor of manufactures and , in particular , the creation of a national bank as a major source of capital . Finally , governmental legislation was important in the protection of industrial growth from foreign competition . The long and complex history of tariffs in the Western world need not be recapitulated here , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended beyond tariffs . Bourgeois governments , no less than governments today , were aware that much of their power rested upon the industrial advantages they had gained , and bourgeois governments no less than the mercantilist governments before them tried to prevent the emigration of skilled technicians and the export of industrial secrets . England in particular sought to protect the lead she had gained in industrial development , but this policy did not succeed and was abandoned . Indirect Assistance Great as was the contribution of the bourgeois governments to expanding the facilities for production , their contribution to lowering consumption was equally great ? perhaps even greater . Let us understand fully that if the increased production of early industrialization were applied immediately to improving living standards , there would be insufficient capital accumulation to increase industrialization further . It is the task of the political institutions of an industrializing society to help keep consumption sufficiently in check to permit the accumulation of capital .  | Theoretically this could be achieved by permitting consumption to rise slightly , so long as the rise did not eat up all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is probable that living standards were actually reduced for substantial segments of the population during the early years of industrialization , though this is difficult to measure . To reduce consumption ? or even to hold the line ? at a time when production is still little above the peasant level is to insure severe want and anguish for a majority of the population . Given a choice , no people would long endure such want and such anguish to make industrialists rich , the state more powerful , or future generations happier . The people of industrializing America and Western Europe were not given a choice . Their sacrifices were not granted but extracted from them , in part without their knowledge and for the rest against their will . The importance of bourgeois control and mass exclusion from political decision-making is clear . The way in which savings were created was not pretty . Generations of poor were overworked , underpaid , left to live in crowded filth ? were , in short , fed into the machines of the industrializing West as a sort of industrial cannon fodder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifices and could now afford more humane values were not proud of the past and often tried to deny or disregard its misery and undemocratic foundations . Yet denied or disregarded they must not be , not for the purpose of passing judgment or finding fault ( a futile pastime ) but because without an appreciation of these realities , the relationship of politics to eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Western industrialization can not be understood . Two things should be underscored before we confront more directly the relationship between bourgeois politics  | and industrialization . First , government acted well within the harsh values of the times . This is an important distinction from governments helping their nations industrialize at a later date . In eighteenth- and nineteenthcentury England , for example , even reformers struggling to improve the conditions of child labor believed firmly that it was good for children to work a full day . And it was the reformers who made the workhouse the hell it was . Think of the values caught by keen literary figures of the time . Remember the housekeeper in Jane Eyre talking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yourself on an equality with the Misses Reed and Master Reed . . . . They will have a great deal of money , and you will have none : it is your place to be humble , and to try to make yourself agreeable to them . " 2 Second , government was relieved of accepting the responsibility for holding down mass consumption , since this was accomplished through private arrangements between employers and their workers . However , bourgeois governments gave private initiative a clear field to do as it chose and rarely if ever intervened to protect the disadvantaged . On the contrary , these governments , responsive to the needs and views of the middle classes , made the protection of the rights of property far more important than other human values , more important even than human lives . Specifically , the bourgeois governments helped in three ways to reduce mass consumption : ( 1 ) through policies that helped keep wages low ; ( 2 ) through a lack of governmental welfare measures ; and ( 3 ) through the use of government machinery to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Cheap Labor The major way in which the governments of Western Europe and the United States contributed to keeping labor cheap was by opposition to labor unions . Because unions were outlawed and union leaders persecuted , wages were lower than they would otherwise have been . It is no accident that the major steps in the industrialization of country after country were taken in the period between the death of the guilds and the official recognition of labor unions . Very roughly , this period lasted from the end of the eighteenth century to the last quarter of the nineteenth . Throughout this period the guiding principles of government in its policies toward labor were the maintenance of freedom of work and freedom of contract . It is significant that governmental repugnance in the face of economic combinations did not extend to combinations of employers . One or two examples will illustrate the point . In France in 1791 the Chapellier Law outlawed strikes and unions of workers and imposed heavy fines and penalties for its breach . Chapellier commented in parliamentary debate : " None of us intend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 3 The law remained in force until 1884 , when it was finally repealed and full associational rights were granted workers . In England , too , unions and strikes were forbidden . The courts handed out severe punishments to offenders , at times even harsher than the already savage laws , and appeals were beyond the reach of workers . As industrialization proceeded , Parliament struck down the laws which had regulated employer-employee relations in an earlier era , and soon enough even the pretense of protecting the Footnote  | interests of workers was abandoned . As in France , the laws of industrializing England spoke against all economic combinations , but laws are enforced by men , and employer groups flourished unmolested.4 And as in France , in spite of persecution and though seriously impaired , unions continued to exist ? as did political agitation for reform . Much the same was true in the United States . Worker combinations were treated as conspiracies up to almost the middle of the nineteenth century , and antiunion activity was carried on with vigor by the state governments for decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contexts , this outline can be applied to country after country caught up in the industrial revolution between 1750 and 1900 . Two major effects of government action against unions can be noted . First , wages were held down by the use of state machinery to harass union organization and to break strikes . Second , repression and its counterpart of agitation were the beginning of the involvement of the masses with the state and therefore helped prepare the way for the next stage of political development . However , it is primarily with the economic consequences that we are concerned for the moment . In the absence of effective unionization , wages were low and hours long . Dawn and dusk limited the workday . The twelve- to fourteen-hour day and the six-day week were common , and even longer workweeks were not unheard of , especially in the industries that had pioneered in the process of industrialization ( such as mining and textiles ) . The victory of the ten-hour day marked a real milestone of reform and as a rule did not come until the Footnote  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of squeezing capital out of a subsistence economy were long past . Wages were almost unbelievably low during the early years of industrialization . Even in the relatively rich United States , Horace Greeley estimated the average earnings of simple laborers in New York City in the early 185os ? at least two thirds of the city 's population ? as one dollar per week " for each person subsisting thereon . " Yet he estimated eleven dollars a week as the absolute minimum family budget necessary for rent , food , fuel , and clothing.5 A direct consequence of the low wage level were the living conditions in the towns that constituted the major reservoirs of labor for the new economy . Here is a description given by eyewitnesses of worker housing in Britain at the height of the industrial revolution : Manchester . . . A whole Irish family is often accommodated on a single bed , and sometimes a heap of filthy straw and a covering of old sacking hide them in one undistinguished heap . . . often more than one family lived in a damp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere from twelve to sixteen persons were crowded.6 Edinburgh . . . the houses . . . are often so close together , that persons may step from the window of one house to that of the house opposite . . . neither sewers nor any private conveniences whatever belonging to the dwellings ; and hence the excrementitions and other refuse of at least 50,000 persons is , during the night , thrown into the gutters , causing . . . an amount of solid filth and Footnote  | foetid exhalation . . . . The dwellings of the poorer classes . . . consisting , in most cases , of a single room , ill ventilated and yet cold , owing to broken , ill fitting windows , sometimes damp and partially underground. ? Such conditions were found in town after town , in Sheffield and Derby , in London and Leicester . It should be appreciated , of course , that conditions were not much better in the countryside . The reason they did not seem so bad in the country hamlets was that the impression of one or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when thousands of such dwellings were massed in the towns . Similar conditions were found in the United States : There was in New York a cellar population , estimated to total over i8,000 , crowded into damp , unlighted , illventilated dens with anywhere from six to twenty persons ? men , women and children ? living in a single room.8 And in Boston a Committee on Internal Health reported in 1849 : This whole district is a perfect hive of human beings without comforts and mostly without common necessaries : in many cases huddled together like brutes without regard to sex , age or a sense of decency , grown men and women sleeping together in the same apartment , and sometimes wife , husband , brothers and sisters in the same bed .9 A second result of the extremely low wages was that the earning power of every member of the family was necessary to meet the needs of subsistence . Child and female labor were widespread among the lower classes . Parents had no choice but to work themselves and to push their Footnote  | children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view of the employers in many industries , female and child labor were the best because they were by far the cheapest , and the abundance of cheap labor helped keep all wages low . Though wages were lower for women and children , little allowance was made for differences in age and sex when it came to workloads and working conditions . Children particularly were not spared by either parents or employers . Labor conditions in the industrialization period are so well known that only one or two examples will suffice to refresh the memory . Children sat in the mines for twelve or more hours a day opening and closing ventilation doors , and women and children , stripped to the waist or naked , pulled carts of coal on their hands and knees along the low tunnels . This was true in the English mines for decades after 1800 , and these were still the conditions in the Belgian mines of the Bolinage at the end of the nineteenth century . Child labor offers a telling example of government aid to industrialists in the provision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pauper children over to the textile mills , and the appalling conditions under which such children worked and lived attest the cheapness of their labor . So bad were these conditions that the first recognition in principle that government might regulate employer-employee relations came in the case of pauper apprentices , but the initial legislation protecting them contained wholly inadequate provisions for inspection and thus was not effective.10 The cost of labor to employers was further reduced by the lack of safety measures in mines and factories . It is Footnote  | probably unavoidable that in a primitive stage of industrialization the toll of industrial accidents will be heavier than at a later period , but even the few precautions possible were not taken . In the mines explosion after explosion was caused by the accumulation of gases that could have been avoided by ventilating shafts . Countless workers would have been spared accidents and deformities if the tunnels had not been so low . There is no question that the mine owners were largely responsible and that the governments of the day did little to ameliorate conditions for decades . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous ? even simple guard rails were generally lacking . Fatigue caused by the long hours contributed greatly to the toll of accidents , and the injured worker had no claim against his employer . Low wages , long hours , child labor , and a lack of safety had the combined effect of greatly reducing labor costs and of keeping a large share of the national income out of the hands of workers who would necessarily have spent it on their own subsistence needs . This income was channeled instead into the hands of employers who , after providing for their own subsistence rather handsomely , did reinvest substantially in capital goods . Welfare Measures The general trend in income distribution was reinforced by the almost total absence of any government investment in welfare . Isolated employers took some pains for the welfare of their labor force . Krupp , for example , built houses for his workers , but in general employers did not consider the plight of the workers any responsibility of theirs . The simple fact was that the welfare of the population was not a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes . The health and housing of the masses was not a governmental responsibility . Charity was given those who would otherwise have starved to death , but even here the system of welfare dated from a previous era . During the early years of industrialization welfare was cut whenever opportunity permitted . The needy were defined as improvident and responsibility for their misfortune thrown on their own shoulders . Poor laws were rewritten and harshly applied , and relief was extended only on conditions that made the applicant regret he had ever asked for help . In England , for example , the New Poor Law of 1834 granted relief in accordance with the following principles : ( 1 ) No relief to the able-bodied except within a workhouse ; ( z ) Such relief to be less attractive than the most unpleasant means of earning a living outside ; ( 3 ) Separation of man and wife to prevent childbearing . " The poor soon called the workhouse " the Bastille . " Repression A third way in which bourgeois governments helped maintain low wages and low living standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capital by employers lay in what can only properly be called political repression . This was a task in which legislatures , executives , and courts at all levels of government were deeply involved . Legislatures passed laws that confirmed the harsh conditions of life for the working population ( enclosure acts , poor laws , antiunion legislation , and the like ) , and when they did pass remedial legislation against industrial evils , it was ineffective . ( Child labor , for example , was protected Footnote  | in law in England , France , and Germany for forty to sixty years before it was protected in fact , because no inspection system and no enforcement were provided in the initial legislation . ) The executive officers of government not only enforced the antilabor laws and called out soldiers to repress attempts to agitate against them but also ferreted out potential agitators with spies and provocateurs . The courts awarded fines , lashings , jail sentences , transportation to the colonies , and even death to those convicted of rebelling or agitating against the inhumanity of social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried the main burden of repression varied with time and region . In England , local magistrates carried out a large share of the task . In France , Napoleon put the working population under the supervision of the police by issuing workbooks in which every employer had to record satisfactory performance of the employee before he could obtain new employment . ( We shall meet workbooks again in Stalin 's Russia . ) In the United States the states , not the central government , had the major burden of keeping labor under control . To summarize , it is a major thesis of this work that an important contribution of bourgeois politics to industrialization was the protection of the scarce savings created by the new economy at the expense of the standard of living of the population . It is impossible to measure the human costs of such a policy , but the industrialization of the West bears witness to its success . Finally , it must be emphasized that the bourgeois governments were able to shelter capital precisely because they were not representative of the popular will and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still another area in which governmental policy aided industrialization : the encouragement of rural ? urban migration . Such migration was vital to the success of industrialization , first , because it provided a labor force for the new steam-powered industrial installations , which tended to be centralized in a few locations . Even more important was the part rural ? urban migration played in breaking up the peasant world and destroying its preindustrial values and customs , many of which were so inimical to economic modernization . At the beginning of the industrial era many forces were at work tearing down the old peasant ways of life . Largescale migration to the cities greatly speeded the process . By coming to the city , the former peasant removed himself from the influence of his fellow peasants and placed himself in an isolated position where the values he brought with him were daily exposed to erosion and destruction . Strong ties with a large family group were stretched and broken , and respect for the traditional ways began to shrivel and die . Totally dependent upon the new economy for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different demands of his work . The discipline of industrial work seeped into his being . With his old ties severed , the migrant began to fit himself into the new , wider national community , and the social base of industrialization came into being . Bourgeois politics contributed to rural ? urban migration by protecting , aiding , and encouraging those who wished to push or to pull the peasants off the land . The natural " push " of poor living conditions in the countryside was supplemented by evictions , in which the governments of  | the time assisted ? particularly in England , where the enclosures were of such importance , but also in Denmark and in some sections of France and Sweden . The " pull , " which operated more effectively in later years , after industrialization had passed through its initial difficulties , consisted of the higher industrial wages and the greater excitement and variation of city life . England is the classic example of the rural population 's expulsion from the land . The immediate causes were the enclosures and the death of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own use before , but in the eighteenth century the number of enclosures increased greatly and the motivation was different . Enclosure was coming to be desired by landlords who wished to experiment with more modern agricultural methods and who found themselves blocked by the necessity of gaining the consent of a tradition-bound community . Most of the enclosures were worked out through common agreement in which the peasants who had rights to the land were paid off in some fashion , although it must be noted that no provision was made for the majority of peasants who used the land by custom but could demonstrate no clear-cut legal rights . Where common agreement could not be worked out , the landlord might petition Parliament to enclose the land , and such petitions were virtually always granted . During the decade from 1740 to 1750 there were 38 parliamentary acts enforcing enclosure , in the 17505 158 acts , in the 176os 48o , and after that the floodgates opened . Where the land was enclosed for sheep runs , which required very little agricultural labor , the result was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of raising crops , much of the rural  | population was able to hang on by combining cottage industries with agricultural labor in the new agricultural enterprises . However , the later death of the cottage industries that came with the rise of the factories drove these peasants into the cities also , for they could not live by agricultural labor alone . It is interesting to note that the landed aristocracy , not the bourgeoisie , was primarily responsible for severing the connection of the peasantry to the land in England . In so doing , the old aristocracy inadvertently gave the greatest possible stimulus to industrialization and the eventual loss of its own monopoly of power . The experience of continental Europe with rural ? urban migration differed from the English pattern , but here again government played a role . Throughout most of Western Europe landlords did not wish to be rid of their peasants but preferred to continue the old arrangements . The liberation of the serfs did not come on their initiative but was imposed by government , largely as a result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation " did not always benefit the peasantry or cause it to move . Particularly in the East , where servile relations were at their worst , the villagers often lost their land altogether in the process of emancipation . To compensate for feudal rights given up the lords took large portions of land , leaving peasant holdings too small to be viable . Thus the peasants were forced to work the lords ' land as hired labor to make ends meet and often lost their own small plots for unpaid debts . The process of cutting the legal ties between land and peasantry was complete , yet the European peasant did not move . Clapham explains why this was so in Prussia , but the statement has wider application than to Prussia alone .  | .. men whose fathers had lived and died time out of mind in the old village and who , generally speaking , were not wanted anywhere else , seldom thought of moving and would probably have failed to move had they tried , especially as the lords , who still had great administrative powers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work on the domain for what they could get . It was not until after 1848 that German villagers began to migrate in appreciable numbers ; and the small folk of the east were the last to learn how to do it.12 Safer and easier travel , conscription with its chance to see some of the world beyond the village , and finally the higher wages of a quickening industrial system eventually led these peasants to the cities , too . Once they had found their way , the tramp of peasant feet fleeing the countryside shook the European continent in the latter part of the nineteenth century . THE CASE OF " JAPAN There remains to be examined one interesting case of a nation that industrialized in roughly the bourgeois pattern , although it is more often considered a unique example of non-European industrialization : Japan . There were significant differences from the Western European experience , particularly in the structure of government and in political ideology ; nevertheless , fundamental similarities can be seen . In the light of the foregoing discussion of bourgeois politics , the three major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully adapted a much greater part of her traditional social structure to industrial needs . Only in recent times , after defeat in war and military occupa-Footnote  | tion , has the old social system really been overturned . This adaptation of the traditional system to industrial requirements proved at a later stage of development a tremendous drag on the further modernization of the economy , but at the beginning the adaptation of the old social system greatly facilitated rapid industrialization . Second , the Japanese government was far more active in promoting and directing economic development than governments in the other cases of bourgeois industrialization . Third , Japanese industrialization was extremely rapid and proceeded very smoothly compared to that of the other bourgeois nations . The similarities and differences between the Japanese and the European experience become apparent when one considers who the industrializers were and how they came to power , how political power was used to increase production and to decrease consumption in order to further capital formation , and how the government facilitated rural ? urban migration . The Industrializers Come to Power The men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meiji Restoration , which brought the shogunate down and restored the Emperor to the center of the political stage . In a rough way , therefore , the centuries of rule of the shogunate represent the stage of primitive unification in Japan . The end of this stage and the beginning of the politics of industrialization followed closely the coming of European traders and gunboats , but the visit of Perry was not the " cause " of the change in Japan . The tightly controlled system that the shoguns had created in an effort to freeze Japanese life into immobility had been disturbed for a century by strong currents of economic and social change that had spread  | discontent and rebellion throughout the land . With the destruction of the shogunate the way was free for change , and the political revolt that brought down the old order also brought the industrializers to power . In Japan , those who gained control of the national government were not themselves members of the bourgeoisie . They were members of the lower ranks of the old aristocracy ? young samurai who saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in wealth and power , and who understood correctly that industrial wealth was at the heart of the national power needed to fend off the encroachments of Europeans . They were , of course , supported by the old merchant-traders who might more properly be called bourgeoisie , and they created the conditions for the emergence of a modern bourgeoisie as industry expanded . After the bureaucrats began industrializing , the ruling bureaucrats and the new big industrialists formed an extremely close alliance , and together they industrialized Japan . An important difference from the European pattern is to be found in the fact that the new rulers of Japan consolidated their power without a major struggle with the agricultural elite . The power of the old elite was quickly and easily pulverized , and the feudal lords were pensioned off with government bonds to compensate them for the loss of their lands and feudal rights . The industrializers of Japan did not need to share power with a hostile landed elite . Nor did they share their power with those below . The industrializers of Japan did not come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality , and fraternity were not the political symbols of Japanese modernization , a fact which contributed to the preservation of much of the old system that was not incompatible with the new industrial  | needs . The Japanese masses were totally cut off from representation in government and from any control of or even voice in national decisions . Once in power , the new governmental elite pushed the development of an industrial economy . Government and private industry were closely allied , and throughout Japanese industrialization government bureaucrats maintained enough direction and regulation of industry to assure that the interests of the government were not forgotten in the development of the economy . Nevertheless , contrary to certain impressions , the overwhelming majority of industrial enterprises were never controlled by government . The vast bulk of the industrial activity of the country ? even during the brief initial period when government was directly involved in the ownership and management of crucial industrial facilities ? was in private hands . From the 187os on , the middle classes grew rapidly in power and wealth , and the views of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the nation . Decisions nevertheless continued to be made by a small elite . Government and Capital Formation It was government that spearheaded the industrialization of Japan and , so far as capital formation was concerned , governmental action was essential in increasing production and limiting consumption . Perhaps the greatest help the government gave to Japanese industrialization lay in the destruction of the portion of the old social order that constituted an obstacle to industrial change , and in the establishment of the framework of law and order essential for industrial growth . More specifically , the Japanese government stimulated industrial production , especially those branches important  | for national power , by financing new activities , patronizing private ventures , shouldering early risks , and in many cases building and managing its own production facilities . In many areas of heavy industry and communications essential for future economic growth , government was directly involved . It owned and managed shipyards , machine shops , iron foundries , and coal mines . It established cement , paper , and glass factories . It built and operated railway and telegraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Japanese government dominated the iron and steel industry , which was so important both for national power and for the future of industrialization itself . Two things should be kept in mind about the direct involvement of the Japanese government in the industrializing economy . First , the influence of governmental investment on economic growth depended far more on the fact that it was concentrated in crucial areas of the economy than on its total size . In fact , none of the government 's investments in industry ( with the exception of iron and steel ) ever went beyond the stage of pilot projects . Thus the total investment of the government in the economy was never large . Second , most of the investments made were liquidated after a brief period . Government holdings were sold to private enterprise at prices extremely advantageous to the purchasers ; the only major exception was the steel industry . Thus bourgeois government in Japan ? as elsewhere ? was bent upon having private interests carry out the industrialization of the country . The government , however , assisted private industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modernize traditional industries . It also propagandized the new knowledge and spurred both general and technical education as well as the adaptation of Western knowledge to Japanese use . Much of the government 's most important aid to eco-  | nomic growth was indirect . As in other bourgeois countries , the core of governmental help was provided through a series of policies favorable to business . Fiscal policies were important , and the bias toward industrial growth can be clearly seen . Government stimulated the growth of new industries by a wide assortment of grants in aid , dividend guarantees , low interest loans , and other measures . The Japanese could not use tariffs in their initial drive for industrialization because they were bound by treaties imposed upon them by European power in 1858 and 1866 , but they became strongly protectionist after 1922 . Other taxes were however used as a powerful tool to stimulate rapid economic development . The whole structure of taxation was extremely favorable to business , and in the initial stages of industrialization the needs of government were financed by heavy taxes on land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinvestment in capital goods . As in other countries , the savings came largely from those least able both to resist and to afford the sacrifice . Political power also played an important role in holding down consumption . The story here follows familiar lines , differing from European experience little except that possibly Japanese policies were even more successful in keeping the living standard of the working population low . It is only necessary to sketch the outlines . Labor unions were forbidden ; strikes brought heavy fines and jail sentences . Freedom of contract was the principle of economic life . In consequence wages were low and hours long . The fourteen-hour day , for example , was common . Child and female labor was widespread , and children and girls in their teens worked under deplorable conditions . The study of the struggle for the amelioration of labor conditions in Japan will look monotonously familiar to those acquainted with labor conditions in the West during  | industrialization . Demands for relief from the acute suffering imposed upon the working population were made early , but no action was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at their worst . Labor had virtually no representation in the Diet . No major labor legislation was passed until 1905 and none enforced until 1916 . This first labor legislation provided for a twelve-hour workday for women and children under fifteen . The ten-hour clay did not come until ten years later and in some industries ( such as textiles ) later still . Night work was not forbidden for children until 19zo . Nor were low pay , long hours , bad working conditions , and child labor the only ways in which the masses of Japan bore the brunt of the difficulties in allowing the economy to accumulate capital . There were other familiar problems . The cities were overcrowded , housing conditions particularly bad , and health conditions hazardous . It hardly need be pointed out that in the case of Japan , technical knowledge and skills were available to ameliorate such conditions , had the government chosen to give a higher priority to improving mass living standards , but the emphasis was on accumulating capital . There can be no doubt that capital formation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that the industrial workers and peasants of Japan paid a major portion of the price for the speed and success of Japanese industrialization . Rural-Urban Migration The Japanese government also played a role in facilitating rural-urban migration , so important in providing the manpower for Japan 's growing industries , and again the picture is well within the bourgeois pattern , although it differs in details .  | As on the European continent , government cleared away the obstacles to migration , but the motive force was to be found elsewhere ? in the " push " of poverty in the countryside and the " pull " of the attractions of city life . An important difference lay in the fact that the Japanese were successful in industrializing without ripping up a major portion of the old agricultural system . The Japanese government , interested in drawing Japanese agriculture into a money economy so that it could be taxed for government revenue , and interested also in exercising more control over this sector of the economy , cleared away the old feudal superstructure , abolishing the han , pensioning off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land , and imposing heavy money taxes on the land . These sound like major changes , but their main effect was , as indicated , to eliminate the superstructure ? to replace the feudal rent collector with the government tax collector . The daily life of the peasants changed little . Land in Japan was already very intensively cultivated , and the peasant family traditionally had taken care of its own needs in many ways . Thus the elimination of serfdom and the establishment of private ownership of the land were far easier to achieve in Japan than in Europe . The reform did mean that the peasant 's hold on his land became more tenuous , for often he went into debt to meet his cash obligations , and many lost land and were reduced to tenantry . The whole process has been summarized by William Lockwood : ... the Meiji " Restoration " wrought remarkably little change in the life of the average peasant , or his system of cultivation . This did not deprive Japanese industry , as it  | subsequently developed , of a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population growth took care of that . Nor did it prevent at least a doubling in agricultural output over the next half century . But it barred the road to any revolutionary advance in farm productivity , which would have required a sharp reduction of population on the land . It thus prolonged the poverty and selfsufficiency of rural life , and applied a persistent drag on industrial advance.13 Japanese agriculture did improve , both in production and in productivity , but this was achieved by a very modest contribution on the part of government and with no siphoning off of savings from the industrial sector of the economy . On the contrary , agriculture was taxed to aid industrialization . Second , Japanese agricultural production was raised without drastic modernization which would have forced a mass migration from the countryside , as in England . It was population pressure ( as well as the small size of farms ) , not the reform of agriculture , that drove Japanese peasants into the cities . Throughout the period of industrialization , the number of peasants on the land remained virtually constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor for the cities . There are , then , several major differences between the role of politics in Japanese industrialization and in the other bourgeois nations we have examined : ( 1 ) The ruling elite who directed industrialization were government bureaucrats , not private capitalists . ( a ) The government took a more active part in stimulating industrialization . ( 3 ) Those in control removed the old agricultural aristocracy from power and therefore did not have to share power Footnote  | with them . ( q , ) The masses were even more completely removed from political participation than in the West and did not gain in power as industrialization proceeded until after Japan 's defeat in World War H. ( 5 ) More of the old system ? political , economic , and social ? was adapted to the needs of industrialization and more of the old forms were preserved . ( 6 ) Japanese industrialization was more rapid than in the West . On the other hand , there were fundamental similarities with bourgeois industrialization in the West : ( 1 ) Though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrialists owned and directed the major industrial enterprises . ( 2 ) The masses were excluded from political and economic power , thus making it possible to hold mass consumption to a minimum while accumulating capital for industrial development . ( 3 ) The national government gave substantial assistance , much of it indirect , to increasing industrial production and to reducing mass consumption . ( q . ) Having helped sever the ties between the peasants and their land , the government stood aside and left the overflow of villagers to find its own way into the cities and industrial centers. ( 5 ) Bourgeois politics in Japan were as elsewhere succeeded by mass democracy , although in the case of Japan this was imposed from outside after military conquest . There is no doubt that Japanese industrialization resembled Western industrialization in many respects , both because of its own internal needs and impulses and because of its conscious imitation of the West . There is also no doubt that in over-all terms Japanese industrialization belongs to the bourgeois tradition . Perhaps we should call it bourgeois totalitarianism instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourgeois industrialization .  | FEATURES OF BOURGEOIS INDUSTRIALIZATION The countries that industrialized under bourgeois governments had certain unique characteristics that set them apart from countries industrializing today . First , they were all relatively advanced countries in terms of economic development , with more capital and higher standards of living than the countries of present-day underdeveloped areas . Perhaps even more important , their preindustrial social systems and the prevailing ethos were more compatible with an industrial economic system . Second , with the exception of Japan , the process of economic development was relatively slow compared to the tempo of change in countries that have industrialized more recently . The countries that modernized within a bourgeois framework were the first to industrialize and they took their time feeling their way from one way of life to another . Differences in tempo can be noted even within the group itself ? as between England , which was the first to industrialize , and the United States , which followed about a hundred years later . This slowness of economic development probably had a direct effect upon the eventual development of mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater governmental responsiveness to popular demands for an improved standard of living . Third , the political leaders , the businessmen , and certainly the common people of the bourgeois democracies ( though not of Japan ) did not have in mind the end results of the process of industrialization when they embarked upon it , for no one had ever made the trip before . For this reason , their aspirations were perhaps much more in keeping with what could actually be achieved in a relatively short span of time . This too was beneficial to the  | prospects for democracy , for it meant that popular demands were not so great as to stop industrialization in its tracks if they were not met at least part-way , and it meant that government officials were not hell-bent on having their countries catch up with more advanced nations , whatever the cost . It is hardly to be expected that other countries lacking these characteristics will go about their industrialization in precisely the same way as the bourgeois democracies . On the other hand , there are certain basic problems that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of government : the placing in power of those who wish to modernize the economy , the accumulation of capital , and rural ? urban migration . In the next two chapters we shall examine the ways in which two other types of political system have handled these problems .  | As it is an error to confuse nineteenth-century bourgeois politics with twentieth-century mass democracy , so it would be misleading to equate stalinist politics with the politics of Khrushchev and his successors or to attribute the obvious differences to matters of temperament and personality . Stalinism , like bourgeois politics , represents a form of the politics of industrialization . With Khrushchev and his successors , however , Russia is leaving the second stage of political growth and entering the third , and her political system is altering itself accordingly . For this reason I prefer to use the term stalinist rather than the more general Communist to describe the period of industrialization in Russian politics . The term can also be applied to the present regime in Communist China . There are , it should be noted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred in industrializing nations ; both gave preponderant political power to industrial managers and their supporters ; both were relatively repressive compared to the systems which followed them ; and the governments of both encouraged high production , low consumption , capital accumulation , and rural ? urban migration .  | The differences are almost too obvious to mention . Where bourgeois governments permitted and encouraged , stalinist governments performed and enforced . And of course the whole pace of industrialization differed . Finally , the savagery of stalinist repression is legendary . THE INDUSTRIALIZERS GAIN CONTROL In Russia and in China , the Communist revolution brought to power a new elite committed to rapid industrialization . This should not obscure the fact that in Russia economic modernization had been proceeding quietly and slowly since the middle of the nineteenth century in much the way that in Western countries had led to the eventual political victory of the bourgeoisie . China had sniffed the scent of modernization in the revolution of Sun Yat-sen . It was the Communists in both China and Russia , however , who slammed the door on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The way in which the new industrializers came to power reveals some similarities to and some fundamental differences from the pattern established by the bourgeois democracies . In the first place , there was a complete eradication of the landed aristocracy which had ruled almost to the eve of the Communist revolutions . Thus there was no period in which the new and the old elites shared governmental power . Second , after the revolution , the working class was eliminated from any influence and control of governmental machinery . Third , the original revolutionaries , who were intellectuals , were replaced in Russia ( not yet in China ) by new rulers who were primarily administrators , and in Russia at least it was this latter group who , a decade after the revolution , began the dizzying climb to full industrial status .  | The New Elite Rules Alone The swift and sudden elimination of the old aristocracy in Russia and China had important consequences . It produced vast dislocations in the government and raised severe problems of governmental continuity and efficiency , but at the same time it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the old . This was a sharp departure from the pattern in the bourgeois countries , where the bourgeoisie and the aristocracy had shared power for decades . Even the French Revolution was followed by a period in which the aristocracy regained considerable power . Such a solution appeared a possibility for Russia for a brief period when both the bourgeoisie and the aristocracy were represented in the short-lived Kerensky government , but the October Revolution overtook and crushed them both . Chiang Kai-shek too achieved a brief compromise between his country 's businessmen and landlords before he and they were removed from power . Because the Russian revolutionaries were in hiding or abroad ( and the Chinese in open revolt ) before the revolution , and because they exterminated or drove out the old elite almost immediately after they themselves gained control of the government , the new rulers never shared power with the old . The amount of continuity was very small and the shock of the transition intense . Both the Bolsheviks and the Chinese Communists , having crushed the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie , nevertheless made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elite who possessed needed skills : army officers , professionals , administrators , and diplomats . But they compelled these individuals to change their roles and to fit completely into the new system . The British lord who  | sat in Parliament with the newly powerful bourgeoisie remained a peer , held onto his land and his privileges , and spoke and voted for his traditional views . But the Tsarist officer who served in the Red Army changed his uniform and his manner of treating his men , followed orders , and cooperated with the commissar sent in beside him . At the first hint of an action in support of the old regime he was out ? and perhaps dead . Even with such control , the new government never trusted employees drawn from the old elite . It kept them for the most part in minor posts and watched them closely . Proletariat Excluded The stalinist industrializers also refused to share their power with the masses ? the proletariat in whose name they ruled . Like the bourgeoisie , they rode to power on a crest of popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from governmental control far more thoroughly than the bourgeoisie ever did . After the Russian Revolution , popular influence and control in government barely existed ; they were extinguished completely when the push toward industrialization began . Some similarity with bourgeois experience can be found . The British and French bourgeoisie , for example , ascended to power with popular support and then turned their backs on their supporters . But here the similarity ends . In the Western bourgeois countries the working classes were shut out from control of the government at the beginning of the period ? when the bourgeoisie was itself fighting for recognition and for control of governmental power ? and in the years immediately after it had achieved control . As the economy progressed and the number of urban dwellers and industrial workers grew the franchise spread , and with the franchise popular control increased as well .  | In the stalinist countries , however , the Western experi ence appears to have been reversed . In the Soviet Union , what little popular control there was was at its greatest during and immediately after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were excluded from the political process , and even now , when Russia is an urban and industrial country and the worst rigors of industrialization are past , popular control has still not appeared . The same can be said for the Chinese case , so far as it goes . The highly propagandized dictatorship of the proletariat has meant in effect that the party dictated to the proletariat and that the party leadership dictated to the party . Popular participation , unlike popular control , increased through the stalinist period in Russia , and here again experience differed from that of the bourgeois democracies , where participation and control grew hand in hand . Stalinist politics separated the two . It placed the individual at the mercy of the national economy and deprived him of any control over the economy or over the government , but at the same time it sought to involve him heavily in the new national life , not only through his economic dependence but also by compelling him to perform a large amount of passive political action . Citizens were deluged with information and propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speeches , and urged to the polls to vote in elections in which there was no choice , Widespread popular participation in politics is an essential ingredient of a modern nation , democratic or totalitarian , and the stalinist countries achieved this earlier in their development than had the bourgeois nations . In Russia and China , universal suffrage preceded the creation of a national economy instead of following it , as in the West . It is obvious , however , that voting has a different function  | in the stalinist countries . As in the underdeveloped countries still in the stage of primitive unification , national elections in Russia and China serve as a time to review accomplishments , belabor enemies , list hopes , and relate the personal life of each citizen to the broader national goals . They serve , in short , as a means of cementing national unity , not as a means of effecting popular control . Intellectuals and Administrators The Soviet Union seems to have witnessed a steady narrowing and focusing of power . First the new elite eliminated the old aristocracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working classes . Then it thinned its own ranks and removed from power most of the original revolutionaries . This was not merely a struggle for power among ambitious men , but a fundamental shift in the nature of the Soviet ruling class : it placed political power exclusively in the hands of those most dedicated to rapid and ruthless industrialization . In Russia the industrializers came to power in two steps ( three , if one includes the abortive attempt of the bourgeois industrialists to govern as part of the Kerensky government ) . First came the original Bolsheviks , deeply committed to economic and social modernization . It was not they , however , who industrialized Russia . The politics of Lenin were not those of industrialization . Lenin 's main preoccupations were to keep the Bolsheviks in power , for their rule was challenged from every side , and to prevent Russia from being dismembered . The politics that industrialized Russia were those of Stalin . The first step was made by those who revolted and acquired power , the second by those who used it to industrialize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of which they were members ( though not leading  | members ) , liquidated the old leaders , and pushed through modernization of the country . The differences in the two groups were reflected not only in their policies but also in the men who carried them out . The Bolsheviks who led the revolution were theorists and intellectuals . This should not be surprising . Intellectuals have the emotional and critical faculties to stand aside and view their own social system and see its faults . As Crane Brinton suggested in his classic The Anatomy of Revolution , one of the signs of coming revolution is the desertion of the existing order by the intellectuals . Equally important , intellectuals are able to picture a new order of things and can invent means to make the transition from one social order to another . The Communists who pushed through rapid industrialization in the 19305 and the 1940S were , on the other hand , political and economic administrators : apparatchiki , party bureaucrats , who ran the Communist Party in Stalin 's time and who still do ? men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical affairs rather than theory . The bureaucrats exterminated the intellectuals with a venom they had not shown even for anti-Communists . The bitterness of the struggle can not be ascribed completely to the personality of the leaders of the dispute or to the immediate circumstances of the quarrel . Stalin 's ruthlessness was important in the elimination of the old guard , but the conflict was more profound . The seeds of the conflict were planted deep in the revolution and in the party of the men who made it . It was a conflict between men who fight authority and those who exercise it . One must not oversimplify . Some intellectuals were bureaucrats and some bureaucrats intellectuals , though the difference in emphasis between the two periods is fairly clear . Moreover , many an apparatchik died in the cellars  | of Lubianka Prison , and more than one theoretician came out unscathed from the liquidation of the old guard . Nevertheless , the distinction is useful . Loss of power by the intellectuals is not unique to Soviet experience . In bourgeois revolutions too , the intellectuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power ; it was the bourgeoisie who carried out the program for which the revolution took place . Much has been written about the debilitating effect of the Russian purges on the Party , the government , and the country , and much of what has been written is true . Yet the purges also served two useful functions for the totalitarian Party . Brzezinski observed that the purges provided an escape valve for popular discontent by allowing the tormented population the pleasure of seeing some of its tormentors get their comeuppance . At the same time , the purges provided openings for upward mobility within the Party and thus gave increased opportunity to lowly but ambitious Party members . ' China provides what may be an interesting variant of the Russian pattern of a changing elite . Here too the revolution was led by intellectuals , but these same leaders have already started on the industrial reorganization and expansion that was carried out by the administrators in the Soviet Union . It seems highly likely that the next generation of Chinese leaders will be more of the bureaucratadministrator type , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of Chinese policy : perhaps greater ideological flexibility and a rapprochement with the Soviet Union in the interests of hastening China 's industrialization . Footnote  | Once in power , Russia 's stalinist industrializers threw every ounce of energy into industrialization , pushing their people and their plant to the limits of endurance to produce more and more and always more . Their efforts to increase production can be summarized under three headings : first , the expansion of capital investment ; second , the provision of the labor necessary to man the new facilities ; and third , the disciplining of raw peasant labor for industrial work . Russia 's new industrializers had three fundamental choices to make in the allocation of scarce capital : the choice between consumption and investment , the choice between industry and agriculture , and the choice between heavy and light industry . Determination of the proper course to follow had been a matter of bitter dispute within the Party and within the economic community in the years preceding the first five-year plan . At that time , Trotsky had headed the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Stalin , however , soon outdid his opponents : once he began to lash Russia through industrialization , his efforts were far in excess of any of Trotsky 's proposals . Partly of his own choice and partly pushed by circumstances , Stalin and his lieutenants saw to it that all the savings that could be scraped together beyond the absolute minimum needs of agriculture were poured into investment in industry , primarily heavy industry . Investment in industry as a whole was twice as large as that in agriculture , despite the fact that Russia was a predominantly agricultural country , and heavy industry Footnote  | was favored over light industry at a ratio of two to one . In the first five-year plan industry received 41 per cent of the total investment while agriculture received 19 per cent , and later plans maintained similar ratios . ' One Can see vividly the stress on heavy industry in the simple fact that metal and metal-products industries received more than half the investment in all manufacturing in the years from 1928 to 1938.4 In China , the mania for heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the first five-year plan and in the " Great Leap Forward " which followed ( 1958-61 ) , the entire country was mobilized into a frenzy to increase industrial production , while agricultural production barely maintained the minimum living standards of the rapidly increasing Chinese population , During the first five-year plan the proportion of investment in heavy industry to light industry reached ratios of seven to one . ' This emphasis on capital investment in heavy industry brought results . Although the Chinese heavy industry drive overextended itself and was followed by a period of sharp retrenchment and renewed attention to agriculture , there is still no doubt that industrial production was expanded greatly . China 's rate of economic growth in the early years of her stalinist period was probably in excess of Russian growth . For the Soviet Union more reliable figures are available . The average rate of increase in large-scale industrial output in the years 1928 to 1937 was probably around 15 to Footnote  | 16 per cent each year , ? and the Soviet national product apparently rose about 6.5 to 7 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high . If one uses American experience as a yardstick and compares U.S. investment during a comparable period of economic history ( the years between the Civil War and World War I ) , it appears that the rates of capital investment were about the same in both countries but that the Russians invested much more heavily in industry and particularly in heavy industry . In consequence , their industrial production rose much more rapidly , as did their over-all production. ? The Soviet annual rate of growth of 6.5 to 7 per cent can be compared with an estimated 4.5 per cent for the United States and 2.8 per cent for Germany. ? The figures suggest that speed of economic growth is an important difference between the experience of the stalinist countries and that of the bourgeois nations . Rural-Urban Migration The expansion of capital facilities was only one line of attack by the stalinist industrializers . Another was the provision of the manpower necessary to run the new facilities . The new industrial labor force was drawn from the countryside through massive rural-urban migration and through rapid shifting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most significant achievements of Stalin 's regime was its brutal success in Footnote  | getting Russian peasants off the land and remolding them into an industrial labor force . Stalinist politics did not , of course , initiate the parallel movements into the cities and into industrial work , but what had been a trickle now became a tidal wave . How deeply peasant Russia was before the revolution can be gauged by the fact that in 1913 there were fewer than two industrial factory workers per hundred persons in the total population . One must go back before 1820 to find such a low figure in the United States.10 Even as late as 1926 , four fifths of Russia 's workers were engaged in agriculture.1 ' In the next thirteen years , some twenty-five million persons moved from rural to urban areas , and the number of people working in nonagricultural pursuits at least doubled.12 This shift from agricultural to nonagricultural work is an important element ( and indicator ) of over-all industrialization . The growth of Soviet cities during these years is truly impressive . In 1926 there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger than 200,000 ; in 1939 there were thirty-nine . The major administrative centers doubled in population , Moscow reaching four million and Leningrad three million . All in all , the urban population of the U.S.S.R. doubled in the period of a little more than twelve years between the two censuses of 1926 and 1939.13 This mass migration to the cities came about in response to both push and pull exerted by the Soviet authorities and Footnote  | by the industrial system . The push was collectivization . The cohorts of the Communist Party stormed the countryside and took the peasants on ; the war between them soon took on the characteristics of a fight to the finish . The kulaks dug in . They hid the grain . They refused to join the collectives . Worst of all , they slaughtered their animals rather than let them be collectivized . The severity of the battle for collectivization was recognized by the authorities . When Winston Churchill visited Russia in 1943 , he asked Stalin whether the stresses of the war had been as bad for Stalin personally as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the collective farm policy was a terrible struggle . " 14 In one respect the stalinist drive to collectivize the land was similar to the English enclosures and dissimilar from the experience of the rest of Europe , for the English enclosures not only broke the bonds of the peasantry but also expelled the villagers from the land . In Russia too the collectivization of the land during the first five-year plan severed the tie between peasants and land , pushed large numbers of peasants into the manufacturing centers , and broke up forever the old peasant society . The pull in the great migration was exerted by the expansion of industrial facilities with its promise of jobs and a higher standard of wages and living . Over the years the push became less important and the pull more significant . Together they uprooted Russia 's vast , backward peasantry . Chinese experience with rural ? urban migration appears to be different , primarily because of China 's different population problem . In China the early years of industrialization were accompanied by large-scale movements to the cities , as peasants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the rigors of country life and in search of the higher standards of living that prevailed in the urban centers , but the government fought this human wave back and forced many of the migrants to return to their villages . The reasons for this policy are fairly plain . China 's population was increasing by twelve to fifteen million people each year , while urban employment was increasing about one million . So long as industrial employment could not keep up with the rate of natural increase , the bulk of the burgeoning population had to be kept on the land where it would not upset the workings of the small but crucial modern sector of the economy . Rural ? urban migration is taking place in industrializing China and will continue to take place , but so far as inadequate information reveals , it seems that the role of the national government at this point is to limit and control the movement rather than to encourage it . New Values Physical movement is not enough to create a modern labor force . Probably the most difficult part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes that transform peasant villagers into urban dwellers and disciplined industrial workers . These values and attitudes are the social underpinnings of any successful industrial system . They are the social capital of an industrial society , more difficult to create than any other capital , for capital goods can be purchased from abroad and the ability to make them and run them can be learned from books and from foreign technicians , but changes in values and attitudes must be home-grown . There is no more difficult , slow , or painful process .  | Ordinarily such a change requires at least three generations . Nations seeking to industrialize rapidly therefore find themselves confronted with a serious bottleneck . Stalinist politics hastened the process and squeezed the population through the bottleneck . The essence of the problem of transforming the peasant into an industrial worker and the stalinist solution to the problem are beautifully presented by Arthur Koestler in his novel Darkness at Noon . This dialogue takes place between Gletkin , the NKVD interrogator who personifies the new administrators , and Rubashov , an old guard Bolshevik whom Gletkin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used in the Moscow treason trials of 1938 . Gletkin : " Industrial sabotage is , according to experience , the most effective means for the opposition to create difficulties for the Government , and to produce discontent amongst the workers . Why do you so stubbornly maintain that you did not use ? or intend to use ? just this method ? " " Because it is a technical absurdity , " said Rubashov . " And this perpetual harping on the saboteur as a bogyman produces an epidemic of denunciation which revolts me . " The long-missed sensation of triumph caused Rubashov to feel fresher and speak louder than usual . " If you hold sabotage for a mere fiction , what , in your opinion , are the real causes of the unsatisfactory state of our industries ? " " Too low piece-work tariffs , slave-driving and barbaric disciplinary measures , " said Rubashov . " I know of several cases in my Trust in which workers were shot as saboteurs because of some trifling negligence caused by over-tiredness . If a man is two minutes late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is put in his identity-papers which makes it impossible for him to find work elsewhere . "  | Gletkin looked at Rubashov with his usual expressionless gaze , and asked him , in his usual expressionless voice : " Were you given a watch as a boy ? " Rubashov looked at him in astonishment . The most conspicuous trait of the Neanderthal character was its absolute humorlessness or , more exactly , its lack of frivolity . " Do n't you want to answer my question ? " asked Gletkin . " Certainly , " said Rubashov , more and more astonished . " How old were you when the watch was given you ? " " I do n't quite know , " said Rubashov ; " eight or nine probably . " " I , " said Gletkin in his usual correct voice , " was sixteen years old when I learnt that the hour was divided into minutes . In my village , when the peasants had to travel to town , they would go to the railway station at sunrise and lie down to sleep in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at about midday ; sometimes it only came in the evening or next morning . These are the peasants who now work in our factories . For example , in my village is now the biggest steel-rail factory in the world . In the first year , the foremen would lie down to sleep between two emptyings of the blast furnace , until they were shot . In all other countries , the peasants had one or two hundred years to develop the habit of industrial precision and of the handling of machines . Here they only had ten years . If we did not sack them and shoot them for every trifle , the whole country would come to a standstill and the peasants would lie down to sleep in the factory yards until grass grew out of the chimneys and everything became as it was before . Last year a women 's delegation came to us from Manchester in England . They were shown everything , and afterwards they wrote indignant articles , saying that the textile workers in Manchester would never stand such treatment . I have read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old . I have also read , what the treatment of the workers there was like two hundred years ago , when it started . You , Comrade  | Rubashov , have just used the same arguments as this women 's delegation from Manchester . You , of course , know better than these women . So one may wonder at your using the same arguments . But then , you have something in common with them : you were given a watch as a child . . .. " 15 Repression Repression permeated the stalinist system from top to bottom and was heavily relied upon to bring about changes in the behavior and attitudes of Soviet workers and management . For management , there was the constant fear of losing one 's job , one 's status , sometimes one 's freedom , possibly one 's life . Failure to meet production quotas could and often did mean dismissal , and when the stalinist executive lost his job , he lost everything . Unlike his bourgeois counterpart , who quite likely found employment elsewhere , the stalinist executive who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the same employer , like a general " busted " to the ranks . Furthermore , with the loss of his job , his entire standard of living disappeared in an instant . For the Russian executive , gone was the car that went with his job , gone the apartment in town and the country house , gone the vacation trip ? gone were all the luxuries , comforts , and decencies that money buys in a capitalist society but which were perquisites of rank in stalinist Russia . Small wonder managers ran scared and lashed their enterprises to meet the production quotas . Ordinary workers , too , faced punishment for failure to meet the new standards . Tardiness and absenteeism could be punished with dismissal ? a law appeared on Soviet Footnote  | books allowing the dismissal of workers for a single day of unexplained absence . The excessive fluidity of undisciplined industrial labor was fought by requiring internal passports and the granting of visas by the police before workers could travel or change residence . People were not permitted to stay in the cities without employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the northern regions where workers would not go voluntarily.16 In China the industrialization drive brought similar measures to frighten labor and management into modern behavior . Special courts were set up to handle " economic offenses , " and supervisory bodies were created in each factory to maintain labor discipline , Workers were sent to prison for economic " sabotage , " absenteeism , mismanagement of materials , and so on , As in Russia , the authorities often adopted a scapegoat technique , blaming " capitalist " ideas , " decadent " outlook , and even " counterrevolutionaries " for the chaos , low quality , and high accident rate that characterized much of the crash program of industrialization . In both Russia and China the stalinists have used forced labor as an important tool in building the industrial system . This has been one of the greatest differences between stalinist politics and other political systems that have achieved economic modernization . Under Stalin , the Soviet police were given increased power and a large amount of economic activity was placed under their direct control . No one knows for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the number ran into the millions . Nor is the composition of that labor force known for certain , although it is safe to say that it included common criminals , political prisoners , Footnote  | and peasants who ran afoul of the authorities during the collectivization drive . There have even been suggestions that the police co-opted people whose skills were needed for their enterprises , whether those seized had committed any offense or not . By and large , forced labor was widely used for those unattractive tasks for which free labor could not be obtained in sufficient quantities , such as building roads , railroads , and canals or lumbering in bad climatic conditions . Forced labor has also been widely used in China , where by official admission the great majority of " criminals " ( including " feudal landlords " and " bureaucrat-capitalists " ) were allowed to " reform through labor . " Firm figures are obviously lacking , but the Chinese Nationalist government estimated in 1952 that there were more than eight million forced laborers in mainland China . They have been used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lumbering and building roads , railroads , conservation works , and military installations.17 The Chinese have also used military labor extensively for such projects . There is good evidence that forced labor is extremely inefficient , but this has not been economically important to Soviet or Chinese authorities , since the investment in forced labor was very low , and capital was in scarce supply and simply not available for this kind of enterprise . In addition , forced labor served the political function of ruthlessly destroying political opposition by removing politically " dangerous " elements from circulation and by striking terror into the hearts of those who remained . The Chinese also apparently hoped to achieve some genuine political conversions through political-education programs at the labor camps . Footnote  | Incentives No political system can rely primarily upon repression to govern and change its people . In the stalinist drive to create a modern labor force , the carrot as well as the stick was used . In Russia , the egalitarian strain in Soviet life was all but abandoned in an immense program of graduated rewards for different kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical need for increasing the wage differential for skill . Differentials in wages were only part of the story . They were , to be sure , a crucial element in the new inequality , but wage incentives were supplemented by rewards in kind . In an economy of acute scarcity it is equally important to have access to commodities that are generally unavailable , and in Russia favored workers were allowed the right to such important goods as worker housing where empty apartments for others were simply not available . Material rewards were tied to increasing productivity by putting most Russian production ( and a large amount of Chinese production ) on a piecework basis . Norms were laboriously worked out , and every increase over the assigned output was recompensed . In Russia , shock workers ? Stakhanovites , Oudarniki , Subbotniki ? were singled out as models for other workers to emulate , their main function being that in effect of Judas goats to lead their fellow workers to higher productivity and better industrial habits . China had her " labor heroes . " The message they preached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others know , take better care of your tools , stay in your job , produce more than others do , and you will live better than your fellows . Shock workers also had other functions . The accomplish-  | ments of the Stakhanovites , for example , were used as rough indicators of what could be done and therefore pointed up the lowness of existing productivity standards and sometimes resulted in higher norms for all . For this they were heartily disliked . The Stakhanovites also served as an important link between the elite and the mass of workers . They did the same work as other workers , but they had the values and sampled the life of the elite . Their wages were many times higher than their fellows ' ; they received the best worker housing available , shopped in special shops , vacationed in special resorts , were elected to important political posts where worker representation was thought important , and generally rubbed shoulders with the national elite . Thus incentives for workers as well as for management played a large and important role in persuading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Education In addition to repression and rewards , the stalinist system relied upon widespread education as a long-range measure to create a modern labor force . Well aware that rapid industrialization is impossible without a literate population and a broad stream of highly trained professionals , the Soviet and Chinese governments placed great emphasis on education . Stalin 's regime is noted for its massive and successful attack on illiteracy and for the rapidity with which peasant Russia began turning out highly trained personnel . China has also mounted a major drive against illiteracy , though she faces special difficulties as a result of the complexities of the Chinese language , and has reformed and expanded her education system . Here the stalinist countries have benefited by bourgeois experience and have tailored it to fit their needs . In the stalinist countries , mass education has preceded , not fol-  | lowed , industrialization , and from the very beginning the governments have concentrated on turning out the specialized scientists and technicians required by a highly industrialized economy . By knowing from bourgeois experience where they were headed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the training of top industrial personnel . The result has been somewhat anomalous . In Russia , where education has proceeded furthest , the usual occupational pyramid has been replaced in many industries by an odd distribution of training : the pyramid still has a broad base and a high peak , but the middle layers of supporting personnel are often lacking . Nevertheless , the emphasis on education has greatly speeded Soviet industrialization and promises to do the same for the Chinese . In addition , stalinist governments have created through their education programs an important source of support for the regime . Education provides a major ladder for upward mobility , particularly in the early years of stalinist rule when schooling is offered to large numbers of peasants and workers from uneducated families ( Premier Khrushchev is a famous example ) , and it is usual for those who rise to become strong supporters of the system that has improved their lot . These , then , are the means by which the stalinist governments have sought to increase production : heavy capital investment , particularly in heavy industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushing peasants into industry and retraining them for new work and new attitudes toward work . LOW CONSUMPTION Stalinist politics are also noteworthy for their success in holding down consumption during the early years of industrialization . Indeed , the most significant indication  | that Russia is now passing out of the second stage of political growth and entering the third lies in the relaxation of the government 's iron grip on the standard of living . During the stalinist era , low consumption was simply the other , less attractive side of the coin marked heavy capital investment . Russians have boasted of the speed with which they industrialized the Soviet economy and increased the national income . In the long run this has meant higher living standards , but in the early years such rapid increases in production were possible only if much of the meager output was plowed right back into capital investment instead of flowing into consumer goods . The figures tell the story : from 1928 to 1937 net capital investment more than quadrupled , while consumption rose somewhere on the order of 10 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was very roughly about 11 or 12 per cent , 19 so per capita consumption apparently declined on the whole , though of course there were increases for some groups and decreases for others as well as shifts in the nature of goods consumed . Thus , despite all promises of higher living standards , Russia 's new rulers held consumption down to the old subsistence levels . And promises had indeed been made . Voluntary sacrifices and major efforts were asked of the Russian people with the promise that in a few years the Soviet Union would enjoy the highest standard of living in the world , but the reward was slow in coming , and in the end the sacrifices were greater than anyone could have believed a people would make . Footnote  | In China , industrial workers in the early stalinist years apparently experienced some rise in wages and in living standards , 20 but the great mass of the peasantry experienced little if any improvement . Distribution of food and clothing was equalized considerably and the outright starvation of the past due to famines was largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with problems of famine and flood , low agricultural production , and peasant hoarding . In general , the government has apparently succeeded in maintaining living standards just high enough to avoid mass peasant resistance while at the same time gathering the maximum possible amount of produce for consumption by city workers , for reserves in case of famine , and for export to the Soviet Union in return for imports of capital equipment . The stalinist governments have used some means to keep down mass consumption which parallel those employed in bourgeois politics , although of course the role of the government has been much more direct . Like the bourgeoisie in its day , the stalinists denied the ordinary workers any voice in defense of their own interests . Where the bourgeoisie had denied them the franchise , the stalinists insisted they vote but gave them no choice in elections . And in more immediate economic concerns , where the bourgeoisie had prohibited all trade unions , the stalinists encouraged union organization but perverted the unions into instruments of production . Trade unions in the Soviet Union and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal responsibility for disciplining labor and for encouraging higher productivity as well as for running a large welfare program . Wages were government-controlled , with a large percentage of the population working in government-owned Footnote  | enterprises , and low ( nonexistent for forced labor ) ; hours were long . Moreover , the already slim wages of the working population were further reduced in Russia by compulsory subscriptions to state loans and dues so that another io per cent of wages was siphoned off from mass consumption . In China , the organization of cooperatives and then of communes increased the government 's control over wage levels and standards of consumption . As in bourgeois industrialization , the use of female labor ( but not child labor ) in difficult tasks was widespread . Both Soviets and Chinese boast that there is no discrimination in jobs on the basis of sex , but there can be little doubt that one of the reasons many women went into the labor market was less the relaxation of discrimination than the more important fact that one breadwinner was not enough to support a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair to take note of a vigorous countercurrent to the depression of living standards , primarily in the field of social welfare . Both Russian and Chinese governments made the most vigorous efforts to improve the health of the people during the period of early industrialization . In Russia , the personnel in health services more than tripled in about twelve years ; so did the number of hospital beds . Mortality from many diseases dropped sharply , 21 and the life expectancy of ordinary citizens rose . China also claims to have reduced the death rate sharply through improvements in health and sanitation . Welfare provisions have been made available to Russian and Chinese industrial workers at a far earlier point in the nation 's economic development than was the case in the bourgeois nations . Though working conditions were poor , more attention was paid to safety . And though the Footnote  | general level of wages was low , sick benefits , maternity benefits , and retirement pensions eased the lot of those who could no longer work . For Russia there has always been dispute about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid industrialization . Certainly it was high . The picture brought back by eyewitnesses of the early days of industrialization is grim : the scarce and almost inedible food , the endless queues , the lack of medicines , the worn-out clothes , the canvas shoes worn even in the big cities and in winter , the obvious overcrowding , the houses rotting from lack of repairs , the unpaved streets , the near-famine in much of the countryside , the anxiety about the future . How many Soviet citizens paid with their lives for Russian industrialization ? How many died in labor camps ? How many died of famine ? How many peasants died during transportation away from their land in the collectivization drive ? How many workers died in industrial accidents ? How many died of diseases that could have been cured ? How many babies were never born in the hard years of famine and overwork ? And , in comparison , what would the death toll have been from want and disease and repression if there had been no industrialization in Russia ? It is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of industrialization and collectivization may have cost the U.S.S.R. more than five million lives , 22 but this is a guess , albeit an informed one . We can only conclude that the figure was high . There is , of course , no count at all of those who suffered but did not perish . Now the Chinese have embarked upon the same course , and the price they pay will in all probability be even higher , for China faces even more difficult problems than Footnote  | Russia faced . For those at the bottom of Chinese society life has always been hard ? far harder than anything European peasants ever experienced . For them industrialization has probably brought some improvement , even in the early years . But the masses of Chinese , always a little hungry , always badly dressed and badly housed , now bear the additional burdens of vast overwork , stifling regimentation , constant indoctrination , and fierce repression . China 's first sprint of industrial expansion has been followed by a period of exhaustion and recuperation , but the worst still lies ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese through whatever hardships are required to reach the promised land of industrial plenty . CONCLUSION Russia , like the bourgeois nations before her , has passed through the difficult process of industrialization and achieved full industrial status . She did so more rapidly and probably more painfully than her Western predecessors . This fact , which we all take for granted today , presents the West its greatest challenge , for it proves something now obvious although once highly doubtful : that a totalitarian political system and a government-controlled economy can accomplish economic modernization . China has elected to follow the same path , and it is probable that at least some other nations will make the same choice . The Soviet Union today is poised in the middle between her adversaries . China , her rival for leadership within her own international order , is one stage behind her : the Chinese have completed their primitive unification and embarked upon the politics of industrialization . Russia 's Western antagonists , on the other hand , have left the stage  | of the politics of industrialization and are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national welfare . Thus Russia is one stage ahead of one of her adversaries and one stage behind all the rest . It will be interesting to see what innovations the Soviet Union introduces into the politics of national welfare , just as it will be interesting to see what variations China offers on the Communist style of the politics of industrialization . Contrary to current belief , there seems some justification for believing that China 's political system will show more resemblance to Russia 's after her administrators come to full power . On the other hand , there seems little reason for believing that Russia 's course through the politics of national welfare will parallel that of the West any more closely than her path to industrialization has followed that of Europe . Broad similarities there are , but the Communist path is a new and distinctive one . However , the bourgeois and stalinist paths to industrial growth and power are not the only ones . History has already recorded a third way : that of fascist politics . It is to this third alternative that we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the term fascist is today an insult . It is used by the left to describe almost any regime that meets with disfavor , and even more cautious souls of the center find fascist a handy term for any authoritarian , nationalistic , aggressive political system that is not clearly Communist . Using the word in this general fashion , one may call fascist such diverse political systems as those of Hitler , Mussolini , Franco , Salazar , Peron , Nasser , Batista , and Trujillo . Such use , however , does not reveal much about the nature of fascism . For my part , I prefer to use fascist more narrowly . The men named above have ruled nations at very different stages of political development . The Dominican Republic under Trujillo and Italy under Mussolini had little in common except for some elements of repression . And refugees from the Nazis who escaped into Italy noticed immediately the very profound differences between National Socialism and fascism . It was usual to suggest that differences in national character were responsible , and certainly the difference between Teuton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for only part of the difference . For a more complete explanation , one must consider the levels of modernization . Fascism will be used in this book to refer to one of the varieties of the politics of industrialization : a system that arises only in stage two , that springs from fundamentally similar social and economic conditions in each case ; that represents , as we shall see , a peculiar compromise between two ruling elites ; and that contributes in recognizably similar ways to the shape and the pace of industrialization . Viewed in this light , Hitler was an authoritarian dictator , a nationalist , an aggressor , a represser , and a madman , but he was not a fascist , for Germany was fully industrial when Hitler came to power . In terms of the stages of political development presented in this book , the Nazi system was not a form of the politics of industrialization but a variant of the politics of national welfare , and it is as such that we shall consider it later . Nor can Trujillo be included as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule was autocratic and repellent to democrats does not make it fascist ? any more than Nero 's rule in Rome was fascist . Trujillo 's rule does not belong to stage two either , but is one of the personal or family autocracies so common in the politics of primitive unification . For Italy , Spain , and Argentina , on the other hand , the relationship between fascist politics and industrialization is quite clear . It is no accident that Italy became industrial under Mussolini , that Spain gained industrial status under Franco , or that Peron sailed into power on the same wave that lifted Argentina into industrial life.l Each of these Footnote  | cases differs from the others ( and this is especially so for Peronismo , which represents a mutation in the fascist genes ) , but the role of fascist politics is similar in each . It is also necessary to broaden the fascist category to include current and future examples of political systems that resemble the earlier fascist states in some regards but not in others . It appears likely , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political systems that are neither bourgeois nor stalinist and certainly not socialist , despite their occasional claims . Some of these governments will closely resemble fascist governments in their structure , in their support , and in their handling of industrialization , but they may embrace ideologies which differ considerably from the old model . Fashions in politics change with the times , and the downfall of Hitler and Mussolini , combined with the unquestioned supremacy in power and prestige of the United States and the Soviet Union , have virtually guaranteed that no modern government will call itself fascist or consciously model its institutions after those of Italy , Spain , or Argentina . There are , however , in the world today nations that stand at the same point as those nations did when they became fascist , nations that share the same problems and may adopt similar solutions , whatever they may be called . For the sake of simplicity , let us invent a new word and call all these fascist and fascistlike systems syncratic , 2 reserving the term fascist for the politics of Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he chooses , Footnote  | but he should remember the way in which they are used here . THE SYNCRATIC SETTING Syncratic politics usually begin when a country is not yet industrial but when industrialization has already started and the economy is well along the path to full industrialization . Italy and Spain were economically relatively underdeveloped countries when fascism began ( with Spain the more backward of the two ) , while in Argentina , on the other hand , fascism finally " took " when the country had almost become industrial . The span of economic development during which a syncratic political system may make its appearance is therefore fairly broad . However , as we have noted , syncratic politics do not occur in a country that is highly nonindustrial or in one already fully industrialized . The span of the developmental process in which syncratic politics may occur is determined first by the shifting distribution of power among major groups within the developing nation , a shift that is directly attributable to economic and social modernization , and second by the fact that there are three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict is between the industrial and the agricultural elites : in Marxian terms , between the owners of capital and the owners of land ? or between the new industrialists and the old landlords , to use more common terms . The second conflict is between each of the elites and its respective employees or tenants . A third conflict , less important for our analysis , exists between the peasant villagers and the industrial workers . ( See diagram , page 126 . ) Let us examine these conflicts , beginning with the struggle between the elites.  | Figure Conflict between the Elites Of the three conflicts , it is the antagonism between the industrial and agricultural leaders that is most significant , so far as development is concerned . This conflict is of course not limited to syncratic countries . It existed in stalinist countries , where revolution annihilated the old agricultural elite , and it existed in bourgeois countries , where the old landed aristocracy and the new industrialists struggled for power for nearly a century . In the syncratic countries , however , the conflict has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely resolved . Consider the often-noted alienation of Italy 's peasant south from her industrial north , the  | similar hostility between the industrial north and the agricultural south in Spain , and the bitterness between the portenos and the provincianos of Argentina . There is , not surprisingly , some overlap of personnel and attitudes between the two elites . Some of the landlords have invested in industry and some of the new industrialists have purchased large estates . Some of the landlords use industrial and commercial techniques in the management of their land , and some of the industrialists retain attitudes toward their labor that stem directly from the attitudes of landlords toward their peasants . Both elites will unite in putting down any attack from below . Beneath this surface unity , however , the two elites stand in deep antagonism to each other . Their economic roles are almost antithetical , for the main function of the early industrialist is to save and to invest part of the savings , while the landlord in a peasant society is primarily a consumer . Moreover , the proper performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is profoundly disturbing to the other . Much the same is true of the social values the two elites hold and encourage . For example , in the crucial matter of work values , the attitudes of each portion of the elite spells doom for the other . The industrialists place a high value on work , even toil , and consider the leisured landed gentry parasitical . The gentry , for its part , by and large regards " practical " work , and certainly all manual labor , demeaning . The industrialists initially require labor possessing new skills and eventually come to require a mass market possessing the desire for a higher standard of living . However , the diffusion of economic skills and experience among the population represents a deep threat to the important class divisions of the old agricultural world , and dis-  | satisfaction of the peasantry with its traditional living standard is the last thing the landed aristocracy wishes to create . In two important respects the industrial sector of the economy grows at the expense of the agricultural sector . The industrial sector steals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turns them into factory hands . Rural-to-city migration , as we have seen , is a crucial element of industrialization , and movement off the farms and into urban life is important both in shifting the labor force away from agricultural work and in destroying the peasant system of values that dominates the countryside . The loss of their peasants galls the agricultural elite , not simply because they are needed to work the land , for unemployment and underemployment are rife in the countryside and , at least at the beginning , there is usually plenty of surplus labor available . It galls the landed elite because the departure of the few upsets the many who remain behind . Those who leave return to visit or write and tell of the life outside the village , and this disturbs the stability and upsets the inevitability of village life and the firmness of the landlord 's rule . The possibility of leaving also offers an alternative to the peasants and they begin to speak up , to complain , and to " forget their place . " The first way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense of its adversary , then , is by taking away part of agriculture 's labor and creating discontent among the rest . Second , the industrial sector forces the agricultural portion of the economy to save and to invest most of its savings in the underpinnings of an industrial society . This is accomplished through taxation . In developing countries in the twentieth century it is governments that build the base required for an industrial economy . Taxes go at  | least in part for roads , schools , health measures , hospitals , and the development of urban centers . All of these are essential to the industrializing portion of the economy , but they are not needed ? indeed , they are highly disturbing ? in the life of a peasant society . What need is there for roads in the countryside when peasants have nowhere to go but to their fields and can walk or ride their mules ? What need is there for literacy when a peasant can learn all he needs to know from his father ? What need is there for hospitals to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarce and there is not even enough work for healthy men ? The very payment of taxes also irritates the landed gentry , although they do not pay much . Why should they pay at all for purposes of which they do not approve ? Why should they pay for the destruction of their own society ? Deep-seated hostility between the two elites exists from the first appearance of the industrialists to the last gasp of the landed aristocracy , but the relative power position of the two is an important factor in providing the preconditions for a syncratic system . Syncratic governments have typically come to power at a time when the country was not yet industrial and the industrial elite was still weaker than the agricultural elite . Consider the influence of the two elites on the machinery of government in the years preceding syncratic rule . Both elites may be represented in the legislatures , but the agricultural elite always holds an important advantage over its rival , in both numbers and influence . In the executive , the advantage of the agricultural elite is even greater , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserve of the landed aristocracy : the officer corps of the armed services , for example , and the diplomatic corps . In both Italy and Spain ,  | the advantage of the agricultural elite was substantial in the years preceding the advent of fascism . In Argentina , the industrial elite had almost drawn abreast with the agricultural elite in wealth and economic power in the years preceding the military coup that opened the way for fascism , but even here the government was dominated by agriculturalists . It is interesting that the more even distribution of power between the two elites in Argentina was later influential in turning the course of Argentine fascism in a different direction from that of Italy and Spain . Finally , it is important to note not only the relative power of the two elites in the presyncratic era but also their future prospects . The industrial elite , though weaker , is catching up with the landed aristocrats in wealth and power , and although the present may not be satisfactory to the industrialists , they can look forward to a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run it their own way . The agricultural elite , on the other hand , may be satisfied with the existing situation but fears the future . As we shall see , both the actual circumstances of the two elites and their own perception of the future are important elements in the development of the syncratic system . Conflict between Proletariats The conflict between the two elites is reflected and continued in a lesser conflict between their followers . The residue of the hostility between peasant villagers and urban workers is still to be observed , even in the most industrial societies , where the clash between the value systems of the two worlds continues to echo . The differences are real . On the part of the villager , they stem from the fact that the peasant is the repository  | of tradition and therefore deeply conservative in his outlook . His feelings about the city are ambivalent , however . On the one hand , it has deep attractions for him : witness the wholesale desertion by peasants of the land . On the other hand , the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The uncertainty , the pace , and the pressure of urban life are deeply unsettling . For urban people , country life is often the object of pleasant fantasies . They say that they envy the villager the slow pace , the serenity , and the beauty of his environment . In his dealings with the villager , however , the urban dweller often shows ill-disguised contempt for the peasant 's slowness , for the poverty and drab monotony of his life , and for his provincialism . Such attitudes run deep and sometimes have important political consequences . Peasant troops and peasant feelings have often proved a strong bulwark against modernization or revolution or both . Conflict with Those Below In any industrializing country the conflict between the elites is complemented and obscured by the even sharper conflict between each of the elites and its supporting workers . Particularly in the industrial sector , the old battle between rich and poor assumes new forms and new proportions . A similar struggle goes on in the agricultural sector as peasants seek to safeguard their rights and improve the terms on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom to do as they please while retaining the old high rents . The conflict here is less sharp than in industry , for the peasants are restrained by tradition , weak organization , and a fatalistic failure to realize the degree to which they might manipulate their social environment .  | Furthermore , in an industrializing society , those peasants who are most dissatisfied " solve " the peasant question by migrating to the cities and ceasing to be peasants . In the industrial sector the conflict is more marked , first , because so many of the industrial occupations and situations are new with no tradition of docility ? indeed with no tradition at all ; second , because industrial workers work and live in a proximity which makes their eventual organization into unions easier ; and third , because the early industrialists squeeze them right down to and sometimes below the level of subsistence . Low living standards for the mass of workers are perhaps unavoidable in a period of early industrialization , when productivity is low and sufficient savings for reinvestment can hardly be gathered without scrimping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stalinist cases attest , early industrialists have come close to the limits of human endurance in the sacrifices they have imposed upon their workers . Under both systems , the savings for investment in capital goods have been created in large part at the expense of the living standards of the working population . Presyncratic industrialists have done the same , following for the most part the bourgeois path . Presyncratic society , then , is split in four by a combination of class conflict and conflict between the two elites and between the two proletariats . Of the three conflicts , the fight between the two elites is the most divisive because it can end only in the defeat of one elite by the other . In the long run there can not be coexistence and there can not be two winners and , on the basis of all previous experience , it is the agricultural elite that perishes in the struggle . The conflict between the industrial elite and its workers is of a different nature , for not only do both survive but the hostility between them abates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is enough to raise standards of living as well as to invest and maintain industrial growth . It is important for the growth of syncratic government that these conflicts become acute and come to the surface , but it is also important that attention be focused mainly on the struggle between the elites and the working class : on the strikes , the lockouts , the street disorders , and the revolutionary talk . This serves to hide from public view and from the participants themselves ) the bitter struggle between the two elites . The Surfacing of the Conflicts In the three major historical cases of syncratic politics ( Italy , Spain , and Argentina ) , the circumstances which rendered these conflicts acute and brought them to the surface were an initial massive surge in the modernization of the country followed by a sudden and sharp slowdown in industrial growth . It was rapid industrial growth which accelerated the move away from an agricultural way of life and roused the agricultural elite to new alarm and to new political action in its war with the industrial elite . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attempts at retrenchment which followed were primarily responsible for turning the latent war between industrialists and workers into open economic warfare complete with strikes , street brawls , and talk of revolution . In each case the fundamental cause of the speedup in industrialization was war , and the cause of retrenchment was the adjustment to peacetime when the war ended . World War I served to start Italy and Spain on the road to fascism , and World War II put Argentina on the same track . Let us review the case of Italy as an example .  | Italy before the first world war was still largely an underdeveloped country moving toward industrial status at a rapid pace . With the war , however , the modern and industrial portion of the country received a different stimulus , for the war provided an insatiable market for a wide variety of military goods . Moreover , the war with its draft and the war work with its need for labor provided a double stimulus to migration off the farms . Peasant Italy was rudely shaken , and the shift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the needs of war prevented the conflict between the elites from erupting into the open . After the war ended , other social strife kept the attention of the nation away from this central struggle . The end of the war brought new social and economic problems . Foremost was the need to reabsorb into society both the war veterans and the large number of civilian workers who had moved to the cities in search of better jobs and were now returning home . Both veterans and recent urban dwellers faced difficulties in settling back into agricultural and village life . In addition to these difficulties , industry was forced to retrench and did so in large part by holding down wages and by trimming its labor rolls . Commercial agriculture followed suit . Organized labor responded by enlisting new members and by joining with militant political parties to resist the threat of re-establishing ante bellum labor conditions . Strikes and disorders broke out both in the cities and in the Italian countryside . The strikes and the revolutionary talk ( which was considerable , though not in responsible quarters ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' took on a Footnote  | sinister tinge in the popular mind , where they were connected with revolutionary activities in Russia . There was , in fact , no danger of revolution in Italy , but the strikes and the threats frightened the middle classes , especially the lower middle class , for they were at the edge of the great social divide and their fear of becoming declassed was ( and still is ) real and potent . Perhaps more important , the strikes frightened and angered the latifundists and the industrialists , who were the real and immediate targets of the strikers . The revolutionary talk distres , , ed the Church by its antireligious bent and angered the Army with its rejection of the sacrifices of the recent war . Right or wrong , the social and economic unrest alarmed all these elements of the elite , who feared the disorders were the first step to revolution . Faced with new dangers from below , the elites found it possible to compromise their differences to make common cause against the enemy . In short , they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The situation in Spain was not dissimilar , although fascism arrived in Spain in two stages : first the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera , and second the civil war of Franco . Here , too , World War I stimulated a need for Spanish goods , though Spain was not a combatant , and the end of the war ushered in a period of stagnation and unrest . In the republican interlude after Rivera 's dictatorship ended , the industrial sector of the economy again jumped forward and aggravated the differences between the two elites . And in Spain also the conflict between agriculturalists and industrialists was smothered by the fear of the fury from below , particularly in the period preceding the rise of Franco . In Argentina , events were slightly different , though  | Argentina 's first experience with fascism , the dictatorship of General Uriburu , follows the classic pattern , coming as it did after a period of industrial expansion followed by a cutback caused by the depression of the 193os . World War II again stimulated Argentine industry but there was no slowup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the revolution of Rawson , Ramirez , Farrel , and Peron ushered in a new era of fascism . SYNCRATIC GOVERNMENT TAKES OVER This , then , is the situation at the moment syncratic regimes take over . Industrial expansion has greatly increased the power , the wealth , and the future prospects of the new industrialists and has sharpened their conflict with the old agricultural elite . The latter , however , remains in control of the government though it feels its dominance slipping away . Economic reverses caused by peacetime readjustment or by economic depression have caused industry to retrench . This has aroused social protest from the workers , whose riots and strikes frighten all elements of the elite and the middle classes as well . The immediate reason for the rise of syncratic leaders to= political power is that the syncratic party takes the side of the elite groups against the protest from below . This was certainly the case in Italy and in Spain , and it was intended to be the case in Argentina , where Peron was made Secretary of Labor to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall see ) Peronismo later veered off the prescribed course . It is an error , therefore , to see fascism as a lower-middleclass movement oriented toward the benefit of the lower classes . It is an error to think of Peron 's fascism as a movement of the left . It is true that many individual leaders .  | and members of the fascist movement in Italy , Spain , and Argentina came from the lower middle classes , but this did not determine the direction of party politics , any more than the bourgeois origins of many Russian and Chinese Communists made communism a bourgeois movement . The fascist movements operated within the framework established by the interests of the elites and supported those interests as effectively as if the elites had ruled directly . In Italy , for example , it is difficult to explain the rise of Mussolini in any other terms . Fascist nationalism had appeal , but there were other nationalists with greater renown and greater support ? D'Annunzio , for example . The opposition to fascism was certainly better led and better organized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were all numerically superior to the fledgling Fascists , and all had leaders of ability . Moreover , each of these parties represented significant social and economic forces within Italian society . Why , then , did Mussolini , who had a party of no more than 17,000 members in 1919 , achieve control of the government a short three years later ? The answer lies in the fact that between these two dates Mussolini won over important elements of the elite : specifically , he won the support of important segments of the Church , the Army , the landed gentry , and the bourgeoisie , and he won them in large part because the Fascist Party had played the role of strikebreaker and antirevolutionary fighter . The breaking of strikes and the beating and terrorizing of strikers , reformers , and revolutionists gained for the Fascists the support of both the agricultural and industrial elites , who saw in the Fascist bands an effective obstacle to any challenge to their own power position . Fascist anticommunism appealed to the  | Church , and Fascist nationalism appealed to the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of law and order gained them the support of the middle classes . SYNCRATIC REGIMES Syncratic government is made possible by the fact that the syncratic party sides with the elites in the conflict between the elites and the workers . Equally important is " the syncratic solution " to the conflict between the agricultural and industrial elites . Looking back on the three main fascist regimes , one is struck by the fact that they appear to be the political expression of a crude but fundamental economic and social bargain between the agricultural and industrial elites . The compromise that syncratic politics legitimizes and executes is to give each elite complete sway within its own economic and social sector . A crucial part of this bargain , however , is to make it difficult for the industrial elite to raid the agricultural sector for manpower and for savings . This , it can be logically concluded , must slow the pace of industrialization somewhat . Certainly it helps preserve the waning power and privileges of the agricultural elite . In Italy , in Spain , and in Argentina the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in all three nations the protection afforded by the government to the landowners and to the peasant sector was substantial . In Italy and Spain , landowners were favored in taxation and were given privileges that helped them preserve their holdings . In Italy , the government even went so far as to hold down rural-to-city migration , thus helping stop the wound that was draining away the lifeblood of the old agricultural system . In Argentina , the case was slightly different . Here more  | than elsewhere agriculture was made to underwrite the plans for industrialization , but even in Argentina , the hold of the landed aristocracy within its own domain was left untouched . In spite of all the fulminations from Casa Rosada , Peron never touched the privileges and the power of the landed oligarchy within the peasant world . This protection of the agricultural sector represents one of the most fundamental differences between the syncratic method of industrialization on the one hand and the bourgeois and the stalinist methods on the other . Under bourgeois politics , all of the country was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the agricultural sector was squeezed even harder to provide manpower and capital for economic modernization . The fact that syncratic regimes protect the agricultural sector from having to make a major contribution to the capital for economic growth rises an important question : Where does capital come from under the syncratic political compromise ? There must be some source for it , because industrial growth continues under syncratic politics ( though probably at a slower rate than would otherwise be the case ) . The heart of the answer is as follows : Under a syncratic system , the savings for investment in industry are squeezed primarily out of the industrial sector itself , not gathered from the entire country . To a very large extent , the savings in the industrial sector are created by increases in productivity in the modern portion of the economy and by decreases in the living standard of the industrial proletariat .  | Aid to Industry The second part of the syncratic compromise takes the form of governmental assistance to the industrial elite in order to help it expand industry despite the hands-offagriculture policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many forms : direct loans and financial assistance to industrial enterprises , government purchases of industrial goods . Less obvious but nevertheless effective in stimulating industrial expansion were the high military expenditures that characterized the fascist governments . In Argentina , a country that had never fought a major war , Peron devoted almost one third of the governmental investment to defense . ' Spanish armed forces were not highly effective , but expenditures were high , and although Mussolini 's pose as a military leader was grotesque , he spent a good deal of money on arms and armies . Such expenditures encouraged the growth of industry and at the same time were acceptable to the agricultural elite with its long military tradition . More important than any of these measures , however , was the attitude of the fascist governments toward wages , working conditions , and labor-management disputes in industry . It was here that the governments of Italy and Spain gave their greatest assistance to the industrialists , allowing them virtually a free hand in creating savings by shearing their workers.5 Again Italy furnishes the clearest example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of the state was used unsparingly to lower the wages of the workers , in agriculture as well as in industry . In Italy the " corpora-Footnote  | tions " were the governmental organs with chief responsibility in this matter , but the government played this role even before the corporations came into existence . Strikes were forbidden by law and arbitration of disputes by the government was compulsory . The government , however , almost invariably decided in favor of management ; the record is monotonous in this regard . The immediate effect of fascism was to reduce real wages and consumption by the Italian working classes.6 Stable boys in Cremona had their wages reduced after the Fascists took over . In Foggia in 1926 women and boys who worked at the harvest had their daily wages reduced to half the amount they had earned in 1920 . Wages in the silk industry dropped by 50 per cent from 1926 to 1933 , and bank clerks lost more than one third of their salaries between 1927 and 1932.7 Welfare Measures There is one point that needs to be raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red.icing living standards with the emphasis on welfare policies that all the fascist regimes proclaimed ? The welfare programs of the fascist regimes are well known : cheap housing for needy families , hot soup for the poor at fascist centers , a dole for the unemployed , summer holidays at the seaside and in the mountains at fascist camps for the children of the urban poor . In the light of such programs is it accurate to say that standards of living are lowered by syncratic regimes ? Is it not more likely that living standards remain the same or even rise , with the government giving back in welfare measures the equivalent or more of what is taken away Footnote  | by low wages ? The answer is no : what is given and what is taken away are not the same . First , only a small portion of the fascist welfare programs were of such a nature as to spend potential investment funds . Second , a good part of the money spent on welfare was obtained by taxing the working classes . Third , perhaps most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a small part of the population . Though excellent politics , fascist welfare was not nearly as large , costly , or successful as fascist propaganda portrayed it . The shouldering of the welfare problem by the government , even in a token fashion , represents a major difference between syncratic politics and bourgeois politics . In bourgeois politics the government took no appreciable responsibility for the welfare of the general population . Fully sensitive to the interests of those who controlled the economy , it took no steps that would have siphoned off savings into mass consumption . Nor did employers ever take any responsibility for aiding those who suffered from the immense social changes that made increasing productivity possible . It was government that eventually undertook the task , but only after industrialization was well advanced , and it did so then because in the process of industrialization the masses had been politicized and had turned to government for protection against the hardships of industrial life . The politics of industrialization in the twentieth century are perforce different , for the people are politicized before , not after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result than a cause of such politicization . This difference can be seen clearly in syncratic as well as stalinist politics . Unlike their bourgeois predecessors , syncratic and stalinist governments have had to deal with masses already aroused . The existence of other socie-  | ties with industrial economies and democratic ideologies raises the expectations of ordinary people everywhere . In addition , totalitarian dictatorships are often the result of revolutions which have made direct appeals to the masses , as in the case of the stalinist governments , or which have involved the masses in the political struggle which preceded their coming to power , as in the case of the fascist governments . Once in power , these totalitarian dictatorships have kept the masses stirred up with parades , mass meetings , sports competitions , and endless talk of the greatness of the nation and the accomplishments of the regime . Inevitably , governments presiding over industrialization must contribute in significant ways to the hardships of life for many of their citizens , probably the majority , and just as inevitably the governments of industrializing nations where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ token form the burden of welfare . As a twentiethcentury product , syncratic politics straddles to some extent stages two and three of poRtical development , the politics of industrialization and the politics of national welfare . Syncratic and stalinist governments alike have taken up the welfare burden earlier than bourgeois governments did . All governments industrializing their nations in the twentieth century , whatever their political complexion , will be forced to do the same . Rate of Industrialization In summary , then , the syncratic compromise protects agriculture from paying its full share of the costs of industrialization and compensates industry for the loss of the savings of a large part of the nation by helping it squeeze capital out of the industrial proletariat . Thus capital ac-  | cumulation in syncratic nations is carried on from a restricted base . It seems likely , therefore , although it is difficult to prove , that syncratic politics slows the pace of industrialization , for it slows down the rate of capital accumulation , the key to industrialization . One can arrive at this same conclusion in yet another way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the elite , arrived at because of the revolutionary attack upon their privileges from below . The two elites are interested in stemming revolutionary change . The agricultural elite , indeed , is opposed to almost any change , since it can look forward only to a further deterioration of its own position . The position of the industrial elite differs , but for purposes of government it joins the agricultural elite at least for a time and acquiesces in its efforts to slow the rate of change , including most importantly the rate of economic modernization . SYNCRATIC SELF-DESTRUCTION AND ITS AFTERMATH Syncratic politics are built upon a fundamental compromise , but the compromise does not and can not last , and in a surprisingly short period of time the system crumbles and falls . It is not an accident of history that the fascist regimes of the past have all been so short-lived . The reasons for their collapse are fairly obvious . There are three preconditions for syncratic government : ( 1 ) the industrial elite is weaker than the agricultural elite but gaining ground ; ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing power ; ( 3 ) both elites are attacked from below . The syncratic compromise is one that attempts to freeze politically the socioeconomic position of the two elites at the time the syncratic political system is constructed . But the underlying social and economic trends that have strength-  | ened the industrial elite continue as time goes on , since industrialization is not stopped by a syncratic system , only slowed down . Eventually the industrial elite , which agreed to the initial compromise because it was the weaker party , grows to become the stronger party , refuses to continue to compromise , and the syncratic political system falls apart . In general , a syncratic system can not be expected to last long . Perhaps if the compromise were made very early in the industrial development of the nation , syncratic institutions might last through the political lifetime of their originators and one set of successors , but probably no longer than that . In most instances it is more probable that the syncratic system will not outlive its originators . This was the case in Fascist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have survived the eventual death of Mussolini even had Italy not become involved in World War II . This was the case in Peron 's Argentina . And this , I predict , will be the case with Franco 's falangismo when the old dictator dies and a change can be brought about without bloodshed . It is also predictable what kind of political system will succeed a syncratic regime . Until now , when syncratic systems have come to an end , they have , with one exception , been replaced by mass democracies . This is what happened in Itall ' and in Argentina , although the latter is having a difficult time , and this is what will happen in Spain . These democracies , however , are less than complete . They have parliaments and constitutions , elections and mass parties which compete for public favor . But a closer look reveals severe weaknesses in the operation of these democracies in comparison with the mass democracies of an earlier vintage . One can observe in countries that have  | industrialized in the syncratic manner a persisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupational , and religious groupings ? into one economic , social , and political community . As a result , the democracies of Italy and Argentina lack a part of the content of the democratic system . The crucial problem seems to be the lack of national values and a truly national ideology . In part this is the inevitable result of the fact that under syncratic rule traditional values and existent power groupings received greater protection from the encroachments of modernity than under bourgeois politics . K. H. Silvert , writing of syndicalism rather than fascism , nevertheless describes in a brilliant passage the core problem of the weakness we are discussing : Public decisions . . . result from the interplay of the institutional oligarchs , and not from the deliberations of groups and men elected at large from a citizenry escaping its occupational bonds in an act of political selection and decision formally and somewhat substantially indicative of equality . ... The weakness of the state , the strength of competing institutions , and the accent upon class-bound politics wedded to hierarchy and obedience within the occupational function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-adjustment required for the voluntaristic human mobilization of democratic development.8 In this passage Silvert refers to the syndicalist and falang1st state , of which he considers Argentina a modified example , whereas he feels that fascism of the Italian variety differs in attempting to establish the supremacy of the state . It seems to me , however , that the fascist claim of Footnote  | unity was an attempt to mask disunity , for in the fascist system it was the elites of the various groupings ( Silvert 's institutional oligarchs ) that brought unity at the top by mediating differences and presenting a national compromise . The fascium is a perfectly accurate symbol of the fascist state , for the rods in it have no cohesion other than that imposed by external bonds . It is to be expected , then , that the mass democracies that replace syncratic systems will be flawed . Their weaknesses , however , need not be permanent , for in the course of time modernization will continue to erode the remaining strongholds of tradition and spread truly national values throughout the population . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become mass democracies as fully in content as in form . An Interesting Exception We have noted that there is one exception to the generality that syncratic systems are replaced by mass democracies . The exception is Cuba , which industrialized along syncratic lines under Batista , then overthrew her syncratic system and turned Communist , not democratic . Such a dramatic exception demands a word of explanation . It is a common belief that a Communist system can not be grafted onto a country that is already industrial . Such a view assumes that the fundamental function of Communist ( or what is here called stalinist ) politics is to force the rapid accumulation of capital in very poor countries , and that communise has little to offer to countries that are already industrial . When Cuba went Communist , perceptive observers expressed regret that such a regression should have taken place , for Cuba had passed the point where a Communist system made any sense . I fully share this view .  | Nevertheless , Cuba went Communist . Part of the explanation no doubt lies in unique historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power as a charismatic leader with immense popular support , could swing his country in almost any direction he chose and that he chose to swing it in a direction which had been unanticipated by most of those who put him in power originally ; and , second , in the fact that Cuba , as an economic dependency of the United States , was a reservoir of hostility toward the United States . Such conditions , of course , may come to exist in other Latin American nations . If anti-Americanism and charismatic leadership were all that were required to prepare the ground for communism , we could expect a large number of Latin American countries to go Communist in the future . I do not believe this will happen . It seems to me that there is at least one other factor that predisposed Cuba to a Communist solution , a factor that stems directly from her syncratic past . Syncratic industrialization consists of letting the industrial sector of the country move ahead while the agricultural sector remains as it was . This means that as industrialization progresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new , move farther and farther apart . In many cases the point is reached where there is little communication between the two parts , and the peasant sector is alienated from the national community . The country that has traveled the syncratic path to industrial status has two countries within its borders . Thus syncratic politics leaves in its wake a fundamental problem which must be solved by its successor . To complete the economic and social modernization of the country , the two parts must be brought back together again . The old agricultural elite must finally be dislodged from  | power , even within its own sector . Large numbers of peasants must be absorbed into industrial work and into city life , and those who remain on the land must shed their old ways and learn to work more efficiently at the same time they are being permitted to earn enough to raise their living standards . The dislodging of the agricultural elite and the modernization of agriculture are made particularly difficult in cases such as Cuba , where large agricultural interests are foreign-owned and beleaguered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation as the United States . Let us recall that in Cuba the agricultural and the industrial elites were equally strong , that they were tied to foreign interests , and that some portions of the elite itself were American . Under such circumstances the government that follows a syncratic regime is highly likely to turn against the United States ( or other foreign owner of its land or industry ) , though it need not necessarily become a Communist state . In industrial countries where the agricultural and industrial sectors are split apart and the old agricultural elite is still powerful , a Communist system is functional in at least one respect . It provides an ideology that may shock the peasant out of his torpor and hastens the final destruction of the power of the agricultural elite . If there is any validity to such a line of reasoning , it should be possible to offer two hypotheses : ( I ) that the probability of an industrial nation adopting a Communist system ( in the absence of foreign conquest ) is extremely low , but ( 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nation that has industrialized under a syncratic system and that has a substantial portion of its agricultural enterprises owned or controlled by foreign interests . Cuba , then , is an exception . The usual aftermath of a  | syncratic system is the restoration of parliamentary democracy ; at least this has been the case in the past . It could be argued that a determining role was played by external factors : the Allied victory in World War II and the predominant position of Western democracy vis-a-vis communism at the present time . However , internal factors also helped bring about this result and probably would have been sufficient in themselves . Under a syncratic system , the essentially capitalistic nature of industrial enterprise is not seriously tampered with , although industrial management is deprived of some of its influence on government . When the industrial elite becomes strong enough to terminate its compromise with the agricultural elite and to dispense with the harassments and limitations to which syncratic government has exposed it , it supports that form of government most conducive to its interests ? parliamentary democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare begins , following for the most part the pattern common to the other Western democracies which have developed without a syncratic interlude . THE CASE OF ARGENTINA It has been noted that the rule of Peron in Argentina , although fundamentally a syncratic system , provides an exception to some of the above generalizations . It will be useful at this point to deal with Argentina in more detail . It has been stated , for example , that syncratic politics represents a compromise between the two elites at the expense of industrial workers . How , then , is one to understand the enthusiasm of the Argentine working classes for Peron and the cold shoulder industrialists turned to Peron and his regime ? And how was the capital for Argentine  | industrialization accumulated , if not at the expense of the industrial workers ? Let us begin by noting the many ways in which the syncratic system in Argentina was much the same as those of Italy and Spain : ( 1 ) In Argentina the conflict between industrial and agricultural elites was both acute and clearly visible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two but was growing rapidly in power . ( 3 ) The agricultural elite , though stronger , was slipping and knew it was losing control of the economy and of the nation . ( 4 ) Both of Argentina 's experiences with fascist governments , the dictatorship of Uriburu in 1930 and the revolution of Ramirez and Peron in 1943 , were preceded by periods of rapid industrial expansion , followed in the first case ( but not in the second ) by a period of retrenchment. ( 5 ) Once in power , fascist leaders did not diminish the power of the agricultural elite within its own sector . ( 6 ) Peron encouraged industry by planning , by buying back control of industry owned by foreigners , by large military expenditures , and by using for industrial expansion the high profits from the sale of primary commodities during World War II . ( 7 ) Industrial development continued under Peron , and by 1955 , when Peron was overthrown , the industrial elite was stronger than the agricultural elite . ( 8 ) The major regimes which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now the differences : Peron 's advent to power was not preceded by a period of retrenchment or by the worker protest that such retrenchment engendered elsewhere . Perhaps in part for this reason , the two elites in Argentina did not draw close together . More important , the industrial elite never gave Peron the support one would expect in a syncratic system ; because of this , Peron turned to labor  | for the support necessary to maintain his regime in power . Finally , Peron did not permit industrial management to squeeze labor harder in order to accumulate capital . On the contrary , he raised the living standards of the industrial and urban masses . The capital for industrial expansion was drawn from other sources . An important reason for these last two major differences in Argentina fascism lay in the lateness of the Peronista revolution , which came at a time when Argentina was already newly industrial . A brief sketch of Argentine history may help make clearer the significance of this fact . By the 19305 Argentina had progressed considerably in her industrialization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less classic setting for fascism . General Uriburu took control by force and established an openly fascist government and talked of a corporate state . After two years , however , the agricultural elite took power directly , and a government more constitutional in form ran Argentina for the next decade , with the help of massive fraud at the polls . This government tried to slow industrial growth and was successful for the first few years . Then World War II undid its work . The war cut off European supplies from Argentina and provided a tremendous stimulus to Argentine industry . An avalanche of industrial production carried Argentina over the dividing line between agricultural and industrial status and produced fears among the agricultural elite that the next election would produce a government far more responsive to industrial needs . The agricultural elite therefore favored forestalling the coming election and , though it would be difficult to prove that the military acted as its agent , it was in this context that the military junta including Peron took over and did in fact forestall the election . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takeover was quite different in Argentina than it had been in Italy and Spain . There the industrial elites were far weaker and thus more ready to compromise . In Argentina , however , the industrial elite was almost as strong as the agricultural elite and was looking forward to a government that would favor its interests . Why should it support a junta that had come to power to forestall this government ? It is hardly surprising that the industrial elite turned a deaf ear to the overtures of the junta for support . As a result , the junta was left in an exposed position and badly needed new major sources of support . Perlin , who had originally been put in the labor department to control the unions and to prevent strikes , used his position to search for a common ground with union leaders and to win their support . This support raised Peron to supreme power Ind changed the direction of Argentine fascism . Under Peron , the standard of life of Argentine labor went up , not down . However , this deviation from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went so far as to endanger savings for investment . In truth , the lives of Argentine peons were so miserable and the wages of industrial workers so low , while profit margins were so high , that the modest wage increases imposed by the government did not seriously alter the economy although they won much gratitude from the masses . Moreover , the improvements were greatest at the beginning ? when they were needed to assure labor 's support . Once labor was captured , it was held in check , strikes were discouraged , and wage increases tapered off . Finally , Peron , unlike other fascist leaders , was able to raise the living standards of the working population without seriously slowing the pace of industrialization because Argentine industry was already well advanced and generated considerable capital , and the war raised sharply the prices  | for Argentine primary commodities on the world market and provided a great stimulus to Argentine industry . It is important not to confuse the attitude of the two elites toward Peron with the actual functioning of his government . Although both industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he nevertheless aided and protected them both in the manner common to syncratic regimes . Despite the publicity surrounding his prolabor measures , he provided a governmental framework within which Argentine industry could expand , and despite the hostility of the agricultural elite ( who particularly resented his efforts to grant a semblance of humanity to the peons ) , Peron safeguarded the power of the agricultural elite in the agricultural world . What happened in Argentina after the fall of Peron conformed to the syncratic pattern . After a brief interregnum , power passed to a government primarily responsive to industrial needs and wishes . The government seemed to want to turn history back to 1943 . After waiting for twelve years , the industrial elite had its way , and the cut in the standard of living of the workers was deep and sharp . Indeed , the Frondizi government went too far , for no government could act in Argentina again as if Peron had not existed . It becomes clear that the Peron regime was not so different from other fascist governments as is sometimes believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result largely of the advanced position of Argentine modernization when Peron came to power . One can only speculate whether these differences would have existed had the fascist system created by Uriburu remained in power and had the agricultural elite been willing to compromise before it had clearly lost . The syncratic system is not a fixed and unalterable  | pattern . It has varied in the past and will vary more in the future . An important source of variation appears to be the level of economic development at which the syncratic regime comes to power . CONCLUSION Marxists are wrong when they claim that fascism is a creature of the bourgeoisie . As we have seen , syncratic systems represent an attempt by the agricultural elite to slow the pace of industrialization and to control its consequences . Syncratic government is a last victory for the landed aristocracy . Faced with certain defeat , they nevertheless manage to maximize their power and postpone its final shift into other hands . The effect of syncratic government is not , however , to stop the process of economic modernization . Industrialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The main effect of syncratic government is typically to exempt the agricultural elite from paying the economic and social cost of industrialization and to lessen the cost paid by the peasantry . Though their life remains hard and their exploitation at the hands of their landlords is often great , the peasants do not suffer the brutal displacement and abrupt change that afflicted their brothers in bourgeois Europe or in stalinist Russia and China . The burden of paying the price for economic progress is shifted almost entirely onto the backs of the industrial workers , whose lot is harder than it would have been in the absence of a syncratic regime . It does not follow , nevertheless , that the industrial workers of syncratic countries have suffered more than those of bourgeois or stalinist countries . Industrialization in the nineteenth century was necessarily a more difficult business than it is today in nations that can take advantage  | both of the technology and of the social experience of those who preceded them , and industrialization at breakneck speed is more painful than modernization spread over many years . Syncratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century and of proceeding at a relatively slow pace . Also , it is only fair to note that syncratic systems occur in relatively advanced countries , where the difficult early accumulation of capital has already taken place . Thus it is pointless to compare the lot of workers in these countries with that of workers under early bourgeois or early stalinist systems . The comparison must be made at the comparable stage of economic advance . Syncratic politics , indeed , is a temporary phenomenon . Unlike bourgeois and stalinist politics , which see the industrialization process through from start to finish , syncratic politics emerges in the middle of the process and disappears once the nation has become industrial . In this sense , and in this sense only , the syncratic system is a variant of the bourgeois pattern , for syncratic politics is preceded by a period of bourgeois development and is followed by a resumption of the bourgeois pattern . At this point , however , the nation enters a new stage of political growth , and it is no longer appropriate to refer to bourgeois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare begins , bringing great changes to all the developed nations ? by whatever path they have reached that position . It is to this third stage of political development that we now turn .  | THE POLITICS OF NATIONAL WELFARE With the beginning of the third stage of political development , a curious phenomenon occurs : the function of government reverses itself as men finally achieve the industrial riches for which they have struggled so long . The dividing line between stage two and stage three is hard to find ? indeed it is not a line at all ? but the difference between them is fundamental . In the politics of industrialization the job of government is to direct the accumulation of capital or to clear the way for those who accumulate it . In either case , the state plays a repressive role , exacting from those least able to defend themselves a disproportionately large share of the social and economic cost of modernization . In the politics of national welfare , the primary function of the state is the exact opposite . The major task of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the greatest sufferers in stage two . To put it another way ,  | the fundamental function of national government in stage two is to protect capital from the people , while in stage three it is to protect the people from capital . The reversal of functions is complete . Let me make one thing clear : by the politics of national welfare I do not mean simply that a government puts on its books some welfare legislation ; virtually all governments do that today . To qualify as a welfare state , a government must not only espouse such programs as social security , health programs , education , and the regulation of working conditions . It must also adopt as its prime concern a responsibility for the economic and social welfare of ordinary citizens . This means intervening in various ways to raise the living standards of the masses and particularly of the underprivileged ; it also means taking major steps to keep the economy running smoothly enough to provide relatively full employment . For the first group of countries that industrialized , the bourgeois nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare was neither widespread nor significant until industrialization was fairly well under way arM stage two was nearing its end . The timing differed from country to country . Germany , for example , was relatively early in initiating welfare programs , the United States exceptionally late , but the generalization holds for the bourgeois nations as a group . The stalinist and syncratic systems , on the other hand , introduced some elements of the welfare state while they were still industrializing . Neither , however , devoted such a large share of the national income to this purpose as to detract seriously from the accumulation of capital . Living standards were kept very low . Thus the primary function of government remained the formation of capital , but the  | idea of welfare was taking root , and the national government had assumed , at least in theory , the responsibility of protecting the general population from hardship . Nations industrializing today ( such as Brazil and Egypt ) are attempting to introduce extensive social legislation even earlier . Indeed , even some of the most underdeveloped countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to legislate social welfare . The very fact that developed countries exist makes it inevitable that underdeveloped countries will seek to imitate them in this respect as in others . It does not matter perhaps that their welfare programs are small and their welfare laws most often honored in the breach . It does not matter that modern trappings are often used to window-dress old realities . It is significant that such programs exist at all . It is probable that as the twentieth century progresses , developing nations will try increasingly to carry out the political functions of all three stages at once . It is not likely that this will prove possible , but the overlap among the three stages , minimal in the European and the Japanese experience , should continue to expand in the case of the developing countries of today . The countries that have reached stage three are nearly all mass democracies . In the past both Germany and Japan have combined totalitarian governments with welfare politics , but defeat in war brought a turn to mass democracy . Today three Communist countries are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Czechoslovakia and East Germany , have had communism imposed upon them by external force , and the remaining one , Russia , has just entered stage three . We begin , then , with consideration of mass democracy , the dominant form of the politics of national welfare .  | MASS DEMOCRACY The connection between mass democracy and bourgeois politics can be seen clearly , for the roots of the modern democratic systems that flourish today in Western Europe and in the European countries overseas extend far back into the preceding period . Indeed , the first causes of the eventual change that transformed bourgeois politics into the politics of national welfare can be found even before the bourgeoisie came to power , in the days when the landed aristocracy was still the dominant force in politics . The eventual emergence of the politics of national welfare is rooted in the poverty and cruelty of life for the mass of people at the very beginning of the industrial period and in the rage and despair of the masses at the harshness of their lot . A revelation of the violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the masses were organized and directed by the bourgeoisie against the monopoly of power of the aristocracy , as in the French Revolution . The accession of the bourgeoisie to power , did not bring plenty to the masses , nor could it possibly have done so . On the contrary , early industrialization with its disorganization of life in the countryside , its huge migration into unpinned cities , and its inhuman utilization of industrial labor increased the misery of the masses and added to the squalor and the injustice of their lives . The industrial workers of that day were in reality masses of raw peasants fresh from the countryside , still relatively few in number and lacking in leadership and in organization . They were helpless to correct the harsh conditions of their own lives , nor could the economies of that day have afforded significant improvements in the general standard of living .  | Leadership , organization , and higher productivity were required before the masses could improve their lot . The Masses Rise to Power Industrialization provided these essentials . Thus bourgeois politics contained within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions of its operation were also the ones that led the masses to political power . The climb of the masses to power is too well known to require great elaboration here . Let it simply be noted that several factors played an important part . Increasing urbanization pulled the vast numbers of the working population into close proximity , where they were for the first time susceptible to organization . Worker organization took many forms , but inevitably workers used the factory organization to unite outside the factory walls . Unions and political-reform movements were fought by the bourgeoisie , but continued to grow . Unions in particular gave the masses experience in working together as well as a weapon with which to fight and a voice with which to speak to the broader community . In the democratic systems , geared as they were to respond to group pressures rather than individual pressures , numbers plus organization provided the common people with a key to power . Increasing skills and the spread of education , both required for industrial progress , were also important in increasing the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than unskilled labor , and in school the masses not only learned literacy and patriotism but also began to gain an acquaintance with the political environment and the ways of manipulating it . Citizen armies , necessary for the external defense of the bourgeois nation , also helped unite and arouse the masses .  | Citizen armies made their first appearance with the French Revolution , where they carried Napoleon to victory and then defeated him , but it is significant that throughout the rest of the nineteenth century the bourgeoisie resisted the use of such armies . The dangers of arming the masses and organizing the veterans were obvious . Indeed , it is more than coincidence that World War I in many ways marked the end of the period of bourgeois politics in Europe . The primary means through which the masses achieved a voice in the direction of government was not , of course , either mass revolt or general strikes , but rather expansion of the franchise . Electoral reform had been a major battleground between the bourgeoisie and the landed gentry when the former rose to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the masses and the bourgeoisie . Once the masses obtained a powerful voice in government , they used it to set limits within which national governments had to operate , and as a result the substance and the style of government were radically altered . It comes down to this : under bourgeois political direction the new economy mobilized the people and made them dependent upon the national economy for their survival . Though the population was dependent upon the economy , it could not control it , and so the masses turned to government for protection . Political and industrial leaders alike found themselves increasingly dependent upon at least the tacit support of the mass of workers to run the system they headed and in consequence were fowed to grant the common people an increasingly important voice in the determination of national policy . Welfare First The accession of the masses to political power was gradual , as that of the bourgeoisie had been , and like  | the bourgeoisie before them they shared their new power with the previous ruling group . Indeed , they share it still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power , but the new governments became increasingly sensitive to working-class needs . Even today , the majority of the top governmental officials in such countries as the United States , England , France , and Germany are drawn from the business community rather than from labor , but the governments they run have of necessity taken on the tasks of social welfare and the regulation of the economy . As the political and economic power of the masses grew , the activity of the national governments increased , and the increase was taken up almost entirely with shielding the working population from the worst consequences of industrial development . The worst blights of unregulated industrial worklife began to be attacked . The workday was shortened , women and children received more protection . Old people whose children could no longer care for them in the new urban setting were increasingly recognized as a responsibility of the state . The right of labor to organize was grudgingly granted . Unemployment insurance , health benefits , the regulation of workrules and the provision of jobs , the stimulation of the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity . Increasingly , governmental power intervened in the economic process . Inevitably , impelled by its dependence upon mass support , the government became centrally concerned with the welfare of the population . The Rejection of Socialism Why is it , then , that demands for thorough government control of the economy have been rejected in the politics of national welfare ? Why is it that democratic socialism has not caught hold in the mass democracies ? Not one  | government of the many countries that have industrialized under the tutelage of bourgeois politics has taken over completely the running of the economy which is so important in shaping the lives of the people . To be sure , government ownership and control of major enterprises and even of entire industries is not unknown . In Germany , Italy , and France , and particularly in Scandinavia , direct participation of government in the economy is extensive , but there and elsewhere government has played a supporting role to private industry . In the mass democracies it has most often been bankrupt , not healthy , industries that fall under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taken a strong stand advocating government ownership of the economy have not found favor with the voters . Most significant of all , such important socialist parties as those of Britain and Germany in hoping to return to power have jettisoned much of the core of the socialist creed : government ownership of most means of production . Now that the masses appear to have the power to establish socialism , the appeal of socialism is dying . Why is it that the drive of the masses to protect themselves through government has stopped far short of its logical conclusion ? In part , the reason socialist programs failed at the very time the masses rose to political power is the fact , often forgotten , that in the politics of national welfare the masses do not rule alone but share power with the bourgeoisie . Particularly at the beginning of the period the bourgeoisie enjoys far greater power , making it possible for industrial leaders to defend successfully their traditional role in the economic sphere . Certainly the power position of the bourgeoisie has been of primary Footnote  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is due largely to the ability of the bourgeoisie to resist the encroachments of government that the governments of the mass democracies have only regulated the economies , not run them . And it is due to the power of the bourgeoisie that these governments have regulated the economies only in certain areas . However , it is the success of the developed economies in raising mass living standards that has been the most important factor in preserving private control of the economy . The answer of capitalism to the threat of socialism has been to raise the standard of living of the masses , and especially since World War II its success has been so phenomenal that socialist parties have found their creed a positive obstacle to success . Why should the European worker who has acquired for the first time a car , a refrigerator , and his own home interfere with the control of those who have made this possible ? Like their American counterparts before them , the rich industrial workers whose unions are the voice of labor are losing interest in tampering with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these three factors , then ? bourgeois power in government , the success of government regulation rather than direct control in achieving some measure of the reform desired , and finally the immense rise in productivity and in mass living standards ? that have diverted the initial drive of the masses to protect themselves through government and have stopped the movement far short of its logical conclusion . The Growth of Executive Power With the politics of national welfare , the center of political power shifts from the legislature back to the  | executive , from which it had moved to the legislature a century before . The reasons for this shifting back and forth seem fairly clear . In the stage of primitive unification , governmental power resided entirely in the crown and in the bureaucracy developed by the crown to oversee the possessions of the king . With the coming of industrialization , political and economic power came to rest in the hands of two different elites , an unusual historical situation but one which the nineteenth century took for granted because of its obvious existence . The bourgeoisie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a result the attacks of the legislature on the executive were in large measure attacks by the new elite on the old . If the executive was the stronghold of the aristocracy , then the executive was to be subordinated to the legislature , which was in the hands of the bourgeoisie . Legislative control was favored in still another way . Under bourgeois politics , the main responsibility for creating capital was in private rather than public hands . Executive action in this prime area , therefore , was not the main job of government . Legislative supremacy was particularly fitting for a government whose main function was to permit rather than to direct . As the masses sought political power , conditions changed again , for the people turned to the executive for protection against the hardships of industrial life ? inevitably , since the legislature was the citadel of bourgeois power . The alliance between people and executive forms the inner core of the union between people and government as a : Whole in the politics of national welfare . The vast expansion of governmental activity that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient in itself to account for the growth of executive  | power , for the expansion has occurred primarily in the departments of defense and in the departments charged with regulating the economy and with putting into practice the plans of welfare . While the expansion of welfare programs is to be expected , it is not so natural ? indeed , it is ironic ? that the politics of national welfare should be so tempestuously and extravagantly military . ' The reasons for the military emphasis of welfare politics probably lie more in the shifting international distribution of power than in internal changes.3 Nevertheless , extremely high expenditure on arms programs is a major characteristic of stagethree governments , both democratic and totalitarian ; this too has favored the growth of executive power . The shift in power from executive to legislature and back again was much clearer in some countries than in others . In Germany , for example , executive power was never weakened as much as in the United States , and in Germany important features of welfare were part of the picture as early as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the politics of national welfare finds the people of a nation more dependent than ever upon the national government for welfare assistance , for regulation of the economy upon which their jobs and their livelihood depend , and for defense against foreign attack . At the same time , it finds the national government more dependent than ever upon the bulk of its citizenry for its wealth and for its power . Rulers in the stage of primitive unification depend for support only upon a relatively small number of important lords or chiefs and landowners . Footnote  | Government in the politics of industrialization comes to depend also upon the support of the major industrialists , and under bourgeois politics the nation is enlarged to include the bourgeoisie as well as the aristocracy . In the politics of national welfare , the building of the nation is complete : it is enlarged to include virtually the entire population , ' and the government comes to depend upon the support of the working , fighting , and voting public . In the modern world , a nation 's wealth and power are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people and by the availability of its men for military service , and it is the government 's degree of success in mobilizing its people to work and to fight for national purposes that serves as a measure of the development of any political system . Again one is reminded that World War I marked a turning point . The decades preceding the war saw the first effective use of governmental power by the masses in defense of their economic lives , but it was in the war itself that the dependence of the state upon the masses of the population for its defense as well as for its wealth and power became obvious . Only in World War I were the military , economic , and manpower needs of modern war fully understood . Thus the ties between people and state were forged in politics , in work , and in war . The people needed the vote to bring the government to protect them from economic hardship , and once enfranchised , they placed the government in a position of dependence upon their support . The workers in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy running Footnote  | smoothly , and the government required the revenues produced both by individual taxpayers and by prosperity in business as a whole . The entire population depended upon the government to protect it from mass destruction in modern war , and the government could not provide that protection without mass armies and mass citizen support . With the politics of national welfare , the interdependence and the unity of people and government reach their highest point . With the next stage of political development they will begin to disintegrate . THE NAZI STATE Nazi Germany serves as a reminder that even within the stage of national welfare there are other possible alternatives to mass democracy . National socialism and mass democracy are at opposite poles of the world of developed politics . One might say that mass democracy represents the functioning of the ego in modern politics while national socialism represents the activity of the id . Yet the two are tied together by the fact that one political system arises out of the failure of the other , and by the fact that the welfare state serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Nazi system was a welfare state that brought to the surface the irrational drives of man . To date , democratic systems have proved extremely sturdy . Rarely have democratic systems fallen in fully developed societies , even in countries defeated in war and occupied by the enemy . The Weimar Republic is the only mass democracy which collapsed for internal reasons , and Germany is the only instance of a totalitarian dictatorship that arose from internal causes in a fully industrial society . To speculate on the basis of one case is obviously rash , but one is all we have . This single example suggests that  | the consequences of a fundamental breakdown in mass democracy are different from what is generally believed . If the politics of national welfare in a mass democracy are no longer able to afford the population that minimum protection for which the welfare state had been created ; if large-scale unemployment arises , if terrible inflation takes place , if conditions of want and privation obtain for large portions of the population ? in short , if mass democracy fails ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often maintained , but something resembling National Socialism . The two are very different indeed . Let us look at the case history of Germany in more detail . The Breakdown of Mass Democracy Mass democracy came to Germany with the Weimar Republic in 1918 . An essential element of the new political system was mass participation in politics and worker participation in some direction of the economy . The masses had come to power , and the system created was one that guaranteed them some freedom and a measure of protection against the worst hardships of industrial life . Democracy was crushed when the great depression made this guarantee inoperative . As in the other mass democracies , the masses in the German republic did not rule alone . They shared power with the bourgeoisie , with the bureaucracy , the German army , even with the landowners . Each of these groups had won from the new political system important concessions and the guarantee that their old privileges would be maintained . The Weimar Republic , as in the case of other democracies , was based on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromises could have survived if the massive inflation that traumatized the German economy in the early 1920S and the great world-  | wide depression of the early 19305 had not struck at the foundations of the German welfare state . But strike they did , and the basic relationships upon which German democracy rested began to fall apart . Vast unemployment eroded the very core structure of the welfare state and severely strained the allegiance of the masses to democracy , for it demonstrated that this democratic government at least was unable to carry out its part of the bargain . The trade unions , a pillar of support for the Republic in its early years , were themselves weakened by a decline in membership and revenues that resulted from unemployment . The increasing idleness of the country 's industrial plant weakened the confidence of the bourgeoisie in the new political system . The breakdown of the German welfare state led those who had unwillingly agreed to share power with the masses to attempt to exclude them again from control . It was not alone the totalitarian parties , the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mass democracy . Many wished for its death : the landed gentry , the army , the bureaucracy . Each had a hand in the death of the Weimar Republic . Reconstitution of the Welfare State The first thing the Nazis did after assuming power was to reconstitute the welfare state . People had to be put to work again ; the industrial might of Germany had to be put to full use . Confidence in the economy had to be restored , German unity reaffirmed , and the loyalty of the people to the government re-established . All this the Nazis did . The nation was put back to work ; in four years unemployment dropped from six million to less than one million . Agriculture , prostrated by the  | depression , was rejuvenated , farm prices rose , and foreclosures for debt stopped . The entire industrial plant , so long idled by the depression , began to hum . There can be no doubt that the base of Nazi politics was the politics of the welfare state . Vast social services were instituted . We need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vacations for workers , the maternity benefits , or the Fiihrer shrieking at his engineers to design an inexpensive car for the German people , a people 's car . With the Nazis in power the government was again fulfilling the major tasks of the welfare state : the protection of the population against economic and social hardship . In so doing , the Nazis re-established the basic unity of the nation . It did not seem to matter that workers could no longer organize or strike , or that peasants were once more bound to the soil . It did not seem to matter that taxes were high or that the product of the economy was channeled largely into war goods . Each of the major groups had obtained what it wanted most . The workers worked . The farmers farmed , and sold their produce at high prices . The bourgeoisie ran an industrial machine at full throttle . There was no labor trouble , profits were high , and the government was certainly aggressive about finding new markets . The landed aristocracy and the bureaucracy kept their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with arming . We shall never know how much of Germany 's allegiance to the Nazis was due to the dementia that had swept the country and how much was due simply to the fact that in fundamental ways , to most people , the Nazi state was acting in the initial period as any successful welfare state must act . It seems logical and reasonable to assume that a good deal of the allegiance of the Germans to the Nazi regime stemmed from the fact that economic and social  | life had been brought back to the order and security which are the first items of the politics of national welfare . What was different , of course , was that the welfare state had been put back together out of quite different elements , and the end result was total disorder and insecurity . Irrationality and Self-Destruction Gone were the humane qualities and the rationality that characterize the mass democracies . In their place terror and irrationality ? even madness ? held sway . Terror was an important ingredient in the forces that held the Nazi state together . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But terror alone does not sustain the kind of support they received . There is no question that the Nazis forced a minority of the German people to do their bidding , but there is also no doubt that a majority of the Germans were willing to do as they were told . Extreme irrationality also marked the Nazi system , nowhere clearer than in the demented ideology of which racism was the core . The body of Nazi beliefs was both shapeless and incoherent . It was summarized by one high Nazi theorist : Blood against formal reason ; race against purposeful rationality ; honor against profit ; unity against individualistic disintegration ; martial virtue against bourgeois security ; the folk against the individual and the mass.5 One is almost embarrassed to quote such imbecilities today . Footnote  | Yet in the short run they were politically effective . The Nazi system was stronger because of them , for Nazism represented not only the conscious and rational desires of the Germans , which democracy had also represented ; it also put to work the force of the irrational and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground . Once set in motion they proved powerful forces . Anti-Semitism , which is quite prevalent today , was widespread and deeply held long before Hitler came on the scene , and his anti-Semitic rantings helped him reach the German masses and bring them to his side as no rational promise or argument could have done . Anti-Semitism helped unify the country behind Hitler 's aggressive moves . For example , hatred of the Jews served as a substitute for class antagonism , which had become acute during the depression . Much of the divisive emotion behind other internal conflicts was also channeled into antiSemitism . The Jews in addition served as an external enemy ; Nazi propaganda charged that the Western democracies were Jewish-controlled plutocracies . AntiSemitism thus served many functions for the Nazis . Take another example of Nazi irrationality turned to a purpose . One of the pet hatreds of the Nazis was Marxism , yet Nazism was full of Marxist symbolism and slogans . The Nazi flag was red . To the Nazis , Germany was proletarian ( which she was not ) and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against plutocracies for her rights ( which was untrue ) . All of this was nonsense , but it helped tie the heavily Marxist working population to Nazism , for it turned the Marxist symbols to the Nazi cause . Equally irrational was the extreme aggressiveness which eventually brought the Nazi system to its destruction .  | Here again the roots of aggressiveness stretched back into German history , back before the Weimar period , deep into the German empire . But under National Socialism all the political and social institutions that could have acted as a brake on excessive aggressiveness were destroyed , and military aggression came to occupy a central place in the system . A large rentier class , always a steadying hand in the actions of modern nations , had disappeared in the early 192os . Parliament ceased to exist as an independent voice . Voters had no control at all over the direction of politics , and the economy of the nation was highly centralized and controlled by giant industries that badly needed the foreign markets Hitler promised to win them through war . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where feeble attempts were made to stop Hitler from going to war , but the Army was worrying about timing , not peace . Aggression was not peripheral but central to the Nazi system , for the whole economy , its prosperity , its full employment ? indeed , the whole welfare structure rebuilt so quickly by the Nazis ? rested upon rearmament and the preparations for war . Hitler re-established the German welfare state , revitalized the German economy , and restored German unity , but all for the purpose of plunging Germany into a war she could not win , for Hitler was mad , and the same forces that drove Germany to the greatest power in her history also drove her over the brink to destruction . The self-destructiveness of the Nazis becomes obvious when one remembers that the countries Germany defied and attacked were much stronger than she and that the world had had previous proof of this in World War I. The irrationality is equally clear when one reflects that Ger-  | many today , defeated by the democracies she hated and split in two , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The case of Nazi Germany , although unique , is suggestive of what might happen in other welfare states should mass democracy collapse . Some very tentative hypotheses can be fashioned : ( I ) The breakdown of mass democracy leads to the immediate re-establishment of welfare politics . ( z ) The new system is undemocratic . ( 3 ) The new system attempts to meet some of the rational welfare needs of the masses , but at the same time it gives expression to the irrational drives that the previous rational system kept below the surface . And one is tempted to a last hypothesis : ( q , ) There is something incompatible in trying to represent both the rational and the irrational forces within man in a political framework . The irrational forces take over and bring the whole system to destruction . COMMUNISM AND WELFARE POLITICS Communism in an industrialized country appears to present still another alternative form of the politics of national welfare . The shifts in Communist politics away from stalinism are in some respects parallel to the changes that occurred as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the differences are also significant . A word of caution must be extended at the outset . A good deal of the evidence has yet to develop , for most of the Communist countries are still in the stage of industrialization . Furthermore , with the exception of the Soviet Union and China , the form and substance of politics in Communist nations today are shaped far more by the demands of the big Communist countries than by internal forces . Of all the Communist countries , only Russia has emerged as a fully industrial nation after having under-  | gone industrialization Communist style , and Russia herself is still in the period of transition from stage two to stage three of political development . Thus Russia is just a beginner in the politics of national welfare . Nevertheless , her example provides some interesting suggestions . of things to come . It seems increasingly clear that the accomplishments of Khrushchev 's era are not to be found so much in foreign policy ( where his much-discussed departures brought grief to the Communist camp ) as at home . There Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics : from the facilitation of rapid accumulation of capital at almost any cost in human welfare to improvement of the welfare of the general population . That this is the goal of the present rulers of the Soviet Union there can be little doubt . In a visit to Hungary in 1964 Nikita Khrushchev pinpointed the nature of Russian politics and the heart of his dispute with the Chinese in his own inimitable style : " There are people in the world who call themselves Marxist-Leninist and at the same time say there is no need to strive for a better life . According to them , only one thing is important ? revolution . " What kind of Marxism is this ? " he asked scornfully . " Communism will achieve little if it can not give the people what they want , " Mr. Khrushchev said , and he added : " The important thing is that we should have more to eat ? good goulash ? schools , housing , and ballet . How much more do these things give to the enlargement of man 's life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 6 Footnote  | Much of Russia 's conflict with the Chinese Communists stems precisely from the fact that Chinese politics is still stalinist while Russia has entered upon the politics of national welfare . The divergent ideologies of stage two and stage three are also causing a conflict within the Soviet Union such as might be expected during this transitional period . The decade since the death of Stalin has been a period of struggle between those who wished to follow the old policies and those who are seeking new ones . It is highly probable that the shift will not be completed for some time and that the two trends , one gaining strength and the other weakening , will be fundamental in Soviet politics for some time to come . The differences between stage two and stage three in the Soviet Union are basically these : The repressive system that Stalin fashioned and headed for almost thirty years was correlated with a highly unproductive labor force and a peasant system hostile to the modern world . The difference between the politics of Khrushchev and that of Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders but also on the fact that Russia was already an industrial nation when Stalin died , and repression was becoming an impediment to further economic modernization . One of the reasons for the recent Russian " thaw " and the greatly increased concern with the living standards of the Soviet people is that substantial increases in economic productivity were no longer possible through the politics of the past . For one thing , further growth of the urban labor force could not be brought about without a substantial improvement in housing , food , and greater availability of consumer goods in general . The government under Khrushchev attempted to raise mass living stand-  | sian politics in the third stage of political development ought to be characterized by a firm continuation , not a decrease , of the present policy of raising the low standards of Russian life . The full meaning of the politics of national welfare becomes apparent as one watches the Soviet government do for its people what the mass democracies have done for theirs ? protect the population from the hardships of industrial life and create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic growth . This function is at the heart of the politics of national welfare . An important difference between Russia and the West can be found , however , in the motive power behind the changes now occurring . In the West the new welfare function of government came into existence in response to demands of the masses , who had gained political power . In the Russian dictatorship , however , the same function is exercised not as a result of the demands of the population but as a result of the demands of the economy . It begins to appear that any government in an economically developed country ? democratic , Nazi , or Communist ? if it wishes to obtain the full contribution that the population can make to the nation 's wealth and power , must undertake the welfare function , must see that the economy runs at relatively full production , that there is relatively full employment , and that a large portion of the product is widely shared . All developed politics , then , are politics of national welfare . Trend toward Democratization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changes that are occurring in the Soviet political system . There has been a lot of speculation about future democratization in the Soviet Union as an expected  | result of the demands of the rapidly growing and increasingly powerful intelligentsia and managerial classes . It is sometimes argued that well-fed and well-educated people will demand and obtain not only more material advantages but also more freedom of inquiry , more freedom of discussion , and more control over their government . It is certainly true that the Russians are liberalizing their political as well as their economic practices . The more obvious signs of repression are gone : most of the labor camps are closed , most forced labor abolished , the secret police have been subjected to tighter controls and shorn of many of their powers . Thousands of political prisoners have been rehabilitated , and there is increased official tolerance of divergent opinions and their expression . If these are indeed the beginning moves toward genuine democratization ? if Russia is fulfilling her part of Maxim Litvinov 's prediction to President Roosevelt that Russia would move toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until they would not be far apart ? the implications for the West and for the world are very great indeed . If Russia is indeed moving toward a political system not dissimilar in its fundamental operation from that of the Western democracies , it is perfectly plain that a new evaluation of communism , and of stalinism in particular , will be required . In such a case , stalinist politics would turn out to be nothing more than violent pressure to open a bottleneck so that industrialization could proceed more rapidly ; there would be no evil aftereffects , because once the country had successfully industrialized , its political and economic path would rejoin that of the Western nations . Communism , like fascism , would then prove to be nothing more than a deviation from the regular democratic pattern .  | The idea is attractive , but I do not believe that this will prove to be the case . Those who believe in the democratizing power of economic growth rely perhaps too heavily upon such examples as the United States and Britain . Nazi Germany , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ironic that in the United States , where economic determinism is intellectually a capital crime , there exists an abiding faith in economic forces and an implicit belief that if economic forces are left free to operate everything will turn out for the best . In the Soviet Union , on the contrary , where belief in economic determinism is dogma , no economic force is ever left unsupervised and uncontrolled by politics . In any case , the American hope that economic wealth will lead the Soviet Union to democracy appears a bit of misplaced economic determinism . Let us accept once and for all that totalitarianism is compatible with a high standard of living and that high productivity is compatible with dictatorship . There is no reason why the concentration of power in the Soviet Union and the authoritarian character of government need change much in the decades ahead . There probably will continue to be increased liberalization of government ? less repression , less stifling dogma , more recognition of individual rights ? but I see no likelihood of increased political control for the masses or of formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of officials . This , after all , is the essence of political democracy and there are no steps in that direction to be seen . We should make a distinction between freedom and democracy . The two quite often go together , but they are not the same . It is my belief that political democracy requires decentralization of economic power and its separation from  | political power , conditions which are surely lacking in the Soviet Union . The masses in the West struggled to win a voice in government in order to use political institutions to protect themselves from unregulated economic forces . For the Russian masses such possibilities were much more remote . In the days of greatest hardship the government and the economy of industrializing Russia were in the hands of the same small , unified elite and there was nowhere to turn for protection . Now that the days of hardship are past , there is no economic need for political democracy , for the welfare state is being created from above . Finally , the trend toward automation , already beginning in the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforce the identity of economic and political leadership , thus making the achievement of political democracy even less likely than it is at present . Indeed , automation will pose grave threats to democracy in the West as well .  | THE POLITICS OF ABUNDANCE With automation we cross the thin line that separates stage three from stage four of political development . We also cross the line between present and future . Our analysis of political development up to the present is complete . Now we enter the realm of speculation . I hasten to add that speculation about the future is grounded at least to some degree in fact . The reader is reminded of a now-familiar thought : that the roots of the present lie in the past and the roots of the future are discernible today if we dig in the proper place . But certain evidence as to what will grow from these roots does not exist . A handful of nations ? a small handful at that ? are nearing the end of stage three and beginning the difficult transition to a new variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning of stage four in the West at the time of World War II . It is probably not an  | accident that the beginnings of new periods of politics are so often marked by war . In Western Europe the politics of industrialization arrived in a burst of wars culminating in the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars , and in Russia industrialization was ushered in by World War I and the Revolution . The politics of national welfare entered with World War I. Perhaps a new outbreak of international violence will set the stage for stage four , but let us adopt the more optimistic view that it has already begun . This fourth stage of political development , as closely linked to automation as the second stage was linked to industrialization , may bring an end to the nation-state . Certainly it will force political leaders to deal with a new set of human problems . All of the political systems of the past have been concerned in one way or another with the problems of economic scarcity ; the politics of stage four , however , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for this reason stage four is called the politics of abundance . ASSUMPTIONS The analysis that follows of the politics of stage four is based upon four assumptions about the economy , that there will be : I .. Greatly increased productivity in the peacetime economy . The efficiency of the already developed economies will surely increase through automation , and the rise in productivity should be sharper than any that has occurred to date . The automated systems that have already been installed or designed have proved immensely efficient , and there seem to be no fundamental technical reasons for believing that such efficiency will not increase  | or that automation can not be applied to additional areas of the economy . It is assumed therefore that the efficiency of automated systems will increase . It is also assumed that , despite the resistance of opposing interests , automation will spread throughout the economy . Obviously the entire economy can never be automated , but the bulk of manufacturing probably can be . Purchasing , accounting , bookkeeping , record-keeping , most routine clerical jobs , and many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the computers of the future . At the present time , automation of the peacetime economy has barely started . 2 . Increased efficiency of war machines . As is often the case , new technology and new economic organization have received their first welcome and major stimulus in the production of weapons . Atomic power , radar , guided missiles , satellites , and space ships are technological developments more typical of stage four than of stage three . Warfare and defense as exercised by the largest and most powerful nations today are already highly automated . They will almost certainly become more so and the use of such automated systems will spread to other large , wealthy nations . 3 . Economic abundance . It is a major assumption that the full utilization of the automated portions of the economy will result in an era of material abundance . For the first time in the history of man it will be entirely possible for the productive system to stay ahead of man 's economic needs . This is hard to accept intellectually , for our whole conditioning has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarcity will remain the major interest of the underdeveloped and developing nations for some time to come , but for those nations in stage four they will  | be well on their way to solution . We have already seen tremendous strides in the creation of plenty in our own lifetimes . ( Compare the Gross National Product or the living standards of the United States in 1900 with those of today , for example . ) In agricultural production the United States has already achieved a surplus , though rational distribution and pricing would decrease it considerably . Abundance will bring its own problems , of course , but there is no doubt that they will be preferable to problems of scarcity . From this point of view , it is nonsense to think of stopping automation . 4 . A smaller labor force . The final assumption is that the spread of automation will mean large-scale displacement of men and women from the productive process by machines . As a result of the first industrial revolution , machines have taken over most of the unskilled jobs performed by human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routine jobs performed by human minds . Even middle-management jobs will be capable of being performed by machines , though management will probably protect its own position . Blue-collar workers and ordinary white-collar workers will not be in a position to protect the majority of their jobs . No doubt the production of the new machines will create some new jobs , and no doubt there will be an expansion in professional and service occupations that do not lend themselves to automation . Finally , there will remain old-fashioned pockets of the economy which continue to function on the old basis , though such areas will be noncompetitive and badly paid . It is not possible to say with accuracy what degree of total job displacement there will be , but in view of the potential of the machines it is hard to believe that the labor force will not shrink drastically . It is assumed here  | as a conservative estimate that from one quarter to one half of the present labor force will be displaced from paid employment once automation has reached its full development . It must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced here . In particular , disagreement centers on the matter of the displacement of labor by machines . This is true in part because the first three assumptions are desiderata while the fourth , of course , is not ; here the battle rages . Economists and sociologists disagree bitterly and widely among themselves . There are those who argue that automation will create as many jobs as it destroys and that dislocation can be handled by relocation . I for one do not think that this will be the case , but there is no way yet to settle the argument . A major problem lies in the fact that there is no clearcut evidence one way or the other . Existing data do not clarify the relationship between rising productivity and falling employment , and it is certainly not clear how many people are losing jobs through automation . Estimates by responsible sources vary from 5,000 to 8o,000 a week in the United States , and even here it is not known how many of these people find other jobs ? or where . An even more basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in its infancy . Even accurate data on the present would show us little about the future . It must also be acknowledged that the range of possible institutional solutions to the problems raised by automation is wide . It is by no means certain that the changes in economic power , class structure , and government sketched in the following pages will , in fact , occur . Prediction is surely rash . Nevertheless it seems useful to set forth what appear to me to be the most probable changes . If this dis-  | cession stimulates disagreement , so much the better . At the least it will help focus consideration on important problems that must be solved . THE PERIOD OF TRANSITION Finally , the reader should be warned that the growth and expansion of automation are not inevitable . Before automation comes into its own , a difficult period of transition must be successfully traversed . This period , which lies immediately ahead for the United States and which will occupy at least the next fifty years , is highly interesting in its own right and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In keeping with the broad scheme of this work , emphasis here will be on the patterns typical of stage four , which appear when automation has reached relatively full development . A word , however , should perhaps be said about the period of transition , for it will be characterized by its own changes and by its own problems . During the transition period , increased productivity in automating industries will increase living standards for some while causing unemployment for others . In the economy there will be a decrease in the number of workers engaged in manufacturing and a great increase in the number employed in services . Indeed , such trends are already evident in the United States . There should also be a decrease in the proportion of workers and product in competitive , profit-making enterprises and an increase in the proportion in non-profit enterprises such as education , government health services , and social work . This development in itself will produce great changes in the nature of the economy in the West and may in the end result in the loss of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices as a primary  | means of allocating goods in what will continue to be an economy of scarcity . ' New mechanisms will also be developed for dealing with the faster rate of change . In the private economy there may well be a swing from the sale of goods to the rental of goods , with a consequent increase in the predictability of markets for the manufacturer who must plan far in advance of automated production . An increased role for government can also be easily foreseen as the necessity arises for such services as a truly national employment service to help displaced workers find new jobs . Political ferment aimed at stopping or controlling automation will also increase . Automation can indeed be stopped , but probably will not be . Past writers have generally underestimated the rapidity of technological and social change ; I think that most present writers on automation are making the same mistake . Let us turn , however , to the examination of stage four as it develops further , assuming that the transition has been successfully made . And as we do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumptions about the economy : greatly increased productivity in the peacetime economy , increased efficiency of the war machine , economic abundance , and large-scale " non-employment . " CHANGES IN THE POWER STRUCTURE Economic changes of great magnitude can be made only if the political system permits them to be made and presides over the distribution of the social " costs " of such major readjustment . Interests opposed to rapid automation Footnote  | will naturally make every effort to enlist the national governments to prevent it , and groups that will suffer in the readjustment will turn to government to cushion the shock . Thus government will in one sense control the course of automation . At the same time , automation will bring about significant changes in the power structure that underlies government , even in a democracy . These changes will have great repercussions in the functioning of national governments and will perhaps alter their form . Let us begin by looking at some of the shifts in power . Concentration of Economic Power First and most noticeable , there should be a sharp increase in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands of an automating economy would accelerate the tendency toward larger production units than has prevailed in the developed economies for almost a century . The cost of the new computers and selfregulated machinery in itself guarantees that only very large enterprises will find it economical to automate . A newly developed computer slated for delivery in 1966 , for example , will have a monthly rental charge of $115,000 . Once in possession of such machinery , the large firms will have a competitive advantage that should make it virtually impossible for their smaller competitors to stay in business . Trends toward monopoly will be encouraged by the necessity for planned production if the giant systems of machines are to be used rationally . From the point of view of economic efficiency it would seem to make sense not only that there be at least close cooperation between the various manufacturers competing for the same market but also that there be some kind of organized control extending through the whole chain of related industries , from  | the supplier of raw materials to the final distributor to the buying public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , outright monopolies or monopolistic agreements within each industry , and monopolistic controls extending from raw-material production to consumer distribution . All of these tendencies already exist , but they are consistently opposed and hindered by national governments such as those of the United States ( though not the Soviet Union ) . Rapid automation would seem to require some easing up of government opposition to mergers and monopolies and perhaps a shift to some sort of price regulation as a means of protecting consumers from the dangers inherent in such concentration of economic power . Such regulation is already commonplace among monopolistic public utilities . If automation comes to pass , economic power will be concentrated in still another way , for the power of management will expand while that of labor unions should diminish sharply as the men they represent are replaced by machines . Unions , of course , are well aware of this ; the major opposition to automation today comes from organized labor . Even in its infancy , the head of the AFL ? CIO has labeled automation " a curse . " One can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make serious inroads into employment . It seems probable that labor unions will slow the pace of automation in the Western democracies ? indeed , they have already done so . But they have not stopped the process , nor is it likely that they will be able to do so in the future . At most , unions can only protect those already employed . They probably will not be able to force management to replace each worker when he quits or retires ( though they may be able to keep him on the payroll long  | after he is needed ) , and they can not protect the people who are never hired because industry is able to increase production without hiring additional personnel . Automation promises to be the problem of the unhired people , and there is little that labor unions can do to prevent the occupations they represent from gradually disappearing . It is possible , of course , that unions such as the automobile workers ' and the steel workers ' will expand to include at least the lower personnel who manage , program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a union might continue to exist as an important power in industry though with membership reduced and in different occupations than at present . There will no doubt be bitter battles over the classification of new positions opening up in automating industries with union shop agreements , management maintaining that the new personnel are engineers and management and the unions claiming that they are labor . However , even under optimum conditions it is difficult to see how organized labor can maintain anything approaching its present power in an automated society . The telephone system in the United States does not shut down during a strike , but continues to operate with supervisory personnel . Someday a strike will not shut down the steel or auto industries either , and the power of their unions ? so heavily based on the ability to strike ? will suffer accordingly . New Class Structure Automation would also bring great changes in the class structure , though probably not as dramatic as those produced by the original industrial revolution . Most obvious would be tremendous alterations in the occupational structure , with whole categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , a significant decline in the  | number of private managerial personnel because of economic concentration in large concerns , a vast increase in government personnel , a significant increase in certain categories of engineers and other technical workers , an expansion in such professions as teaching , social work , and medicine , and a drastic decline in the number of clerical workers , agricultural workers , and industrial workers , both skilled and unskilled . The power structure would also be changed . The positions of greatest power would be those of top government and business management , as they are today , but the power of government would probably be much greater , for reasons to be explained below , while labor leaders would probably be excluded almost completely from major positions of influence . There would also be new sources of wealth and a different distribution of wealth among the population . This is perhaps the most difficult matter of all to predict , for much will depend upon the degree to which socialism replaces private operation of the economy and upon government policies regarding taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast number of unemployed . It seems safe to say that in an abundant society the entire class system will be oriented much more toward power and prestige and much less toward wealth as a basis for differentiation . Since power and prestige are more directly related to occupation than is wealth ( which can be passed down for several generations or spread through such means as ownership of stock in corporations over which no direct control is exercised ) , one can expect continued high social mobility ? both up and down ? as individuals are promoted or demoted in the highly competitive scramble for the top positions . Marx was wrong ; the abundant society will be far from classless .  | Particularly sharp differences should separate those who work from those who do not . Presumably some means of supporting the permanently unemployed at a relatively high standard of living must be found , but they will surely lose out in power and in prestige . It seems likely that the " lower classes " of the automated society will be those who do not work , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social pyramid from top to bottom and that the choice to work at a paid job will be more a psychological than a social choice . The whole distinction between working and nonworking members of society raises some extremely interesting problems which merit much more extended consideration than they will receive here . If indeed one quarter to one half of those who now work are no longer needed in the labor force , there will be great need of new values to give their lives some meaning . As my wife and I have written elsewhere : Modern man devotes his life to work . Not only his wages but also his social standing , his way of life , his friends , his amusements , and his self-respect are tied to the work he does . Men spend their lives and break their hearts scrambling for occupational success , not only for the money involved , but for power and prestige , for the approval of wives and neighbors , and as proof of their competence and their manhood.2 Such values would appear as necessary as ever for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more necessary than at present if able individuals are to be made to prefer employment to well-paid leisure . On the other hand , the same values would be absolutely useless ? worse , they would be psychologically and socially Footnote  | destructive ? for those who do not work . Is half the population to strive and fail and consider itself misfit and rejected because it can not find employment which does not exist ? This hardly seems a reasonable expectation . It seems more likely that new values ( or old values ) will appear that place a value on leisure and on personal qualities other than occupational success . It is interesting to speculate what these qualities might be . On the other hand , how are two contradictory sets of values to exist compatibly side by side ? Will we be led to a society of Alphas and Gammas conditioned to two different ways of life ? This indeed would be a revolutionary change in class structure and seems too farfetched to be considered seriously , but the problem of the unemployed remains . GOVERNMENTAL CHANGES One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise of automation would be an increasingly close identification between government and industry . It seems inevitable that giant corporations such as we have envisaged would exercise great influence upon government . It seems equally unavoidable that government will increase its intervention in the operation of the economy , for no representative government can allow such great and concentrated economic power to be wielded by private hands for private purposes without , at the very least , extensive regulation in the common interest . Moreover , the need to coordinate the operation of huge private economic enterprises with the activity of the public sector of the economy will make it imperative that there be a good deal of planning as well as regulation and may lead some governments to take over directly certain key industries . The result , which sounds somewhat paradoxical today , should be on the one hand increased control of govern-  | ment by businessmen and on the other hand increased governmental operation and control of the economy . In all probability there will be such an enlarged interchange of personnel between government and business that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government or the government running big business . In the end , the concentration of economic power in itself should prove more significant than the distinction between private and public economic power . The sharp narrowing of the number of men who make economic decisions combined with the close cooperation between private and public sectors of the economy and the large exchange of personnel between the two should make the distinction between private and public enterprise less meaningful than it is today . Concentration of Political Power The concentration of political power should also be marked in an automated society , for the control of the economy and the government will rest in the same few hands , and this new elite will find itself relatively freed from dependence upon the mass of the population . Just as industrial leaders will no longer require the labor of masses of workers to keep the economy running , so governmental leaders will no longer require the active participation of the mass of the citizenry to make the nation rich and powerful . The change should be particularly marked in the military sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessity for citizen armies . Large standing armies in peacetime are no longer a nation 's best defense . Antimissile missiles and " second strike capability " are more important . If nuclear war should occur , the strike will be sudden and the major                     