@@774368

txt  | man Lesinski , a Roman Catholic , vowed that this " antiCatholic " bill would never clear the full committee and promptly introduced a bill of his own . The Lesinski bill was more expensive and allowed funds for auxiliary services to public and private schools . The colloquy between Lesinski and Barden ignited a religious controversy which had been smoldering for years and which was quickly snatched up by the mass media . ' The fires of religious controversy continued to rage during the second session of the Eighty-first Congress in 1950 . Heat was especially intense within the House Committee on Education and Labor which was considering the Senate bill of the previous session . Finally the committee leaders on both sides of the private aid controversy recognized the irreconcilable nature of the conflict and joined with eleven other committee members ( including Representatives Richard Nixon of California and John Kennedy of Massachusetts ) to kill the bill by a vote of 13 to 12 . In 1954 the United States Supreme Court added a new dimension to the segregated school issue by declaring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Topeka , that segregated schools specifically violate the " equal protection " clause of the fourteenth amendment of the Constitution . School aid legislation did not reach the floor of either house in 1954 , however Congress did satisfy a request of President Eisenhower 's by authorizing the establishment of a White House Conference on Education . In 1955 President Eisenhower proposed a $1.1 billion  | school construction program with over 8o per cent of the funds to be in the form of loans . This request disappointed some of the more vocal Republican federal aid supporters and drew hostile fire from the Democrats . The House Education and Labor Committee rejected the Eisenhower proposal and reported a much stronger school aid bill . But this measure encountered a new snag in the school aid struggle ? the House Rules Committee . The session ended without floor action . During the next session ( 1956 ) the Kelly bill ( Edna Kelly , D. N.Y. ) , which was a compromise between the Eisenhower bill and several NEA sponsored proposals , was cleared for floor action . Once on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House accepted an amendment offered by Adam Clayton Powell ( D. N.Y. ) prohibiting aid to segregated schools . The Powell amendment coupled with a Republican attempt to substitute the bill for the original Eisenhower proposal resulted in defeat for the Kelly bill by a thirty-vote margin . In 1957 a school aid bill once again reached the floor . And once again it was killed . In this episode the causes of death were similar to the year before ? Republican opposition and segregation ? but the technique employed was different . The House adopted an antisegregation amendment , and there was dissension between Republicans and Democrats over the form and substance of the bill . Finally in a last-ditch effort to placate the Republicans , the Democratic leadership agreed to accept the Eisenhower bill in toto . But before this agreement could be consummated , the wily chairman of the Rules Committee , Howard Smith ( D. Va. ) , moved to strike the enacting clause ? which is tantamount to killing the bill . This motion was adopted by a margin of three votes . A new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 . For the first time in the history of general assistance legislation a measure passed both houses of Congress in the same session . But ultimately it was killed  | in the House Rules Committee . Two of the familiar ingredients for defeat ? segregation and Republican opposition ? were present once again . Early in the session the Senate passed a school bill and in May a measure was approved by the Rules Committee by a vote of 7 to 5 . Once on the floor it was modified to include the Powell antisegregation amendment and was finally passed . But the bill passed the two chambers in different forms and this necessitated the creation of a conference committee to iron out the differences . In the House the bill was returned to the Rules Committee before going to conference . With the inclusion of the Powell amendment , the bill lost two of its earlier Southern suporters on the Rules Committee ( B. Carroll Reece ? R. Tenn. and James Trimble ? D. Ark. ) , and on the second round the vote switched from 7 to 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1961 the federal aid cause gained an enthusiastic supporter in the White House ( John Kennedy ) , and the members of Congress prepared for battle once again . But the historic stumbling blocks of race , religion , and Republican opposition were still present . In mid-session the Senate passed a $2.5 billion school aid bill , and one week later a similar measure was reported by the House Education and Labor Committee . Earlier in the session the Democratic leadership ( with the help of the President ) waged a successful fight to enlarge the Rules Committee from twelve to fifteen members . Two of the new additions ( Carl Elliott ? D. Ala. and B. F. Sisk ? D. Calif. ) were known federal aid supporters , and it was anticipated that this would tip the scales by one vote . But this proved to be a false hope . Even though Representative Powell had agreed to withhold his antisegregation amendment , Southern members of the committee feared it would be offered by someone else . Catholic members of the committee were reluctant to allow the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NDEA extension bill which contained loans for private schools . Ultimately both bills were killed in Rules when James Delaney , a Catholic Democrat from New York , joined an  | opposition coalition which included Chairman Smith , William Colmer ( D. Miss. ) , and all five Republicans . Later in the session Representative Powell attempted to bring the bill directly to the floor under a special parliamentary procedure , but his efforts were in vain . During the 1962 session the Senate took no action on school assistance , and the House Rules Committee repeated its performance of previous years by squelching the aid bill . In 1963 and 1964 Congress enacted a number of measures which gave specific assistance to various levels of education , but no general aid bill was forthcoming . The legislative process is deliberately designed to block as well as to pass legislation . It is not a network of clear channels which binds the two houses of Congress and facilitates the flow and speed of legislation . It more closely resembles a maze which is separately constructed in each house and is filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within such a system is illustrated by the previous brief review of federal aid to education legislation . In searching for school aid stumbling blocks , one is quickly led to the House of Representatives . Starting in 1948 the Senate passed each bill that reached the floor-1948 , 1949 , 196o , and 1961 . On the other hand , in the House three bills were killed on the floor ( 1956 , 1957 , and 1961 ) and another ( 196o ) was passed but subsequently held in the Rules Committee on the way to conference . From 1943 to 1955 the prime obstacle in the House was the Education and Labor Committee . During this period hearings were held on seven bills , but not one was reported . In 1955 the opposition bloc finally crumbled when fifteen non-Southern Democrats aligned with seven Republicans to approve a bill for the first time in recent history . By 1959 federal aid supporters had a solid majority on the committee .  | The position of this bloc was improved in 1961 when Adam Clayton Powell replaced Graham Barden as committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee changed in the mid-195o 's , the anti-federal aid bloc in the Rules Committee was solidified . This committee was the principal obstacle to school aid bills in 1955 , 1959 , 1960 , and 1961 through 1964 . Chairman Howard Smith and ranking Democrat William Colmer coalesced with committee Republicans ( with the exception of Reece in 1960 ) to halt school bills . Even after the committee was enlarged to fifteen members in 1961 , the religious issue kept this bipartisan coalition alive . The storm clouds of race and religion hovered over the federal aid fight throughout the post-war period . By 1965 one of these issues had been extricated from congressional debate and the other ceased to be a dilemma and became a resolvable problem . Under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 the Commissioner of Education was authorized to discontinue federal aid to segregated schools . With the issuance of the 1954 Supreme Court decision of Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka , most Southern congressmen realized that someday federal assistance to segregated schools would be discontinued . But because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable . For similar reasons it was difficult for civil rights advocates to refrain from promoting their cause by amending federal aid bills . After 1964 this became a moot question . It is ironic that John F. Kennedy 's election to the White House in 196o was both a help and a hindrance in the struggle for federal aid to education . Being a Roman Catholic , Kennedy was forced by his critics to assume a hard-line  | position on the issue of public aid to private schools . This stand was enunciated in his celebrated speech before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association when he stated , " I believe in an America where the separation of church and state is absolute . . . where no church or church school is granted any public funds or political preference . " After taking office , public pressure precluded the President from softening his position even though he fully realized that lack of Catholic support would defeat his federal aid proposals , which was the key to his domestic legislative program . In a series of lectures at Columbia University , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by saying , " While it should not be impossible to find an equitable constitutional formula to settle the church-school aid problem , it is difficult for that formula to be suggested by the nation 's first Catholic President . " 2 In 1965 it was possible for a non-Catholic President to search for that " equitable constitutional formula " and thereby to convert Catholic opposition to support . There were numerous other changes , both inside and outside Congress which paved the way for the passage of the 1965 act . They will be treated as they occur in the following chapters .  | Most students of Congress would be lost without the Congressional Quarterly Service . The authors of this study are no exception . Background information on legislative occurrences relating to the federal-aid fight is found in the annual volumes of the Congressional Quarterly Almanac . A more concise compendium of this material is included in Congress and the Nation , a mammoth volume published by Congressional Quarterly in 1965 . The most useful source specifically devoted to federal aid is Federal Role in Education also published by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the federal role in education is found in The Federal Government and Education , House Document No. 159 ( 88th Congress , 1st Session , 1963 ) . Of course the best chronicle of floor debate is the Congressional Record , which is indexed in the permanent volumes . Extensive hearings on federal aid were held by the House and Senate committees , and this material is also available . A useful explanation of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is contained in the House Education and Labor Committee 's Report , No. 143 ( 89th Congress , 1st session , 1965 ) . The " Minority Views " contained in this report include statistics on the increased financial role of state and local government in education . There are several excellent sources which cover in detail  | the chronology of the federal aid struggle . These include : Frank J. Munger and Richard F. Fenno , Jr . National Politics and Federal Aid to Education ( Syracuse : Syracuse University Press , 1962 ) ; H. Douglas Price , " Race , Religion , and the Rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Uses of Power ( Ne , York : Harcourt , Brace , 1962 ) ; Robert Bendiner , Obstacle Course on Capitol Hill ( New York : McGraw-Hill , 1964 ) ; Philip Meranto , The Politics of Federal Aid to Education in 1965 ( Syracuse : University of Syracuse Press , 1967 ) ; and Stephen K. Bailey and Edith K. Mosher , ESEA : the Office of Education Administers a Law ( Syracuse : University of Syracuse Press , 1968 ) . Coverage of the Cardinal Spellman-Mrs . Roosevelt dispute is found in the July 4 and August 1 , 1949 , issues of Newsweek . An account of Senator Taft 's views on education is in The New York Times , April 2 , 1948 . For a compilation of President Kennedy 's ideas on education see William T. O ' - Hara , ed. , John F. Kennedy on Education ( New York : Teachers College Press of Columbia University , 1966 ) .  | Once again education became an issue on the national agenda in 1965 because of a combination of events and forces that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the external and internal environments of Congress . Some of these changes included the Presidential election of 1964 , accompanied by sweeping electoral gains for liberal Democrats in Congress ; the changes inside Congress that the election precipitated ; and the culmination of a series of shifts among the professional groups and associations . These factors contributed to a climate that for the first time promised a positive congressional response on the thorny education issue . The question that Congress faced in 1965 was whether federal aid was to be extended in a major way to the elementary and secondary levels with or without aid to private and parochial schools . As a result the groups that were still arguing against federal aid in principle simply were not given the same kind of access to the points of decision as those groups who were contributing to the dialogue over what kind of aid would be best .  | Presidential politics of 196o led John Kennedy to select Lyndon Johnson as his running mate . The details of that choice are still the private knowledge of a very few men , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have for the Kennedy legislative program three short years later . Congress had worked long and hard in examining the Kennedy program , which included medicare , federal aid to education , area redevelopment , Appalachian programs , and a host of other sweeping social programs , and had in one way or another defeated or emasculated much of that program . Few observers of Congress were surprised by the pace of events during the Kennedy years . The election of John Kennedy to the Presidency did not , after all , remake the map of American politics . Congress is a representative institution , and the returns of the Presidential election in 196o did not reflect an overwhelming desire by most Americans to embrace the Kennedy legislative program . The mid-term elections of 1962 provided some tentative endorsement of the Kennedy Administration , with the Democrats retaining their strength in the House and increasing their majority by four in the Senate . With another Presidential election coming in 1964 congressional Democrats were probably more amenable to following the leadership of the Administration in the Eighty-eighth Congress than they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy team had learned a great deal about the techniques of lobbying on Capitol Hill . Lawrence O'Brien ( special assistant responsible for coordinating the Administration 's lobbying effort ) had become one of the most skilled and respected members of the Administration in the eyes of the Congress . The shock of President Kennedy 's assassination on Novem- ber 22 , 1963 , had the potential of pulling the nation apart with the strains of disbelief and recrimination . The political tensions that were sweeping the nation in the months prior to the murder were deep and fundamental . When the assassination occurred , however , Lyndon Johnson 's instincts led him to pull the nation together . He was conditioned by long personal experience to move in the direction of consensus , not division . His behavior in the weeks immediately after the assassination , as premeditated as they may have been , were also the instinctive moves of a man who had reached success through the tangles of one-party Texas politics . A man schooled and successful in that arena has learned well the lesson of submerging division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are won by working together for the agreed-upon nominee . Whatever differences men have over who that nominee should be are worked out quietly behind closed doors . When the choice has been made , the electorate is presented with a harmonious and united party . ' It was Lyndon Johnson 's good fortune to have accumulated prestige on Capitol Hill and a leadership style that was uniquely appropriate to the needs of the American people and Congress in the year following Dallas . The Vice President on November 22 , 1963 , was a man with the instincts to unite and to find the common level of agreement among even the most resolutely divergent groups . The people who were there during the second half of the Eighty-eighth Congress recall with anguish the atmosphere that pervaded official Washington . " Depressing , " " without purpose , " " the fun had gone , " " tiring , " were some of the words used to describe it . Under these circumstances Lyndon Johnson brought just the right set of attitudes and instincts to cajole and lead Congress into action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It abruptly changed the atmosphere on Capitol  | Hill during the latter stages of the Eighty-eighth Congress from one of intransigence and obstruction to a collective attitude of guilt , fatigue , and reluctant cooperation with the White House . There are two theories about what happened in Congress during the month of December 1963 and throughout 1964 . At the moment of the assassination the Kennedy legislative program , including the controversial tax cut and the public accommodations civil rights legislation , was tied up in committee , generally receiving the treatment a Democratic President 's liberal program is likely to receive from a Congress controlled by a coalition of conservative Republicans and Southern Democrats . When 1964 came to a close , much of that program had been enacted into law . Some close observers of the legislative scene say that the heart of the Kennedy program was on the verge of being passed and that , even if Kennedy had lived , much of the legislative program enacted in 1964 under Lyndon Johnson 's stewardship would have passed anyway . The premise of this theory is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislative standpoint , spent in preparing the way for what was a wide-ranging legislative package . The adherents to this theory argue that Congress rarely responds with great favor to new and sweeping legislative requests from an activist President without at first going through a timeconsuming critical examination of each program . Lobbyists supporting the program in and out of government need time to generate public support and to translate it into votes in Congress . The lesson of the three years of the Kennedy Administration is not one of frustration and defeat on Capitol Hill , although there was much of that , but rather the story of three years of hard preparation , of sowing the seeds which were about to bear fruit when the assassination occurred . Lyndon Johnson , then , inherited a ready-made situation to exploit , and he merely kept the legislative ball rolling . In 1964 the tax cut became law , the first major civil rights legis-  | lation since reconstruction was enacted , and the war on poverty was launched . Each of these programs was conceived in the New Frontier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The other theory is that Lyndon Johnson 's fabled legislative skills took an obstructionist Congress and made it work his will where Kennedy had failed . The Johnson mystique on Capitol Hill is a combination of truths , half-truths , and a never-ending series of apocryphal stories . But in the end it is the story of a master tactician who never let an issue reach the arena of public debate and decision until " all his ducks were in a row . " This meant long hours of negotiation and bargaining with his associates when he was Majority Leader in the Senate . He had to know what each man needed when he needed it and when his needs could be translated into a vote . It is said that when Lyndon Johnson was Majority Leader he never let a week pass without having at least one conversation with every Democratic Senator . Each conversation involved the famous Johnson treatment from which he learned of recent developments in the Senator 's home state and office situation which might be exploited later when a vote was needed . The process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the keystones to the Johnson system . He rarely , if ever , acted without sufficient information . When Lyndon Johnson became President , he assumed the one office that has more leverage with the Congress than the Majority Leadership . He was quick to recognize the potential of his situation , and he lost no time in involving the leadership of the Congress in making the transition from one administration to another . In short , the new president both exploited the legislative advantages of his position and worked exhausting hours keeping himself informed . When the summer of 1964 was drawing to a close , and with it the Eighty-eighth Congress , America and Congress had responded to Lyndon Johnson 's leadership . There were approximately fifty major pieces of legislation in committee or other stages of the legislative process when he took office .  | When the Eighty-eighth Congress finally did adjourn in the fall , Congress had passed the tax cut , civil rights , mass transit , poverty , and foreign aid bills . The campaign for the Presidency had been under way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election to continue and expand the directions he had set during 1964 . But the Republican picture was uncertain . In San Francisco it became clear that the supporters of Senator Barry Goldwater had taken advantage of the time preceding the convention to secure delegate support . While the antiGoldwater wing of the party floundered over who their candidate should be , the conservatives already had the nomination locked up . The nomination of avowed conservative Barry Goldwater at the Republican convention was the final tactical decision which set the stage for the fundamental choice the electorate was to make in November . There was interest and even some drama in the President 's selection of Hubert Humphrey as his running mate . There was significance and even humor to Goldwater 's choice of a nondescript New York Congressman , William Miller , as his running mate . But all of these choices and the conventions themselves were secondary in importance to the central fact that a consensus Democratic President , enjoying the fruits of success with Congress and ' the sympathy of a grateful nation uninvolved in a major foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had achieved his nomination over the prostrate body of a divided party . While the education matter was hardly a central issue to the campaign in 1964 , many of the Democrats who were elected to Congress in the Johnson landslide counted themselves as supporters of the federal aid concept . The statistics of the Johnson-Goldwater election as reflected in the makeup of the House in the Eighty-ninth Congress  | are overwhelming : 295 Democrats were elected to the House as against only 140 Republicans ; of the Democrats there were 6q freshmen in the House when it convened on January 3 , 1965 , and of those , 38 had defeated incumbent Republicans . Collectively , the profile of the Democratic freshman class 's electoral victory in 1964 shows the depth of the Republican defeat . Fully 45 per cent of the freshman Democrats who replaced Republicans won with margins of more than 10,000 votes , while 33 per cent won with less than 5,000 votes . Approximately 62 per cent of the freshman class who replaced Republicans had what are considered marginal victories of better than 51 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vote . The surge of strength that the Democrats showed at the congressional level reached an extreme with one candidate who won in a district which in 1962 had given the Democratic candidate less than 35 per cent of the vote . The coattail affect of the President 's margin of victory was evident in nearly every congressional district . Only nine of the sixty-nine freshmen Democrats in the House won with margins larger than the President 's . The complex environment which surrounds Congress was radically altered by the violent change of Administrations in late 1963 . That event itself had a profound impact on the important internal environment of Congress . The chances for passage of an education bill were improved measurably by the change in the makeup of Congress itself . The result of the 1964 election was not only an increase in the majority of Democrats , but an increase in that majority at the expense of especially those Republicans who had records of opposition to education legislation . The Republicans lost a total of more than four hundred years of cumulative seniority in the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average length of service in the House of nearly ten years . This was a major blow for the Republican Party to sustain in a body that places so much importance on seniority .  | Stephen K. Bailey , in a book written between the 1964 and 1966 elections , suggests that an evolutionary process was at work in 1964 which inevitably was to present the nation with a Congress more or less like the Eighty-ninth Congress . The growing urbanism and civil rights concerns of the nation have radically changed the nature of congressional constituencies to be more like the single national constituency which elects Presidents . As this trend moves forward , Bailey argues , we will get more and more Congresses responding positively to ' White House leadership , since they will both be products of the same voting patterns . In Bailey 's own words , " A new electorate is creating a new Congress . Whether Bailey is accurate in the long run makes for interesting debate , but there is little doubt that the Eightyninth Congress was to be dominated by Northern urbanoriented Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new Congress on the internal and external environments affecting education policy was immediate and profound . Internally , the relationship between the parties was suddenly reshaped . Since 1890 Presidents had controlled an average nominal party majority of approximately 54 per cent in the House of Representatives . In 1965 the Democrats gave President Johnson a 68 per cent nominal majority in the House . Whereas in the Eighty-eighth Congress the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans held a working majority in the House , the Eighty-ninth Congress was held tightly by the Northern liberal Democrats . They were able to pass nearly every major Administration program without help from liberal Republicans . This meant that the Democratic leadership could make all strategic and tactical decisions without consulting the Republicans . Republican support for the Democratic majorities was welcome but unnecessary .  | Institutionally , the new majority that the liberal Democrats held in the Eighty-ninth Congress was reflected in the new vigor of the Democratic Study Group ( DSG ) .3 The liberal Democrats , long frustrated over their inability to translate the national Democratic platform into legislative action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House designed to promote the national platform 's legislative goals . In establishing the DSG , the liberals were sensitive that their movement would be interpreted as an effort to subvert the established House party leadership . To counter this image , emphasis was placed on supporting the party position , and the title of Study Group was taken to avoid the implication of a break with the party leadership . Official blessing from the regular Democratic leadership was neither sought nor received . In fact , the DSG was organized to give some organizational drive to the liberals ' dream of enacting legislation under conditions where they lacked a working majority . They hoped to develop enough organizational strength to force the leadership to negotiate with them on the same terms as the leadership had negotiated with the conservative coalition of Southern Democrats and Republicans . The institutionalization of an ideological bloc such as the DSG is a rare event in the American congressional party which is dominated by fragmented regional and philosophical allegiances . The DSG 's success can be attributed to its members ' attention to organizational detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and out of Congress . The organization 's membership is a closely guarded secret to protect those members who would suffer in their district if their association with a liberal organization were known .  | Because membership can be secret , a growing number of Southern Democrats , especially from the new urban South , belong . The total membership figure is necessarily an approximation , but when the Eighty-ninth Congress convened , the DSG claimed a membership of more than 18o Democrats . In its genesis the study group held regular and frequent caucuses . Now , because of size and the difficulty of getting all its members to a meeting , fewer caucuses are held and authoritative policy positions can be taken by a thirteenmember executive committee .4 However , not all the nominal members of the DSG consider the executive committe 's recommendations binding . The DSG has worked hard since its founding to make acceptable and legitimate its ideological posture and at the same time avoid alienating the complex congressional power structure based on elected party leaders and committee chairmen . Generally , if the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support him . When the DSG opposes the President it rarely fights him publicly . Indeed , the DSG is convinced it has been accepted as a legitimate subgroup within the House , in part because it has not been too ideological and because it has been willing to play the game according to the established rules . The DSG 's leadership has consciously tried to avoid having the organization take stands on too many matters . On the theory that effectiveness is diffused when one is recorded firmly in one corner or another on every issue , the DSG takes stands only on what the executive committee  | feels are the most important matters of the day . The DSG is a mature political force in the congressional environment , and its style of bargaining is not unlike the other power blocs in Congress . The difference is that the DSG has gone further than most other blocs to formalize its structure . In 1965 the DSG claimed the allegiance of most freshman Democrats . The DSG " participated " in 105 congressional campaigns in I964 with a combination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sixty-nine freshman Democrats , fully two-thirds had some form of contribution made to their successful campaigns by the DSG . It is not surprising that most of the freshman Democrats joined the study group . According to the DSG 's statistics , during the first session of the Eighty-ninth Congress the DSG membership supported the President 's Great Society legislative program ( as measured on eighteen key roll-call votes ) at a 96 per cent level . This compares with a support score of 75 per cent for all Democrats , 48 per cent for all non-DSG Democrats , and 85 per cent opposition score for the House Republicans . This record of near unanimous and consistent support for the Administration 's major legislative programs is important to the DSG 's bargaining power on those few issues when it has reservations about White House legislative policy . In 196o , well before the DSG scored its largest successes , there were already indications it was being taken seriously . " On legislation such as the Area Redevelopment Bill , the School Aid Bill , and the Forand Bill , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leadership looks in the constant negotiation for position and fulfillment. " 5 Perhaps the character of the Eighty-ninth Congress , and therefore the explanation for the ultimate and inevitable passage of federal aid legislation in 1965 , is most simply manifested by the dominance the DSG had in Democratic counsels after the election of I964 ? for the DSG for the  | first time constituted a majority of the majority Democratic party in the House . With its new-found strength the DSG actively and positively sought to change the environment inside Congress in such a way as to make certain that its new-found voting strength could be used to pass President Johnson 's program . The response from the regular Democratic leadership to the " liberal " dominance in the new Congress was almost instantaneous . Speaker John McCormack was watching the returns in Boston and quickly realized that the Democratic caucus in the coming Congress was to be numerically controlled by the Northern and Western Democrats of the DSG and that the old dominance of Southern committee chairmen would be reduced . He knew that the DSG finally would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove some of the traditional weapons employed so successfully over the years by the conservative coalition to stop liberal legislation like federal aid to education . This meant diluting the power of the Rules Committee and its venerable chairman , Judge Howard Smith of Virginia . Speaker McCormack moved quickly to insure his leadership by seeking the necessary changes that would make the House more responsive to the new working majority . He called several leaders of the DSG and told them that he wanted to know as soon as possible the rules changes the DSG wanted and that he , as Speaker , would work with them to effect the changes . The DSG did not waste time taking advantage of the Speaker 's receptiveness to their requests . At a meeting called on December 2 , less than a month after the election , the DSG officially recommended a list of seven proposals they would offer to the Democratic caucus . Two of the seven suggested steps were aimed directly at reducing the role of  | the Rules Committee to that of a traffic cop , guiding but no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House . The DSG also advocated a revision of the party ratios on committees so that all would reflect the nearly 7 to 3 majority of Democrats in the House at large . By informal agreement the ratio of majority to minority on the Appropriations Committee had not changed since the Eighty-first Congress , 1949 , when it was set at 3 to 2 . Similarly the Ways and Means ratio of 3 to 2 had been unchanged since the Eighty-sixth Congress in 1959 . However , of the seven changes that the DSG was advocating , it was clear that the most significant would be the changes designed to reduce the influence of the Rules Committee , which , under Judge Smith 's chairmanship and with a conservative majority , had become the bastion for opposition to liberal legislative programs in the House . The procedural power over the flow of legislation to the floor that the House rules gave the committee was easily used for the ideological purposes of the chairman and the committee 's majority . Except under extraordinary circumstances every piece of major legislation that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule the bill does not get on one of the regular calendars of the House under which the House considers its business . This strategic procedural power has been effectively used to obstruct , delay , and sometimes prevent legislation which the Rules Committee has found objectionable from ever reaching the floor . Indeed much of the history of federal aid legislation in the House is made up of such legislation being bottled up in the Rules Committee There were several devices that the DSG could have offered as means of divesting the Rules Committee of its  | life-and-death control over legislation . During the Eightyseventh Congress Speaker Rayburn and President Kennedy moved to expand the committee and through the power of committee assignment change the ratio of conservatives to liberals . The DSG asked for the reinstatement of the so-called twenty-one-day rule which would give the Speaker the power to bring a piece of legislation to the floor after twenty-one calendar days passed from the date a standing committee had requested a rule from the Rules Committee . The importance and implications of this change were clear . ' If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and requested a rule for the consideration of such a bill , there was potential for completely bypassing the Rules Committee after the twenty-one days had passed . The Speaker , as one legislative arm of the President when both White House and Congress are under the control of the same party , would be able to get a legislative decision from the House on the President 's major legislative requests . The Eighty-first Congress had adopted a modified version of the twenty-one-day rule which gave the committee chairmen the power to bypass the Rules Committee after the time had elapsed . However , this was an unacceptable alternative to the DSG in 1964 because they were loathe to transfer power from one committee to another . What they wanted was the potential for national party control of the Congress , and this could be achieved only through a rule which institutionalized the informal relationship that had grown since the New Deal between the Speaker of the House and the President . The second device the DSG sought to have adopted was a so-called seven-day rule which also was aimed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House and Senate have passed differing  | versions of the same legislation , the bill must go to a conference committee where the differences are reconciled . Under rules prior to 1965 , unless unanimous consent could be obtained , a two-thirds vote was required to bypass the Rules Committee and send a bill directly to conference . If this could not be obtained , the bill was sent to the Rules Committee and was then sent to conference by majority vote provided the committee was willing to give it a rule . The new rule gave the Speaker the authority to recognize a member who could offer a motion to send a bill to conference by a simple majority vote . The two-pronged attack against the power of the Rules Committee contained in the twenty-one-day conference committee rules increased the significance of the Democratic caucus scheduled for January 2 . The party caucuses are typically routine affairs which nominate a candidate for Speaker and fill other party leadership posts . Since all the incumbent leaders for the Democrats were returning to the Eighty-ninth Congress and since there was no overwhelming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only controversial issues before the caucus . The results of the caucus demonstrated the new-found power of the liberal plurality within the Democratic majority . The twenty-one-day rule and conference committee rule were adopted and taken to the House for approval . In adopting these rules the Democratic caucus promised to alter considerably the internal environment within which the Johnson Administration 's program would be considered . A final change in Rules was brought to the caucus by Speaker McCormack himself . The change denied a member the right to request an engrossed copy of the bill before final passage . An engrossed copy is the final text of legislation as amended by floor action and certified by the clerk of the House . To demand an engrossed copy of a bill usually delays the final vote by twenty-four hours while it is being certified and printed . This change , which was approved ,  | removed one more procedural delay to the consideration of legislation and was warmly supported by the DSG . By the time Congress convened , the regular party leadership knew in detail what the DSG was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building of the DSG package of proposals . Apparently the DSG was persuaded to reduce the number of its recommendations and to focus its energies on getting the most significant proposals ( the twenty-one- and seven-day rules ) adopted . The twenty-oneday rule was eventually adopted by the House , but victory was short-lived because this rule was subsequently repealed by the Ninetieth Congress in 1967 . The DSG helped enlist the Speaker 's support for the rule by giving his office the power to call the legislation to the floor . As one member of the Study Group related , " Precedent , which is pretty strong around here , was all on the side of giving the power to the chairman of the committee which had written the legislation . But we figured we 'd get along a lot better with the Speaker if we could show we were interested in helping him . The successes the liberals had in the opening weeks of the Eighty-ninth Congress were due in part to employing the techniques that the conservative coalition and regular party leaders had used for so long . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of established leaders , combined with a new alertness in the DSG camp to give them the necessary coalition to win . One member of the DSG put the first point this way , " The first rule was to keep our objectives flexible enough to bring new people in on their terms rather than demand allegiance to any credo of our own . In addition , the liberals made sure that their goals were not outside the mandate they felt was given the Democratic  | Administration in the election . " We 're not for pushing things way over to the left , only for making sure the national consensus in support of certain programs is fulfilled , " was the way one member of the DSG put it . Having demonstrated their skills at strategy and tactics , the DSG and the liberal forces in the House went into the legislating phase of the Eighty-ninth Congress with a new sense of strength and vigor . The changes that they had been influential in bringing to the internal structure of the House were to be instrumental in passing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changes in the House rules which emasculated his power , that he could see that " the legislative skids were greased " and there was little point in his trying to stop the vote other than to protest what was about to happen . The Judge 's observation accurately characterizes the dilemma and frustration facing the Southern Democrats and Republicans for much of the first session of the Eightyninth Congress . The liberals had the votes and used them to " grease the legislative skids " in 1965 . However , before the Eighty-ninth Congress could begin to write the substantive record of that remarkable session , the internal environment was to undergo another of the tremors that periodically rock Congress and materially affect the climate of activity within the legislature . The Republicans dumped Charles Halleck of Indiana as Minority Leader in the House and replaced him with Gerald Ford of Michigan.11 This fight was a premeditated attempt  | by younger House Republicans to reshape their image to conform to the views that seemed to be dominating American politics at the time and a spasm response to a devastating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their brethren . What we have already described taking place within the Democratic party was also about to happen to the Republicans . The party in Congress is a convenient labeling and identification device , and its importance should not be minimized . Indeed , the party becomes an important dimension within the Congress for organizing and dividing the Congress as it does its substantive work . However , the factions and blocs that develop within and across parties also explain much about Congress . In Congress the Republicans had long lived ? in image and in fact ? as a party that maintained its effectiveness in a minority position because its leadership was willing to act as a broker between the conservative Southern Democrats and those Republicans ideologically in tune with the conservative position . The leadership of Charles Halleck had not been ineffective . Indeed , in one sense his downfall was a product of his effectiveness as broker in forming a working majority within the House that could no longer be formed after January 1965 . Halleck , like the Southern Democrats , was not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1964 election had reshaped the Democratic majority in the House , it also changed the complexion of the Republican minority . Many of the defeated conservative Republicans probably would have supported Halleck in 1965 . In short , the 1964 election encouraged a Republican leadership fight . While no individual Republican blamed Halleck for the Republican 's devasting defeat in 1964 , the change of Republican membership and Halleck 's ties with the old guard in the party provided the younger members with an excuse to tie Halleck to the events of the preceding November .  | As one Ford supporter commented , " Halleck seemed to have no awareness of the shape that we were in . His attitude was one of extreme indifference . He said that , back in 1936 , when he had been the only Indiana member returned , there were only eighty-eight Republicans in the House . Well , some of us were not here in ' thirty-six . We were interested in 1964 and what could be done about it . " 12 The Democrats opened the Eighty-ninth Congress with a shift of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DSG . The Republicans started 1965 by rejecting the leadership that had been in power during the years of cooperation between House Republicans and Southern Democrats . When the purges were over , a new generation had taken control in both parties . The rarity of the events and the radical changes they brought made the opening of the Eighty-ninth Congress the most dramatic and portentous since the House revolted against the dictatorial powers of Speaker Joe Cannon in 191o . It is a difficult thing to assess the meaning of such basic changes in the internal environment of Congress . The patterns of behavior that have been built over nearly two hundred years in the House have a strong element of deference for the status quo . This is particularly so with respect to the internal organization of the power structure . The internal environment of congressional decision is most profoundly affected by changes in the committees of Conggress . The changes of federal aid to education were considerably enhanced by the changes affecting the Rules Corn- mittee . Similarly the party changes in the House were to have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Labor Committee . For example , less than twenty-four hours after Gerald Ford of Michigan became the Minority Leader in the House he entered into negotiations with Speaker McCormack over the party ratios that ought to be reflected in the committee memberships . Under the agreement the Democrats picked up and the Republicans lost from one to four seats on each of the nineteen committees affected . This agreement left the Democrats with the opportunity of filling thirty-seven vacancies on committees ( made up of new seats primarily ) , and the Republicans with filling seventy-seven ( made up of vacancies occasioned by the defeat of so many members ) . Ford secured one concession from the Speaker which insured that no Republican would be dropped from a committee on which he had served during the Eighty-eighth Congress . The Education and Labor Committee which had a ratio of 19 to 12 during the Eighty-eighth Congress was now expanded in favor of the Democrats , 21 to 10 . The Democratic members of the Ways and Means Committee who appoint Democrats to committees had three replacements to fill and two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats ' proportion of seats . The Republican Committee on Committees had but two vacancies to fill on the Education Committee . Of the twelve Republican members of the committee during the Eighty-eighth Congress four were missing from the roster during the Eighty-ninth . Three ? Bruce of Indiana , Snyder of Kentucky , and Taft of Ohio ? were defeated for reelection during the Democratic sweep in November . The fourth , Peter Frelinghuysen of New Jersey , left the Education Committee to devote more attention to the matters facing the Foreign Affairs Committee on which he became the fourth  | ranking minority member . In leaving the Education Committee Frelinghuysen gave up his ranking minority status on the committee.14 His departure moved William Ayres of Ohio into the ranking minority position on the Education Committee . But , as is often the case with education legislation , the lines of battle that are drawn on controversial issues rarely are resolved solely along party lines . The divisions within the party ranks on the committee are as significant as the numerical divisions that separate the two party blocs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Eighty-ninth gave the Democrats overwhelming control with members firmly committed to the principle of federal aid to education . The last major House vote on a federal aid issue before 1965 had come on August 30 , 1961 , when the House voted down a motion to consider the Kennedy Emergency Aid Program . Of the thirteen Democrats who had served on the committee during the Eighty-seventh Congress when that vote occurred , all but one ( Scott of North Carolina ) had supported the motion to take up the bill , which can be construed as a vote for federal aid . Of the eight Republicans on the committee who were recorded on the 1961 vote , there was unanimous opposition to considering the legislation . At the time , the Republicans were protesting " the whole manner in which this thing the aid issue has been handled , " so it is not necessarily the case that all nay votes were in opposition to federal aid in principle . Nevertheless , on the record votes the split on the Education Committee before new members were added for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid ? a scant three-vote margin . On the Democratic side of the committee there were three replacements and two new additions . Congressman Landrum of Georgia relinquished his third-ranking majority  | spot on the committee to take a long-desired seat on the Ways and Means Committee . Congressman George Brown of California , the lowest ranking Democrat on the committee during the Eighty-eighth Congress , moved over to the Science and Astronautics Committee for the Eighty-ninth , giving up his seat on the Education Committee . Thomas Gill of Hawaii was replaced in Congress by another Democrat from Hawaii , Patsy T. Mink . The five new Democratic faces on the committee were all freshmen who had campaigned in part on the need for federal aid to elementary and secondary education . They were William Ford from Michigan , William Hathaway of Maine , Patsy Mink from Hawaii , James Scheuer from the Bronx , New York , and Lloyd Meeds from Washington . All five ardently supported the Administration education program during the Eighty-ninth Congress , and one , William Ford , played an important role as a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the committee were sophomore Congressman Ogden Reid from New York and freshman Glenn Andrews from Alabama . Coming from a liberal old-line Republican clan in New York , Reid was a supporter of federal aid to education . He was an ambassador to Israel during the Eisenhower administration and is from the same Reid family that at one time owned the prestigious but now defunct New York Herald Tribune . Andrews was one of the group of seven new Republicans in the House who came from traditionally conservative Southern Democratic districts . This group hardly qualified as liberal supporters of the programs their Democratic predecessors opposed . While the Democrats were adding five strong new votes for federal aid to the committee , the Republicans added only Andrews who could be counted in opposition . When all the shuffling around was completed , the ratio of pro-education votes to negative votes on the committee for the Eighty-ninth Congress was better than  | As the Eighty-ninth Congress began its work , the bloc structure within the Education and Labor Committee reflected the urban orientation that the Congress itself was going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dominated by Northern urban-oriented members . Twelve of the twenty-one Democrats came from cities with populations of more than 500,000 . The cities of Detroit , Chicago , Los Angeles , and New York were all represented on the committee . Furthermore , the remainder of the committee Democrats were , with few exceptions , receptive to the various programs that the federal government had been developing to meet the needs of the nation 's urban centers . Principally this meant the 1964 establishment of the Economic Opportunity Program , known in the Great Society as the " war on poverty . " This urban orientation was to be important to the elementary and secondary education bill since the Administration 's eventual solution to the education stalemate revolved in large part around the previous congressional commitment to the poverty program . As the bill was finally introduced and enacted , the legislation distributed funds according to the number of children from families defined as impoverished in the affected school district . The heavy urban character of the majority members on the committee certainly mitigated possible obstacles at the committee stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the poverty dimension of the bill helped encourage members to perceive the education proposal as an extension of the previously enacted " war on poverty . " By tying the one legislative program to the principles of the other , the architects of the education program in 1965 were acknowledging a known principle of congressional politics , namely that the intensity and depth of opposition in Congress to various proposals is directly proportional to the " newness " of the program . T'he corollary of this proposition is that potential opposition can be neutralized and reduced by making the proposed legislation appear to be less inno- vative and precedent setting than perhaps it is in fact . One of the intriguing dimensions to the education story in 1965 is just how this bill was made to appear as different things to different people . Each of the various groups and interests that were actively engaged in the debate over this bill was able to see in it what it wanted to see . The existence of certain blocs within the House and its Education and Labor Committee enabled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in legislative policy making to improve the chances of the 1965 bill . Whether.or not the proposition about the importance of precedent to congressional decision making is valid for all issues and at all times , it is interesting to note that the people most intimately involved in getting the bill passed acted as though this were an important factor in getting the legislation enacted . For example , one Presidential assistant summarized his impressions of the legislative phase of the education issue in 1965 by saying : Even with all conditions being favorable and the omens saying the right things , the fight to get Congress to make a new departure is a difficult one . Legislative departures are much more difficult than expanding programs that have already met their initial legislative test successfully . The structure of the Education and Labor Committee in the House is , as we have shown , an important part of the internal environment of Congress that was to affect the decisions Congress would make in 1965 on the education issue . A factor of considerable importance to the structure of the committee was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1965 Powell was starting his fifth  | year as chairman , having succeeded Graham Barden of North Carolina in 1961 . Among other things , the Education and Labor Committee has had jurisdiction over many of the volatile domestic issues around which most of the political campaigns have been waged in this country during the past thirty years . It is the Education and Labor Committee that considered Taft-Hartley and the remaining issue over the proposed repeal of Section 14b of that act . The same committee authorized the poverty program , the National Defense Education Act , the higher education program , and finally dealt with the delicate question of federal aid to elementary and secondary schools . While the list is not exhaustive it can be said that there are relatively few domestic issues that attract the same intense levels of debate and attention as those that fall to the Education and Labor Committee 's jurisdiction . The man who sits as chairman of this committee is , therefore , at a particularly sensitive spot in the legislative process in particular , and in the broader policy process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Powell 's committee considered between 1961 and 1966 had as either their primary or ancillary goals the easing of various discriminatory pressures on the Negro population . Until Powell lost his chairmanship in January of 1967 , he was generally acknowledged to be the most influential Negro politician in America and one of the Congress 's most warmly disliked members . Chairman Powell went to great lengths to generate an air of sweet reasonableness and fair-mindedness , but there was paradox and irony in the comments that were made about his chairmanship . The view from the Democratic side of the committee conveys a complex picture . One influential Democrat on the committee described Powell as an " effective chairman because he never got in the way . " The same member suggested that Powell pre-empted possible challenges to his flamboyant style of leadership by " letting the committee have its head , " and thereby not exercising  | the kind of control that would have been challenged . The interesting distinction was drawn between being an effective chairman and an " outstanding legislative leader . " Powell got universally high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter . The difference apparently refers , on the one hand , to the permissive administrative style he brought to the committee and , on the other , to his publicly flamboyant , devil-may-care attitude , which reduced his effectiveness when dealing with his colleagues . The high level of personal antagonism that Powell was always able to provoke is evidenced by the comment heard several times : " Powell loses twenty votes every time he stands up on one side or another on an issue . " Some estimated the loss of votes to be as high as forty ! Generally speaking , Powell 's position on the Education and Labor Committee is not typical of the posture of most chairmen in the House . Normally the committee chairman is not only the man who has the most years of consecutive service on the majority party , but is also looked upon as a specialist with substantial expertise regarding the matters that face the committee . While this latter state of affairs may not always obtain , there is a definite presumption on congressional committees that the chairman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge as for the power and influence he wields as chairman . On the education issue in 1965 , Powell 's behavior ran both good and bad from the perspective of his Democratic colleagues on the committee . The same member who called Powell an effective chairman also claimed that Powell had no role whatsoever on the education bill , " and his implication was that this was all to the good for the sake of the bill . The point is that there were limits to the administrative permissiveness that the committee majority would tolerate as compensation for behavior they felt inimical to the best interests of the committee 's legislation . Permissiveness of " giving the committee its head " was acceptable while the bill was in the education subcommittee , chaired by Carl  | Perkins of Kentucky , but once the full committee got jurisdiction there were serious criticisms of Powell 's behavior . At a critical juncture in the bill 's course through Congress Powell was in the Caribbean on vacation.15 His absence , and apparent refusal to return , delayed the legislation a full three weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relieved his rage over the delay with these words : Why the son-of-a-bitch ! The committee had nothing else on its schedule , the coalition was just barely sticking together . . . in danger of becoming unglued . . . we were all ready to go and he 's down in Bimini . If he does n't make a contribution he should n't be chairman . There is no divine right of committee chairmen.16 The apparent ambivalence on the Democratic side of the committee to Powell 's chairmanship is a product of many things . But in the final analysis the liberal Democrats on the committee knew that Powell would support the " right " position , and that he could be counted on not to cramp the style of the subcommittees . This distaste for the tedious aspect of shepherding the education bill through the intricacies of the House was repeated in other areas but ironically worked in Powell 's favor . He was content to let the sub- committees do their work with latitude and freedom . The smaller work groups handled much of the detail and tedium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied to act as chairman and to receive the perquisites of office ( symbolic and material ) , and generally let others run the legislative show . There were some matters that caught and occupied Powell 's attention , however , and when he turned his considerable political talents to a subject it was rarely without effect . Perhaps the best known example of Powell at work on legislation was the recurrent antidiscrimination amendment which bore his name . The Powell amendment was a predictable addition to much of the welfare , grant-in-aid legislation that the Congress considered during the eighteen years Powell served . The amendment was simple enough . It prevented the use of federal monies for programs being administered on a discriminatory basis . The Powell amendment was an inevitable issue attached to every school aid proposal from 1955 OIL The Brown decision in 1954 gave Powell 's amendment obvious relevance and impetus . Often opponents to the federal aid principal would join with the bill 's supporters to pass the Powell amendment and thereby deny education legislation the necessary support of the Southern Democrats on final passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kelly bill . The cumulative , overlapping impact of decisions in the policy process is nicely illustrated by the Powell amendment . With the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act , which prohibited the use of federal funds for segregated facilities in Title VI , Powell 's fight came successfully to a close . For the very next year after the 1964 civil rights bill became  | law , the education bill reached the floor of the House without it first being necessary to fight the civil rights issue directly . The elementary and secondary bill had enough obstacles in its path to fully occupy all its adherents . It is no small accomplishment that they no longer had to fight the civil rights issue before getting to the federal aid to education question itself . Aside from his regular leadership on the one amendment and the periodic bills that would attract his attention , Powell was viewed with dismay and concern by most of his Democratic colleagues on the committee . Powell never really labored at keeping the majority on the committee working together as an integrated whole , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education field ) lacked the advantage of a united and concerted majority working for its adoption . While the committee Democrats have been liberals , by and large , elected with the support of organized labor and the Democratic Study Group , they hardly can be characterized as a homogeneous unit . Munger and Fenno were told by a Republican on the committee that the Democratic condition on the committee was " . . . like the old situation where they hate the heretic more than the infidel . " 18 Edith Green 's ( D. Ore. ) resistance to the Administration 's education bill in 1965 is a good case in point , the details of which we will treat in the next chapter . Suffice it to say that while Powell 's style of leadership held certain benefits for the majority members , one of the significant costs was that it reinforced the contentiousness and partisanship that existed within and between both parties on the  | committee . Most of the committee 's proceedings were affected by this situation , and the education issue was no exception . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of operation was as complex and contradictory as that offered by the Democrats . Perhaps the most interesting difference between the two is that , while the Democrats saw Powell as administratively permissive , the Republicans on the committee were impressed by the " tight ship " Powell ran . One Republican member recalling the mark-up session of the full committee said : As usual he Powell was the epitome of judiciousness and reasonableness . He always wants to give the air that he is a calm , fair-minded , and reasonable chairman . This is n't to say that he would not try to cut off debate or abuse anyone . The facts of the matter were that it was obvious he had the votes and therefore he could afford to present any image he wanted to . The difference in party perception on the Education and Labor Committee was not confined to opinions about Powell . There was a similar difference in the members ' attitudes about Carl Perkins , the chairman of the education subcommittee . Generally the Democrats on the subcommittee saw Perkins as a kindly enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , interestingly enough , saw Perkins as a very shrewd leader who ran the subcommittee with a firm hand . Republican Member Charles Goodell of New York complained , for example , that Perkins loaded the subcommittee hearings in favor of the bill 's proponents . He argued that Perkins deliberately left only a very few hours for the minority 's witnesses to get a hearing . This , Goodell suggested , was a part of the overall Administration plan which Perkins was executing without a flaw in order to speed the bill through Congress with a minimum of debate . The minority 's feeling that they were dealing with an  | unshakeable monolith ( especially during the first session of the Eighty-ninth Congress ) apparently contributed to Peter Frelinghuysen 's ( R. N.J. ) decision to give up his ranking minority spot on the committee when the Eighty-ninth Congress convened . A colleague of Frelinghuyson 's on the committee reported that he had been frustrated in dealing with Powell , and made special reference to his experience the year before with the poverty program . Of course , while there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the most senior position he could have achieved on the Education and Labor Committee , there is reason to believe that under any circumstances he viewed work on that committee as a thankless task.19 Again like the Democrats , the Republicans on the committee were very sensitive to the politically explosive nature of the issues they had to deal with on Education and Labor , and as a consequence the Republican ranks were as badly split as the Democrats ' over the 1965 bill . Both Alphonzo Bell ( R. Calif. ) and Ogden Reid ( R. N.Y. ) made it plain early in the proceedings that they were sympathetic to the Administration bill , and both eventually voted for it . The difference between the two parties was that Edith Green 's defection from the majority coalition , as an avowed supporter of the federal aid principle , was potentially more damaging to the legislation and the Demo- cratic cause than Bell and Reid 's defection would have been to the Republican camp . To the Democratic leadership , concerned over the staying power of a delicate coalition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supporter was viewed as no trivial event . People from the Office of Education , actively engaged in the congressional liaison phase of the bill 's development , worked long hours with Bell and Reid to maintain their support as counterweight to the Green defection . Most serious of all from the Democratic view was that Edith Green 's objections to the legislation were precisely those that the Republican leadership was making . This made for a convenient coalition of sympathies if not of votes between Mrs. Green and committee Republicans . Both the Republicans and Mrs. Green disclaimed any working relationship , while the Democrats charged with getting the legislation passed were sure they saw an active alliance at work . The extent and effect of Mrs. Green 's opposition to the bill will be of more specific concern in the next chapter . Congress reflects changes in its external environment in a number of ways . We have already examined several of the most dramatic and immediate links , in 1965 , between the internal organization of the House of Representatives and its Education and Labor Committee with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its organizational phase early in 1965 and began the tasks of examining the substance of legislation , basic realignments in the positions of the major education pressure groups were under way . The National Education Association , the National Council of Churches , the United States Catholic Conference , and the American Federation of Labor-Councils of Industrial Organization ( AFL-CIO ) had all been involved in the debate over fed- eral aid to education for virtually as long as the question had been a modern policy issue . The actions Congress would be likely to take in this area were closely tied to what these groups would accept or reject in any proposed bill . The relationship between the private groups and the Congress ( particularly through the Education Committees in both houses ) is simply another important example of the linkages between the external and internal environments in which congressional decisions are made . Furthermore , relations between the major private groups were not conducive to compromise until the shape of the total policy environment was clear in I964 . In short , the shaping process takes time and requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can work becomes clear with the evolution of the positions of the education groups in Ig64-65 . By mid-afternoon on January 28 , 1965 , the House education subcommittee , chaired by Carl Perkins of Kentucky , had received public acknowledgment that both the NEA and the USCC had accepted the essentials of HR 2362 . This was the first time in history that these two groups were on the same side of an elementary and secondary aid bill fight . To the outsider it appears as though the external environment changed in direct response to the changes in the internal environment . In fact , the private groups that had represented the varieties of opinion on federal aid legislation began their realignment a full year before the Eighty-ninth Congress convened . There is no doubt that the liberal Democratic gains in the I964 election were significant in reinforcing the shifts that were well underway prior to the election , but the significant development is that the major private groups had started to reassess their positions of public record before the internal changes in Congress had occurred . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | positions on the question of federal aid in the United States . The rationale and motives for any one group 's position will vary for a number of reasons , but it is not a distortion to say that there is one body of opinion in favor of federal aid as long as no assistance is provided to private and/or parochial schools . Another posture supports federal aid only under conditions where aid is granted to the private and parochial sector , and yet a third body of opinion holds that there ought not to be any federal aid to education under any circumstances . The latter view is usually a product of an overriding fear of federal standards and perceived threats of central control of American education from the Office of Education . Such groups as the Chamber of Commerce and the Daughters of the American Revolution have traditionally held this last view , but it should be said that their role and effectiveness within the education community and the Education and Labor Committee were negligible by the time the 1965 debate began . For the simple fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether there ought to be a role for the federal government in American education . The Morrill Land Grant College Act of 1862 , the National Defense Education Act of 1958 and subsequent extensions , the Area Vocational Education Act of 1963 , the Higher Education Facilities Act , the Library Construction and Services Act , the Mental Health and Retardation Act , and others had long since involved the federal government in American education with expenditures of billions of dollars annually . For this reason , and because there were other powerful interests aligned with the other categories of opinion we have identified , there were in fact a limited number of formal groups that carried significant weight in the process of getting HR 2362 adopted . Among the groups that stood for aid only to public schools , the National Education Association and the National Council of Churches stand out . There were other well-known organizations in this category ,  | such as the American Association of University Women , the American Jewish Committee , the American Civil Liberties Union , and the less well known but very influential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the NCC , representing respectively the largest professional teacher 's association and the dominant religious attitudes in the country , surely wielded infinitely more political muscle than any other pro-public school aid interests . The NEA is a federal organization of state associations . Their public position over the years has been one of strict support for a general aid bill ; one which would support teacher 's salaries , would use state departments of education to administer the programs , and would provide no funds for private or parochial schools . In support of the association 's position , the NEA has been one of the twenty-five largest spenders among the lobbyists registered with Congress . In 1964 it ranked as the seventeenth largest spender , ahead of such well known lobbying groups as the American Medical Association.20 The NEA has nine professional staff members responsible for federal relations . A legislative commission reports to the representative assembly of the association and between conventions is responsible to the executive committee of the association . Its mandate is to develop and pursue a legislative program consistent with the NEA platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , each of whom is appointed to a four-year term by the executive committee . The commission was established in 1920 " to represent the teaching profession before Congress , " and that still is its primary reason for being . Even with staff , many members , and prestige the NEA came dangerously close in the mid-196o 's to losing its access and hence its effectiveness with the Office of Education . The association 's firm ( " rigid " was an adjective used by  | people in the Office of Education ) stand in opposition to aid to parochial schools was leading some people in the Office of Education to see the NEA as an obstacle to compromise on the delicate church-state question . Fear over possible exclusion from the policy making process helped persuade the NEA to go along in 1965 with an aid formula that would see some funds channeled into the hands of private and parochial schools . In 1965 , to be on the side of a minority when education legislation got passed would have left the NEA without influence during the critical period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The testimony before the House and Senate was replete with questions about how a particular title and section would be implemented . If for no other reason , the NEA could not afford to be with the losers the year federal aid finally got enacted . Since the NEA 's principal reason for being was the passage of federal aid to education legislation , the rival teacher organizations ' ( the AFLCIO-affiliated American Federation of Teachers ) charges that the NEA had not been successful up to 1965 touched a sensitive chord . The combination of chance and design that characterizes important policy developments is illustrated again in the relationships between the NEA and the AFT . The older , more conventional NEA was being threatened by the more militant AFT which was and is willing to use the traditional devices of organized labor in its efforts to represent the teachers of America as their agent in collective bargaining . With the AFT reflecting more permissive attitudes toward aid to private and parochial schools , the NEA had to get on the bandwagon or be accused of being unrealistic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , the AFT threat , and the growing opinion of the Office of Education about the NEA 's resistance to compromise surely was enough to swing the association over to the side of the Administration bill .  | A representative of the NEA 's federal relations staff told one of the authors that it was simply a logical case of " the NEA not wanting to risk being out in the cold when the hard decisions were made later on . " This same respondent said that the NEA " recognized that if it took a rigid position on the church-state issue as an organization it would have been hamstrung politically . " The effect of all this was to give the Administration the important early support of an influential group . It was on December 16 , 1964 , that the NEA let it be known that they would accept the principle of aid to students of nonpublic schools . The announcement signalled an important and basic shift in policy on the part of the NEA . Furthermore , the NEA 's willingness to go along had important effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that a radical change in the political climate in favor of federal aid had occurred when the NEA shifted its stand . As one Presidential assistant put it : " The overwhelming victory of the President and party in 1964 had the effect of forcing the pressure groups to come to terms with each other . " The NEA was the first group to make a public move toward accommodation . The National Council of Churches , as a federation of thirty-one Protestant churches in the United States , could justly lay claim to representing a cross section of dominant religious beliefs in America.21 The NCC had , over the years , opposed any federal support for non-public elementary and secondary schools . This placed the NCC in favor of the 1961 Kennedy bill . When Arthur Flemming , former Secretary of HEW during the Eisenhower Administration and first Vice President of the National Council of Churches , appeared before the Perkins subcommittee in the House to testify on the 1965 bill , it was not at all clear what the council 's position would be . Further , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HR 2362 when Flemming appeared ( the bill was made public only ten days before the hearings began ) , but he referred in his testimony to the board 's 1961 support for federal welfare programs for children regardless of " the school they may be attending , provided such services are identifiable by recipients as public services , and the expenditures are administered by public authorities responsible to the American electorate . " Flemming made explicit the council 's willingness to find a solution to the church-state dilemma when he told the subcommittee that the Board " . . . in confronting the church and state issue has drawn a line between assistance to students in private schools and assistance to private schools . " 22 In the absence of having considered the proposed legislation and the formula it included for solving the church-state issue , Flemming had to be circumspect in giving the council 's support to the Administration 's bill . Nevertheless , having indicated the council 's desire to find such a solution , and having indicated what the council 's conditions for aid to children of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a vigorous defense of the principal of accommodation and compromise on the churchstate issue : The church and state issue . . . has been one of the principal roadblocks standing in the way of constructive federal legislation in the areas of elementary and secondary education . It has likewise been a divisive factor in the life of our nation . I hope that all concerned , both inside and outside of Congress , will analyze HR 2362 with the end in view of doing everything possible to make it an instrument of reconciliation . I believe that it can be . I believe that  | President Johnson and his associates should be commended for providing us with this opportunity of approaching an old unsolved problem with a new spirit . The National Council of Churches is prepared to do anything it can to make HR 2362 such an instrument of reconciliation . The time for action in the area of federal financial assistance to elementary and secondary education is long overdue.23 Thus did the NCC join the NEA in moving off dead center on the most controversial aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not whether the NEA or the NCC " changed " their positions . The important element in their reactions to HR 2362 is their apparent willingness to accept the thrust of the legislation as not being inconsistent with their prior stances . A representative of the NEA put it rather simply : " While the NEA was not io per cent in favor of the bill , as it was introduced , we had decided that we could live with it . It was minimally acceptable . " The process by which these two influential groups came to their positions on HR 2362 was neither accidental nor unrelated to the accommodations made by the principal interest group representing the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in the United States , the United States Catholic Conference . Since the post-World War II period , the USCC had taken a position of opposition to any school-aid bill " that excluded the Catholic schools from its benefits . " While any school aid legislation that would have provided funds to nonpublic schools would have spread the federal largesse beyond just Catholic institutions , Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation in the nation ? spoke with the single most important voice of nonpublic education in the land . On Capitol Hill , Catholic education interests were protected by people such as Hugh Carey ( D. N.Y. ) , who sat  | on the Education and Labor Committee , and Speaker John McCormack from Boston , Massachusetts . The national Catholic constituency that Carey and McCormack and others represented was not small . By 1965 more than fiveand-a-half million American children attended Catholic schools compared with two-and-a-half million in 1950 . Twenty to 26 per cent of the school population in nine Northern states is enrolled in Catholic schools , and in New Orleans fully one-third of all school children are in parochial schools.24 The so-called Catholic position is not universally held by all Catholics . Congressman Andrew Jacobs ( D. Ind. ) has taken the position that " ... as Catholics , we do not have the right to a separate publicly supported school system nor does any other group of people have such a right . " 25 Cardinal Richard Cushing , Archbishop of Boston , represents the view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal control by simply not accepting any governmental assistance of any kind . Indeed , this view was the dominant Catholic position before the end of World War II , when the church hierarchy took a new stance in favor of equal treatment for nonpublic education in any federal assistance program . Though there are exceptions , the USCC can be said to represent the official Catholic position on questions of federal aid to education . At least the people in the Office of Education felt confident that they were dealing with the representatives of the church hierarchy when they met with the legislative representatives from the USCC . Frank Hurley and William Consodine were in frequent contact with Education Commissioner Francis Keppel and with Douglass Cater , the President 's special assistant who represented the White House 's interest in the development of the bill .  | The late Msgr . Frederick G. Hochwalt was the director of the USCC 's Department of Education and appeared before the Perkins ' subcommittee on the afternoon of January 28 , 1965.26 In his comments to the committee , Msgr . Hochwalt gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation was not perfectly satisfactory from his standpoint . One of the USCC 's principal spokesmen told the authors that " while the USCC was not perfectly satisfied with the bill , we expressed no objections to it . " The primary problem with the bill from the Catholic standpoint was that all funds were to be administered by a public agency , and there was no guarantee that Catholic education would receive equal funding under the legislation . The dilemma Catholic educators found themselves in was that the long-run implications of the bill were not clear . One could not predict , for example , whether the bill really constituted a victory for the USCC 's twenty-year battle to get public support for the parochial school , whether it was a fraudulent package offering token support to Catholic education that would wither under the control of public school boards , or , finally , whether the bill was just a compromise . With this uncertainty , the USCC 's position finally was that they " . . . could withhold objections to the bill . " ' When John Brademas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ USCC endorsed the legislation , Hochwalt 's response was instructive of the kinds of reservations that Catholics had about the bill : " It is a strong word endorse , but it comes close to it . We look with favor upon those kinds of provisions and hope they can be worked out successfully . To say we endorse the whole thing line by line is a little too  | broad for us . " Brademas ' reply was meant to be funny and was indicative of the delicate lines that were being redrawn vis-a-vis the Catholic 's posture toward federal aid . He said , " Monsignor you should be a candidate for public office , I think that sounds encouraging enough to me. " 27 So it was that the threads of the external and internal environments of Congress were woven together to create a series of conditions that seemed to make the passage of an aid program in 1965 inevitable . There should be no misunderstanding that we are suggesting that chance alone set in motion a series of irresistible forces which culminated in the bill 's passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with matters of public policy , the creation of conditions necessary for the enactment of such legislation was a product of a great deal of planning and hard work as well as of good fortune . President Johnson 's accession to the Presidency was a matter of chance . But his style of leadership and his strong desire for a compromise settlement to the church-state stalemate preconditioned every other participant 's perceptions and actions . The NEA had long taken the public position of no grants to private and parochial schools . The United States Catholic Conference had long been on the public record as not accepting less than parity of treatment between the public and private school systems . Obviously both groups were going to have to give some , or one was going to have to be run over roughshod . Lyndon Johnson 's political style simply would never have permitted him to trample one of these two positions , although it is not insignificant  | that both sides thought that , had he wanted to , the President had the votes in Congress to do just that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society legislative program . The pressures for consensus were great . The President wanted to overcome divisiveness , not create it . And even with the new Democratic majorities , the White House and the Office of Education were never secure in the feeling that they were going to pass the elementary and secondary program until it in fact was through the legislative maze . The internal changes in Congress just were not very impressive to a group of people who had grown battle fatigued and accustomed to defeat on federal aid legislation . The Administration team approached the legislative problem here as though they were facing the Eighty-seventh or Eighty-eighth Congress . The story of how the education formula of 1965 was created and how the Administration and its allies nursed the conditions necessary for passage are the subjects of the following chapters . Success in policy making is the skill of exploiting opportunities for movement when they occur . We leave this chapter having outlined the opportunities that were available to the supporters of aid legislation shortly after Congress convened in January of 1965 . We turn now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enact the bill into law .  | Woodrow Wilson once said that legislation " is an aggregate , not a simple production . It is impossible to tell how many persons , opinions , and influences have entered into its composition . " ' This was clearly the case with the 1965 education bill . It is impossible to know with certainty who was responsible for each idea in the bill , but certain patterns of the policy process that have been asserting themselves for several decades were reflected in the development of the 1965 legislation . We are used to viewing Congress responding to the initiatives of the executive branch . Typically , most major legislation comes to Capitol Hill in the form of a Presidential message or request which is introduced as legislation by a member who belongs to the party of the President . Most often this is one who serves as chairman or ranking minority member of the committee with the appropriate jurisdiction . What is not so clear or visible from these familiar institutional patterns is the growth of a series of stable working  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government who share an interest in a particular policy area . These policy networks focus their early concerns at the White House level since some of the first important decisions are made there ? whether to request legislative action by Congress , for example . Normally the bargaining , persuading , and negotiating that characterize the relations of these policy groups is like the rest of the process : open-ended and repetitive . The establishment of conditions favorable to adoption of a major policy departure is a time-consuming and unending process . Having once passed legislation there is still the battle of reauthorizing the program next year and the year after ; also , there remains the yearly battle of having the programs adequately funded . We need to look closely at how the education policy community negotiated a settlement of the key issues in the 1965 bill . The first point that should be made about these negotiations is that the Democratic membership of the education committee in the House ( where the key battle was to be fought ) by and large took the position that they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Administration and the principal interest groups . In effect this left the salient private groups and the Administration to their own devices to work out the essentials of the legislation . The Congress ( or , more precisely , the House Democrats on the Education and Labor Committee ) would have veto power over the proposal when it was finally received on Capitol Hill . It may be somewhat overstating the case , but an official in the Office of Education described the legislative phase of the education bill by saying , " . . . there was extraordinarily little congressional consideration given the legislation . " In fact , the Perkins subcommittee in the House did add some significant amendments to the Administration bill that was sent up , yet it should be noted that one of the Administration 's key spokesmen on educational matters  | saw the history of HR 2362 as essentially noncongressional in character . It is clear that the important agreements that were necessary before the House would give favorable consideration to a federal elementary and secondary aid bill were made outside Congress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The explanation for this peculiar " surrender " of congressional autonomy over a vital phase in the decision making on the education bill is deceptively simple . The Congress , and particularly the members of the committee who had experienced education fights before , feared they would have to resolve the church-state issue on Capitol Hill . The political consequences of taking sides on " the religious issue " was the greatest concern of most members . One Democratic member of the committee put it this way : " We were all sensitive to the start of another holy war . Politically , not many of us can afford a religious war ? at least those of us from two-religion districts . " In effect , the Democrats on the committee wanted and expected the Administration to work out the necessary agreements ( whatever they might be ) so that the principal factions were satisfied . Their failure on so many prior occasions to find agreement predisposed the leading congressional figures to leave these delicate negotiations in the hands of the Administration . Then the committee and the House would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Administration and the leading figures on the House committee , there was unanimous agreement that the reason the bill was given relatively little attention in Congress was that the leadership operated under the assumption that the more time the bill was given the greater the chances of igniting the " holy war . " The President 's role , ironically , was like that of Congress . After the election he went to the Commissioner of Education , Francis Keppel , and asked for an education bill that would avoid a church-state fight . He was willing to leave the legislative details to his staff ( Cater and Lawrence  | O'Brien ) and to Keppel in the Office of Education . Thus , the legislative phase of the 1965 education bill had its origins not on Capitol Hill but inside the White House during the Presidential campaign of 1964 . In 1964 Douglass Cater , former editor of the Reporter magazine , had joined President Johnson 's staff as a special assistant . His duties were , like other Presidential assistants , undefined and wide-ranging . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1964 , Cater assumed the responsibility for policy matters relating to education . By the time of the 1964 election everyone in the White House looked to Cater for staff leadership on this issue . As a result Cater reviewed the report of a task force on education that the President had appointed earlier in the year . Its report was submitted to the White House in mid-November , shortly after the election . Hence , by the time the task force report was received , the White House was thinking about education as a legislative issue , rather than as a campaign issue . The task force had been chaired by John Gardner , then president of the Carnegie Foundation , who was later to become Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare from 1965 to 1968 . Gardner and the task force approached their problem as experts trying to solve an educational problem , not as tacticians trying to meet a complex political problem . One high-level official in the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare who had seen the report described it as a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force couched the proposals in educational terms , only being peripherally concerned with the political accommodations necessary to gain passage . But the Administration 's priorities were exactly reversed . It apparently contained little mention of a solution to the question of federal aid to private and parochial schools , but rather devoted itself primarily to the technical question of how federal aid should be structured . Cater and Francis Keppel , who sat on the task force , had  | the responsibility of keeping the task force sensitive to the issue of political viability , and the task force report did contain a recommendation that profoundly shaped the act itself . The report developed the notion of tying education legislation to the existing poverty program ? or , to put it another way , of basing the formula for distributing federal funds on the number of children from impoverished families in each independent school district . Eventually this became the basis for the child-benefit approach of allocating aid , which became the hallmark of the legislation . The debate in Congress and the Administration 's major lobbying efforts were directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The issue was narrowly drawn in part because of the makeup of the new Congress . For the congressional Democrats it was a matter of constructing a proposal that would unite the various factions warring over aid to private and parochial schools in and out of Congress . The answer was to be found in the formula and the child-benefit theory which side-stepped the church-state issue by providing the funds not to institutions but to children of nonpublic schools . Douglass Cater assessed the key tactical problem facing the Administration this way : The problem we faced was not one of having to mold public opinion . Public opinion had geen generally in favor of such a bill for at least several years . The problem continually facing the bill was the opposition of the two major interest groups : the National Education Association and the National Catholic Welfare Conference now the United States Catholic Conference . The overwhelming victory of the President and the Democratic party in 1964 had the effect , beyond expanding Democratic majorities in the Congress , of forcing the pressure groups to come to terms with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was going to be  | passed ; and as a consequence , the legislative goal for both groups was to maximize their gains in the bill while minimizing the gains of the other side . . . with the major difference that now they both accepted the fact that the other side had to be given something . The " new " ideas from the Gardner task force enabled the groups to review their positions with fresh standards . Neither group had to face the prospect of losing on a bill identical to the one they may have opposed last time . The new formula gave them the opportunity to save face while at the same time bending a little from prior positions . In addition to the " poverty base " for the formula , the task force also suggested the concept of supplementary educational centers which was eventually contained in Title III of the bill . But if the reports of those who have read the report are accurate , the report did not directly address itself to the political solution of the church-state issue.2 The substantive suggestions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs arising from the churchstate issue . It was not unimportant to the Administration that the political solutions to the church-state stalemate had support in a blue ribbon task force headed by the president of the prestigious Carnegie Foundation . However , the heart of the process that produced the elementary and secondary legislative formula was not to be found in the Gardner task force but rather in a series of meetings and informal negotiations involving the principal groups and forces that had contended over federal aid in the past . The United States Catholic Conference was represented by Mr. Frank Hurley and Mr. William Consodine . Mr. John Lumley and Mr. Robert E. McKay were the principal contacts for the National Education Association . Lumley was director of the NEA 's legislative commission . Mr. Robert Wyatt of the Indiana Education Association participated in several meet- ings in late 1964 which were important as precedents and standards for the ones that followed . The National Council of Churches , while not as regular a participant in the meetings as the other groups , was represented by Dean Kelley at several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its spokesmen in these discussions , especially at the early stages . They were Carl Perkins , the chairman of the education subcommittee of the House Education and Labor Committee ; John Brademas of Indiana , a highly respected member of the education subcommittee who was a former educator before being elected to Congress ; and Hugh Carey of Brooklyn , New York ? also a member of the education subcommittee and a man whose reputation in Congress had been largely built on the force of his articulate representation of the cause of private and parochial education interests . This meant that Carey represented the Catholic hierarchy 's position on Federal aid to education . The perfect index of official Catholic attitudes toward an education bill inevitably would be Carey 's public statements . In many ways the one man who was able to bridge the gaps that separated the various factions on this issue was Francis Keppel , the Commissioner of Education . The Keppel role dates back to the Kennedy Presidency when Keppel was appointed to his post . According to several persons close to Keppel during his tenure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to prevent the National Education Association-United States Catholic Conference battle over elementary and secondary aid from affecting the course of the Administration 's Higher Education Bill . The contacts that Keppel established with the education community on the Higher Education Bill in the early 196o 's proved invaluable in 1964 and 1965 when the Johnson elementary program was being constructed . The pattern of relationships , expectations , and confidence that are critical to a group of highly skilled professionals working closely on hotly contested issues was created and nurtured through the Kennedy program 's experience in Con- congress . While the USCC was not happy about the 1961 Kennedy program , Keppel came out of the legislative battle unscathed . A prominent spokesman for the USCC described Keppel 's success as owing to his not " . . . being an adherent to any of the historical stereotypes nor a prisoner of any of the conventional faiths of the professional teacher associations . " Similarly a representative of the NEA was highly complimentary to Keppel and his skill at " leading the factions to agreement " in 1965 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education issue in 1964 , Keppel was experienced in his job and had successfully created the network of relationships within the professional education groups and church organizations that could be used to find a solution to a problem that seemed all but insoluble . The Keppel contacts provided the start of a series of important conversations that began as discussions but grew over a period of several years to become negotiations . These meetings were so important to the final evolution of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that it is worth quoting extensively from a memorandum describing the negotiations sent by an observer to one of the authors . Major aspects of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act had to do with such fundamental public policy considerations as the nature of federal-state relations , the shockingly inadequate program for the poor , the ancient problem of formulae distribution of money to the states based on need , and the role of research and development . In one way or another most of these issues were touched on in the rather general conversation that took place at the meetings . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one might say that the meetings consisted of delicate , diplomatic soundings on " trade-offs " involving the factors mentioned above , and  | were not by any means strictly limited to the churchstate issue . My memory is not entirely clear on how the meetings were initiated , but I seem to recall that key factors were : 1 . The desire . . . of the NEA , to work out a solution to the political question of passing an elementary and secondary bill . Wyatt was not rigid in his views on church-state relations , and was a skilled maneuverer in legislative circles in his own state . 2 . Congressman John Brademas took a broad view of national needs and felt that the raising of educational quality was a top priority and could only be done by working out new ways of influencing public education . The aspects of the Bill that involved research and development and demonstration , using private as well as public groups as resources , received his vigorous support . 3. . . . the nation needed to pass a bill to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor rural areas . . . even at the risk of creating a new relationship between public and private schools . As a matter of social policy , it seemed .. . that we were faced not just with inadequate education in the public schools for poor children , but also in the private ? and particularly in the Catholic parochial ? schools . . . . one has to worry about all pupils , and the recent reports on the quality of Catholic education were not particularly encouraging . Specifically , it seemed . . . it was in the public interest to devise programs that would encourage the " rubbing of shoulders " between Catholic students and students of other religious backgrounds . The idea of such dinner meetings of an informal character arose initially at the suggestion of Mr. Brad- emas , who , as an Indiana Congressman interested in education , had been long acquainted with Mr. Wyatt who , for many years , was the executive director of the Indiana State Teachers Association . Mr. Brademas , a Protestant , represented the district in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen for the USCC . The details of the legislation as introduced by the administration were never discussed in an organized fashion at these meetings . It was rather a matter of sensing moods , of feeling out how far the several groups would be willing to go . A central question , to put it bluntly , was whether the Catholic group could afford to come out in public opposition to an administration bill proposing an educational program for the children of the poor . The NEA , at the same time , would be in a difficult position to come out in opposition to a program that focused on poor children and that put the responsibility for the management of money in the hands of public bodies . The reason that the meetings went off as well as they did was because there was a genuine desire on everyone 's part to solve the educational problem of the children . . . . Without this , nothing could have happened . Also important was the willingness to explore possibilities of Mr. Wyatt and Msgr . Hurley . I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they did not automatically freeze at a new suggestion . ... no " agreements " were reached . The administration put together a bill , and , while the several groups mentioned had a pretty good idea of what was in it , they did not have really detailed information . In a nice way , the administration in effect said , " Do you dare oppose this one ? " In fact , the parties did not , and actually they gave generally favorable testimony when asked their views by the committees of Congress .  | It seems to me fair to say that these meetings were influential in that there was an unspoken agreement on the part of the participants to support what they could support and to be either quiet or only gently critical of the parts that did not fit their official prior positions . . . . all of the participants kept their " word , " even though unspoken , in magnificent fashion . William Carr of the NEA , who was not present at the meetings , did so even though he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risked his position within his organization . When the bill finally came to the political infighting , there was the delightful sight of the NEA and the USCC representatives on the Hill combining their efforts on the recalcitrants . An informal series of such conversations with people representing all sides of the issue helped the Office of Education define the nature of the limits within which the Administration would have to work . It was critically important for Keppel to get a working idea of how far each group would be willing to go to find a compromise on the church-state matter . Peculiarly enough the NEA and the USCC operated from very different perspectives and perceptions . They trusted Keppel to get a working idea of how far each group would to discover the permissible limits of an Administration bill . But according to several of the participants in these discussions it all seemed an exercise in futility or unreality until the 1964 elections . As soon as the returns were in , all the contacts and the exploratory discussions took on radically new meaning . For the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would simply ignore their policy preferences . The USCC was particularly afraid of the overwhelmingly urban Democratic House of Representatives which could , if it wanted , pass a bill identical to the Kennedy pro- gram . The changes in the rules and the new party ratios left the Catholics no procedural foothold from which to stop a bill that ignored their needs and interests . One can appreciate that , after the election , the pressures on the USCC to cooperate and compromise were irresistible . When it was made clear through Keppel and others that the Administration was soliciting the desires and opinions of the USCC , they were quick to recognize the opportunity to get at least part of the proverbial policy loaf . The NEA on the other hand had supported the Kennedy aid program all the way to its defeat in the Rules Committee . The NEA 's influence in the Office of Education was waning , and they were afraid of losing access to the administrative machinery on education matters if they persisted in opposing any aid for the private educational sector . The results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a more flexible stance on the private aid question . That is , the NEA was willing to cooperate with a program that provided funds in some way to the private educational sector before the Eighty-ninth Congress ever convened . On December 16 the NEA made known its willingness to support a bill that did provide funds for students of nonpublic schools . The election , therefore , changed the political conditions under which education policy would be made in 1965 . It changed this environment sufficiently to move the two principal groups to positions of tolerance and flexibility on a legislative program which they both would have opposed under different conditions . The Administration did not suddenly become authoritarian and dictorial after the returns were in . Contact with the major education interest groups continued throughout 1964 , and conscious efforts were made to solicit their attitudes and judgments . No doubt the conditions of these negotiations took on new meaning after the elections , but the negotiations themselves were continuations of some- thing that had been started much earlier . The good faith and credit that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election for maintaining the spirit of cooperation and accommodation . The judicious and measured efforts to find working levels of agreement on difficult questions continued to characterize the approach that Keppel and Wilbur Cohen , then Assistant Secretary of HEW for Legislation , used with the private groups . Without exception the participants in these negotiations credit Keppel 's work with producing a series of " understandings " that developed into the basis for the churchstate settlement ; namely , that the aid money would go not to private and parochial schools but to the children of nonpublic schools based on a formula that reflected the number of children in a school district that came from families with incomes of less than $2,000 per year . Further , the formula would take into account how much money the state was providing for elementary and secondary education on a per capita basis at the time the formula was being applied .3 In part , the theory was to reward those states already spending considerable portions of their resources on education as a means of stimulating the others to do likewise . Keppel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part form what one participant called his " skills at deference . " This same participant went on to say : He never made ayone feel he was shooting for the honor of authoring the first general aid bill . This was a magnificently orchestrated effort of many people of goodwill . The process was one of extended conferences aimed at achieving a legislative vehicle to which we could withhold objection . Furthermore , without request  | there was a high degree of self-restraint of every involved group plus very accurate assessments of each group by the other groups . The course of events resulted in a product with no prior commitments , and that is all . By the time the bill was introduced all the formerly used pressure tactics were unnecessary . Our group gives credit for the bill from its origins to passage to absolutely nobody but the Administration and particularly Mr. Keppel . One of the tools that Keppel used to great advantage during the course of the negotiations was his immediate access to the White House . He frequently called Douglass Cater and used his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that the physical location in the White House would have a salutary effect on the people with whom he was meeting . The not too subtle moral was not lost on the participants ; Francis Keppel was not a politically ineffectual commissioner , and he was handling the show for the President . Wilber Cohen ( who was appointed HEW Secretary in 1968 ) let Keppel take most of the initiative in the development of the bill . They kept each other informed of what each as doing , but it was essentially Keppel 's affair until the bill reached Capitol Hill . Through this period of meetings and negotiations the White House maintained its one concern : assurance that the bill finally introduced would not start the religious conflicts on the Hill . By the end of January 1965 , Cater could report to the President that the basic conceptions of the bill had been agreed to by the major factions involved . No one , including Cater and Keppel , ever saw a draft bill throughout these meetings . In part this was a deliberate tactic not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to give any of the participants any reason to feel that prior decisions had been reached before the consultation process had taken place ; and  | in part because the counsel 's office in the Office of Education had not yet written the legislation . The bill was actually drafted by Chester Relyea of the General Counsel 's Office in the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare . Samuel Halperin , who was Acting Deputy Commissioner of Education in 1965 , played an important role in the drafting of the bill as well ? although Ilalperin 's role became more visible after the bill reached the House on January 12 . On January 12 , 1965 , President Johnson set his longawaited education message to Congress ; and simultaneously Congressman Carl Perkins and Senator Wayne Morse introduced identical bills in the House and Senate respectively . The formal legislative process started to work on " a bill to strengthen and improve educational quality and educational opportunities in the Nation 's elementary and secondary schools . " While the thorny church-state problem had been resolved in the Keppel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest that the bill faced no obstacles on its road through the House and Senate . Most of the attention has been focused on the church-state controversy , and with good reason ; but once that issue had been settled outside Congress , the financing formula , poverty level questions , and matters of application all came to the fore . In many ways they were problems as difficult and as fraught with disaster for the bill as the more frequently discussed churchstate issue.4 It was at this stage that the categorical aids approach was open to attack . Title I of the proposed legisla- tion disbursed funds to children in certain categories ( in fact the 1965 bill 's Title I is an amendment to the Federal Impacted Areas Bill of 1950 ? Public Law 874 of the Eighty first Congress ) .5 The low-income family child-aid was of course the key to the 1965 approach . The Administration people most involved with the 1965 school aid bill credit Senator Wayne Morse and Senate Labor Subcommittee staff director Charles Lee with tying the 1965 bill to the poverty approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political viability of the 1965 bill during its most trying moments on the Hill . It is important to point out that while the poverty level approach enhanced the chances of passage for the 1965 bill , Morse and Lee had been advocating some form of povertychild categorical aid since 1954.6 The fact is that the categorical approach was appropriate to the political issues involved in general aid to education . It was at the level of the impoverished child that the most convincing case could be made for federal aid . For example , the President stressed this facet of the nation 's educational needs in his message to Congress when he said , " Poverty has many roots , but the taproot is ignorance . " The point is that the bill that eventually passed in 1965 as the first general federal aid bill in the nation 's history was in reality a categorical aids bill , albeit with extremely broad categories . A Democratic member of the House committee put it this way : The bill itself was really categorical aids with categories broad enough to resemble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aid splattered over the  | face of the entire school system and could be called general aid in principle while politically remaining categorical aids . In the end it does not matter much whether the 1965 bill is called categorical or general in any technical sense . What is important and interesting from our standpoint is that the participants in the federal aid fight in 1965 all acted as though and spoke as if the issue to be decided was whether the federal government would enter the field of general aid to education . Further , there was implicit in the attitude of the two sides the feeling that the outcome of the battle in 1965 would permanently settle the question . The Republicans attacked the bill , in part , because they felt the Democrats were making claims for the bill that were not justified . Some Democrats on the committee were not happy with the way the bill was handled in Congress either . The dilemma for the Democrats who counted themselves as aid supporters was contained in the choice between supporting that which was being called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they felt were technically inadequate , with the risk that major changes in the legislation would shake the uneasy coalition of supporters that had so painfully been put together via the Keppel negotiations . This dilemma is dramatically illustrated in the case of a liberal Democrat on the committee from a district that does not benefit in any major way from the formula . This member comes from what he calls a " suburban , bedroom district with few families under the poverty line established in the bill . On the other hand the families in my district are paying a heavy price to maintain decent school facilities through the property tax , and the tax base just ca n't absorb very much more . Families continue to move to the suburbs , and they need help with school construction and improvement grants . " In pursuing what he obviously felt were his constituent 's best interests , this member challenged the Administration on what he felt was the major inadequacy in the legislation :  | that it did not make any distinction between a district with poor children in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance caused considerable agitation in the White House , where the attitude had quickly developed that all good Democrats ought to swallow their technical objections to the bill in support of the federal aid principle . Indeed , so many particularistic objections were coming from members whom the Administration was counting on that Douglass Cater persuaded the President to address himself to the problem at a meeting in the White House on March 1 , 1965 with representatives of the NEA . The President told the gathering in the East Room that , " the education bill we picked out can be improved . " His theme was that the Eighty-ninth Congress had to make a commitment to the principle of federal aid and then later the act could be perfected . He used the analogy of the 1965 bill being like the model-T Ford which had been improved over the years . The degree of pressure being generated by those opposed to the formula for some kind of change is forcefully clear in Chairman Perkins ' response to Congressman James O'Hara 's testimony that his district would suffer under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me state immediately after we dispose of this bill , I have been instructed to open up some hearings ; and I intend to go into all of these problems and see if we can not come up with some good answers . " 7 Understand that this promise came before HR 2362 was even reported from the subcommittee . In essence the Administration approach was , " look , we saved you from having to square off on the religious question ; we have a bill that has the support of the major interest groups ; all you have to do now is give us the one vote that gets the program off the ground . We will worry about altering the program at some future date . " With few exceptions this argument overcame all objections . As the member referred to above told us :  | The President 's remarks get to the heart of the issue that had been bothering a lot of people who counted themselves as supporters of the federal aid principle . As a consequence we just had to make the hard choice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good education policy versus bad . The question Congress had to settle in 1965 was whether there was ever to be federal aid to the elementary and secondary schools of this nation . He went on to say : The 1965 bill , in all candor , does not make much sense educationally ; but it makes a hell of a lot of sense legally , politically , and constitutionally . This was a battle of principle , not substance , and that is the main reason I voted for it . If I could have written a bill that would have included provisions to meet the national interest in the education field it would not have been 89 ? 10 HR 2362 became Public Law 89 ? 10 when it was enacted . There was , in addition , considerable sentiment among committee Democrats to accept any formula that had been put together with the support of the interest groups . Since the committee members had accepted and even actively sought the Administration 's aid in securing a church-state settlement before the bill came to Congress , there was considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance or start a chain reaction of amendments ( on the Hill ) that would have the same effect . The most important role the full Education and Labor Committee played in the education battle of 1965 was to keep the subcommittee bill essentially intact and to prevent any major defections among the majority members of the committee . The explicit operating proposition was that if any of the important members of the subcommittee had taken vocal and visible stands against the bill it would have been severely damaged on the floor of the House . It was generally acknowledged that , on the majority side , Perkins  | ( the subcommittee chairman ) , Brademas of Indiana , and Hugh Carey of New York fit this category . As long as they hung together the rest of the full committee 's Democrats could go along . The consequence of this expectation was simple yet dramatic . The Democrats on the committee not only tolerated the settlement of the religious issue that had been arrived at " downtown " but had actively sought such a settlement . Not many people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1965 until they were assured that such a settlement had been made . There is a firm belief that , had these agreements come undone ( for whatever reason ) , the bill would have died in the House . While Congress is not usually the locus of the kind of negotiations we described above , the principal members of the committee involved ( Perkins , Brademas , and Carey ) were brought in to help the Administration get the kind of agreements they were after . Any solutions that were arrived at would be reflected in congressional interference . It was the fear of such hindrance and the resulting loss of a golden opportunity that kept people in line when they felt the merits of the bill did not justify their support . Another lesson from all of this is that the huge Democratic majority was in one sense irrelevant to the people who had to carry the legislative ball . They approached the legislative task as if , in the words of one of the Office of Education 's leading spokesmen on this issue , " . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With everyone in line we 're all right . If one left the reservation we would lose the entire thing . " This view of how tenuous the congressional phase of the process would be led to the major tactical decisions taken by the Administration and its congressional leadership : 1 ) the bill would be considered in House subcommittee with care , but with speed ; and 2 ) whatever legislation was finally reported from the subcommittee would become the legislative vehicle that had to be accepted without substantial change by the full committee , the House itself , and with no change in the Senate .  | The " no amendment " decision apparently developed naturally out of the particular legislative conditions surrounding the bill but was formerly proposed as specific strategy in the Senate by Wayne Morse . The " no amendment " tactic and the speed with which the legislation was considered ( the subcommittee spent exactly three weeks with the legislation ) led some Republicans to refer to the bill as the " Railroad Act of 1965. "  | After the executive has initiated the consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Congress begins to play its part as an arena of decision . Congress is structured to consider each proposal in serial fashion through a number of formal stages , the decisions in each of which influences the choices at the succeeding level . Subcommittee , committee , pre-floor action , and floor decision are convenient division points . The provision for multiple consideration of legislation both within and between both houses of Congress not only reflects the legislative penchant for rehearing every question several times , but also accurately parallels the distribution of expertise and , in part , power within Congress . Briefly , after introduction in the House , a bill is referred to a standing committee for consideration by its subcommittee and full committee . Being favorably reported ( perhaps with a minority report attached ) it goes to the Rules Committee after which it will be placed on a House calendar which will affect the scheduling of debate . Finally , having made it to the floor of the House , the bill will only be debated if the House approves a rule specifying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rules Committee ) . Following debate the bill is either passed , defeated , or recommitted to the committee for further work . There are usually differences between the  | House and Senate versions of the legislation , so a conference committee will be appointed by the Speaker ( usually key members of the majority and minority on the standing committee of jurisdiction ) to meet with their counterparts from the Senate to " iron out " the differences . After the conference committee has reached agreement , the conference report is returned to the two members for consideration . ' These formal stages of the legislative process do not begin to suggest the complexities of the normative structure within Congress or the distribution of power that informally has so much influence on the course of events . The importance of seniority , expertise , partisanship , constituency pressures , party leadership , Presidential leadership , collegial relations , and the social context of congressional life all blend in their own way with the formal structure to produce " the legislative process . " For tactical reasons the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education bill of 1965 . As the story unfolds , the interrelationship of this network of variables in the legislative process will be illuminated . 1 See Lewis A. Froman , Jr. , The Congressional Process ( Boston : Little , Brown , 1967 ) , for a detailed discussion of the role of the rules and procedures in Congress as an important independent force in the legislative policy process .  | On January 22 the House General Subcommittee on Education began hearings into the Administration 's education program , HR 2362 . There is no doubt that the major issue before it was the formula for distributing funds to school districts . While the church-state question remained a potentially explosive matter , it had been effectively neutralized by the interest group agreements . The poverty-level formula had to face the charge that it did nothing to equalize the allocation of resources for education between the rich and poor states . Edith Green ( D. Ore. ) argued that the formula had the perverse effect of rewarding those states that did more for their school programs , thus increasing inequities between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism , voiced by Commissioner Keppel , was that the formula was meant to reduce the inequities that existed in the educational opportunities available for children from depressed or poverty backgrounds . The bill was never meant to remove all such inequities and was never intended to remove inequities between rich states and poor states but rather to get at educational differences within states . That is , Title I , in which the poverty approach was spelled out , became an important political defense for the bill . The major change that occurred in the legislation the Administration sent to the Hill altered the so-called childbenefit theory which was the mechanism for side-stepping the church-state confrontation . The legislative legerdemain under the child-benefit theory provided in the original bill that the federal funds would go directly from the Office of Education to the local school ( private or public ) to be used for the children within the school . In this way children rather than institutions were to be aided . The subcommittee amended this conception of the child-benefit theory to read , as former Deputy Commissioner of Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The alteration in the Administration bill provides that all funds go directly to a public agency for distribution at the local level .  | In Titles II and III , which provided for " Library and Other Instructional Equipment " and " Supplementary Educational Centers and Services " respectively , the original bill had conceived of a consortium arrangement in which the public and private school authorities would be partners along with other interested participants in the communities to administer the federal aid . The subcommittee changed this to provide that only the public school authorities shall administer these funds . The question of what agency , private or public , would administer the grants at the state and local level was a question that touched on both the constitutionality issue and on the major Administration defense of the bill designed to help educationally deprived children . The potential trap the Administration faced in defending this part of the bill is reflected in testimony dating from the first day 's hearings when Wilbur Cohen contradicted what the Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare Anthony Celebrezze had said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Perkins as having asked , " Is n't it true that the aid goes to the pupil and not to the school ? " ; to which Cohen had indicated that the bill allowed the direct granting of funds to purchase texts to the local school or library . On January 28 , Chairman Perkins had vainly tried to keep Goodell from pressing this point when he told Goodell , " . . . clearly , what Mr. Cohen stated ? who was not the regular witness ? was a slip of the tongue . " Later in the subcommittee 's proceedings , Frank Thompson ( D. N.J. ) had indicated the majority 's willingness to correct the apparent inconsistency . He told one witness : There needs to be a clarification with respect to the title to the books . I would think the committee in its executive sessions would make perfectly clear that the  | change was obviously the most important from a constitutional view ; but there was another major change ? one of a technical sort but one which , nonetheless , reflected the temerity with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's advocates . The formula placed the poverty line at such a low level ( $2,000 ) that it fell below the level of support some states were providing families on welfare . In a state like New York there were thousands of youngsters in families that subsisted on incomes of more than $2,000 per year from welfare payments , but they would not be included in the count for the formula in Title I. Congressman Roman Pucinski ( D. Chicago ) , a member of the full committee but not a member of the subcommittee , was the most forceful proponent of changing the formula to include not only children from families with incomes of less than $2,000 per year but all children from families on welfare regardless of how large the welfare payment might be . This suggestion did not bother the bill 's authors in principle . It would , however , cause an increase in funds that would be required to pay for the expanded numbers . The estimates were that this change would add $200 million to the authorization for the program . ' When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allotted for the elementary program . This was given to the Democratic leadership as a rather strict limit given the expected rise in the costs of the Vietnam conflict . Chairman Powell and Pucinski and Cater got the President 's approval for the budget increase when it was made clear that this change would preserve the coalition . As told by personnel in the Office of Education , the issue here was not so critical in real terms as it was symbolically . The White House did not want any significant defection from the coalition on the ground that an Administration steamroller was pushing the bill through without concern for what was being passed . Cater and the others knew they would get this  | charge from the Republicans and they feared that one significant Democrat from a large Northern city ( Pucinski ) joining with the Republicans in this assertion could spell disaster for the bill . In addition , by adopting the change , the Administration removed one substantive issue from the hands of the bill 's critics . Goodell had already indicated early in the subcommittee proceedings that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula . ... Some way we may have to devise a formula for coordinating into that a measurement of those on welfare . I do not know how it can be done . It does not quite seem right to set up a formula supposedly to help the children of the families on welfare in the area . That is a little contradictory.7 So it was that some changes were made at the subcommittee level . The issues that faced the subcommittee as it moved to executive session to report a bill to the full committee were varied . The tactical problem for the Democrats was to maintain the essence of the Administration bill that had the support of the major factions while not being so rigid as to lose any key committee Democrats . In many ways the high level of cooperation that seemed to characterize much of the subcommittee proceedings was illusory . At least there was evidence of how sensitive everyone was to the fragile nature of the coalition . This feature of the issue was a dominant theme in all of our interviews with people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings the calm was shattered when Hugh Carey of New York accused the American Civil Liberties Union witness , Mr. Lawrence Speiser , of having issued an " ultimatum to the committee " to the effect that they would oppose the legislation were certain changes not  | made.8 Mr. Speiser objected that he was not offering any ultimatum but was rather representing the views of the ACLU and offering these views to the committee . Carey 's rejoinder reflected the strategy that the bill 's advocates were applying all through the hearings and the floor debate . Any witness or group that questioned the legislation was promptly told that he was somehow in violation of an important consensus in support of the Administration bill . There was no question in Congressman Carey 's mind how seriously the ACLU 's position was to be taken in the " year of the consensus , " and he wasted no time in getting the message across.9 As the subcommittee went into mark-up sessions , the constitutional , legal , and substantive reservations which divided the Democrats faded into the background in the face of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal spokesman for the minority throughout the subcommittee 's hearings . Looking over the  | two thick volumes of subcommittee testimony it is hard to believe that any other member of the committee was present at more sessions . Goodell lost no opportunity to drive home two points . First , he was attempting to show that the Administration and its committee leadership had conspired to push the bill through the Congress with barely enough time for the legislative amenities to be observed . Second , he was consciously building a history of opposition to the legislation on the several constitutional and legal objections that were being made to the bill . Goodell and his Republican colleagues were looking to the future when the bill was to be administered and the Office of Education would need to know the intent of Congress on important points , or when the federal courts might want to know the intricacies of the congressional debate before making a constitutional judgment on the bill ; further , the Republicans wanted their record to be clear for political purposes for the congressional campaigns in 1966 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that elementary and secondary education legislation needed to pass Congress even if it meant that it had to pass with some imperfections . There would be time for reconsideration at a later date . The closest anyone came to saying this in public was Andrew Biemiller , the chief lobbyist for the AFL-CIO and former member of Congress from Milwaukee , Wisconsin , who told the subcommittee on January 29 : I repeat . . . let 's get started . . . and get a bill through here , and begin to get some money into our school systems where we now know it is badly needed , and then we can take another good look and get closer is introduced after all changes have been made , and the new bill receives a new number for purposes of placing it on the House Calendar .  | to the goal that both you and I want ; and we make no bones about it , that we want a general education bill.11 At 8:45 P.M. on the evening of February z , exactly twelve days after the hearings began , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close and that the first mark-up session would begin the next morning at 10 A.M. Goodell was angered that Perkins did not allow enough time for witnesses favorable to the minority to be heard . Goodell insisted that he had twenty-eight witnesses to call , and they had to be crammed into the last day . Interestingly , Goodell does not blame Perkins personally for this state of affairs so much as he does the White House who , he maintains , was issuing the marching orders . Goodell 's personal position on the bill was a matter of some moment . First of all , as the ranking minority member of the education subcommittee he would handle much of the floor debate for the Republicans when the bill reached the House itself . Second , he was on something of a spot because he had defended the Higher Education Act that had passed in 1962 and which included the concept of aiding students of private educational institutions . Goodell , however , was opposed to the bill on the several grounds already discussed , and adopted his legislative strategy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The only time Congress or one of its working groups made any fundamental changes in the bill was in the House subcommittee mark-up session . As we indicated , the " public ownership " issue was clarified in Titles II and III . The Republicans boycotted the mark-up session as a symbolic gesture to the futility of their having an impact on the decisions that were about to be taken . They wanted to make their protest clear and visible , and the boycott was their tactic . Goodell said the boycott was a protest to the " hasty and superficial " consideration given the bill in subcommittee . On February 5 the bill was reported out of subcom- mittee with the above changes , and the full committee began its consideration of the legislation . The issues had been drawn in subcommittee . The decisions had been taken in subcommittee mark-up . There was little for the full committee to do but go through the formalities . The qualified " no amendment " strategy was now in full effect , and the Democrats were holding firm . The bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the subcommittee and no one close to the education issue was willing to risk losing the bill at the full committee stage . Some of the divisions of personality and party that plague the Education and Labor Committee became visible at the full committee stage . The story of Representative Edith Green is relevant at this point . Mrs. Green had generally been identified with those who supported the concept of federal aid to elementary and secondary education . Indeed , she did vote for the 1965 bill , but not until she had become the focus of the most bitter personal animosity directed at anyone during this bill 's course through Congress . Mrs. Green quickly came to support the position that a judicial review amendment was required to maintain the equity of the allocation process , and that the formula needed to be amended to distribute the funds more directly to the poor districts . She began to assert herself at the full committee sessions and quickly found herself articulating the Republican position on these points . It never became clear whether any organized cooperation developed between Goodell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Green . It really does not matter since the Democratic leadership and the White House assumed she was organizing an effort with the Republicans to sabotage the legislation , and responded accordingly . As one minority staff member of the House Com- mittee put it : " There was no conscious Republican decision to exploit her dissidence , but we did agree that we would withdraw our amendments to the formula and let her introduce hers . We would support her amendments . In effect we made the decision to let her carry the ball for us whenever she wanted to . " A close associate of Mrs. Green 's during 1965 said that she finally became disposed to cooperate with Goodell and Quie when she was made aware of the " no amendment " rule . This person characterized her relationship with the Republicans on the full committee as a " terrible irony .. . since it produced the sight of her working with people she never would have nodded to previously . It permanently damaged her effectiveness on the committee . " 12 Mrs. Green was compelled to push @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In the middle of March she sent a high-ranking Administration official a letter outlining her feelings about the bill : I hope I do not need to tell you of my own commitment to good education and my own conviction that there must be an increasing amount of aid on the part of the Federal government . I have supported almost  | every piece of education legislation during the Eisenhower and Kennedy years . It would pain me deeply to have to oppose any education bill of the Johnson Administration . As I told you , I am concerned not only about the judicial review but a formula which seems to be inequitable . I am also convinced that there is a way in which we could accomplish all of the objectives of this legislation ? believing firmly that where there is a will there is a way . The Administration 's concern with Mrs. Green was not her single potential " no " vote . There was fear that her stand would begin to take on symbolic meaning for many of the liberal Democrats who were opposed to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration strategy . When the bill got to the full committee , the Office of Education asked only one thing of Chairman Powell : that he keep the subcommittee bill intact and not let Mrs. Green 's efforts get lengthy consideration . We were told that " by and large he did a beautiful job of this . " Apparently the closest the majority came to falling apart in the full committee was over the addition of welfare children to the rolls for purposes of computing the formula . Pucinski and others were fighting hard on this point , and they were finally successful when the Administration supported the change . It was the last significant change that was to be made in the bill on its way to the President 's desk for signature . The Republican view of the full committee 's mark-up sessions was one of total futility in the face of overwhelming numbers . One Republican member of the committee reported that he could not recall more than five Democrats at any time supporting any amendment that was offered by either Republican or Democrat .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carey and Pucinski carried the ball for the parochial school interests , just as Carey did in the subcommittee . He pointed out that members seemed to be avoiding the use of the word " Catholic " in favor of phrases like " parochial schools , " " excluded groups , " and the like , the theory being , the less specific the focus the less the likelihood of fireworks . The full committee began its mark-up sessions on February 25 , and on March 2 HR 2362 was reported from the full committee by a 23 to 8 vote . It was at this point that Powell delayed the proceedings , to the anger of the Administration and his Democratic colleagues , by taking a vacation at his Caribbean retreat on the island of Bimini . On March 8 the Committee report on HR 2362 was issued . That same day at 2 P.m. , Congressmen Goodell , Ayres ( R. Ohio and ranking minority member of the full committee ) , Thomas Curtis ( R. Mo . ) , Quie of Minnesota , and Andrews of Alabama introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not saddled with the substantive and mechanical responsibilities of congressional housekeeping . Hence it is allowed more time to shape its party 's responses to the initiatives of the Administration and majority . Given the nature of the legislative process , the simplest and often most effective strategy for the minority is obstructionism . Obviously the minority 's task is infinitely more difficult if it chooses to promote its own policy alternatives . Frequently in the last thirty-six years , House Republicans have assumed the task of serving as the " king 's loyal opposition . " But this is a role which has been unpleasant for a good many members ? especially the younger ones . Whether the Republicans have liked it or not , their minority status  | has contributed to a negative image of the party . At least this is the impression of many House members . One GOP congressman described the problem by saying , " for years the people have known what the Republicans oppose , but if we ever want to become a majority party , they must know what programs we favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House Republicans concluded that popular rejection was due to an image of " blind opposition . " The party 's negative image became a major issue in Gerald Ford 's campaign to unseat Charles Halleck as minority leader . After the leadership change , it was necessary for Ford and his chief lieutenants ( most notably Goodell , Quie , and Griffin ) to start developing a new positive posture . The elementary and secondary education bill was their first opportunity to present an alternative to a major administration program . Of course most Democrats were not impressed with the Republicans ' efforts to accentuate the positive , and they later dubbed the new GOP proposals Constructive Republican Alternative Proposals , or CRAP ! This new strategy prevented the minority members of the Education and Labor Committee ( especially Goodell , Quie , and Griffin ) from dismissing the school bill out of hand or from challenging the basic concept of federal aid . From the start , Republicans attempted to make it clear that they did not disagree with the majority on the need for school assistance but rather were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On February 5 , the same day that HR 2362 was reported from subcommittee , Charles Goodell held an informal meeting in his office to discuss the minority views . Present at the meeting were Goodell , Quie , Griffin , and Charles Radcliffe , minority counsel for education on the Education and Labor Committee . Since Radcliffe was in charge of drafting the views , most of the time was devoted to offering him suggestions . There was no decision at this time on a specific policy alternative ; however , there was agreement that the following points should be stressed in the report : 1 ) the  | allocation formula of HR 2362 should be attacked for not providing enough assistance to impoverished areas ; 2 ) the bill would transfer too much authority from the local level to the Office of Education ; and 3 ) the bill would ignore certain obvious education needs especially in the area of preschool training . Armed with these suggestions , Radcliffe set to work preparing the minority views while Goodell consulted additional Republicans on the proposed alternative . As the ranking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of coordinating the minority efforts ; however , he periodically conferred with William Ayres , the ranking Republican on the full committee . A week after the Goodell meeting , Ayres called a strategy session of all committee Republicans . At this meeting Goodell suggested that the alternative be based upon a tax credit plan . Ayres said that regardless of the nature of the proposal the Republicans should not appear to be ignoring school needs nor should they go out of their way to alienate the Catholics who were supporting FIR 2362 . He said , " We can not let them the Democrats put us in the position of coming out foursquare against the Catholics . " Goodell pointed out that the tax credit would apply to everyone paying local school taxes , including Catholics , and therefore the proposal could be viewed as an indirect form of assistance to those sending children to parochial school . Yet it would avoid the constitutional issue of church and state . On March 8 , the same day the committee report was issued , Congressmen Goodell , Ayres , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Ways and Means Committee ) called a press conference and announced a new " Education Incentive Act " which they said was designed to give the nation 's families relief from state and local school taxes . The first part of the Republican proposal was a provision called the National Equal Education Drive ( NEED ) which  | allowed $300 million in direct grants to the states to provide preschool training to children between the ages of 3 and 7 from families of $3,000 income and less . In addition , the proposal included a tax credit of up to $100 based upon the amount paid in local school taxes and a tax credit up to $325 per student to families with children enrolled in college . In the event a taxpayer was unable to claim a tax credit , the proposal authorized the secretary of HEW to make a direct cash payment equal to one-half the school taxes paid by them , up to a maximum of $ioo . The Republicans announced to the press that they would ask the Rules Committee to withhold a rule on HR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to review the proposal . They pointed out that their bill would require action by both the Education and Labor and the Ways and Means Committees , but that this type of joint committee action had been previously used on the Interstate Highway Act and the Manpower Retraining Program . At this point the Republicans were no longer simply opposing the Administration bill , they now had an alternative that would become a focal point of important choices the House would make within the month . The Democratic leadership saw the Republican proposal as no more than an effort to delay the Administration bill . The Democrats believed that Congressman Ayres had talked to Chairman Howard Smith of the Rules Committee asking him to hold off on hearings on HR 2362 until the new Republican program was considered by the Education and Labor Committee . The implication was that Smith had told Ayres he would cooperate with such a plan . By 6 P.M. of March 8 the Democrats on the Education and Labor Committee had met to consider procedures to rebuff the Republican education plan . Perkins , Thompson ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indiana , and Ford ( D. Mich. ) issued a rebuttal statement . Their statement called the Republican alternative a mostly warmed-over  | Goldwater proposal left over from the campaign . Titles II , III , and IV were attacked as having been repeatedly advocated by the defeated Presidential candidate . The next day , March 9 , at 3 P.M. , there was a briefing on the education bill for members of the Democratic Study Group . It was estimated that about ninety members ( out of a reported one hundred eighty members ) were present . The briefing informed the Democratic Study Group of what was included in the committee bill . After formal presentations by several members of the Education and Labor Committee there was a question and answer session which lasted over an hour . A staff member from the Administration present at the meeting concluded in a report to his boss that there was practically no support among the DSG for Edith Green and her proposed amendments . My only concern here is the Catholic-public school factor which could keep information on real feelings from surfacing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around to see what I can uncover . After the above meeting , I talked individually with the members of the committee and received some answers to key questions other members are asking . I believe that we are all right if we can move the bill along without too much delay . This same Administration aide followed this memo with another , summing up his view of where the bill stood before it entered the next critical stage ? the Rules Committee , chaired by Congressman Howard Smith , addressed as " Judge " since his court days in Virginia : Judge Smith is being nudged by the leadership to hold a Committee meeting and report out the educa- tion bill , but he is going through his usual deliberate speed moves . He just got the Committee report and claims he and others need time to study it etc . The expectation is that Smith will call a hearing sometime next week ? after he finds out he 'll be outvoted anyway ? and the guess in the House is that the bill will reach the floor either during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reporters who have been following this bill very closely are cautiously optimistic about chances for passage . Their caution comes from past history when chances also looked good ? 196o for example . Their optimism comes from the fact that the USCC and the NCC are together on this bill . Even those Jewish groups and the ACLU who had grave misgivings about the bill are less adamant about their positions since the Committee changes . Among the Committee Democrats , the main ones unhappy about the bill are Edith Green and Sam Gibbons of Tampa . I am told that Gibbons ' unhappiness stems from the HEW figures that show there are more poor kids in St. Petersburg then there are in Tampa . He does n't believe it . Both he and Mrs. Green voted for the bill in Committee . The idea of providing for a court review clause in the bill would be opposed by the Catholics , I am told , but not to the extent that it would kill the bill . The Republican opposition to the bill apparently will be based on attacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't be helped as much as the rich counties . Normally , considerable significance is attached to the Rules Committee and its role on controversial pieces of legisla- tion.13 However , with the rules changes and the enlargement of the Rules Committee , this seemed to be but another pro forma stage in the House consideration of HR 2362 . Technically , the Rules Committee makes a series of procedural decisions regarding the length of time that will be devoted to general debate , whether a bill can be amended , and the conditions under which proposed amendments will be considered.14 In fact , the events that normally occur in the Rules Committee before a major and controversial bill reaches the floor for general debate constitute a microcosm of the impending larger debate . While the decisions the Rules Committee makes regarding the conditions of debate are procedural , it is clear that the lines that will divide the House over the issue are reflected within the committee . The questions that are asked and the committee 's willingness to speed the course of the legislation or delay it are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill . In many ways the testimony that is taken in the Rules Committee is a repetition of the arguments and questions that have been raised when the bill was in subcommittee and full committee . Consequently , one can get an idea of what the impending floor action will look like by following the Rules Committee 's deliberations . Its proceedings , therefore , were of considerable interest to the principal proponents and opponents of the 1965 education bill , even though the new rules that the House had adopted two-anda-half months earlier had assured that the bill would not be pigeonholed in the Rules Committee.15  | On the afternoon of Monday , March 22 , the Rules Committee reported House Resolution 285 ( the proposed rule defining the terms of the debate for HR 2362 ) to the House by a vote of 8 to 7 , calling for six hours of general debate to be equally divided and controlled by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Education and Labor Committee . When general debate was concluded the resolution called for amendments to be considered under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate each amendment for five minutes . The rule also routinely provided for the consideration of HR 2362 by the House in its smaller parliamentary entity known as the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union . This legislative " masquerade , " as a close student of Congress once called it , enables the House ninth Congress ( and as it turned out immediately after it , because the Ninetieth Congress rejected the twenty-one- and seven-day rules ) , there were two principal mechanisms available to the majority party leadership to move a bill from a recalcitrant committee to the floor of the House : the Discharge Petition and Calendar Wednesday . Under its present operation , a petition with a majority of the members of the House signing ( 218 ) can compel a committee to send a bill directly to the House . A discharge petition can not be initiated until a bill has been in a standing committee for thirty calendar days or in the Rules Committee for seven calendar days . The Calendar Wednesday procedure provides that each Wednesday the roll of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committees allowed to bring forth any bill earlier reported that lacks privileged status . Both the Discharge Petition and Calendar Wednesday , however , are ineffective techniques in real terms . The history of both rules shows that they are rarely invoked , and even less frequently successful . Generally speaking the House is very reluctant to take any action that compromises the integrity of its standing committee , and surely there are few things more compromising to a committee than to lose control over its docket.  | to hold general debate on legislation under more liberal quorum requirements than is the case when it meets as the House of Representatives.16 Roll call votes and final passage decisions are taken in the House of Representatives with a majority of the members constituting a quorum . The legislative work leading up to a final passage vote ( general debate , debate on amendments , and votes on amendments ) takes place in the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union under whose rules only one hundred members need be present to maintain a quorum . Furthermore , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are taken . Votes on amendments are taken either by voice , standing division , or teller methods . In the voice vote the yeas and nays are heard by the chairman , and he rules on the majority . Any member can call for a division of the House if he doubts the outcome of the voice vote . In this case the members on each side of the question simply stand and are " counted " by the chairman . The most visible of the amendment votes is the teller method . Here each member on the aye side of the question walks between a pair of tellers representing both sides of the issue who report the results of their count to the chair . Similarly the nay votes parade through the teller lines and the results are then announced from the chair . When the Committee of the Whole House has completed its business , the bill with all amendments is then reported to the House itself . The rule on HR 2362 provided , as is usually the case , that the House could take a separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand of any member of the House . Finally , the rule provided , again as is typical , that the House could entertain one motion before final passage to recommit the bill to the Education and Labor Committee with or without specific instructions as to how the committee should proceed . It was clear that the Republicans would make a motion to .  | recommit the Administration bill with specific instructions to the Education and Labor Committee to report back the Republican substitute . At the point the legislation entered the Rules Committee 's jurisdiction the party leadership in the House became more visible and active than it had been to this point in the process . Essentially , party leadership in the House plays a broker 's role between the various elements in the legislative environment trying to influence congressional decisions . At times the role of broker takes the form of acting as liaison between two or more factions . On other occasions the role calls for the active participation of the leadership in the bargaining among and between the rank and file party members , the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fix common grounds of action . The explanation for why party leadership has this role to play lies in the complexity of the Congress itself . There is simply no other place within the congressional system where as much is expected or demanded in the way of centralized information about what is going on . As a consequence members tend to provide the party leadership with the kind of information that is necessary for it to do its job . The offices of party leaders are constantly being visited by other members , staffers , reporters , and representatives of the executive branch and private groups as each offers and seeks information on coming events and explanations for past occurrences . Through subcommittee and full committee hearings , the Democratic leadership ( Speaker McCormack , Majority Leader Albert , and Majority Whip Boggs ) acted almost exclusively as liaison between the House Democrats and the White House . The nature of work distribution in Congress and the evolved role of party leadership over the  | past fifty-nine years have placed such autonomy on the proceedings of the standing committees that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internal committee process . On the third day the bill was in the Rules Committee ( March 18 ) , Hale Boggs ( D. La. ) sent a " whip notice " at the request of the Speaker to all Democrats in the House informing them of the business of the House for the week of March 22 . Among the items listed , FIR 2362 was scheduled for Tuesday and the balance of the week . The formal announcement of the scheduling of HR 236z for House consideration set in motion a series of events preliminary to formal debate on the bill . The first business of the Democratic leadership was to begin assessing the level of support among House Democrats on the legislation . The House organization available to the leadership for making such assessments is the whip office . Hale Boggs has a full-time staff of one secretary and an administrative assistant in the whip office . The House Democrats are divided into seventeen geographic zones . There is some effort to create zones that are geographically contiguous , but the most pertinent factor is that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader ? be reasonably happy with its membership . The seventeen assistant whips or zone leaders are selected by a variety of devices ranging from the application of the seniority rule to election by the zone members .  | In operational terms the whip systems provide an administrative mechanism through which relatively hard information about voting intentions can be secured for each party . The network of communication channels through which information is passed in Congress is complex and subtle . It is difficult to know with assurance , even under the best of circumstances , how a floor fight is going to turn out . The whip mechanism can provide gross indications of whether legislation is assured of passage or defeat , or is in an uncertain condition . It can pinpoint some individuals or delegations with serious reservations . But it can not , because of the shifting conditions of legislative politics , provide precise , immutable data . In part this is the case because the parliamentary conditions under which votes are taken , as well as the substance of the issues involved , can alter the voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process on HR 2362 for the Democratic leadership lasted several days . It began with Speaker John McCormack instructing Democratic Whip Boggs to take a poll of the membership . Boggs 's staff placed phone calls to the seventeen assistant whips who assumed responsibility for polling the individuals in their zones . The assistant whips were told that the whip 's office would like some reports within twenty-four hours . By March 22 , the whip 's office had indications that on final passage , if the bill remained in the form that it was in as it came out of committee , an estimated two-hundred Democrats would vote for the legislation . The whip poll showed 173 firm " yes votes , " 18 " noes , " " leaning for , " " leaning against , " " undecided , " and 58 not reported . At 2:00 P.m. on Tuesday the twenty-third , a meeting of the Democratic leadership was convened in Speaker McCormack 's office to discuss floor strategy for the bill . At that meeting Lawrence O'Brien , then special assistant to the Pres- ident for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats showed 225 " yes votes . " O'Brien also reported that the National Education Association had its members polling Congress , and they had been told by 255 House Democrats that they would support the committee bill . There is a lesson to be drawn from these figures . The further removed the polling source was from the House membership , the larger the number of supporters they had reporting . This indicates that some members are more inclined to give noncongressional types reason to believe they have their support when in fact they are undecided or opposed ; or as is more likely , it may reflect the pollers ' willingness to accept partial endorsement as complete support . The Democratic whip polls are very conservative . Unless a member has given specific assurance of his support , his name is recorded as opposed or undecided . It has been said that a man 's word is the coin of exchange in Congress . When the official whip organization is polling , members are not likely to say they will support a bill unless they are prepared to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitment the member is likely to reply that he is undecided or opposed . After the polls were compared it was quickly agreed that the issue was not final passage anyway . The leadership again reviewed their fears of the bill being crippled by any one of several amendments that were to be offered by Edith Green or the Republican leadership . The Speaker made the point that the problem facing the leadership was making sure enough Democrats stayed on the floor during the amendment votes . Members might be opposed to the bill on final passage but willing to take the Administration position on the amendments . Often the less visible amendment votes afford members the flexibility to cooperate with the leadership while it is understood that the member will vote against the bill on final passage . The question was raised of having several names in " re- serve , " that is , making available certain members who would support the Administration position of their votes were decisive . It was agreed that the vote was not going to be close on final passage , and therefore it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on this bill . The question was , could the leadership prevent the committee 's bill from being amended . The Speaker asked Boggs to call a highly unusual meeting of the assistant whips for Thursday morning to inform them of just how important the amendment stage would be . Majority Leader Albert told Boggs that he would attend the meeting to talk to the assistant whips . Ray Madden was asked by the Speaker to convene a meeting of the steering committee , which represents the Democratic caucus in the House , in order to enlist its services in keeping Democrats on the floor during amendment voting . This also was an unusual move . Congressman Spark Matsunaga of Hawaii , the secretary of the Steering Committee , was to send out a letter to all Democrats urging their support of the education bill . In addition it was decided that a telegram would go out over the leadership 's names to all Democrats who had already indicated their support , requesting their attendance . Normally , the leadership sent telegrams to all Democrats requesting their attendance , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this legislation . The atmosphere of the meeting was composed , although there was an undercurrent of tension attesting to the uneasiness of the bill 's supporters on the eve of debate . Lawrence O'Brien made this observation : In many ways this bill is the cornerstone to the entire Administration legislative program for the Eightyninth Congress . It contains so many different fundamental issues ? church-state , rural-urban , north-souththat affect Congressmen so deeply that it could easily fall apart . If we can hold the troops together on this  | one it will surely make things that much easier during the remainder of the session . The most important decisions made at the leadership meeting concerned legislative tactics . There was a general consensus that time would be critical . The longer debate was allowed to drag on , the greater the chances of the smoldering reservations about the bill igniting in active opposition with large numbers of Democrats . Consequently it was decided that all general debate would be held on one day , Wednesday the twenty-fourth . Thursday would be reserved for the five-minute rule when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be easier to keep members on the floor for just one day ; it would be much more difficult to keep enough votes on the floor if the debate and vote on amendments dragged on through several days . Optimism began to run high in the meeting , and it was felt that with luck they could move to a vote on final passage Thursday evening . The Speaker announced that Claude Pepper , who had debated Mrs. Green when she appeared before the Rules Committee , had been asked to participate in the floor debate when the proposed formula was being discussed . In addition the church-state question was raised . It was felt that an influential Jewish member of the House would be needed to calm the liberal Democrats who were wavering under the force of Mrs. Green 's arguments . The assumption was that , since in the past the Jewish community had generally opposed federal aid to private and parochial schools , it would be of considerable assistance to the Administration cause to have a respected Jewish member of the House who had previously opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yates of Chicago was mentioned as such a member , but it was decided to call on the venerable chairman of the Judiciary Committee , Emanuel Celler , to handle this chore . The coincidence of advantages was corn- pelling . He is the most senior member of the House and is chairman of an important committee whose jurisdiction includes constitutional questions . Speaker McCormack reached for the telephone while the meeting was in progress and secured a commitment from Geller to argue the question of the bill 's constitutionality in general and the reasons why no judicial review section was needed in particular . The meeting adjourned about an hour after it had begun when the Speaker was called to the floor of the House to preside over a vote . The participants left the meeting feeling they had done what was necessary to prepare the way for HR 2362 . All of the expert testimony , years of frustration , and hard work would once again be on the line . Later in the afternoon of the twenty-third , telegrams were sent to those members selected to receive them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whip 's office for final editing . The assistant whips were notified of the meeting to be held in Boggs 's Capitol office the next morning at io A.M. The whip staff went over their polls again with representatives from the Office of Congressional Relations in both the White House and the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare . Names were compared and phone calls made to those members who had not yet committed themselves one way or the other . The member who is committed for or against is generally free from this kind of pressure . The ones who are leaning but undecided are subject to all the persuasiveness at the command of the various factions . The liaison between the White House , HEW , the Democratic leadership on Capitol Hill , and the relevant private groups on this bill was never more obvious or effective than in the last hours before the House convened to take up the education bill . All the stops were out , and phone calls were being made from all over the country from influential constituents to particular members whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process is generally not noted for its speed or agility , but when all the pieces are put together it can  | mobilize a complex network of organizations to effective purpose . Such was the case as the House moved to the point of decision on HR 2362 . On the morning of Wednesday the twenty-fourth , it was discovered that the American Civil Liberties Union was sending telegrams to selected members urging that the bill be amended to meet the Union 's constitutional objections . The National Education Association was soon at work sending follow-up telegrams countering the ACLU 's efforts . With the telegram from the leadership " demanding " that members be present for general debate and amendments , it all added up to a great deal of pressure on the members and a boon for Western Union . Later in the morning a report was received from the Republican caucus , which had been held at 10 A.M. The House Republicans were instructed to support an amendment that Mrs. Green would offer seeking the addition of a judicial review clause and any other she might later decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican leadership on the recommittal vote with instructions to report back the Republicans ' alternative education proposal . On final passage the Republicans were told that as far as the leadership was concerned " you can vote your districts , and do what you want to . " At noon the House convened for the fifty-third time in 1965 . With all the preliminaries completed Congressman B. F. Sisk , Democrat of California and a member of the Rules Committee , was recognized to call up House Resolution 285 ? the proposed rule for consideration of the education bill . Under the rules of the House the debate on a proposed rule is limited to one hour . The debate on whether to adopt the rule lasted the full hour , but it was routine , and the six-hour open rule was  | adopted by a voice vote . Had the House chosen to do so it could have defeated the resolution calling for adoption of the rule and thereby in effect have defeated the education bill before it was considered . Next Chairman Powell moved that the House resolve itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Union , which was agreed to without dissent . The Speaker , as is normal under this parliamentary shift , relinquished the chair and appointed Congressman Richard Bolling ( D. Mo. ) to become chairman of the Committee of the Whole House . Bolling accepted the gavel from the Speaker and assumed the chair of the presiding officer which he would occupy until the committee had finished its deliberations . The ceremonial mace to the right of the Speaker 's chair was removed from its station ? this being the only physical sign that the House was no longer in session but had resolved itself into its committee status . By unanimous consent the first formal reading of the bill was dispensed with , and Chairman Powell began the general debate with a description of the major features of the legislation and ending with a call for the enactment of HR 2362 with words that immediately focused the issue on the churchstate question : Let us not forget the words of the great brooding father when he said that this Nation " will never perish from the earth " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? black and white ? for the people ? Jew and Gentile ? and by the people ? Protestant and Catholic.20 Carl Perkins then assumed the brunt of the leadership for the Democrats . He cited the need for federal aid legislation and offered broad supporting comments on the significance of the particular bill before the House . After he gave up the floor , the Republicans ( Quie of Minnesota and Griffin of  | Michigan ) , led by Goodell of New York , hit hard at what they thought were the weak spots in the legislation . The Republican attacks on the formula and other aspects of the program began to have telling effect on the Democrats . Goodell had Perkins , Powell , and Hugh Carey disagreeing among themselves about what the bill was intended to accomplish and just how specific programs would work under the law . To answer the charge that the bill had been railroaded through the House Committee without careful consideration , the Democrats had prepared a statement listing the amendments to the original bill that had been accepted in both subcommittee and full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-one times between its introduction and reporting to the floor of the House.21 But even with all the research and preparation , the Democrats were reeling under the attacks of the Republicans . Perkins had been an effective subcommittee chairman by many accounts , but to several observers and participants he was not in control of the floor situation . It was precisely this kind of situation that the Democratic leadership wanted to avoid . They did not want the key sections of the bill to appear indefensible to that body of liberal Democrats unsure of what they were about to support . For the Democrats to be taking a verbal beating from the Republicans at such an early stage of the proceedings did not augur well for the Administration cause . For example , Goodell summed up a lengthy colloquy over the extent to which private institutions would be involved under various programs : " All right , then we have a nice , clear legislative history to proceed with . Nobody knows what this bill is going to do . " The Democrats needed a spokesman who both knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve  | the atmosphere of control over the proceedings with which they had started the debate a scant hour earlier . Whether by design or by chance such a figure began to assume informal dominance on the Democratic side of the aisle . John Brademas of Indiana , a member of the subcommittee but only the tenth ranking member of the full committee , rose and with good humor managed to get the principal Democratic figures on the floor to at least agree over the meaning of Title I of the bill . He told the House : I am the Methodist nephew of a hard-shell Baptist preacher . My mother belongs to the Disciples of Christ Church . My father is Greek Orthodox ; and before coming to the Congress of the United States , I taught at a Roman Catholic college . If I can find myself a Jewish bride , I would represent the finest example of the ecumenical movement . With a series of leading questions put to his Democratic colleagues Brademas developed an interpretation of the " special educational services " feature of the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Brademas asked Carey if he found his interpretation acceptable , the New York Democrat was so relieved to close the breach opened by Goodell that he responded with an " amen . " 24 While all of this was occurring , the Administration 's education strategists were sitting in the gallery of the House , " scared to hell " as one of them put it . Cater and Samuel Halperin from the Office of Education were sitting together unable to understand why Carey and Perkins were having such a bad time with a bill they had been with for several months . They went to Carl Albert 's office and worked on a statement to rebut the Goodell , Quie , and Griffin attack . The results of their work were delivered a few moments later by Congressman Frank Thompson of New Jersey who told the House that after " listening with great interest " to the .  | debate about special educational services he had " precisely the answer to the . . . problem , " which he proceeded to offer . Again Carey and Perkins appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could agree . Carey told Thompson that he thought the language was so to the point that it was " almost as if I reiterated it . " Perkins told Thompson that he thought " the gentleman from New Jersey had eloquently stated the proposition . " 25 One member of the committee maintains that the Brademas-Thompson ascendency in debate was a deliberate move by members of the committee to regain the initiative they had so clearly lost . This member told us that the floor action from the Administration view was : ... fouled up from the word go . It was a catch-as-catchcan process . Perkins and Carey started with primary responsibility , but Perkins was obviously weak and Carey had the religious ax to grind . When Goodell and Quie started taking Perkins and Carey apart we had to put together a more competent team to handle the floor debate . Whatever the facts , it was clear at the time , and remains clear from the printed record , that the Brademas initiative followed by Thompson and others ( O'Hara of Michigan , for example ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the last time that this kind of intervention would be important to the majority cause . The first day 's debate went more slowly than expected . At mid-afternoon , Speaker McCormack made an agreement with Minority Leader Ford to adjourn the House at 6 P.M. whether or not general debate was concluded . This directly contradicted the agreement reached at the leadership meeting in the Speaker 's office to conclude all general debate on the first day no matter how long it ran into the night . The Speaker 's unilateral action drew considerable anger from the  | President when O'Brien told him of the development . The early first day 's adjournment assured a third day of debate on the bill , and this ran counter to every tenet of the Administration strategy , i.e , to speed the process before presunied latent objection manifested itself . While there was widespread consternation among the Democrats over the unexpected change in timing , the Republicans did not see the change as either significant or a victory of any proportions . They simply had an official Republican affair that evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaker to adjourn with enough time for them to get there . The tenor and quality of the first day 's debate reflected the intensity of feeling about the bill and gave some people reason to feel that the Administration might have to accept an amendment to get passage . It was not at all clear how widespread that feeling was , and how long the bill 's supporters would be willing or able to stay together in their loosely-knit coalition . The next day would be in many ways the most significant day in the life of HR 2362 , since the amendment votes would undoubtedly be taken . If the bill could survive the amendment stage , it was foregone that it would be overwhelmingly passed by the House . The night of the twenty-fourth was a busy one for the Administration forces . Vice President Hubert Humphrey had been quietly working behind the scenes for several days with members of the House who needed encouragement on the Administration bill . Late in the day of the twenty-fourth , after the House adjourned , his office received a call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asking the Vice President to call ten Democratic members of the House who had reservations about the impending judicial review amendment Mrs. Green was to offer.26  | The next day began with the Democratic whip 's meeting at 10 A.M. , held in the office of Hale Boggs . The seventeen assistant zone whips , John Moss of California ( the Deputy Whip ) , and Majority Leader Carl Albert were all present . Boggs led off the meeting with a low key pep talk stressing the importance of the events that would transpire that day . The gathering was told in no uncertain terms that the fate of the President 's education program would be decided that afternoon in what the House did . The whips were told that their principal obligation that day would be to keep their forces on the floor for a good part of the afternoon when the amendment votes would be taken . The leadership was estimating that the first important vote would come around 3:00 P.M. They were told that the leadership expected all the assistant whips to be on the floor from that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone members could get to the floor within minutes of a whip call . There was no objection to that assignment from anyone present at the meeting . Albert spoke after Boggs stressing the matter of attendance and asked that the zone leaders keep as many of their members as possible on the floor as long after three as they could be held there . Torbert Macdonald of Massachusetts raised questions about the judicial review amendment that Mrs. Green was offering . It was clear from Macdonald 's question that he was not wholly resistant to the idea of such a clause being added to the bill . Albert answered the question with a five-minute statement stressing the history of the negotiations that had gone into the bill and the tenuous nature of the coalition supporting it , and urging the whip to help the leadership pass Washington ; Ichord and Jones of Missouri ; Herlong and Rogers of Florida ; and Marsh and Hardy of Virginia . In addition , the Vice President was asked to speak with O'Neal , Hagan , Flynt , Tuten , and David of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the education bill to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  | the bill . Albert told Macdonald at the end of his answer that the matter was really very simple at this point : " If members ca n't support federal aid in the form it is presently in , then there is no way Congress will be able to provide federal aid . " The meeting broke up around 11 A.M. The House convened at noon . After a few brief preliminary items , Adam Clayton Powell took the floor and the House resolved itself into the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union . At that moment the Democrats had one hour and four minutes of time remaining for general debate , and the Republicans had one hour and eleven minutes . The substance of the debate on the second day was much like the day before . There was much repetition , and the debate did not have the same tension surrounding it as on the previous day . In fact most of the action was not taking place on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor and in the halls surrounding the House chamber . The pattern was repetitive . A member or group of members would be called off the floor to meet with one of the interest group spokesmen in the House reception area , known as the Sam Rayburn Room . By 3 P.M. the bill was ready to be read for amendments . The reading clerk of the House first read the substitute committee bill as the original bill for the purpose of amendment . That is , the bill which was reported out of the committee as amended , and not the original bill introduced by Congressman Perkins , was the legislation that would be accepted , rejected , or amended by the House . At the appropriate time in the reading of the bill , Mrs. Green offered her amendment to the formula . She had raised the issue of what she viewed as the formula 's inequities during the general debate earlier in the day . The thrust of the Green " formula " amendment would be to eliminate the proposed weighting of what is presently spent per capita @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her amendment would have divided the money " . . . so that every poor child , no matter where he lives , gets an identical amount so that  | the educational service in this district could be improved . " Claude Pepper rose immediately after Mrs. Green 's statement to oppose her amendment . He did not waste any time in reminding the House that the issue before it was whether the House was to implicitly defeat federal aid by adopting an amendment which would undo the coalition that had brought it this far : Mr. Chairman , the gentlewoman from Oregon has so distinguished herself in the contribution she has made to the cause of higher education , we all esteem her so highly , that it is with the greatest diffidence that I rise to oppose anything she advocates in this House . However , this is a very vital matter which is now involved . The outcome of the vote on this amendment may have a very material influence on whether or not this bill will be enacted . Emphasis added. 28 Under the five-minute rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on any single amendment to five minutes , unless he is granted additional time with the unanimous consent of the House . Pepper used his five minutes quickly in an exchange with Mrs. Green , but was granted additional time on a motion by the majority leader , Mr. Albert . Somewhat later in the debate over the formula amendment , Congressman O'Hara ( D. Mich. ) rose in support of the bill and reminded his colleagues that there were members of the House who were supporting Mrs. Green 's amendment , but only because they hoped that if successful it would destroy the bill . He told the House : " This is the best formula that could be obtained for the South and for everyone else . If we want this bill we had better protect this formula . " Emphasis added. 29  | The intensity of the debate was at its highest . There was no one listening to the proceedings who could not have been aware that the essence of the issue had been brought to the surface at the time of decision . The combination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both parties were unleashing what they hoped would be their most effective weapons . Minority leader Ford entered the debate in behalf of Mrs. Greeen 's proposal telling the House he was pleased to find himself on the same side of an issue as she . With just ten minutes of debate left , several members ? Sam Gibbons ( D. Fla. ) among them ? took the floor in support of both the Green amendment and the bill , whether the amendment passed or not . This was precisely the approach the Administration was most afraid of , but there was little time left to exploit it . Just prior to the vote , Congressman Martin ( R. Ala. ) introduced a preferential motion asking that the bill be reported back to the House with instructions to delete the enacting clause in the bill , that is , to kill the legislation . The Martin motion caught the Administration supporters off guard . While there probably was little chance for the motion to carry , the Speaker of the House entered the debate against the motion . Speaker McCormack spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an inevitable graveyard for education legislation and urged the House to move while in " in a position to put an effective bill through . " The motion to delete the enacting clause was quickly defeated by a voice vote . The ten minutes for debate on the amendment had expired and Powell and Goodell were assigned to act as tellers for the vote . They reported that there were 136 votes in support of the amendment and 202 opposed . After two hours and thirty minutes the Green amendment had been defeated . Powell then quickly moved that " all debate , and amendments thereto Section II of Title I of this Act close at six  | o'clock . " ( When this motion was made there was a little more than thirty minutes left . ) Another teller vote was demanded and again the Administration 's supporters carried the day . The vote was 178 to 78 . Albert Quie offered another amendment which occupied most of the remaining time . It was defeated by a simple voice vote . Several additional amendments were introduced without debate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few minutes after six o'clock the committee rose and resolved itself into the House of Representatives , having finished general debate and having defeated the first of several key amendments to the elementary and secondary education bill . The Democratic leadership had had a good day . The House convened at noon the next day , and the mood was one of finality . There were no irrelevant preliminaries before the major issue was confronted , as had been the case the previous two days . As soon as the prayer was read , Congressman Goodell noted the absence of a quorum . The Speaker noted that the journal of the previous day 's proceedings had not yet been read and inquired if Mr. Goodell meant to ask for a quorum at this unusually early point in the events . Goodell indeed was aware that the journal had not yet been read , and a call of the House was ordered . In fact , twice more in rapid-fire order the House was called to a quorum . Each call consumed an estimated thirty minutes ; and after the third call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and approved , a motion which elicited a parliamentary complication and resulted in two votes , one a roll call . When it was all over , the journal of the previous day 's proceedings was approved , and nearly an hour and a half had elapsed . Minority Leader Ford expressed the reason for the Republicans ' delaying tactics : It seems to us on this side of the aisle that because of the importance of this legislation there ought to be a maximum , but yet a reasonable , time for a full dis- cussion of these critical issues the education bill . The only reason that we on our side have done what we have done so far today is because of the limitation on debate that was voted yesterday , which we think is unfair and inequitable and which precluded debate on Title 130 Congressman Albert took the opportunity to follow Ford 's comments with a sarcastic reminder to the Republicans that the House would have been further along in its deliberations , and with more time to spare , had they not adjourned at 6 P.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Further , Albert unleashed a blistering attack on what he felt was the overwhelming evidence of Republican noncooperation during the Eighty-ninth Congress . Albert suggested that the Democratic leadership was hopeful that the House could finish consideration of the education bill by four o'clock that afternoon , leaving enough time for members and their families to attend the previously announced reception for the American astronauts recently back from a space flight . With this flurry of fireworks , the House moved to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union to resume consideration of amendments to the bill . Powell immediately moved that all debate on the section under consideration be limited to ten minutes . A bitter exchange between Goodell and Frank Thompson ( D. N.J. ) followed , but the motion was agreed to . In that ten-minute period of time four Republican amendments were introduced and defeated . The committee then moved to the next section of the bill , and Powell moved that debate be limited to five minutes . That motion was adopted 97 to 92 on a division vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Democratic majority was moving with speed , agility , .  | and power . Mrs. Green stood and asked that the enacting clause of the legislation be struck . The debate on her motion lasted only five minutes but again touched on the question of the Republicans being denied the right to debate the bill . Speaker McCormack entered the debate for the second time in two days to tell the House that he did not like the implications of the Republican 's remarks ? that some prior agreement , which he as Speaker was a party to , was being unilaterally abrogated . He told the House : We adjourned on Wednesday night at six o'clock . That was done at the request of the Republican leadership . We adjourned last night at 6:30 P.M. He Minority Leader Ford spoke to me , and I was glad to adjourn at that hour . I try to have an understanding mind , but I think the principle of understanding minds is a twoway street . So far as the question of arbitrary action is concerned , I do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on me ; but I am aware of the fact that some kind of implied intimidation is being made , and I do not like it . The Green motion was then defeated on a voice vote . By a teller vote another Powell motion next limited debate on amendments to the following section of the bill to five minutes . Congressman Quie offered an amendment to Title II on library services , and it too was quickly defeated by a voice vote . Another amendment offered by Congressman Griffin ( R. Mich. ) was defeated on a division vote , 65 to 133 . The committee moved through several more sections of the bill with minimal debate , and it seemed for awhile that the bill would indeed come to a final vote by the 4 P.M. deadline that Majority Leader Albert had suggested . However , when section 207 on the judicial review procedures contained in the bill was discussed , Congressman John Anderson ( R. Ill. ) made a strong appeal to the House to  | slow down its pace and to give closer consideration to the important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lack of concern that he felt was being shown the church-state implications in the bill . When Anderson had finished his statement , Frank Thompson ( D. N.J. ) took the floor and accused Anderson of demagoguery on the question of the bill 's constitutionality . He said : I might suggest further you can beat this dog all you want for political purposes ; you can demagog however subtly and try to scare people off at the expense of the Nation 's schoolchildren with your demagoguery .. 31 Congressman Goodell rose and accused Thompson of violating one of the canons of House procedure : to not impugn the motives of another colleague . He asked that Thompson 's " words be taken down , " which in effect would rule them out of order and strike them from the record . The Committee of the Whole House had to rise , and the Speaker returned to the chair to rule on whether Thompson 's statement was out of order . He ruled that the latitude of debate did not rule out the kind of comment that Thompson made and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The point of order that Goodell had raised was not sustained . The Committee was reestablished with Richard Bolling assuming the chair . Thompson said later that he had made the remark deliberately to intercept what he felt were some effective points that Anderson was making . His strategy was to rely on " Goodell 's hot temper getting the best of him . " That is , Thompson hoped that someone would ask for a ruling on his statement to interrupt the proceedings long enough for the Democrats to regroup their forces . Whether Thompson was deliberately trying to slow things down is a good question . What is of importance is that another half hour of time  | was consumed and the thrust of the Republican attack was blunted . It probably is safe to say that little but oratorical success would have come from the attack in any event . When calm had been restored , another five amendments , considered en bloc , were defeated and the committee rose to recess . Because of the loss of time taken in parliamentary hassles and the slow teller vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill when recess was called . It was 4:45 in the afternoon when recess came , subject to the call of the chair . At nine minutes after 6 P.M. the House reconvened . Many of the members had not been able to get anything to eat since the bulk of the hour 's recess was taken with the reception . Before business was resumed Chairman Powell and the Speaker discussed how much time ought to be allowed for debate on a judicial review amendment when it was introduced . The Democratic majority had so far effectively controlled the time devoted to any amendment . They permitted on the average of five to fifteen minutes of debate before Powell would move , successfully , to close debate . The Speaker noted the importance of the judicial review issue and the danger of being accused of gag-rule tactics . He suggested that , in light of these matters , Powell permit the debate to run " at least twenty minutes . " Powell was amazed and wanted to know why the speaker was being so generous . He told the Speaker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have been afraid of all along . " The Speaker half facetiously told Powell , " Adam , you 're a dictator . " The issue was not resolved with that conversation . The Speaker wanted to know who would offer the judicial review amendment , and Powell indicated the expectation was that Mrs. Green would introduce it . After several other amendments were introduced , debated , and defeated , Congressmen Anderson ( R. Ill. ) and Smith ( D. Va . and Chairman of the Rules Committee ) introduced competing judicial-review amendments . It was  | now 8:30 P.M. , and members were getting tired . Judge Smith was willing to defer to Anderson and have his amendment stand as the one of record and decision . Smith and Anderson ( when his substitute became the item on the agenda ) led the forces in favor of the amendment ; and as scheduled , Emanuel Celler ( D. N.Y . and chairman of the Judiciary Committee ) spoke in opposition . The sight of these two venerable figures ? as knowledgeable as any in the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their careers ? was impressive . One indicator of the significance of the debate and the stature of the men leading it was the capacity crowd filling the press gallery above the floor of the House . There had been representatives of the media in the gallery off and on during the three days of debate , but at no time were there as many as for this debate . Congressman Albert asked for and received unanimous consent for each side to have ten minutes to offer their statements . Celler 's argument in opposition to the judicial review amendment was essentially that it was unnecessary given the prevailing common law on testing the constitutionality of acts of Congress . Congressman Griffin agreed with the thrust of Celler 's points and opposed the Smith amendment . The divisions occurred over the Anderson amendment . The essence of Anderson 's substitute amendment was to broaden the definition of those who would be given standing before the courts in testing the bill 's constitutionality . Anderson protested that the existing judicial review procedures in the bill ( following three sections ) were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputes that might from time to time arise between states and the Commissioner of Education . While Anderson was talking his time expired , and additional time was sought to enable him to finish his statement . Powell stood and objected to a request for five additional minutes . Since the request was premised on  | unanimous consent the time was not allotted . But Speaker McCormack then entered the fray asking for four additional minutes for Anderson . No one ( including Powell ) objected to this request , and Anderson 's time was extended . However , it was clear that the forces against the amendment were ready to act . By ten minutes to nine , a teller vote was taken defeating the amendment , 154 to 204 . This was the last major vote on amendments to be taken . When it was all over , the House adopted only one amendment to the bill that was reported from the Education and Labor Committee , a relatively insignificant passage that created an advisory counsel to advise the commissioner in carrying out his functions under the bill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Mich. ) was so noncontroversial that it was even supported by Chairman Powell . The end was in sight after three grueling days , so Powell must have felt nothing would be lost by his supporting the amendment . He told the House : " I would like to go out in a blaze of glory and I accept the gentleman 's amendment . " The Griffin amendment was the only amendment adopted out of nearly fifty that were introduced . By 9:30 P.M. all the proceedings in the Committee of the Whole House were complete . The bill as amended was ready for the final votes in the House . Richard Bolling turned the gavel back to the Speaker and received a standing ovation from both Republicans and Democrats for his judicious handling of what was a very partisan and complex bill . When the House was sitting , the next-to-last order of business was a motion to recommit the bill back to the Education and Labor Committee with instructions to that committee to report the bill back to the House with certain amendments . The proposed changes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Goodell offered the motion to recommit and , as an opponent of the legislation , was eligible to do so as it came from the corn- mittee of the ' Whole House . The rules of the House prevent any of the bill 's supporters from making a recommittal motion . The yeas and nays were taken on the recommittal motion with 149 votes supporting recommittal and 267 opposing . Seventeen members did not vote . Immediately the Speaker put the bill to its final vote in the House . It passed , 263 to 153 , again seventeen members not voting . And as it is so magnificently understated in the Congressional Record for March 26 , " So the bill was passed . " The final vote came at 10:30 P.M. , ten-and-a-half hours after the House had convened that day . In the House the relief at being done was visible to most observers . The debate had been long and at times acrimonious . The members were glad it was over ; and when the Speaker announced the resulting vote on the final passage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjournment , the Speaker told a bystander as he walked to his office , " I am so glad I was Speaker when this historic bill was passed . " In passing the first elementary and secondary aid bill in the House some seventy-seven members had participated in the debate . Twenty-four members had taken in opposition , and fifty-three in favor . This is something less than 20 per cent of the membership , and it reflects the strong pressures on members to participate in debate only when they are knowledgeable on issues involved or when a statement for political reasons is necessary . This means that most debate time is taken by members of the standing committee and subcommittee . The history of the education bill in 1965 demonstrates that Congress generally and the House in particular are not simply numbers divided by party labels . There were a series of interesting and significant divisions within the House that gave the decision-making process a complexity barely visible to the observer who looks only at the debates or other formal processes . One of the Congressional liaison officers in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his feelings about the bill in a way that accurately reflects our view of why the events surrounding the bill 's legislative history in the House are both significant and fascinating . He said : The education bill was the most interesting bill of the first session of the Eighty-ninth Congress , because of the broad base of opposition that could have resisted it , and the interesting way in which the bill was put together to negate each segment of the potential opposition . It was essentially an interesting technical problem in legislating . However , the legislative phase of the bill was only partially complete . The bill had yet to pass its test in the Senate . Perhaps it is safe to stay that , when the bill passed the House , the legislative phase was more than half over but less than complete since the House had been so often the graveyard for such legislation in the past . But Congress acts bicamerally , and there is much of interest in the Senate phase of this bill 's history . The strategies and tactics that had worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate ; a legislative institution that likes to refer to itself as " the greatest deliberative body in the world . " We turn now to the Senate 's deliberations.  | Before tracing the progress of HR 2362 through the Senate , it might be helpful to pause for a moment and reflect on some of the more significant institutional differences between the two houses of Congress . There is little face-to-face interaction between the two bodies . Aside from a few joint committees composed of members from both wings of the Capitol and the ad hoc conference committees called to iron out House and Senate differences on bills , members of the two houses rarely see each other to discuss legislation . Senators are more apt to see House members somewhere other than Capitol Hill . Such occasions might include a briefing at the White House , a Washington social affair , a political party function , or a campaign back home . Even though floor privileges are interchangeable , one rarely sees a representative on the Senate floor , or vice versa . About the only time senators are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a joint session to hear a Presidential message . Each chamber consciously strives to preserve its institutional integrity and to improve its public image . Though the members of each are constitutionally co-equals , at present a Senate seat is thought to be more prestigious than one , in the House . The Washington press corps seems to  | think that senators make " better copy " than House members , and this has shaped their mass image . In recent years numerous senators have been considered for the Presidency or Vice-Presidency , but not so for House members . The prevailing view of the Senate has been largely a twentieth-century development . During the early days of the Republic , and throughout most of the nineteenth century , the House often overshadowed the Senate . Despite the lack of complete accuracy , the picture of a senator was that of a cigar chomping , vest-clad , political hack who had bought his seat from a state legislature . A twentieth-century event which helped change this image and enhanced the prominence of the Senate was the adoption of the Seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Congressmen recognize their inability to compete with senators for public attention , and as a result they have developed a slight inferiority complex . In an effort to compensate for this feeling , House members boast that they are the " work horses " and the senators are the " show horses . " As one congressman commented , " We contribute most of the experience , expertise , and man hours while the Senate sits back and poses for the cameras . " Although this comment is an exaggeration , the House in fact does contribute more to the collective product of legislation than the Senate.l This was certainly true of HR 2362 as well as most of the other major proposals of the Eighty-ninth Congress . Some of the reasons for this disproportionate share of the workload of the House can be seen in a comparison of the two institutions .  | We must start with the obvious fact that the House is almost four-and-a-half times larger than the Senate . Most of the spadework on legislation is done in the twenty standing committees of the House and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee assignments , House members need not be spread as thin as senators . Congressmen on the Appropriations Committee , for example , do not sit on other committees , while in the Senate an assignment on Appropriations is merely one of several . In the House the Speaker and Minority Leader specialize in their leadership roles to the exclusion of committee positions . But in the Senate the Majority Leader is a member of two major committees , and the Minority Leader is on two major committees and two joint committees.2 It is natural for members of the House to become legislative specialists , while senators are more apt to be generalists . Because of its size the House is forced to operate under a more rigid set of rules than the Senate . In fact , the most pervasive tradition of the Senate is the agreement not to adhere strictly to formal rules unless absolutely necessary . The Senate conducts a sizable share of its business under a suspension of the rules which is made possible by securing unanimous consent of the members . The difference in the size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shapes the peculiar character of each . The smaller constituencies represented in the House are more likely to be homogeneous and will present fewer  | conflicting demands than would be true of the typical state represented in the Senate . This means that there are usually more interests vying for the attention of a senator , who of necessity must develop the perspective of a generalist . The Constitution and tradition have shaped the character of the two houses differently . For example , the Constitution requires that all revenue bills originate in the House . By tradition the House also acts first on appropriation bills . As a result of these procedures the Senate has become an unofficial " appeals board " to review and revise decisions made by the House . In his State of the Union message the President outlines his legislative program to Congress in broad brush strokes . He then supplements these general requests with special messages on specific major programs . Hence on January 4 , 1965 , President Johnson made general reference to the need for federal assistance to elementary and secondary education in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a messenger delivered to each house an additional message specifying his request . The President can propose legislation , but only members of Congress can introduce bills . Hence on January 12 , Senator Wayne Morse ( D. Ore. ) introduced the Administration 's bill ( S 370 ) . This bill was identical to HR 2362 introduced in the House on the same day by Carl Perkins ( D. Ky . ) . In the Senate , unlike the House , it is possible to have multiple sponsorship . Often a senator will leave his bill " on the table " for several days and invite his colleagues to join in sponsorship . This was done by Senator Morse , and S 370 wound up with a total of thirty-six sponsors . After introduction , Morse ( as chairman ) notified the other members of the education subcommittee of the Labor and Public Welfare Committee that hearings on S 370  | would commence January 26 . This was five days after Perkins had scheduled hearings in the House . The general pattern in both houses is to allow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to the committee . The full committee retains the right to take final action on each bill , but with rare exception the recommendations of the subcommittees are accepted . The manner of processing major bills by Senate committees is similar to the procedure in the House . It includes the following steps : i ) a bill is referred to committee ; 2 ) the bill is assigned to one of the subcommittees and hearings are held ; 3 ) the subcommittee meets in executive session to consider the bill ? called a mark-up session ; 4 ) if the bill is reported out of subcommittee , a mark-up session is then held by the full committee ; and 5 ) if the bill is reported out of full committee , it is usually accompanied by a report containing an explanation and supportive arguments on the bill.3 The degree of autonomy possessed by subcommittees will depend upon the temperament of the chairmen ( sub and full ) and the traditions peculiar to each committee . Within most subcommittees the chairman is the dominant figure . He is the communications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shapes the character of the hearings by setting its time and duration and by controlling the slate of witnesses . He presides over the hearings and subcommittee mark-up sessions . The chairman of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee is Lister Hill ( D. Ala . ) . He is a highly revered  | and effective chairman though he does not try to rule the subcommittees with an iron hand . He is often referred to as " Mr. Health , " and he devotes most of his attention to the health subcommittee of which he is chairman . He is the second ranking Democrat on the education subcommittee of which Wayne Morse is chairman . Hill allows Morse a free reign in guiding his subcommittee . The Morse Subcommittee , 1965 SUBCOMMITTEE ON EDUCATION OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE Wayne Morse , Oregon , Chairman Democrats Republicans Lister Hill ( Ala . ) Winston Prouty ( Vt . ) Pat McNamara ( Mich . ) Jacob Javits ( N.Y. ) Ralph Yarborough ( Tex . ) Peter Dominick ( Colo . ) Joseph Clark ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy ( N.Y. ) It is customary for committee hearings to start with top executive officials , and the lead-off witness on S 370 was Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare Anthony Celebrezze . After a low-keyed presentation of essentially the same material Celebrezze had offered the week before , Morse and his colleagues were ready to start their interrogation . In accordance with traditional procedure the chairman has first crack at the witness , and then the questioning is alternated by party affiliation and according to seniority rank on the committee . Since all but one of the Democrats ( Hill ) were co-sponsors of S 370 , the Administration witnesses expected most of the intensive quizzing from the Republicans . This was generally true with the notable exception of the newest Democrat on the committee ? the late Robert Kennedy of  | New York . Senator Kennedy was a staunch supporter of the bill , to be sure , but he made it clear from the outset that he intended to give it a serious examination . Following Celebrezze 's testimony , the next witness was Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started a three-way colloquy by swiftly moving to the heart of the bill ? the allocation formula in Title I. Commissioner Keppel seemed slightly surprised when Kennedy launched into the following line of questioning : Senator Kennedy : Now is the child an educationally deprived child if it receives an education which is substantially inferior to the average U.S. education at that grade level ? 4 Mr. Keppel : Certainly , sir . Senator Kennedy : Is an educationally deprived child necessarily , therefore , from a family of low income ? a low income family ? Mr. Keppel : No , sir . Clearly , there can be deprivations and are in our society for a host of tragic family reasons . I think it is fair to say that the proposal made by the Administration is to start where we can be utterly sure the need is desperate ? that is the case of children of families earning under $2,000 a year income . Senator Kennedy : I do n't know if it would be possible to work out a stricter definition , but I think it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think forcefully , the family and home background of a child and I think that does make for difficulty and creates the kind of problems that you have described . I think also would you agree , that it is not restricted to that , that from your experience of studying the school systems around the United States , that the school system itself has created an educationally deprived system ? Mr. Keppel : I am sorry to say that is true .  | As Kennedy continued to challenge the basis of the allocation formula he expressed concern that the federal funds would miss the mark if the school systems remained unchanged . Eventually Secretary Celebrezze became involved in the discussion when Kennedy asked the following : Senator Kennedy : Would not you agree , Commissioner and Secretary , that one of the really great problems we have in the country , being blunt about it , is the school boards of some of these communities , in some of these states , and the commissioners of education in some of the states , that they are just not going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Secretary Celebrezze : That is the price of democracy . If you want to keep your education on a local level without concentrating it in the Federal government . Senator Kennedy : It may be the price of democracy but we do n't have to accept it . The Washington press corps followed the words and deeds of Robert Kennedy more carefully than those of any freshman senator in recent history . Reporters were especially interested in comments which seemed at odds with the White House line . Columnists Roland Evans and Robert Novak interpreted Kennedy 's exchange with Celebrezze and Keppel as a rift with the President and argued that " the soft underbelly of President Johnson 's much praised program of aid to education is being attacked by none other than the Senate 's most famous freshman : Senator Robert Kennedy of New York . " 5 Chances are Kennedy was more interested in demonstrating that he was not going to be a meek and passive member of the committee than in challenging Johnson or his education proposal . The third day of hearings was devoted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had  | historical significance because it subtly indicated a more moderate position by groups on both sides of the issue . In previous years Msgr . F. G. Hochwalt , spokesman for the United States Catholic Conference , had appeared on Capitol Hill to voice his opposition to school aid legislation . But in 1965 he appeared as a supporting witness . In restrained praise he said , " the Administration 's proposal offers a workable compromise " and added , " we indicate our willingness to cooperate with their legislative proposal because of the assurance that all children in need will benefit from the program . " In 1965 the Jewish community no longer presented the bloc of opposition to private school aid that was true of previous years . The more orthodox Jewish groups continue to maintain their own private schools and the lure of federal funds is more tempting than it once was . The Jewish division is reflected in testimony offered by both sides . Harrison Goldin , speaking for the nonorthodox American Jewish Congress said , " the plan would necessarily blur the line which separates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group could not support the measure as drafted. ? The antidote for this nonorthodox Jewish opposition was provided by Rabbi Morris Sherer speaking for Agudath Israel of America , an orthodox Jewish organization . Rabbi Sherer was delighted to endorse the bill and called it " a major step forward in meeting the educational needs of the school children of our nation . " 8 Historically , the Baptists have been one of the most implacable foes of federal assistance to private schools ? especially Southern Baptists . In 1965 they did not change their position , but the intensity of opposition seemed to have diminished . Since the desegregation decision of Brown v. Board of Education in 1954 , there has been increased interest in private education , especially in the South . The expansion of private education in the South is reflected by  | the Internal Revenue Service 's decision in August 1967 to extend tax exempt status to forty-two additional Southern private schools . This might explain part of the changing attitudes of Southern Baptists . The director of the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairs , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was written , especially the " vagueness " of those sections involving private schools . Yet he prefaced his remarks by saying the approach taken in the bill " brings us something new in scope , and we hope that it is the creative piece that will be able to solve the problems that we have faced for a number of years in this field . " On the last day of the hearings ( February II ) Senators Edward Kennedy ( D. Mass. ) and Gaylord Nelson ( D. Wis. ) appeared before the committee and suggested an amendment to S 370 providing for a federally financed teachers corps to be used in impoverished school districts throughout the country . Their proposal was essentially the same as a suggestion offered by Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith a year earlier.10 Kennedy and Nelson seemed reasonably confident that their idea would be favorably received by the Democrats on the committee . But for Chairman Morse and his Democratic colleagues , it was not a question of the desirability of the proposal but one of opening S 370 to amendment . For reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session even started , had made up his mind that the school aid bill must clear both houses in the same form . For the time being the committee merely assured Kennedy and Nelson " that their proposal would be  | given careful consideration " before final action on the bill . On February 11 the Morse subcommittee concluded hearings on S 370 . In all there were seven days of hearings scattered over a period of several weeks . There were 103 persons who appeared before the committee , and prepared statements were received from an additional 42 . Their testimony filled six volumes , more than 3,200 pages . Unlike the hearings in the House , the Senate sessions were almost devoid of partisan conflict . A major reason for the contrast was the simple fact that the senators were not working under the same pressure of time as their counterparts in the House . The decision had been made in advance of the session to allow the House to act on the school aid bill first . This gave the Senate the advantage of conducting its hearings at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less of an argument that the bill was being " ramrodded " through committee . Before the Eighty-ninth Congress convened Senator Morse had decided , with the concurrence of President Johnson and the Democratic congressional leaders , on two major points of strategy : 1 ) the Senate should postpone action until final passage in the House , and 2 ) no amendments should be accepted at any stage of the process in the Senate . The reasons for these decisions were obvious . Historically the House had been the burying ground for school aid legislation . The leaders felt that in 1965 it still remained the toughest hurdle and should be approached first . They felt that the Senate should not allow any amendments so that the House and Senate versions of the bill would pass in identical form ; this would avoid the need for a conference committee to iron out the differences . In 196o it was the failure of the House Rules Committee to authorize a conference that killed the federal aid bill . Although the House amended its rules in 1965 to allow the  | Speaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the leaders were not taking any chances ; besides , avoiding the conference committee would also speed the final enactment of the bill . The President wanted the bill out of the way as soon as possible so Congress could turn its attention to other major problems of the " Great Society . " Given the fact that the Republicans numbered less than a third of the Senate , Morse knew that he would have little trouble staving off their attempts to amend the bill . Yet he did not want to handle them in a cavalier fashion . He prides himself on maintaining harmonious relations with the minority members of his committee , and he wanted to avoid dismissing their suggestions out of hand . An even more difficult task was dealing with the Democrats who favored the bill but wanted it modified . His task of keeping the bill intact without alienating its supporters was a worthy test of leadership skill and overall political acumen . Between February 11 and March 30 , Morse waited for final action by the House before calling his committee into executive session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestions on the bill from members of both parties . On the Republican side of the subcommittee there were a couple of members ? Winston Prouty ( Vt. ) and Jacob Javits ( N.Y. ) ? who wanted S 370 specifically to cover physically handicapped children . Obviously neither Morse nor the Administration was anxious to come out foursquare against crippled children ( which is probably what Prouty and Javits had in mind ) but they did not want to risk amendments . Finally Senator Morse handled Prouty and Javits by asking Assistant HEW Secretary Wilbur Cohen and Commissioner Keppel to write an opinion on the matter . Just as Morse expected , both assured the committee that the bill was broad enough for this type of coverage . Their letters were incorporated into the committee report and thus became a part of the legislative history of the bill . An item becoming a part of the history is of some significance because executive  | agencies charged with applying the law , and federal courts interpreting the law , both need permanent sources to assist them in determining the intent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Record are used as such sources . During this period Morse was also receiving a steady stream of requests from the Democrats on the full committee . While HR 2362 was still being held by the Perkins subcommittee in the House , it was possible for Morse to funnel a few of the requests to that side of the hill before their mark-up session was held . Senators Nelson and Kennedy continued to press for their teachers corps amendment . After several discussion sessions with them , Morse was able to dissuade them from pushing their amendment with the assurance that it could be attached to the higher education bill scheduled for Senate action later in the session . Committee membership did not constitute the only source of suggestions for amendment . Senator Morse and the professional staff of his committee were contacted by numerous other members ? mostly Democrats . The President had several White House assistants on the hill drumming up support for the bill , and Morse found it useful to employ their help in explaining to Democratic senators why S 370 could not be amended . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this regard . This eased the burden on Morse and gave the Administration a meaningful role in assisting the bill .  | The day after the House passed HR 2362 , President Johnson said he was certain that the Senate would " move with dispatch and enthusiasm to speed the final passage of the bill . " 13 In retrospect the President 's confidence was well founded . Within a period of two weeks the bill cleared two mark-up sessions , was debated on the floor , and was delivered to the President for his signature . The bill passed the House on Friday ( March 26 ) of one week , and on the next Tuesday the Morse subcommittee went into executive session . The only decision of any note on the first day was the committee 's agreement to work with HR 2362 instead of the Senate version S 370 . In the second mark-up session , held the following day , the bill narrowly missed being amended by two bipartisan proposals offered by Ralph Yarborough ( D. Tex. ) and Peter Dominick ( R. Colo . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both amendments were designed to increase aid to the more impoverished states by decreasing assistance to the wealthier ones . Those favoring the amendments were full committee chairman Lister Hill ( D. Ala . ) , Yarborough ( D. Texas ) , Dominick ( R. Colo. ) , and Winston Prouty ( R. Vt . ) . Those opposed were subcommittee chairman Morse , Joseph Clark ( D. Penn . ) , Jennings Randolph ( D. W.Va . ) , Robert Kennedy ( D. N.Y. ) , Pat McNamara ( D. Mich. ) , and Jacob Javits ( R. N.Y. ) . Had each voted the strict interest of his state , only one vote would have changed ? Jennings Randolph . Under the amendments , his state of West Virginia would have received a larger share of assistance but he voted " no " because he felt these changes might " open up the flood gates " and threaten the fate of the entire measure . After long hours of discussion the subcommittee finally decided by a unanimous vote of lo to o to report the bill without amendments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Morse lavished praise on all the members and added , " I think we have a minimum amount of partisanship on this bill . " 14 The unanimous vote was indicative of Morse 's harmonious relations with the Republicans on the subcommittee rather than of their attitudes on the bill . In fact , the GOP members ? especially Dominick and Prouty ? were unhappy with the unamended version of the bill . They were willing to go along with the Democrats in reporting the bill because they knew it would clear regardless of how they cast their votes . Hence they thought they might as will give Morse the personal satisfaction of having a unanimous report . The time-honored canon of politics applied in this case was that one should not go out of his way to make enemies if it is obvious his side is going to lose anyway . This strategy eventually paid off for the Republicans when the bill was on the floor and they needed the cooperation of Morse in handling the debate . The unanimous vote also reflects a respect and admiration held for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morse is often that of an outcast and troublemaker . His critics argue that " every time he opens his mouth on the floor he loses his cause ten votes . " One must admit that when Morse publicly becomes involved with issues , he seems to possess an uncanny knack for causing his opponents ' blood to boil . But when he is out of the spotlight of publicity and working with his fellow senators as a chairman and colleague , his relations are warm and cordial . In the words of a Southern Democrat , he is regarded as " a man of high integrity who is fair , open-minded , honest , and reliable . " One conservative Republican remarked : He 's the kind of guy that if you tell him you are not going to be able to attend a committee session , he will tell you that he will protect your interests while you are gone ? and he will . I ca n't always go along with him because he can spend another billion dollars without batting an eye . But if he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes even give you an argument or two to support your own position . In both the House and Senate the full committee will usually accept the decisions of the subcommittees . The case of HR 2362. before the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee was no exception . When the full committee met to consider the bill five days after the subcommittee had finished , efforts were renewed to amend it . Once again Senator Dominick offered his amendment to allocate more funds to poorer states and once again it was rejected ? this time by a vote of 10 to 6 . Senator Javits voted " no " and the rest of the Republicans plus two Democrats ( Hill and Yarborough ) voted " yes . " Two other Dominick amendments were defeated by voice vote . Both touched on the issue of church-state . One limited the distribution of textbooks and library materials to public schools ; the other specifically prohibited the use of federal funds for private school construction and teacher 's salaries . The bill emerged unscathed and once again was reported out by unanimous vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Morse attempted to soothe the bill 's critics and to indicate some of his own reservations by saying , " There is adequate time later this session or next year for us to amend the bill if it is needed . " 15 The next day the report ( No. 146 ) , which had been prepared by the committee staff , was made available . It contained an explanation of the bill , supportive arguments , and the minority views of the Republicans . After a bill has cleared committee , the chairman ( usually subcommittee ) formally reports the bill on the floor . Oc- casionally a senator reporting a minor bill will request unanimous consent for immediate consideration . Normally bills go on the calendar in the order they are reported . Unlike the House , which segregates revenue and appropriation bills from other public bills on separate calendars , the Senate has only one calendar . Also unlike the House , the Senate does not have a Rules Committee to regulate the flow of legislation onto the floor . After the morning business is completed each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calendar . In order to regulate the workload to meet the interests of most of the members , there is a need to select bills out of sequence off the calendar . In other words , someone needs to control the agenda . In the Senate this is the job of the Majority Leader who usually works in close consultation with the Minority Leader . Normally the Majority Leader will announce in advance the bills he intends to call off the calendar . This is done to give the members a chance to plan their personal schedules around the business to be taken up on the floor . One must always keep in mind that the Senate conceives of itself as a body of equals and that within limits the interests and desires of each member should be taken into consideration . Thus the Majority Leader will strive to plan an agenda which will provide maximum convenience for most of the members . It is difficult to determine what future floor business will be until the Majority Leader announces his intentions . Before the announcement the Majority Leader will have consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and probably the White House . Periodically the official calendar is printed and distributed , but it is an incomplete and often misleading guide to future business . In order to expedite action on minor and noncontroversial bills that have been passed over on the calendar , once or twice a month the Majority Leader calls them off , and usually they are passed in rapid fashion . Since so much of the business is conducted with the use of unanimous consent agreements and voice votes , the minority party al- ways tries to have one of its members on the floor to keep the majority and its leader honest . In regard to HR 2362 , Senator Morse , President Johnson , and Majority Leader Mansfield all agreed that floor action should commence as soon as possible . In fact , it was called up the same day it was reported ( April 6 ) . But for the benefit of the members who were anxious to make plans for dinner , Mansfield announced , " For the information of the Senate , there will be no further voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate mass exodus from the floor . If one were to judge the significance of the business on the Senate floor by the number of members present , the inescapable conclusion would be that this august body rarely considers anything of consequence . Attendance is especially light when debate is just starting on a bill . When Morse started his explanatory statement on HR 2362 , the chamber was empty except for two senators huddled in a corner deep in conversation . Senator Allen Ellender ( D. La. ) wandered onto the floor and took note of this . In fact , he remarked to Morse , " I notice present only one or two senators to listen to my friend explain this $1.3 billion bill . I just came from committee , myself , by chance . " 16 Senator Morse was neither offended nor surprised that his colleagues did not turn out to hear his opening statement . He said he was " speaking for the record " and added that he was sure that the others would read his comments if they were interested . One need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor is rarely the scene of intense drama . Tourists are often disappointed when they travel half- way across the country to visit the nation 's Capitol and rush to the Senate gallery only to find an unknown senator speaking in a monotone to an empty chamber . This disappointment erroneously leads some to think that the members are somehow shirking their responsibilities . The problem is that the bulk of the work is visible only in committee rooms and the members ' offices . In fact , if a senator spent most of his time on the floor , his colleagues would soon wonder how he managed to do his work ! Senator Morse concluded his introductory statement by saying that he had been " authorized by the President to ask that the bill pass unamended . " This comment gave Senator Ellender a chance to engage in the favorite Senate game of verbal horseplay . With tongue in cheek , Ellender said , " This is the first time I have ever heard the Senator from Oregon make the statement that he does not believe a somewhat controversial bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a smile , " I presume the Senator is taking this position because the President wants the bill on his desk as soon as possible . " Senator Morse , who was obviously enjoying the bantering , responded by saying , " I find myself in agreement with the President but the Senator from Louisiana is quite mistaken if he thinks that represents a cause-to-effect relationship . That is my independent judgment . " Given Morse 's reputation and record as being an outspoken individualist , his comments were credible . Senator Ellender ceased the levity by saying , " I want the distinguished Senator to understand that the questions I am propounding to him are merely to clarify the issues . " This was a signal to Morse that Ellender was willing to stay on the floor and help " make the record " on HR 2362 via a friendly dialogue . The friendly dialogue is a common device used on the Senate floor especially during the early stage of discussion of a bill . It is an exchange between the bill manager and an inquisitor sympathetic to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill by responding to questions posed by one of his allies . It also gives him a  | chance to make a record on a bill before the adversaries start unleashing their torpedoes . The remainder of the first day was taken up with senators presenting prepared speeches on the bill . Typically this type of address is primarily designed for home consumption . The second day of debate on HR 2362 was an exhausting session which lasted more than eleven hours . In all there were four recorded roll call votes on amendments , and there was an additional amendment pending on the floor when the senators finally went home at 9:15 P.M. Of course most of the members did not spend the entire day on the floor listening to the debate . They had to stay within range of the Senate bell system , however , to know when recorded votes were coming up . While most of them knew something about the bill , not many were completely familiar with the amendments that were being offered . Hence if the members do not plan to spend much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep track of the pending business . Both parties have a secretary ( the job formerly held by Johnson protege Bobby Baker ) who can brief the members as they come onto the floor to vote . On busy days many senators will have someone from their office staff to cover the floor ( which is a job one of the authors performed with great delight during the 1965 session ) . The first vote of the day was on an amendment offered by Peter Dominick designed specifically to require state approval for the establishment of the local supplementary education centers proposed under Title III of the bill . It was defeated by a vote of 39 to 49 with all Republicans except one ( Case , N.J. ) voting " aye . " There were ten Democrats absent on the vote , and the outcome was sufficiently close to cause the majority leadership to redouble its efforts to keep their troops on the hill and ready to vote . Their  | efforts paid off and subsequent amendments were defeated by wider margins . The second amendment , advanced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formula using the number of school children and per capita income figures for each state instead of basing it on the number of school children and state population figures . Had the amendment passed , it would have decreased aid for eighteen states ( mostly in the northeast and midwest ) and increased assistance for the other thirty-two states . This caused some anxiety among Democratic leaders because ? at least in theory ? if each senator voted the specific interest of his state , the amendment would carry by a vote of 64 to 36 . It was defeated , however , by a vote of 38 to 56 . The vote indicated that twenty-four non-Southern Democrats and one Republican voted against their state 's specific interest by opposing the amendment . The rest of the votes were in line with each state 's financial interest . The third amendment of the day was proposed by James Pearson ( R. Kan . ) . It called for a gradual tapering off of federal funds for school districts affected by the closing of federal installations . To no one 's surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 59 . Senator Pearson was due for reelection in 1966 , and it was generally thought that he was offering the amendment for constituency consumption ( sixteen districts in Kansas were being affected by the 1965 cutback in federal installations ) . The last amendment of the day was sponsored by Peter Dominick . It too would have altered the allocation formula and would have resulted in channeling more aid to the poorer states . It was rejected by a vote of 38 to 53 . ' When the Senate convened the next morning to finish debate on HR 2362 , the pending business was Sam Ervin 's ( D. N.C. ) judicial review amendment . It was designed to  | test the constitutionality of assisting parochial schools by allowing any taxpayer to file suit in a federal court challenging the method of dispersing funds under the bill.17 In previous years , Morse had been a staunch supporter of judicial review proposals , but once again he urged his colleagues to refrain from amending the bill lest it jeopardize its passage , Federal aid supporters from both parties managed to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 53 ( Democrats , 16 to 39 ; Republicans , 16 to 14 ) . With the Ervin hurdle cleared , it was obvious that Morse had enough support to ward off any amendment and the members began to get a bit restless awaiting the final vote . For the rest of the day most senators drifted onto the floor just long enough to vote " nay " on a pending amendment . In all there were six amendments offered on the last day , and each was rejected by an increasingly larger vote . ' $ The Senate majority leadership had hoped to finish the bill by early afternoon before President Johnson was scheduled to leave for Houston to attend the opening of the astrodome . But a few senators were still droning on at 3:30 when the President 's helicopter took off from the ' White House lawn . Bringing a bill to a final vote in the Senate is a mystical process . It is possible to curtail debate under Senate Rule 22 ( cloture ) , but this rarely happens . The institution prides itself on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain exactly when discussion will cease . It is not so much a matter of deciding on a time to vote but rather a decision on the part of each member to  | stop talking . Unless it is a case of a filibuster , senators will gear the length of their remarks to the temperament of the body . Debate will start tapering off when it becomes apparent that most members are ready to vote . In the case of HR 2362 , by 7:30 P.M. it was obvious that the troops were ready to call it a day . After checking with the floor leaders and finding that no one else wanted to offer an amendment or insert a speech , Senator Morse let the presiding officer know that the members were ready to vote . The presiding officer then announced , " the bill having been read the third time , the question is , shall it pass ? The yeas and nays have been ordered , and the clerk will call the roll . " Within a few minutes it was announced that the bill passed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 4 ; Republicans , 18 to 14 ) . The group voting " no " was a collection of Southem Democrats plus Midwestern and Western Republicans . Even though HR 2362 passed the Senate and was signed into law two days later by the President , federal aid advocates could not afford to bask too long in the warm glow of their victory . The signing ceremony by no means meant an end to the historic federal aid struggle . In fact it merely launched a new phase in a continuing struggle which started a quarter-century before the passage of HR 2362 and has continued thereafter . The public policy process is a never-ending flow of decisions . The currency of this process is the policy proposal , and thus far we have seen that any proposal is an extremely fragile object which can be easily destroyed or modified beyond recognition . In order for a proposal to become law it must pass a trial by fire in the environments inside and outside the political system . As the case history of HR 2362 demonstrates , even when a proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be destroyed or completely changed in the system . Countless proposals are killed each year by the bureaucracy , the White House , congressional committees , single legislators , and members of the leadership , plus the houses of Congress themselves . Once a proposal has cleared this obstacle course it still can be destroyed or modified by a Presidential veto , an adverse decision by the courts , the manner in which it is administered by an executive agency , subsequent repeal by Congress , or it may die for lack of funds . Most programs that are enacted into the law are given only a temporary authorization and appropriation by Congress . Hence , in reality , laws are nothing more than temporary bench marks and law-making a continuing and incremental process . In the next chapter the authorization process which followed the passage of HR 2362 will be discussed , but before turning to that task , it might be helpful to focus on another dimension of policy-making ? the appropriation process . Since the implementation of most policies requires an expenditure of money , the appropriation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program as the authorization phase . It is possible for a program to be enacted into law and yet never operate because of lack of funds . For example , in 1965 Congress enacted a national teachers corps which has only sporadically functioned since then because of appropriation problems . In 1965 Congress also authorized the controversial rent supplement plan to ease urban housing , but it was delayed in being put into operation because of congressional refusal to appropriate the money . The President and the congressional leaders were reasonably confident that Congress would appropriate the funds needed to implement HR 2362 , but this did not diminish the gravity of the appropriation decision . The stakes were too high for them to stub their toe on this hurdle . They fully realized that if they could not get sufficient funds to implement HR 2362 , they would have won the authorization battle but lost the war .  | In Congress there is a careful distinction drawn between the authorization and appropriation functions . The major committees ( Labor and Public Welfare , Agriculture , Judiciary , etc. ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it is the job of the House and Senate appropriations committees to allocate the funds . A program authorized by Congress can not be implemented until the appropriation is forthcoming . Two weeks after the passage of HR 2362 , President Johnson asked Congress to appropriate $1.345 million to implement it for the first year . A White House communique said that this request would not increase the size of the total budget for fiscal year 1966 , because this amount was included in the budget requests sent to Congress in January . In mid-August the House Appropriations Committee approved a $1.2 billion supplemental appropriation bill covering various education and welfare programs . In included $967 million for elementary and secondary schools . The chairman of the HEW appropriations subcommittee , the late John E. Fogarty , pointed out that the $967 million figure was $328.6 million less than that authorized . The cut was made because two months of the fiscal year had lapsed , and it was also thought that some of the schools would not request all the funds to which they were entitled . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; however , the ranking Republican on the subcommittee , Melvin Laird ( Wis. ) , made it clear that he would challenge the bill on the floor . Once the bill reached the floor , Laird did not attack any specific appropriation items but argued that he was opposed to separate supplemental bills . He said he favored lumping  | all supplemental appropriations into ' a single bill to dramatize to the taxpayers the collective cost involved . Before the bill was brought to a final vote , Laird offered a motion to have it recommitted to the appropriations committee for further study . This motion was defeated , 263 to 139 . Of the members present and voting , 81 per cent ( 108 ) of the Republicans supported the Laird motion and 88 per cent ( 238 ) of the Democrats voted against it . The thirty-one Democrats supporting Laird were all Southerners . The bill was then approved on final passage by voice vote . As was true in this case , the motion to recommit a bill to committee is often used by the minority as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final vote . In the Senate the supplemental appropriations bill passed through the subcommittee with minimal discussion and was reported out of the full committee without any recorded opposition . Once the bill was on the floor , its manager , Lister Hill , offered several amendments designed to increase the total cost by $184 million over the House version . The amendments were accepted and the bill passed by voice vote . Senator Hill then promptly moved that the Senate insist on its amendments and request a conference with the House . The motion was agreed to and the presiding officer appointed Hill and seven other senators as conferees . When a bill passes each house of Congress in a different form , there are two commonly used methods for resolving the differences : 1 ) If a bill is amended in the second house , the house of origin is given an opportunity to concur with the amended version . If it does so , the process is ended and the bill is ready for Presidential action . 2 ) If both houses insist on keeping their own versions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee . The conference committee is an ad hoc body composed of an equal number of members from both houses . Conference members are appointed by  | the presiding officer of each house . By tradition they are the ranking majority and minority members of the committee which handled the bill . The purpose of the conference committee is to iron out Senate and House differences . If an agreement is reached , the conference recommendations are embodied in a conference report which is submitted back to each house . Neither house can amend the report but occasionally one or both of the houses will reject the report , thus necessitating the creation of another conference . Since legislation must pass both houses in identical form , ultimately the amendments of one house must be accepted by the other . Though it is an infrequent occurrence , it is possible for a bill to pass both houses and clear the conference committee yet die for lack of agreement on the conference report . Senator Hill 's decision to take the supplemental appropriations bill to conference did not indicate irreconcilable differences between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill was the higher of the two , and Hill felt it was worth going to conference to see if the House would accept at least some of the Senate increases . But if he and his colleagues found that the House conferees could not be budged , he knew the Senate could always settle for the lesser amount . This maneuver is common in the Senate on appropriation matters . Most senators feel that if a bill goes to conference , they might be able to salvage some of their amendments ? otherwise the House would win by default . Of course the Senate will usually leave a little " fat " in the bill which can be cut later in the bargaining session with the House conferees ? The passage of the 1965 HEW supplemental bill was typical of most appropriation measures , but the conference committee decision was not . Rather than adopting a higher  | figure , the conference committee decided to reduce the bill back to the original House figure of $1.223 million ( this did not affect the elementary-secondary school appropriation ) . The conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted in each by voice vote . As one might imagine , conflict on the floors of Congress is more intense during the authorization process than during the appropriation phase . This does not mean that once a program is authorized , opposition evaporates . Conflict may continue , but much of it is internalized within the appropriations committees and is usually not allowed to spread to the floor . Most members of Congress recognize the fact that once a program has been authorized the odds are overwhelming that it will be given at least partial funding . If a program is especially controversial and is authorized by a narrow vote ( e.g. , the teachers corps and rent supplement program in 1965 ) , the opposition may successfully block its appropriation . But such a case is unusual . Moreover , a bill becomes less controversial as it passes through the appropriation process itself The only significant challenge to the 1965 HEW Supplemental Appropriations Bill was the Laird motion to recommit the bill to the House appropriations committee . This motion was defeated by a decisive vote of 263 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eventually the conference report was accepted by voice vote . Thus the combined **27;1606;TOOLONG process covering the school aid bill was launched amid intense controversy and ended nine months later by a routine voice vote . This temporarily ended the federal aid fight , but the forces were already regrouping for a future battle .                     