@@773855

txt 6o THE TROUBLED CALLING crease a mother 's difficulties in adjusting to an unplanned and sometimes unwanted pregnancy . " The report also had some enlightening comments about the average physician 's difficulties in keeping up with new drugs and the avalance of medical literature . Many doctors , it observed , are increasingly coming to depend for information regarding medical progress on promotional material put out by the big pharmaceutical companies and on drug salesmen , who are known in the trade as " detail men . " " It was apparent from observation and statements from physicians that their practices in regard to medication and therapy are influenced significantly by the information and products supplied by the drug salesman , " the report declared , adding that this is a far from desirable state of affairs , " since the detail man 's function is not to provide education but to sell pharmaceutical products . " The study found no direct correlation between the quality of medical care provided by a physician and his income . In fact , some of the poorer doctors earned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is hardly surprising , " the report observed , " in view of the fact that the lay public has few valid criteria for assessing a physician 's competence . " The survey report emphasized that the physicians whose work was studied appeared to be typical of the run of general practitioners . " The training taken by these doctors , " it said , " is similar to the training in a wide variety of hospitals in all parts of the United States . The physicians studied came from many medical schools and had exhibited all degrees of academic success , so there is no reason to assume an adverse selection . It can therefore be stated with considerable assurance that in terms of medical education and training the physicians who participated in this study are not evidently different from general practitioners at large . " Competent opinion is that the conditions found in North Carolina arc widely prevalent in other states as well . " I was not at all surprised at the findings of the study , " said a nationally known physician with many years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I expect that , to a greater or lesser extent , this situation holds true generally . North Carolina is not a typical Southern state . It has a far higher standard of living // than most states in the South and good medical schools and hospitals . North Carolina doctors are no different from doctors elsewhere . They 're doing the best they know how . It 's not a question of the individual ; it 's the system . " What should have provoked a storm of controversy and much soul-searching left the medical profession totally unruffled . The sole reaction of organized medicine was to ignore the illuminating report of the North Carolina inquiry , which was published as a special supplement to the Journal of Medical Education , the official publication of the Association of American Medical Colleges . Dr. John S. DeTar , former president of the American Academy of General Practice and one of the few prominent physicians to comment publicly on the matter , conceded that the criteria used in the study for judging performance " were thoroughly fair . " And he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar studies of obstetricians , surgeons , and pediatricians would yield like results . " Under a system in which each doctor is to a large extent his own judge and jury and in which performance is wholly a matter of individual competence and personal conscience , the proportion of good and poor work being done must remain a matter of conjecture . Free enterprise in medicine may have its advantages , but it also means the freedom to be incompetent and to get away with it . For a variety of reasons , the temptation to do so is particularly strong in the field of general practice . As patients have come to recognize the value of specialization , family physicians have been downgraded to the category of " just general practitioners . " They have been disparaged to such a degree that many families , particularly on the higher-income level , are more and more turning to specialists in internal medicine for initial diagnosis and treatment . While the dividing line between a general practitioner and an internist is not always clearly defined , the latter undergoes a longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chest or gastrointestinal diseases . To saddle him with some of the trivia of family practice is a waste of talent and a luxury we can hardly afford at a time when highly trained physicians are in short supply . The fragmentation of medicine and the rapid pace of its progress are making it increasingly difficult for the solo generalist // to keep informed in any phase of his profession . The nature of the work of general practitioners , the New York Academy of Medicine has said , " calls for unusually broad knowledge , but they are most often so taken up with their practice ? and generally isolated from hospitals and other medical centers ? that they have little time for continued training . The result is that in all parts of the country , but particularly in the smaller and more isolated communities , there arc general practitioners who still practice much the same medicine they learned in their student days . " As general practice becomes less and less attractive and as younger physicians are drawn into the specialties and lured to the cities by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an increasing preponderance of older ? and less competent ? doctors in the smaller and poorer communities . A study made some years ago showed that the ratio of physicians under forty-five years of age to the general population was eight times as great in areas with the highest per capita income as in those with the lowest average income . A recent survey in Maine disclosed that more than half of the small-town doctors in that state are over the age of fifty-six . The proportion of general practitioners is highest among doctors who are sixty or older . When these men retire or die , the void is often being filled by newly licensed graduates of substandard foreign medical schools who can not make the grade in the specialties . A good family doctor can play a key role in the prevention of mental illness . As the first to be consulted and as the one most familiar with the patient 's family background and occupational environment , he is in a position to detect incipient emotional disorders and to try to alleviate conditions that are harmful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the findings of the North Carolina study , this is precisely what many general practitioners fail to do . They have neither the time nor the grounding in the basic elements of psychiatry to do more than to dismiss vague complaints with prescriptions for tonics or tranquilizers . The incongruity is that the physician who covers the widest area of practice receives the shortest period of preparation . The usual single year of rotating internship , in which the medical graduate is exposed to brief periods of practical training in a number of fields , is clearly inadequate . The American Academy // of General Practice , which was established in 1947 as a counterpart to the specialty boards , favors two years of rotating internship for physicians who are planning to become generalists . But the growing body of medical knowledge is outmoding even this approach , aside from the fact that after two years of internship , some of the graduates change their minds and decide to go instead into further specialty training . The American Academy of General Practice , with about twenty-three thousand members , is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members are required to obtain credit for 150 hours of postgraduate study every three years to remain in good standing . It has been pushing , so far with little success , for hospital privileges for generalists and for the establishment of departments of general practice in medical schools . But the academy is fighting a rearguard action in trying to stem the tide of specialization . While some of its aims are laudable , its primary motivation is obviously to protect lucrative practices and to bolster prestige . The academy still insists that the general practitioner 's competence extends to whatever he feels he is capable of doing . This is a pretty big order and keeps the door wide open for poor medical care . III The specialties are undoubtedly on a much higher level than is general practice . Nor is there any question that while specialization is probably being overdone , it has greatly improved the standards of medical care and enhanced its effectiveness . But specialization also has its liabilities . It has splintered medical services into narrow segments and limited the field of professional vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical care ; it has depreciated general practice and made it much more difficult to provide continuity of care ; and it often leads to undue emphasis on isolated organic symptoms and excessive use of laboratory procedures that do not necessarily promote sounder judgment . " Specialization , " one authority has said , " is a more certain guarantee that one knows little outside his own field than that he is really expert within it . " // The more specialization proliferates , the greater is the danger that there will be x varieties of specialists to diagnose and treat x varieties of disease but no single doctor to take care of the patient as a physiological and psychological entity . By training and experience , the specialist tends to concentrate on the symptoms with which he is most familiar and to overlook other causes of illness that may be fully as important . His approach is often impersonal and episodic . Preoccupation with narrowly defined medical problems dims the view of the multiple origins frequently figuring in disease . It also robs the patient of the unifying management and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the most potent drugs . The spawning of the specialties is closely tied up with the greater concentration of medical services within the hospital and has accelerated the trend toward increasing , sometimes needless , hospitalization . In view of the skyrocketing of hospital costs and the mounting incidence of chronic conditions , there is a crying need for the development of alternatives to expensive hospitalization . But the specialists , who find the publicly subsidized hospital a most convenient and profitable adjunct to their practice , have shown little enthusiasm for the development of more economical measures such as outpatient diagnostic clinics and the care of longterm patients in nursing homes or in their own homes whenever possible . Nor have they displayed much interest in massscreening programs and other measures for the prevention of disease and its detection in incipient stages . By the very nature of the specialist 's work ( most patients come to him only after their disorders are well advanced ) , his approach is primarily curative rather than preventive . To become a certified specialist , a physician has to undergo anywhere from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internship . He must then pass an oral and written examination before a specialty hoard to establish his proficiency . Many specialists are in their thirties by the time they become fully qualified , and their long period of apprenticeship at nominal pay whets their appetite to regain their investment as soon as possible . While the medical profession still presents a fairly solid front to the general public , its point of view is by now far from // monolithic . The fact that many hospitals make their staff appointments contingent upon board certification has given the specialty boards a tremendous influence on the practice of medicine . With the division of the profession into about fifty specialties and subspecialties , divergent viewpoints have inceasingly come to the fore . Behind the facade of professional accord , there are frequent clashes of conflicting economic interests . The American College of Surgeons , for instance , has for years been engaged in a running battle with the AMA over the evils of fee splitting ? in its most blatant form , this is a practice in which a specialist kicks back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient to him ? and other ticklish issues . Stripped of foggy pretensions , the wrangle is largely over who gets what piece of the pie . Specialization not only has set higher standards and closed many doors to those lacking board certification but also has created a system of status differentiation within medicine , with surgeons at the top and general practitioners at the very bottom of the pecking order . Although there are notable exceptions of successful specialists who come from poor families , the financial backing required for the protacted period of training tends to favor those from the upper economic and social strata . This accentuates the tendency of the specialist elite toward upper-class orientation . Nearly half of all specialists are in the surgical field , which is the most remunerative . With one out of every fourteen Americans now undergoing an operation in the course of a year , thousands of surgeons are kept busy and prosperous . The huge volume of surgery and the fact that much of it involves elective rather than emergency procedures also provide a fertile field for abuse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated surgeons in operating rooms throughout the country , reputable authorities are on record that there is a staggering amount of needless and poor surgery and that some surgeons charge unconscionable fees . Competence is not automatically assured by specialty-board and hospital requirements . Quite a few hospitals permit surgery by physicians without specialty qualifications . The bulk of inferior surgery is done by these surgeons-by-assertion , but specialists are not always blameless in this respect . // As is the case with medical licensure , specialty-board certification measures the candidate 's knowledge and skills only at the start of his career . There is no provision for a periodic check to make sure that the diplomate stays on his toes . Human nature and the pressures of the average practice being what they are , backsliding is sometimes inevitable . But certification is good for a lifetime . The better hospitals have established various mechanisms for policing the quality of staff performance , including a requirement for pathological examination of all tissue removed in operations , to make sure that no surgery is done on normal organs . In many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not at all . Except in cases of flagrant misconduct , even the finest hospitals have to take it for granted , when renewing staff privileges , that board-certified specialists continue to be qualified . The patient has a right to expect that the physician in whose hands he places his health , and possibly his life , is fully competent . He gets no such assurance under the present system . IV Medical progress has created two urgent needs that , on the face of it , appear to be contradictory but actually are not . Advances in the techniques of prevention , diagnosis , and treatment are steadily increasing the necessity for specialization and for teamwork . But at the same time , there is more need than ever before for the type of physician who not only can differentiate and take care of those needs that do not call for more specialized skills and apparatus but also can coordinate all the patient 's medical requirements . So vast has become the store of knowledge about the body 's physical and biochemical structure and its countless and subtle individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ array of new drugs with properties that often are potentially as hazardous as they are beneficial that no individual can possibly comprehend or utilize all these advances . The new tools are extraordinarily effective , but they present the physician with formidable problems . They call for highly specialized skills , for discriminating use , and for the collaboration of a wide range of disciplines . // But the greater the division of labor between the specialties , the more indispensable is some integrating mechanism . Such a unifying force is needed to correlate the services of the specialists and to take an overall view of the patient ? not just as a collection of separate organs but as a complicated , troubled , groping , and utterly unique human being . Only a competent and perceptive family physician can perform this function . The science of medicine becomes a distant , frosty business when it is unwarmed by proper attention to the individual as well as to his disease . Some of our present difficulties arise not so much from the growth of specialization , which as a natural consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The main trouble does not stem from our plenitude of skills . It lies primarily in our failure to develop a viable organizational scheme to bring these skills to bear in the most telling manner for the benefit of the patient . Far from being defunct , the now isolated and harried family physician must be assigned a role wherein he can function more effectively . This he can best do as a member of a group in which his vital sphere is clearly recognized , in which the required equipment is readily at hand , and in which he can freely call on a variety of specialists whenever necessary . Group practice , especially when operated in conjunction with a comprehensive insurance program , offers the most feasible framework for utilizing the general practitioner 's great potentialities for health promotion and for basic diagnosis and therapy . Unlike solo practice , group practice sets the stage for a stimulating interplay of professional interests and provides an invaluable internal mechanism for a continuing appraisal of the quality of the doctor 's work . Only when he is allowed to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the financial barrier to adequate care is to a large extent removed can the general physician come back into his own and regain his rightful place as the solid foundation of the structure of medical practice . Only thus can the dismemberment of the patient into separate diseases be halted and medicine made whole again . Only the interdisciplinary team approach provides the machinery for meshing general practice with the specialties for comprehensive care . It is amply clear that medical care can not be fragmentized into isolated elements without serious detriment to its quality and // effectiveness . Diagnosis can not be arbitrarily separated from treatment ; surgery can not he isolated from preoperative and postoperative care ; hospitalization can not be viewed as a thing entirely apart from care in the home , office , or clinic . Nor can they be completely isolated from the patient 's family and group setting . To do the most good , a medical care program should ensure and facilitate , through the collaboration of all the medical specialties , the patient 's treatment throughout the full range of his actual and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is admittedly something of an ideal and may be too much for a single generation to achieve . There is no question , however , that scientific medicine should be based upon the fullest and most exact knowledge of the patient that can be made available to the doctor . Until not so long ago , the knowledge most readily available for the supplementing of clinical judgment was drawn entirely from physiology . But medicine must keep in step with all the sciences that help make the patient comprehensible . The contributions of psychology and psychiatry to the understanding of psychosomatic phenomena are already indispensable . Additional light on the patient 's interaction with his environment is being shed by research in the behavioral sciences , such as sociology and anthropology . Comprehensive medicine must be concerned with the whole spectrum of processes by which the human organism handles innumerable stimuli in such a way as to maintain a healthy equilibrium . We clearly can not even begin to approach this broad concept without a solution of the problem of how the needs for both specialist and personal care can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communication between doctor and patient so characteristic of today 's medical care stems from this difficult problem . But it is not intrinsically insoluble . A crucial question is whether general practice is dying a natural death or is being done to death by the prevailing patterns of medical education and practice with their overemphasis on specialization . There is considerable evidence that the latter is true . The present medical school environment and hospital-staff policies are overwhelmingly steering young physicians into the specialties . Medical school faculties are dominated by specialists // who , by precept and example , impress their students with the desirability of specialization . The graduate education of interns and residents in teaching hospitals is chiefly carried out by specialists . An important motivation in the decision to concentrate on one field of medicine is the sheer impossibility of achieving equal competence in all branches . But equally weighty reasons are considerations of income and prestige and the natural inclination of the young to base their choice of careers upon the success patterns of their elders . It does not take medical students too long to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status , that the general practitioner is looked down upon , and that there is no place for him in the hospital . As long as these inducements prevail , the more energetic and capable students will be attracted to specialty practice . This does more than merely perpetuate the existing disproportion within the professional ranks . When the young doctor bypasses general practice altogether to go directly into a specialty , he misses a precious opportunity for the insights that can best be gained through the most intimate contacts with patients . The result is that the most promising students are siphoned off into the specialties and the rest are left to go into general practice . But is this a desirable procedure ? Does a top-heavy array of specialists , overshadowing the cornerstone of services by general physicians , really make sense for the conservation of health ? " Who , " Dr. George A. Silver has asked , " will see the patient in the first instance and determine if the complaint is minor or major ? Who will refer cases to the specialists for more complex and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they come in ? Who will adjust the precise scientific ' reports or findings to the patient , that imprecise person of infinite variability ? Who will be so intimately related to the family as to know the interpersonal problems , assess them in relationship to the complaints or symptoms , and provide the support and guidance that probably do more to determine the duration or severity of all illness than the specific teatment ? Who will carry on the day-to-day psychosomatic practice ? " Obviously , these crucial functions can be carried out only by well-trained , broad-gauged generalists with some comprehension // of the social , psychological , and preventive aspects of medicine . The training of such physicians is one of the most challenging tasks facing medical education . And it will take a far-reaching reorganization of medical practice to provide a meaningful niche for them . In a more rational medical care system , excessive specialization will be curbed , provisions will be made for integrating the services of specialists , and the family doctor will be restored to his proper place in public and professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since there are degrees of illness and of skill needed in handling them , he will resume his rightful role in the medical constellation and will guide his patients through the growing complexities of health care . By being freed of the burden of an overcrowded schedule , he will have time for thorough examination and history taking . He will depend on the acuity of his educated powers of observation even more than on gadgets to detect the danger signals of any possible deviation from the normal . A grounding in clinical psychiatry will enable him to evaluate and treat common emotional stresses that are often at the root of organic disease . Keenly aware of the potentialities of preventive medicine , the generalist will foster the concept of good health as distinguished from mere absence of disease and will guide his patients in keeping well and adjusted to their environment . Above all else , he will provide the continuity of care that is the keystone of good medicine . There is nothing so comforting as the knowledge that when illness strikes , at any time of the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn to and that he will be ready to examine , to listen , to direct , and to follow through . The changes in our manner of living and in the ills that beset us have intensified the need for such a friend and counselor . CHAPTER FOUR The Mystique of the Doctor-Patient Relationship I A CURIOUS AMBIVALENCE is coming to light in the feelings of many Americans toward doctors . A number of public opinion surveys in recent years have shown that most people have relatively little fault to find with their own doctors but have a much less favorable opinion of the medical profession as a whole . The majority of those interviewed said that they thought well of their own physicians . It was an altogether different story , however , when they were asked their views on doctors in general . This brought to the surface indications of widespread and deep-seated discontent , centered on the impersonality of present-day medical care even more so than on its costliness . Major complaints were that physicians in general are " cold " and " impersonal , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their patients , that they charge too much and " wo n't come when called , " that their examinations and treatment are often superficial , that they are too hasty in recommending expensive laboratory tests and surgery , that the patient has to wait too long even with an appointment and frequently feels " like a machine on an assembly line , " and that being sent on a round of specialists usually means that no one really takes responsibility for what happens to the patient . It is doubtful whether the average person is fully conscious of the extent of his need for attention when he is ill . But he expresses this need with the habitual protest that he would like more of the doctor 's time . Typical comments are : " I 'd like to be able to talk to the doctor more and to tell him more " ; " I wish he would show as much interest in me as a human being as he does in my blood count and blood pressure " ; " Sometimes I feel that he has to look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Interestingly enough , " takes his time " was given in the intcr-71 // views as the most desirable trait in a doctor . This and " personal interest , sympathy , and kindness " even outranked the requirement that a physician be " up to date . " A considerable proportion of those questioned felt that most doctors try to cover up one another 's mistakes , that they think they are always right , that they are clannish and consider themselves better than other people , that many physicians want to get rich quick , and that the medical profession is not nearly so selfless and devoted as it should be . In every poll , most respondents consistently put their own doctors in a different category from the rest of the profession . In each classification of questions and answers , there was a significant differential in criticism along this line . What are the reasons for this puzzling disparity ? The AMA , which commissioned most of the polls , salves itself with the soothing notion that the average person 's esteem for his personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgments of other people 's doctors are largely the result of hearsay . But is this the only explanation ? New insights into the dynamics of the doctor-patient relationship provided by psychological and psychiatric research indicate that the reasons why people tend to think differently of their own doctors than of the medical profession collectively are much more complicated . One of the most tenable explanations is that the physician very often assumes the role of the powerful and beloved father in the patient 's eyes and , like the father , can do no wrong . It thus becomes reassuring to think of one 's own doctor as reliable and magnanimous and to have a less flattering view of other doctors . A crucial point to hear in mind is that when people are sick and feel helpless and afraid , they tend to regress into childlike dependency . Under these circumstances , they usually welcome in their doctors the authoritarian qualities that they resent when they are healthy and want to be treated as adults . On the other hand , it is not uncommon for patients to transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they have carried over from childhood . People have always had mixed feelings about doctors . The physician is associated in their minds with suffering , illness , and death . But at the same time , he also stands for relief from pain // and the cure of disease . The conflicting sentiments evoked by these associations have been sharpened as medicine has become more effective and patients more knowledgeable and less docile . The irony is that the very things that have made the doctor 's healing skills and tools so much more potent also have served to undermine the affection and regard in which he has traditionally been held . In the era of medicine 's most brilliant accomplishments , doctors and patients are drifting apart ; the medical profession has never been in greater danger of losing the people 's faith . Always regarded as a man of magic , the doctor has now become a scientific magician of whom much more is frequently expected than he can deliver . With the onrush of scientific developments , all too often exaggerated by the popular news media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far from an exact science and expect a magic pill for every ill . The public has been educated to expect miracles , and the physician may be in danger of making an enemy and losing a patient if none is produced . Doctors are too busy these days to be overly concerned about the loss of a patient . But many physicians have an ingrained distaste for admitting that they do not know and are apt to feel that they must live up to a sort of superman role in order to keep their patients ' confidence . This in itself is enough to set off a whole chain of misapprehensions . Another irony is that the more intricate medical science becomes , the less mysterious it seems to the layman . Rightly or wrongly , patients are starting to feel that even technical matters relating to diagnosis and treatment are not wholly beyond their ken and that they are entitled to an explanation of what the doctor is doing and why he is doing it . No longer as obsequious toward doctors as they once were , they resent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to in understandable language . They are inclined to suspect that there may be quite a bit of clannish hocus-pocus in the rituals of medical mystery . But probably most serious of all is a feeling of vague dissatisfaction with the doctor as a person and of growing impatience with him as a member of a profession whose struggle for the perpetuation of the existing order strikes many people as primarily a struggle for the perpetuation of a vested interest . " Western man turned away from the priest to the doctor , " // one authority has said , and " now the inevitable disenchantment is taking place . " The patient may tell himself over and over again that medicine is basically a trade just like any other and that the doctor 's need to make a living is naturally his first consideration . The patient nevertheless can not help feeling disillusioned when the physician fails to live up to the ideal of selfless service that is so much part of our ethic . Where does altruism end and self-interest begin in medicine ? Do the two necessarily have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the organization of medical care and practice to clear up the confusion and resolve the conflict . Patients are not unaware of the clash between the medical profession 's oft-proclaimed idealism and the harsh realities of life . In a society in which affluence is the principal yardstick of success , the layman may find the profession 's preoccupation with the economics of its trade not altogether unreasonable . But what is an insult to his intelligence is the profession 's fatuous pretension , undoubtedly motivated by its underlying guilt feeling , that the desire for money plays no role in its tenacious defense of the status quo . " It 's possible that we spend too much time telling each other what great humanitarians we are , " the late Dr. Elmer Hess , a former AMA president , once told his colleagues . One observer has said that charging for medical services often leads to a " psychological trauma " on the part of both doctor and patient " because of the inherent feeling that it is no more right for a physician to make a charge than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his prayer . " While this is probably an overstatement , fees are unquestionably a major sore point between patients and doctors , embarrassing all around and a source of frequent misunderstanding . The physician may feel that to talk about such a mundane matter as money somehow detracts from his stature as a humanitarian . The patient , too , may consider it inappropriate to discuss a price beforehand and is duly shocked when he gets the bill . Being charged for help in his misfortune sometimes smacks to him of biological blackmail . This explains why the average person is all too ready to jump to the conclusion that medical fees are exorbitant , even though he knows that the cost of everything else he uses has gone up , and to feel that some physicians charge whatever the traffic will bear . // Removal of the cash-register element would undeniabiv have a beneficial effect on the doctor-patient relationship . But the patient 's chagrin at being charged for what he may subconsciously feel should be an act of benevolence is only part of the picture . Fees are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his disappointment with the doctor ? the rankling feeling that he is being treated with condescension and denied his rightful share of sympathy and affection . " The unhappy feelings that patients have about doctors , " Dr. Lawrence Hinkle of Cornell University Medical College has said , " are not simply the result of crass behavior on the part of a few physicians . Perhaps it is true that some members of the medical profession have forgotten that with their special privileges , high status , and a good income go special responsibilities . But the discontent that patients feel about their treatment arises from something much deeper . It has its roots in the actual scientific inadequacy of the present piecemeal practice of medicine . Laboratory tests and limited procedures can not replace a human understanding of the whole patient . " The patient wants someone who will make him feel well again . What he very often wants is not so much advice or treatment as someone who will listen to him about his troubles and understand how much he has to bear . He wants relief from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He sometimes wants relief from unreasoning fears , the foremost of which is the fear of cancer . Many patients project their emotional frustrations into physical complaints and tend to magnify their symptoms as a means of escape from reality and of getting attention . The doctor needed by those who are ill or who think they are ill must not only be technically proficient but also have a genuine liking for people , a quick responsiveness to loneliness and the craving for reassurance and self-esteem , a tolerance for human failings , a compassion for suffering . Dr. Thomas Findley of Tulane University School of Medicine tells the story of an apprentice physician who , a good many years ago , asked his mentor how to treat a case of scarlet fever . The older man reflected for a while before answering , " Well , the treatment of scarlet fever depends upon what is the matter with the patient . " // " This was not a facetious remark , " says Dr. Findley , " for the more experienced of the two well knew that the demands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Illness is a threat to one 's integritv , and the manner in which one mobilizes his defenses depends not only upon the nature of the pathologic stress , but also upon the quality of his emotional equipment . To the extent that this is meager , the dependency of the patient will increase and the clinical picture becomes diffuse and blurred . " Despite all of medicine 's spectacular advances , recognition of the uniqueness of every patient is perhaps more essential today than it ever - , vas . And so is possession by the doctor of that sensibility of heart which makes him feel for the distress of others . The tragedy is that the chasm between physician and patient has been widened just when the insights of psychiatry are lending new emphasis to the need for viewing the sick person within the context of his past experience and his fears , compulsions , and aspirations . The breach has occurred at the very time when the hectic pace of living in our urban civilization imposes new strains on our adaptive capacities , when some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and when the individual bewildered by his illness needs more rather than less personal attention . The large family , a matchless emotional anchorage of complex and intimate interrelationships , is becoming a rarity . The proportion of people living in smaller communities , with their closer human ties and greater stability , has been sharply reduced . The authoritarian and reassuring influence of the church has declined . Many of our traditional standards of conduct have been undermined . The elements tending to induce anxiety are outstripping the available mechanisms for resolving it . More than ever , there are men and women who have lost their roots , who are solitary in the bustle of our large cities and , feeling alone and abandoned , yearn for a chance to talk to someone freely , for svmpathy and guidance . Since emotional stress is often accompanied by or is the cause of physical discomfort , it is only natural that such troubled people should look for medical advice . " In these initial stages , " Dr. Michael Balint , a noted British psychiatrist , has said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // of the two ? the act of complaining itself or the particular complaint . It is here that the doctor 's attitude becomes decisive . " But what happens if the doctor is too busy ? What happens if he is preoccupied with organic symptoms , is too overworked to pay attention to nebulous complaints , or is inclined to be impatient with " neurotics " ? How can physicians establish a meaningful personal relationship with patients who are rushed through what is , in effect , an assembly line ? What happens when doctors are reluctant or unable to assume the responsibilities formerly split up among a variety of institutions ? Some of the results may be plainly seen in the huge consumption of sedatives and tranquilizers , in the not uncommon resort to exorcism by surgery , and in the busy schedules of our all too few psychiatrists . Competent estimates are that fully one-third of all those who seek medical treatment owe their distress or disability to functional disorders , for which there are no clear precipitating organic causes . In another third of the cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In virtually every disease , there is an interaction of physiological and emotional elements . No sickness is , in fact , free of some degree of anxiety . This alarming picture must be viewed within the context of the sober realities of American medical practice , especially in relation to the fact that the physician 's income is directly connected to the number of patients he can manage to see . The average practitioner now works about sixty hours a week and sees more than twenty patients in the course of a day . Surveys indicate that one out of every three doctors puts in a seventyhour week and sees more than thirty patients daily . One out of six works at least eighty hours a week and has a daily load of forty or more patients . It does not take too much arithmetic to calculate how much time a physician who is so overworked can give to each patient . A doctor who is forced to see too many patients necessarily comes to depend on superficial symptoms rather than on meticulous history taking , searching physical examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis and treatment and sometimes misses important symptoms . In short , he practices poor medicine . The psychosomatic aspects of illness are neglected to an even greater degree when giving a patient extra time means that the // physician has to sacrifice some of his income . Sufficient time is usually lacking for thoroughness and understanding ? for asking the pertinent questions , for listening to what has been described as " the music as well as the words in what the patient says , " for assembling an image of the patient 's strengths and weaknesses , of the pattern of his reactions under stress , of his family , his job , and his view of the world . The effects of repeated frustration of the patient 's deepest need to give vent to his feelings and to be listened to with sympathy can be fully as devastating as the neglect of physiological ailments . It is important to take the blood pressure , to palpate the abdomen , and to listen carefully to the heart . But it is just as important to listen to the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict between the patient 's desperate need to unburden himself and the doctor 's lack of time is not the only trouble . By the nature of his training , with its emphasis on the natural sciences and its neglect of the humanities and social sciences , the average physician feels far more at home in treating organic disease than in trying to cope with disorders that have emotional components . He also may be conscious of emotional inadequacies of his own and may prefer not to become entangled in the somewhat similar anxieties of other people . The ability to listen properly is , moreover , a difficult and subtle skill . It means that the doctor must not only master the technique of putting the patient at ease , so that he will speak freely , but also develop the even rarer ability to hear things that are left unspoken because the patient himself is barely aware of them . Not all physicians are able or willing to undertake such an assignment , even if the pressures of time were of no consideration . A pertinent question to ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn to the doctor not only for relief from physical distress but also for salvation from the whole complex of frustrations and anxieties associated with daily living . Can the physician really be held accountable for not meeting this need as well as he might ? Or do we expect too much of him ? Regardless of how realistic or unrealistic our expectations are , their very existence presents the medical profession with a challenge that it can not easily ignore . Throughout history , there have been mechanisms for the alleviation of tensions . In primitive society , these took the // form of magic rituals . In our own times , reliance is increasingly placed on scientific competence . Inevitably , vexations arise when , as is often the case , there are differences between the doctor 's definition of his own job and the patient 's conception of what it should be . Theoretically , at any rate , the average physician recognizes the need for an intimate relationship with his patients . But undertaking the role of combination therapist , father confessor , counselor , and comforter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in view of the scientific complexity of medicine . The busy physician is apt to feel that he should not be burdened with functions that properly are the province of the church or of psychiatry . The trouble frequently is that the patient still expects what the doctor is no longer equipped or prepared to give . Emotional support has always been one of the basic ingredients of the image of the healer . In the past , there was little else the physician had to offer . Now it is within his power to bring better health and longer life . But the patient 's need for personal attention and sympathetic understanding is as acute as ever . By virtue of his singular authority in ministering to the sick , the doctor has been endowed with powers bordering on the occult and has come to be regarded as the person to whom one could always go with the utmost confidence . Therein lies the medical profession 's greatest strength and its Achilles ' heel . For derogation is the natural result of disillusionment with those in whom we place boundless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been disrupted and as discontent with the existing medical care system has mounted , the tendency has been to blame the doctor for everything , including some of the things that he is powerless to do anything about . Hostility and carping criticism are the reverse side of the coin of adulation . Widely prevalent is the feeling that the medical profession has been inexcusably slow in responding to change and to the need for making the benefits of medicine more readily accessible to all , that much of the medical care we are getting is not as good as it should be , that its costs are excessively high , that doctors are often lacking in warmth and are sometimes callous , that they not infrequently overcharge and live too ostentatiously , that they 8o THE TROUBLED CALLING selfishly arrogate to themselves the power of decision over all questions of medical economics , that they operate as a clique with its own rules and taboos and even a language of its own , that they protect their erring colleagues from punitive action and put loyalty to the clan above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sterling qualities of some doctors , of their versatile competence , their grueling work loads , their sympathetic insights , their readiness to be on call whenever needed and to give of themselves freely . But many people are ignorant of the problems besetting the physician , confused about his precise role , and perplexed by the maladjustments of an age of revolution . All of us grow up with an image of the doctor as a benevolent and omnipotent figure , possessed of abstruse knowledge and of the magic power to heal . Some of the awe and respect he elicits in childhood is carried over into adult life , making it difficult for the average person to find fault directly with his own physician . It is much easier to vent one 's frustrations and resentments on a more nebulous target , condemning the medical profession as a whole . The intransigence of organized medicine and the progressive failure of communication between the profession and the public make such a transference all the more inviting and bode ill for future relations between physicians and patients . II " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late Dr. Francis Weld Peabody told his students at Harvard Medical School about thirty-five years ago , " is in caring for the patient . " Dr. Peabody laid down other memorable postulates in his lecture , which has since become a classic of medical literature . " The practice of medicine in its broadest sense , " he said , " includes the whole relationship of the physician with his patient " and , despite its increasing reliance on the sciences , comprises " much that will remain outside the realm of any science . " The clinical picture , he declared , " is not just a photograph of a man sick in bed ; it is an impressionistic painting of the patient surrounded by his home , his work , his relations , his friends , his joys , sorrows , hopes , and fears . " THE MYSTIQUE OF THE DOCTOR-PATIENT RELATIONSHIP 8I Appropriately enough , the word " care " has many meanings in our language and stands for solicitude as well as for the technical services rendered by physicians . " In whatsoever houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical profession 's credo , " I will enter to help the sick . . . " And , " I will keep pure and holy both my life and my art . " Grandiloquent as these stern promises may sound , the doctor 's task always has been and ever will be not only to relieve pain but also to allay anxiety . In the loneliness and terror of illness , the patient seeks deliverance from the fears of disability and death . He is pleading for reassurance and personal concern . What he really wants and needs is love . To a striking degree , the theme of love and rejection keeps on recurring in soundings of the public 's views on medical care . The patient 's sense of unrequited love epitomizes medicine 's crisis in human relations and the alienation of doctors and patients . For a proper understanding of the patient 's disenchantment and of the elusive ingredients of his relationship with the doctor , we must turn to two vital but frequently overlooked spheres . One of them is the psychology of illness and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other is the doctor 's dual position , in which a symbolic meaning is superimposed upon his realistic function . Since time immemorial , sickness has had connotations going far beyond the physical disorder itself . In primitive society , the seriously ill were considered taboo and placed in segregation . This was more than merely a precursor of sanitary quarantine . It also was a measure of restraint . The intercession of supernatural powers was invoked not only for the recovery of the sick but also for the protection of the rest of the community against the evil that had befallen them . In our society , too , there are distinct mechanisms for dealing with the ill . Perhaps not quite so openly , these also have a twofold purpose and regulate the conduct of those who are ill no less than the attitudes of the well toward them . Along with a benevolent bearing , our social norms contain certain restrictions designed to shield the healthy from the excessive demands of the sick . To a considerable extent , illness may be likened to a reversion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE TROUBLED CALLING // centered dependence upon those who are physically and psychologically stronger . In illness as in childhood , there is exemption from responsibilities . However , such exemption is to some degree limited in the case of the sick to guard against malingering , with the physician acting as the certifying agent . Otherwise , illness might offer too tantalizing an avenue of escape from adult obligations . The wide prevalence of psychosomatic ailments indicates , however , that there are various devices for circumventing these controls . The more egocentric and emotionally insecure the patient is and the more constricted his interests become as they turn back on himself , the closer is the parallel with the weakness and inadequacy of the child and his need for the comforting tenderness of the all-powerful and loving parent . Like the child , he wants to be " babied " and looked after by someone who really cares , tends to be extremely sensitive , and is easily offended . The rural family of the past , which was to a large degree a self-contained economic unit , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having to take care of the sick . Today 's small urban family is much more vulnerable to the disruptive stresses imposed by such a task and has increasingly come to depend for relief upon the medical profession and such institutions as hospitals , nursing homes , and homes for the aged . Aside from their technical function , hospitals and their auxiliary institutions are significant safety devices for the pressures that the home is frequently no longer able to handle . With the growing tendency to push the patient out of the home , a heavier share of the responsibility formerly borne by the family thus devolves upon the doctor . Regardless of whether he likes it or not , the physician often becomes involved in the private affairs of his patients . More and more , he is being asked to play the role of parent , priest , psychologist , social worker , and sometimes even vocational and marriage counselor . In sickness , the subconscious wishes and fantasies that are the residue of childhood experiences are sometimes reactivated and projected onto the physician . The sick person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parent , to whom are transferred the feelings he once had for his father and mother and who is expected to behave accordingly . For many patients , much of the power with which the physician is endowed derives from this source and is an adjunct to his professional knowledge and skill . But along with uncritical admiration , the doctor sometimes becomes the target of deep-seated resentments carried over from childhood . There are elements of both love and hate in this transference process , which can become particularly pronounced in the case of a patient 's prolonged association with a physician . With the neurotic patient 's regression to dependency , the doctor is unrealistically overvalued and sometimes invested with magic omnipotence . Much is expected of him , but he is repaid with singular ' deference and respect for his authority . Through the patient 's , self-abasement , he receives much of the same emotional homage that was paid in primitive cultures to the medicine man . The doctor draws some of his extraordinary powers of suggestion from the mystical elements in therapy that are born out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pain of illness and the terrors of death . What started out as witchcraft still retains much of its symbolism . The doctor 's influence is often still more : . powerful than the medication he prescribes , and at times he himself becomes the treatment . Unfortunately , the crucial drug that the physician represents has as yet no firmly fixed pharmacology as to dosage . Nor does the trend of scientific progress encourage this drug 's most effective usage . Very often , the interplay of doctor and patient is largely expressed through implied meanings and innuendoes , through what psychiatrists describe as the " extraverbal communication of ideas " rather than by way of concrete affirmation . Ideas can be conveyed not only directly but also inferentially ? and sometimes he the very fact of their omission . For the skillful physician with some knowledge of psychotherapy , the patient 's manner and gestures , his loquacity and lapses into silence provide vital clues to his inner life and to his unverbalized pleas for help . In this emotion-charged setting , the small things that the doctor does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolic meaning far overshadowing their factual significance . Much of the time , something seems to happen the moment the physician walks into the room . His very presence brings hope and lifts a load of concern from the patient and his family . The mere touch // of his hands can bring respite . The act of venting anxieties and of allowing the doctor to invade the privacy of body and psyche enhances in the patient 's eyes his occult role as an authoritative and protective figure . The physician 's laying on of hands draws its healing power from our need to he touched by those we love , a need going back to our earliest memories and intensified by illness . Just as a mother 's kiss is able to bring relief to a child 's injury , just as the king 's touch was once believed to cure many ills , so does this gesture of affection bring momentary assurance that everything will be all right . When a patient struggling with anxiety is touched , it somehow gives him the feeling that his problem is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the physical examination has a symbolic meaning . By giving his body over to scrutiny , the patient surrenders himself and puts his fate in the physician 's hands . Like the parent , the doctor can command obedience because he possesses knowledge of the utmost importance to the patient , knowledge that the latter does not have . But unlike most parents , he may sometimes exploit the relationship for his own benefit . Or he may subconsciously find the patient 's submissive dependence so satisfying to his own inner needs that he continues to encourage a passive role long after the necessity for it has passed . Here there is a close parallel with the attitide of parents who find it difficult to loosen the apron strings when their children have grown . Dr. Leandro M. Tocantis recently told students at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia that there are many occasions when " the disease requires no treatment but the patient does . " It is rare , he said , when " the disease requires treatment but the patient does not . " As the role of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is increasingly recognized , the focus in medicine is widening . Fully as important as the individual 's organic impairment may be his habits , his relationship to his family and co-workers , and the numerous ways in which he adapts himself to the complexities of daily living and the conflicts they produce . Many people are ill because they come into conflict with their environment or with themselves . // Each of us , furthermore , lives in a multidimensional environment , made up of symbolic as well as realistic meanings and values . We not only exist as members of a social order and bearers of its cultural traditions but also live in private worlds of our own , wherein the significance of all experience is perceived and responded to in a highly personal fashion . Under the impact of medicine 's great laboratory period and its phenomenal progress in the physical sciences , the human organism was dissolved into its component parts . This has paid off enormous dividends in terms of increased knowledge about the body . But in the process the tendency has been to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oneness of organic and psychic life . The intense interaction between body and mind , between the individual and his total setting , between man 's biological mechanisms and his attributes as a social and ethical being , as well as the uniqueness of every patient , is yet to be fully recognized in daily practice . Under the impetus of psychiatry , some advances have been made with the progressive elucidation of the mechanisms of psychosomatic disease . It is now generally recognized that treatment for a number of ailments ? notably ulcers , a variety of other gastrointestinal conditions , high blood pressure , asthma , and certain allergies ? must take into account emotional and social factors . The development of a functional disorder may be an individual 's means of escaping a problem that he is unable to solve or finds too painful even to acknowledge . The doctor thereupon faces a twofold task ? to treat the resulting illness and to help the patient handle the original problem . Relatively few physicians , unfortunately , have the time , bent , or ability to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific organ still overshadows the overall malfunctioning of the individual . They are still more interested in the trouble than in those who are troubled . Not only is no illness free of psychological components , but these quite often become more important than the disease itself . The unreasoning fears that patients develop are frequently more unbearable than the ailments that triggered them . Under these circumstances , patients have an overwhelming need to talk to the doctor and to get a sympathetic hearing . The fact that they arc // now commonly denied this opportunity , which may be all that is required for insight and a fresh start , is one of the greatest indictments against the present state of American medical practice . Illness is something we find it hard to cope with alone , and what we frequently need most of all is the assurance that someone understands our trouble and feels for us . Such sympathy is sometimes more appreciated than the actual advice , which may or may not be followed . But there is little time for listening and counseling when there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to attend simultaneously to several patients . It is not uncommon for a patient to be referred from one specialist to another without once being given a chance to discuss his personal problems and to emerge as a person with a set of anxieties peculiar to him alone . " I know , " a wise physician once remarked , " that , if I listen long enough , the patient will tell me what is wrong with him . " The dictionary defines the word " listening " as " making a conscious effort to hear ; attending closely so as to hear . " Obviously , the doctor can not find out what is going on within the patient if he is in a hurry . Nor can it be done by rote . How to deal with a patient , Dr. Richard Asher has said , " can not be taught like pharmacology . All the power of tongue and pen , and all the wisdom of textbook and lecture , can never teach a doctor the knowledge of when to probe and when to leave alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak and when to keep silent . They are private mysteries with a different solution for every one of the million permutations of personality involved between a doctor and his patient . " The listening called for in the medical interview is a sort of secret dialogue in which there arc no straightforward questions and answers . Obscure meanings become discernible only as both participants give of themselves . In this kind of colloquy , the patient often unwittingly furnishes the doctor with highly important leads . To the careful listener , an unconscious gesture or casual remark can convey fully as much as the things he hears with the stethoscope . In the initial interview , an overwrought patient usually skirmishes with the doctor . The patient may mention a few inconsequential symptoms while he is sizing up the physician to deterTHE // mine whether he can be trusted with the real complaint . Ile may be talking of one thing while unintentionally conveying other things . The skillful auditor is able to tune in on this multichannel system of communication . Giving a patient the feeling that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having to listen . The physician may also do so by talking too much about extraneous matters , such as the weather , some sports event , or anything else that comes to mind . The end result is that the patient feels cheated and repulsed . Nor is anything quite so dispiriting to an anxious patient as to be told that " there is nothing the matter with you ; it 's just your nerves . " More often than not ? and the patient usually senses it ? this is the doctor 's way of saying , " You 're a neurotic , and I wish you 'd go away and stop bothering me . " Telling a patient after hasty examination that there is nothing wrong with him rarely reassures him and is likely to start him instead on a dismal trek from specialist to specialist and sometimes from operation to operation . Dr. Walter C. Alvarez advised his colleagues a few years ago that " if you find that there is nothing wrong with the patient , your job is not done but should be just beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distress of a patient without any clear organic pathology is self-inflicted and due largely to too vivid an imagination and that the best way to handle him is not to sympathize with him too much and to let him fend for himself , possibly with the aid of a tranquilizer . Some doctors have openly antagonistic attitudes toward emotional disturbances , which they tend to regard as a form of malingering . Their distaste for such disorders may stem not only from ignorance but from their own maladjustments and inner inadequacies . A doctor 's personality and quality of empathy have powerful curative properties . But the physician also can have an adverse effect upon the patient 's outlook for recovery . Hostility in his manner and gestures , in the nuances of his voice , in the repertory of facial expressions ? which speak louder and more convincingly than words ? is quickly transmitted to the patient and can have traumatic results . A doctor can do just as much harm to a patient with his attitude and words as he can by prescribing the wrong medication . // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable extent on how he feels about himself . To inspire them with confidence and hope , he must feel emotionally secure and be confident of his own ability and judgments . The maladjusted practitioner is a poor therapist . Having to deal with anxiety-laden situations only serves to increase his own anxiety and leads him to react with indifference or belligerence . Patients have an uncanny knack for sensing uncertainty or indecisiveness , even though it may he masked . Dealing with unstable and anxious patients is a wearisome business and can easily strain one 's stamina and temper . Through frequent exposure to the emotionalism of patients , doctors gradually build up protective defenses . They learn how to deal with other people 's anxieties without excessive identification with the patient 's problems and without becoming sentimental or sanctimonious . They develop the capacity to respond maturely to the great power that the situation sometimes gives them over patients , realizing the pitfalls inherent in it . This authority may otherwise be misused for the expression of the physician 's own insecurities and need for dominance . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the relief of pain is only one of them . The physician 's role as friend , expert , and mentor is to allay fears , to rebuild confidence. , in the patient 's own capacities , to restore faith in some scheme of values in which the patient can feel he has a place and a sense of dignity . All these tasks are in the great tradition of healing , and they call for knowledge and skill , for tolerance and perceptiveness , for a special faculty of patience and unhurriedness . " To give a patient the impression you could spare him an hour and yet to make him satisfied with five minutes is an invaluable gift , " a sagacious doctor has said , " and of much more use than spending half an hour with him during which he is made to feel he is encroaching on your time . " The self-centered patient easily interprets the physician 's preoccupied manner as indifference and can be deeply hurt by the barest inkling of neglect . He may he dying to seek an explanation but forgoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reports between glances at the clock while the patient is desperately trying to tell his story can make him feel dehumanized and // rejected . Above all , the patient craves security and self-esteem . He wants to be reassured ? and not necessarily by direct verbal communication ? that the doctor will help him . He will forgive a lot ? but never a lack of interest . III There are few more prized bromides in organized medicine than those that emphasize the sacredness of the doctor-patient relationship . But while all stops are pulled out in extolling its virtues , little is done to preserve it . In fact , the medical profession 's stubborn clinging to obsolete organizational patterns does a great deal to jeopardize it . " There are only a few things which touch so close to God , and the relationship between a doctor and his patient is one of them , " said Dr. Edward R. Annis of Miami , the spellbinder who has emerged as the profession 's top public spokesman , in a nationwide television broadcast against the Administration 's medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctor and patient would be irreparably undermined , Dr. Annis asserted , by the plan for having Americans put aside money through social security taxes during their working years to pay for part of their medical care in their old age . This is the familiar scare argument that is used by organized medicine whenever any change is proposed in the manner in which medical care is rendered and paid for . What is totally ignored is that profound changes have been wrought by scientific progress in the traditional doctor-patient relationship , that a large proportion of those in the lower-income groups have never had a personal physician , that the typical office visit of five or ten minutes can hardly be equated with personal attention , and that all too few people now enjoy the stable and intimate relationship with their doctors that makes for indispensable continuity and is a prerequisite of good medical care . All the befuddlement of inane oratory can not quite obscure the fact that the medical profession is using the largely mythical rapport between doctors and patients as a weapon in the battle to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients can be readjusted and improved under the impact of // the revolution in medical science is a formidably difficult question . But it is fatuous to try to stem the tide of change by maintaining that any departure from the status quo will automatically impair the doctor-patient relationship . And it is futile to seek to preserve a benevolent authoritarianism that is completely at odds with reality . Aside from the basic requirement of competence , there is no ingredient on which the quality of medical care depends so much as on the kind of relationship that the patient establishes with his doctor . The more intricate medicine becomes and the greater the patient 's bewilderment at what is happening to him , the more important are congeniality and mutual trust . The social and cultural distance between physicians and patients has grown apace as a result of the formalizing effect of the progressive shift in the setting of treatment from home to office to hospital and the consequent interposition of receptionists , nurses , interns , residents , technicians , and elaborate instrumentation between doctor and patient . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient into a coldly impersonal environment but deprives the physician of the insights he was previously able to gain from observing the patient in his home and with his family . It is much more difficult to obtain a true picture of the kind of person the patient is within the few minutes allotted him in the office . And in confronting a doctor who is pretty much of a stranger the patient is liable to find it much harder to communicate adequately a sense of his difficulties in coping with the stresses of his daily life . At one time a physician was expected to assume complete responsibility for his patient 's welfare . But with the advent of specialists , the inevitable trend has been toward dilution of responsibility , which one authority has described as the " collusion of anonymity . " Since the burden of responsibility is divided , no one , in the end , is fully accountable . This increasingly leads to a " nine to five " attitude in medicine : the patient in distress finds himself on his own after the physician 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available when the bulk of his practice consisted in house calls , a system that provides the best means of really getting to know the patient . There are few things that can have such a miraculous effect in relieving // tension as having the doctor come to the house when someone is sick . It is therefore hardly surprising that the reluctance of physicians to make house calls is a source of great public resentment . Many patients feel that a doctor should be on call at any time , day or night . This is patently an unreasonable demand . But just as indefensible is the attitude of some doctors that , in the great majority of cases , house calls are unnecessary and that , except for emergencies , it will do the patient no harm to wait until he can be seen , and probably more effectively treated , in the office . Logical though this may sound , it fails to take into consideration the intangibles of emotion . The physician may know better when a distraught mother reports on the telephone late at night that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can do is go . House calls may be a nuisance from the standpoint of the physician 's personal convenience and financial interest . But they are far from being uniformly capricious . A doctor worth his salt would rather make a dozen unnecessary house calls than miss one that is important . Night calls are the medical profession 's particular bugbear , and there are complaints that they are frequently made for trivial reasons . There are obvious psychological reasons why patients are so much more likely to send out distress signals after dark . For one thing , anxiety tends to increase with the coming of night when there is no improvement in the patient 's condition and when he and his family become worried about the difficulty of getting a physician or druggist . There is , moreover , something fearsome for many people in darkness itself , which aggravates the dread of sickness and death . There are certain physical symptoms that quickly get a doctor out of bed after a hard day 's work , only to find , more often than not , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to maintain an unruffled professional air with the next day 's patient load . Another frequent sore point between doctors and patients is the tendency toward overmedication and the excessive use of laboratory procedures . These are no substitute for the conscientious attention to which the sick person feels he is entitled , and they not only contribute needlessly to the cost of medical care hut very often subtract from its quality . The laboratory can be invaluable in confirming the doctor 's suspicions and in providing precise information . But laboratory // findings that show relatively slight variations from the normal can be misleading without careful interpretation and thoughtful assessment of the individual . Preoccupation with the refinements of diagnosis and worship of the laboratory tend to lull the physician into uncritical inertness and lead to disregard of the patient as a human being . Dr. Alex M. Burgess told members of the Rhode Island Medical Society at a recent annual meeting : " The eye that can read the colorimeter an instrument for measuring hemoglobin content of the blood and interpret the electrocardiogram often fails to notice physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minor variations in muscle spasm , and the like . The ear that hears the routine story of previous illnesses and operations often is unable to detect the tremor in the voice or the terror that the new experience of being a hospial patient may have engendered . Both in being able to realize that his unfortunate patient may be a fellow who needs a friend more than a sedative and to detect by the use of trained observation in preference to laboratory tests the real nature of his patient 's condition , there has been a retrogression , a loss of competence , that is rather striking . One has only to watch the average recent graduate carry out a physical examination to realize that percussion , for example , is becoming a lost art ; and dependence on the laboratory , X ray , and other aids has so undermined the confidence of many a young physician in his ability to see and hear and feel that without these mechanical aids , he hesitates to form an opinion . " This is not wholly the doctor 's fault . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the student leaves medical school , he must acquire an understanding of a wide range of sciences , including biochemistry , physiology , biophysics , genetics , pharmacology , and even electronics . " By the time he is prepared to actually care for his first patient , " a medical educator has said , " his view of the individual is considerably tempered by an array of molecules , enzymes , mitochondria , chromosomes , myocardial dynamics , and the like . " The net effect is that he is primarily trained to look for and treat disease rather than to look after and treat the patient who has the disease . // To some degree at least , patients tend to sort themselves out according to the kind of doctor they intuitively want . Patients who have a deep-seated need to be told what to do gravitate toward domineering physicians , while others prefer more amiable and permissive practitioners . Doctors engage in a somewhat similar process of selection and , in one way or another , usually manage to get rid of patients whom they find objectionable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater compatibility , the social gap between physicians and patients has generally been widening . Already preselected to some extent by social and economic status , doctors have been drifting away from association with their patients outside the sphere of health care . There are several reasons for this development . A marked shift into the upperincome brackets has fortified the snobbery of some doctors and promoted the use of their leverage as masters of a recondite science to control their patients . Social distance is a powerful weapon in maintaining authority . Some physicians believe that a degree of reserve is an essential ingredient in the therapeutic relationship between the sick and the well and that it is poor practice to extend the friendship with patients outside office hours . The medical profession 's multiplying fears and conflicts may be another reason for its social exclusiveness . Doctors are increasingly seeing themselves as targets for unwarranted attacks by politicians , pressure groups , the press , and unscrupulous patients . They tend to feel that their excruciating responsibilities are unappreciated , and they are haunted by the specter of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty much to themselves . The patient 's class status makes a considerable difference in his attitude and in his treatment by the physician . The upperclass patient is likely to be more detached and critical and to insist on being told the reasons for what the doctor is doing . Poorer patients , on the other hand , are apt to be more resigned and deferential . They are inured to discomfort and less likely to complain . But the gulf in social and cultural values enhances the chances of misunderstanding between lower-class patients and their physicians . There are psychological as well as economic reasons for unpaid doctors ' bills and for the greater inclination of lower-income // patients to patronize chiropractors and other nonmedical healers . The chiropractor 's table has with considerable aptness been described as " the poor man 's couch . " Practitioners of the healing cults are more folksy in their approach and thrive by listening and giving the impression that they are sincerely trying to help . Their stock in trade , aside from a variety of nostrums , is relief from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients . IV Far more significant than the medical profession 's puerile reiteration of banalities and its futile efforts to perpetuate a largely imaginary past is a question central to the whole future of medicine : can doctors bring to bear in their practice the full weight of scientific techniques and still continue to care for their patients in medicine 's high humanitarian tradition ? Some of the most perceptive minds in the health field have of late turned their attention to this problem , and there appears to be some difference of opinion among them . The preponderant view , however , is that the science and art of medicine are not intrinsically incompatible and can be successfully fused with the proper skill and dedication . But the obstacles are manifold and perplexing . There is relatively little difficulty if one 's view of medical care is confined to the narrow sphere of combating bacterial infections and other pathological conditions and of relieving physical discomfort . From a purely technical point of view , the progress of medical science has been truly dazzling . The picture is much less encouraging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient grapple with threats to his emotional as well as his organic equilibrium and of providing the counsel and support that will enable him not only to regain his health but also to use to the utmost his potentialities for work and social relationships . In this wider sphere , a good deal has been lost . Physicians still pay lip service to their profession 's friend-andadviser image but are finding it more and more difficult to live up to it . The mission of counseling has to a considerable degree been relinquished to the psychiatrists , of whom there are not nearly enough to go around . // Despite the patient 's veneer of greater sophistication , the scientific complexities of medicine have passed far beyond his understanding . This is substantially true of all the scientific advances of our civilization , such as the incredible intricacies of sending a man into orbit and getting him back to earth . But to find totally unintelligible the things so intimately involving one 's own fate and life is another matter . As the patient understands less and less , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disconcerted by indifference to his own uniqueness in the natural order . The more incomprehensible medical services are , the greater become the possibilities for conflict between the doctor 's detached professional judgment and the patient 's intensely personal concern . The patient 's subjective understanding of what is wrong has become much less relevant , and may sometimes actually be an impediment , with the development of highly refined diagnostic techniques . The patient , furthermore , has yet to readjust himself to the realities of present-day medical practice , with its impersonal institutional setting and its emphasis on the physiological aspects of disease at the expense of the emotional components . It is perfectly true that even the most impersonal doctor can now do a great deal more with a quick jab of the needle than the old-time family physician ever could with all his leisurely sympathy . There is room for argument that the far greater technical efficiency of today 's doctors more than makes up for the deterioration of rapport between them and their patients . Some observers also question whether people generally still expect or require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations with their physicians as was the case several generations ago . Nevertheless , the fact remains that most patients continue to want a lot more than just a proficient technician in their doctor . The average patient still wants a personal physician , while the average doctor is more and more interested in the technological skills of his craft . While medicine has increasingly been attracting students whose interests are primarily scientific rather than humanitarian , the patient still demands a single-minded and almost monastic devotion by the physician to the ministry of healing . // Many authorities are convinced that scientific rigor and humane understanding are indispensable and complementary aspects of medicine . They concede that relatively few individuals have the breadth of heart and mind to bring both qualities to their fullest flowering , but they feel that the ideal of a new and higher unity between technology and compassion is not beyond reach and should he vigorously pursued . The biological portrait of the patient will never be complete without a combination of scientific and intuitive virtuosity that integrates all the diagnostic components to gain a total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the results of biochemical tests , the treatment indicated by them will always be enhanced by a personal approach . The science of medicine will always be enriched by the sympathetic insights of its art . Inevitably , the patient will have to reconcile himself to some modification of his expectations . But the doctor , in his turn , must never forget that the effective practice of his calling requires the warmth of personal concern in applying scientific knowledge to the care of the individual patient . A new kind of relationship between doctor and patient is gradually evolving out of the ferment of sweeping changes in the character and setting of medical care . While they frequently still feel rebuffed , patients are painfully learning to be somewhat less dependent on intimacy with the physician and more demanding of his technical skills . The newly emerging relationship is veering away from its old authoritarian base and toward a more educational approach . It is more democratic in the sense that the patient is becoming a more active participant in the treatment program for his own salvation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not easy . The patient , perhaps no less than the physician , is reluctant to part with the comforting landmarks of the past . But he is growing up and learning , step by step , to attain a more equal status bordering on partnership . The doctor is still the dominant figure , but patients are developing the knack of talking back . The frequent failure of communication between doctor and patient remains one of the great dilemmas of medicine , and an overriding challenge confronting the medical profession is to try // to find the proper proportion between technology and understanding . Here lies the key to the profession 's public relations problem . The heart of the medical profession 's image is the relationship that exists between the individual physician and his patient . No amount of ballyhoo will suffice to improve that image unless doctors and patients are brought closer together again . The deplorable trend toward indiscriminate medication and the wholesale consumption of tranquilizers will be reversed only when the patient is given more of a chance to express his needs openly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ childlike dependency with a more mature and supportive relationship with his doctor . CHAPTER FIVE The Hospital : Focus of Conflict I MORE THAN 25,200,000 Americans were admitted to general hospitals in 1963 , and about half of them underwent surgery The bill for short-term hospitalization , exclusive of the fees charged by surgeons , came to about $7 billion , the biggest single share of the nation 's private outlay for medical care . This was more than five times the amount spent on hospital services in the United States as recently as 1946 . Part of the spectacular increase is accounted for by the fact that there are now some 55,000,000 more Americans and many more hospital beds than there were in 1946 . But the bulk of the rise is due to the steady climb of hospital rates , which in the past decade have soared at more than five times the rate of increase in the general cost of living . In 1946 , the average cost per hospital patient per day was $9.39 . By 1963 it was up to $38.91 . In 1946 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his bill was $85 . The average stay has by now been reduced to 7.6 days , but the bill has jumped to about $300 . Hospital room rates are now nearly six times what they were in 1935 . They have increased more than three times as rapidly as the overall price of medical care services . The end , moreover , is nowhere in sight . Experts are generally agreed that hospital costs will continue to go up at the rate of 5 to 10 per cent a year . A spokesman for the American Hospital Association has predicted that the average cost per patient per day may pass the $5o mark before the end of the sixties . These telling statistics readily explain why there is no more explosive an issue in the entire controversial field of medical economics than that of runaway hospital costs . Americans are using hospitals to a far greater extent than ever before , and the steeper charges for such use are quickly reflected in higher premium rates for hospitalization insurance . With three out of every four persons now covered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no longer solely the problem of patients and their families . They are being underwritten by the healthy as well as the sick . Skyrocketing hospital costs and mounting insurance rates have brought a rising tide of public concern . There have been increasingly clamorous demands for greater efficiency in hospital operation and for reforms in the prevailing pattern of health insurance , one that encourages the excessive use of expensive facilities . There have been repeated warnings from responsible sources that the squeeze of spiraling costs may price voluntary insurance out of the market and force full government control of the whole complex of health services . The cost figures in themselves tell only part of the story behind the profound crisis confronting the nation 's hospitals ? the bulwarks of our phenomenal medical progress ? at the very time when they are advancing toward ever-greater miracles of healing and lifesaving . For the plight of the voluntary hospital system is not merely one of financing . Inextricably tied up with the question of costs is that of hospital function , in which the medical profession holds a pervasive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far-reaching changes in the responsibilities and goals of hospitals and in the manner in which they are run . More so than in any other area of medical care , the problem of the technological revolution in medicine is coming to a head in the hospital . Here , more sharply than anywhere else , may be observed the clash between the challenging needs of today and tomorrow and the stubborn institutional resistance to change . This is the major arena of conflict in the swirl of organizational change in the health field . The full importance of what happens in the hospital can not be measured only by the fact that it now accounts for the expenditure of more than thirty cents out of every health care dollar as compared with only fourteen cents in 1930 . As medicine has steadily grown more intricate , the hospital has become the keystone in the arch of the community 's medical services . It is the strategic place where specialized skills and the elaborate tools for their application are concentrated , where doctors can see many kinds of patients and patients can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where medical practice and medical I00 THE TROUBLED CALLING education meet , and where new research findings are narrowed down to focus on the individual patient . Upon the outcome of the battles currently raging within the walls of our hospitals and around them depends to a large degree the very future of the organization of medical care and practice in the United States . There are many sound reasons for the continued rise in hospital operating costs . A U.S. Public Health Service official has summed them up with the cogent observation that " when we talk about the cost of medical care today as compared to the past , we 're talking about the price of an electric washer-dryer compared to a washtub . " What is true of medical care in general applies with particular force to the hospitals , with their multiplicity of professional and technical skills and huge investment in costly facilities and equipment . There is no ready solution to the problem of the costliness of new and more effective medical procedures , infinitely more complicated surgery , and vastly more potent drugs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart pacemaker units , cobalt-radiation treatment , and the use of radioisotopes to pinpoint internal abnormalities are restoring patients to health sooner and more completely and , frequently , are saving lives that otherwise would be lost . They also are extremely expensive , especially in view of the fact that dozens of physicians , technicians , and nurses are sometimes required for a single patient . There is no getting away from the fact that good hospital care can not he obtained cheaply . Superimposed upon the cost dilemma inherent in medical progress ? and enormously complicating it ? have been a striking rise in the rate of hospitalization and a string of inefficiencies stemming from the character of the voluntary hospital . Thirty years ago , 56 out of every 1,000 Americans were admitted to general hospitals in the course of a year . Since then , the ratio of such admissions has climbed to 135 per I , 000 . In the same period , the average length of hospital stay has been slashed by more than half . But because of the higher utilization , the annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population has increased from 86o tO I , 020 . A variety of reasons , some of them fully valid and others highly questionable , have figured in the steady upward trend of THE HOSPITAL : FOCUS OF CONFLICT IOI hospitalization . The most obvious reason is that hospitals can do so much more for the sick than in the past and that the complex skills and apparatus of medical science can no longer he as effectively applied elsewhere . Only a couple of generations ago , hospitals were still dreary hostels for the poor and hopelessly ill ; people were mainly sent there to die . Since then , the hospital has been transformed into the backbone and general headquarters of medical care . Now it is the place where people go to get well and where many of the procedures are elective or preventive . New medical sophistication has made hospital care an accepted component of the average American 's standard of living . Widespread insurance coverage has removed much of the economic deterrent to hospital care for those in the middle and low-income groups . The rapid increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a much higher incidence of chronic diseases and therefore rnore frequent hospitalization . Many conditions of modern city living make for significantly higher hospital use than in rural areas . The large proportion of working wives means that often there is no one at home to take care of a sick husband or child . The high price of household or nursing help to care for the sick at home and the limited size of city apartments also force up the hospitalization rate . The rising standard of living has at the same time brought a demand for more attractive hospital accommodations . Hospitals are expected to match the comforts of motels , and air conditioning , piped-in radio , television , and window draperies are commonplace . The new standards also call for a telephone at the bedside and some choice of menu . While the effect of these niceties on the patient 's recovery is debatable , their effect on the hospital 's unit costs is obvious . A far more important issue than the need for frills is the question of whether the current high hospital admission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital facilities for services that could be rendered much more economically elsewhere . There are conflicting views on this controversial point , to which we shall return in the next chapter . On balance , there appears to be substantial evidence of abuses in the use of expensive hospital beds . Some authorities feel that at least 20 per cent of patients in general hospitals do not belong there and could IO2 THE TROUBLED CALLING be cared for just as well in less expensive facilities . " To keep medical costs within reason , " Dr. Basil MacLean , a former president of the Blue Cross Association , has said , " we must keep the patient vertical whenever possible . Once we put him between sheets , the bill begins to get out of hand . " There is no doubt that the prevailing structure of health insurance contributes materially to unnecessary resort to hospitalization . Its failure to give adequate coverage for diagnostic services and outpatient treatment provides built-in incentives for getting into a hospital bed merely to take advantage of insurance benefits . The lack of insurance provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital stays . Another cause of unnecessary admissions and excessively protracted stays is the lack of adequate nursing and convalescent homes for chronic patients and of mechanisms to help pay for such out-of-hospital care . Two of the voluntary hospital 's outstanding characteristics tend to aggravate the abuses made possible by the weaknesses of the insurance setup and are probably an even greater impediment to economy . One of them is the key role played by doctors in the functioning of hospitals and in the pyramiding of their costs . The other is the traditional and grossly outdated autonomy of the voluntary hospitals . Having grown at random rather than by design , they operate without any centralized planning or effective public controls and continue to expand in a hit-or-miss fashion that frequently makes for wasteful duplication of facilities and services . The people who have the biggest say about how the voluntary hospital is run and about its costs are , for the most part , not hospital employees . They are private physicians who use publicly provided accommodations for their own practice without corresponding responsibilities . The public builds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills and Blue Cross and other insurance premiums , through taxes , and through philanthropy . But it is the doctors who , in large measure , call the tune on what the bill should amount to . Major components of the hospital-cost picture are the frequency of hospitalization , the average length of stay , and the quantity of so-called ancillary services ? such as various diagTHE // nostic tests , drugs , and medical and surgical supplies . Doctors control all these cost factors , which determine the level of hospitalization insurance premium rates . It is the attending physician and no one else who decides whether the patient should be sent to the hospital in the first place . It is he alone who determines how long the patient should stay . It is he who decides what the patient should get in terms of nursing care , medication , laboratory work , diet , and other services . It is the doctors who play a dominant role in determining what kind of new facilities are needed . Their influence has been generally used for the addition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is most handy in their private business , rather than for the urgently needed expansion of more economical outpatient services and facilities for nursing and convalescent care . " I 'll tell you , " said a hospital superintendent , " what very often runs up the costs of hospital care . It 's things like excessive use of laboratory tests and X-ray examinations ; costly drugs that are n't discontinued when the need for them ends ; patients admitted for procedures that can be just as effectively and much more economically done on an outpatient basis ; and patients who , for the doctor 's convenience , are admitted a day earlier than they ought to be and discharged a day later . When all is said and done , the underlying fact remains that the hospital is completely at the mercy of the medical staff . Laymen have no choice but to accept the doctor 's professional judgment . " " Physicians , " commented another hospital executive , " are notoriously ignorant about hospital economics , even though they work and make much of their living here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their minds to the cost factors for which they , more than anyone else , are responsible . They want laymen to raise the money , behave themselves , and not ask too many embarrassing questions . " Some patients misuse their insurance benefits by being hospitalized for diagnostic tests that could be done in the office or outpatient clinic but for which there is no coverage and by excessively protracted hospital stays during convalescence . Such abuses are , of course , impossible without the collusion of the attending physicians . Here we run into the blurred area of iilotivation . Some doctors may go along with their unscrupulous paI04 THE TROUBLED CALLING tients for fear of losing them to more accommodating physicians . Others rationalize their judgment in equivocal cases to give the patient the benefit of the doubt . Another possible reason for yielding to the whim of patients who want to rest in a hospital at the expense of Blue Cross is that physicians may feel that they will be more certain to collect their own bills if insurance covers part of the costs . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profitable to have their patients hospitalized . A doctor may have to spend most of the morning seeing just four or five patients if he has to drive all over town to visit them . But he can see as many as twenty patients in the course of a morning if they are all in the hospital . Legally , physicians are subject to the authority of the hospital 's lay board of trustees , from whom they receive their staff appointments . But in actual practice the board 's control over them is often tenuous . The doctor 's anomalous position , in which he is at once a guest and a dominant figure in the hospital structure , leads to a confusing splintering of authority and frequent conflicts between medical prerogatives and administrative responsibility . The end result is that there are , in effect , two parallel lines of command ? one for general hospital affairs and the other for medical treatment . Since the latter is the reason for the hospital 's existence , the influence of the medical staff is usually paramount and inevitably extends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only profession whose practitioners are furnished with workshops at public expense . No physician is now able to provide all the varied and expensive apparatus he needs for the diagnosis and treatment of his patients . So the community has pooled its resources to furnish the required equipment for the physician . This not only makes possible the complex services required by present-day practice but has greatly extended the number of patients that a doctor can care for . It is estimated that the average member of a hospital medical staff is being provided , free of charge , with a capital investment of about $70,000 . He has the free use of an institution whose maintenance , on the average , costs about $7,500 per bed a year . This singular arrangement originated in the days when the bulk of hospital patients were indigent . The privilege of using the // public investment in hospital facilities for their private practice was extended to doctors to remunerate them for the free services they rendered in the care of nonpaying patients . But the situation has drastically changed . Most patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to pay at least in part for those who lack such coverage and are indigent . While the medical profession continues to boast about the free service given by its members , such service actually has dwindled to a small portion of the load carried by the average physician . At the same time , there has been a radical alteration in the hospital 's financial base . What was once an institution largely dependent on philanthropy now draws the lion 's share of its support from paying patients , mostly through insurance benefits . But there has been no corresponding change in the composition of hospital governing boards . By and large , hospital trustees continue to be drawn from the upper social strata . They now generally represent former sources of income rather than the broad ranks of the consumer . Nor are lay controls on members of the medical staff commensurate with the staff 's privileges . Although they use hospital facilities for their own profit without payment of rentals or overhead costs , physicians do not take kindly to the policing of the quality of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rankest kind of heresy . On top of the frustrating duality of authority is the haphazard manner in which hospitals are operated and expanded . While hospitals are among the community 's most valuable and costliest assets , there is no instrumentality for coordinating their activities in the interest of greater effectiveness and economy . Each hospital is a sovereign dominion and is usually more interested in its own perpetuation and growth than in the development of a balanced community health program . New hospitals are built and old ones expanded without any overall community planning and frequently without any regard for the volume and kind of facilities most needed . In some places there is an excess of hospital capacity , while in others there are serious shortages . There is a woeful lack of cooperation between hospitals , and they rarely take advantage of joint projects that could result in substantial savings . Common sense calls for a division of labor among hospitals , Io6 THE TROUBLED CALLING with each one concentrating on the things it can do best and most economically . But the trouble is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " For prestige purposes , they keep on pushing for more and bigger buildings and for every new piece of equipment invented . Or they are pushed in that direction by their medical staffs , who are concerned over the possible loss of patients who might have to be referred to other hospitals for some rare and elaborate procedures . The inevitable consequence is an extravagant duplication of expensive facilities and apparatus . Such intricate and costly equipment as radioisotope laboratories , cobalt-radiation units , artificial heart-lung machines , artificial kidneys , and electroencephalographs can make the difference between life and death . But it is a waste of money for hospitals in the same community to duplicate , as is now frequently the case , such complicated apparatus . Unfortunately , no agency exists with the authority to force decisions in the public interest in this and other areas that affect the size of the hospital bill . The upshot is that hospital costs and charges keep climbing and health insurance premium rates go spiraling on . Aside from the battles shaping up over the need for planning , integration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical staffs , there are other smoldering conflicts in the hospital field in which the consumers of medical care have a vital stake . Among them are the highly contentious issues of the salaried employment of physicians by hospitals , the expansion of hospital outpatient departments , the operation of hospital-based group-practice clinics , and the more effective tailoring of hospital facilities and services according to degrees of illness . The outcome of the little-publicized but bitter feuds now swirling around these issues will have a crucial bearing on costs and on the future patterns of health care . The revolution in medicine is far from over , and hospitals have yet to fulfill their growing potential . Further scientific advances will unavoidably mean still costlier diagnostic and treatment procedures , more complex instrumentation , and additional and better-paid personnel . A continued rise in hospital costs thus appears inescapable . So it is all the more vital to eliminate the waste and lack of integration now common in the hospital field . THE HOSPITAL : FOCUS OF CONFLICT IOC This will require a much higher degree of self-discipline by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hospitals to yield some of the privileges of their cherished autonomy than have so far been evident . The only alternative to voluntary planning is planning by governmental authority . If there are methods for operating hospitals more efficiently , as many authorities believe there are , the public will insist that it be done one way or another . II Although hospitalization is becoming a commonplace in American life , it is doubtful whether the average person has much of an inkling of how unique and complex an institution a hospital really is . Wrapped into one in a hospital is a wide assortment of essential functions , of many of which the patient is rarely aware . Its multifold activities are focused on making it the place where the sick can get twenty-four hours of personal attention if they need it and where those in distress can go with the confident feeling that there are people who will know what to do . A hospital is a shelter , a place where pain is alleviated and afflictions are healed , a doctors ' workshop , an educational center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a proving ground for medical research , a crucial pacesetter for raising the standards of medical care . It is a hotel , with many extra services thrown in . It is a restaurant providing food suited to special needs . It is a pharmacy and a laboratory for X-ray , pathological , and other diagnostic services . It is in the laundry business and can provide several changes of bed linens daily if necessary . Its standby power plant is ready to go into action at a moment 's notice for emergency service if the regular source of power should fail . A hospital must stay in operation 168 hours a week , fifty-two weeks a year . Unlike the average commercial enterprise , it can never shut down , for human lives may be at stake . After the patient is put to bed , he sees only a few of the people who will take care of him and usually has little idea of the massive size of the hospital team backing up the medical and nursing staffs . The scope of this team 's job is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes some two hundred different job classifications , ranging all the way from cleaners , cooks , secretarial help , and telephone operators to tissue technicians , radiologists , bacteriologists , and social workers . Aside from caring for the sick , many of our hospitals devote much of their energy and resources to clinical research and the training of doctors , nurses , and a variety of technicians . No medical school graduate is qualified to go into practice until he has undergone a period of training in the hospital . Textbooks and classroom instruction are essential , but it is only at the bedside that theory can be put into practice and the science and art of real patient care can be learned . No physician can keep fully abreast of the steady stream of scientific developments without the constant stimulation of working with his peers within the hospital , which is his lifetime postgraduate school . Nor can the preliminary findings coming out of research laboratories be translated into the tools of therapy until they have been tested in the hospital . Here is where teaching is animated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are tested in the laboratory of practice . The hospital also is increasingly emerging as the pivotal center for community health , where the line of demarcation between curative and preventive medicine is gradually dissolving . At its best , the hospital of today is the focus and finest product of the countless technological advances that have revolutionized medicine and brought us better health and longer life . At the same time , hospitals have grown into huge business enterprises , with annual budgets that often run into millions of dollars . Hospitals are now the fifth largest industry in the United States from the standpoint of plant assets , expenditures , and number of employees . The sheer statistics of the hospital business are breathtaking . A total of about $20 billion is invested in the nation 's hospitals , which have more than 1,700,000 beds . The hospitals have about 1,900,000 full-time employees , which is more than the steel and automobile industries together employ , and operating costs of nearly $11 billion a year . There were nearly 4,000,000 births in hospitals last year . Short-term general hospitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but because their patient turnTHE // over is much greater than in publicly operated mental and tuberculosis hospitals , they accounted last year for more than 92 per cent of the admissions . Operating costs in general hospitals arc much steeper than in institutions for long-term care . The cost per patient per day in voluntary short-term hospitals was nearly seven times as high last year as in state and municipal mental hospitals , where the care is mostly custodial . But the mere statistics of the immense hospital establishment and of its managerial complexity can never convey the full story of its vibrant human function and of the manner in which it fuses the myriad elements of medicine into the priceless amalgam of care bestowed upon the sick . While hospitals have become one of our biggest businesses , they will never be a business in the ordinary sense of that term . As their costs keep on zooming , it is imperative that they be run in as businesslike a manner as possible . Business judgment in their operation will always have to be tempered , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is better health and not financial gain . Voluntary hospitals take care of all who require their services , those who can pay in full as well as those who can pay little or nothing . While the proportion of nonpaying patients has dropped sharply , and despite the spectacular rise in rates , many hospitals are still operating at a loss . On the average , hospitals last year collected from patients $2.13 per day less than it cost to care for them . The difference was made up from endowment income , gifts , and public subsidy . Another drain on hospital finances is its standby , or readinessto-serve , function . Not only must the full range of hospital services be maintained , regardless of the number of patients actually served on any particular day , but the staff and a certain proportion of facilities must be kept in constant readiness to handle emergencies . The hospital 's lifesaving personnel and equipment have to be geared for instant action on an around-the-clock basis . No one can foretell what the rate of emergency admissions through the accident room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costly beds often remain unused even though there is a waiting list of patients slated for elective procedures . As productivity has risen , industry has been able to shorten its workweek . But hospitals , which must stay open from dawn to I IO THE TROUBLED CALLING dawn , can not shorten their week . To keep pace with the standard forty-hour week in the community , they have been forced to hire many additional employees to fill jobs on a three-shift basis . They also have been obliged to upgrade their lagging wage scales to bring them closer to those of private industry . While raising its wage levels , industry has often managed to cut its labor costs through automation . But hospitals can not substitute machines for people . No machine has yet been built to take a patient 's temperature , give him an injection , or empty his bedpan . On the contrary , as new services proliferate and as improved equipment is constantly developed , more rather than fewer people are required to operate them . In 1946 , voluntary short-term hospitals in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every oo patients . By now the ratio of employees for each loo patients has risen to 241 . Hospital payrolls have generally tripled in the past decade . Whereas in the automobile industry labor now accounts for only one-third of production costs , wages have shot up to about 70 per cent of hospital budgets . The ratio of employees to patients is expected to keep on rising , and hospital wage levels have still quite a way to go to catch up with those prevailing in industry . Only about twenty cents of the hospital dollar is spent for household functions , which cover what might be described as hotellike services as well as food and laundry . This makes it amply clear why hospital rooms are so much more expensive than hotel rooms . Hotels have about thirty-five employees for every Ioo guests , or only about one-seventh of the hospital ratio . Around 1890 , the average length of stay in a general hospital was fifty-two days . Since then , the average stay has been shortened by more than 85 per cent , owing not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the increase in the proportion of patients admitted for diagnostic studies and for conditions of short duration . Notable in the latter category has been the soaring obstetric use of hospitals . The proportion of births taking place in hospitals has nearly tripled in the past thirty years . Hospital costs would be utterly beyond most people 's reach without the downward curve of duration of stay . But the fact that patients now go home much sooner than they used to is not an unmixed blessing . Costs are not uniform throughout the duraTHE // tion of a patient 's stay , and hospitals make up on convalescence for the high costs of intensive treatment in the first few days . The briefer stay deprives the hospital of much of this saving . The more rapid patient turnover also means that chances arc greater that there will be vacant beds , which have to be staffed but produce no income . The economic drain of empty beds is especially severe in small hospitals , which are in the majority in our hospital system . This brings us to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs are often needlessly inflated by both overuse and insufficient use of expensive facilities . On the one hand , patients are sometimes hospitalized for conditions that could be taken care of as well elsewhere and at much lower costs . On the other hand , hospital accommodations are not utilized as efficiently as they should be , with the result that one bed out of four is usually empty ; and in some institutions , the average occupancy rate is considerably lower . Such a rate of low occupancy represents a staggering waste of staff and maintenance expenditures and leads to a correspondingly heavier proportion of overhead in per patient per day costs . In 1960 , the nation 's general hospitals averaged only 74.7 per cent occupancy . This means that there was a daily average of some 16o,000 unused beds and that in the course of the year more than 58,000,000 potential days of care were wasted . An empty hospital bed costs more than half as much to maintain as an occupied bed . On this basis , the annual cost of empty beds amounts to well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion in idle capital funds . It is neither possible nor desirable to utilize every bed in a hospital every day of the year , since some facilities must be held for unanticipated admissions and some services have to be kept separate for certain types of patients . But too many hospitals operate successfully with an average occupancy of more than 90 per cent of capacity to argue that most of the tremendous cost of maintaining unused beds is unavoidable . If hospitals had higher occupancy rates , unit costs would be reduced and the need for new construction materially lessened . Fully 92 per cent of our general hospitals have fewer than three hundred beds each , 64 per cent have fewer than a hundred I I2 THE TROUBLED CALLING beds , and more than 40 per cent fewer than fifty beds . This aggravates the vacancy problem , because a hospital 's occupancy ratio generally goes up with its size . While hospitals with more than three hundred beds average more than 8o per cent of occupancy , the ratios arc only 6o per cent for institutions with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent for those with fewer than twenty-five beds . The smaller the hospital , the more difficult it is for it to provide a high level of care and the greater are certain rigidities of use making for low occupancy . The problem , clearly , is to pool facilities so as to spread services over the largest possible number of beds . But here , as in all other areas of the hospital economy , we run into the prevailing uncoordinated and unregulated operation that stands in the way of greater efficiency . No one now has the authority to tell hospitals to do anything , short of requiring them to enforce the fire laws , to say nothing of getting units of inefficient size to merge . Aside from the factor of size , there is the waste of costly resources involved in the sharp fluctuation in hospital usage by days of the week , by certain months of the year , and over holiday periods . In most hospitals , the patient count is down by about 15 per cent over weekends , and there is a roughly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That this is in no way related to the greater incidence of illness during the winter is shown by the fact that many more beds remain unused over the December holiday season than in January . Sickness is , of course , no respecter of weekends and does not take off any holidays . But there are many conditions that would permit considerable latitude in the start of treatment or the scheduling of surgery . Weekend and seasonal lulls pyramid costs ; expensive equipment stands idle , while revenue falls off . In many hospitals , a large part of the staff goes home for the weekend on Friday afternoon , leaving operating rooms and laboratories unused for more than sixty hours , except for emergencies . There is little point in urging patients in elective cases to come in on weekends if they are going to lie there , burning up anywhere from $30 to $45 a day , until the X-ray technicians and blood chemists return on Monday morning . A recent study in New York showed that // patients admitted on a Friday average two more days in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weekend staffing would naturally cost more money . But the extra expenditures would in the long run be more than offset by added revenue from increased patronage over weekends and by the savings resulting from reductions in length of stay . Seasonal lulls also could be remedied to some extent by more efficient staggering of vacation periods for the staff and better scheduling of elective admissions . The best way to keep down costs is to stabilize the hospital work load at a level most favorable for operating efficiency and to eliminate needless delays in the course of treatment that often prolong the patient 's stay . Among the steps that can be helpful in this direction are prelim-inary diagnostic work-ups before admission whenever possible , performance of X-ray and laboratory tests that must be done in the hospital before rather than after patients are assigned beds , admission of elective cases at an early hour to expedite diag-nostic tests and thereby possibly save an entire day of hospital stay , and better coordination in booking admissions for surgery to avoid keeping patients waiting for operating-room openings . Admittedly , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to maintain a high occupancy ratio . If many patients are discharged sooner , there will presumably be still more unused beds . There is un-doubtedly a conflict here between the interests of individual hos-pitals and of the community at large , which is one of the reasons why hospital managements sometimes drag their feet on institut-ing measures aimed at reducing needlessly protracted stays . There is no question that a vacant bed , which fails to bring in any income , is costly to the hospital . But from the standpoint of the community and of the level of Blue Cross premium rates , an empty bed represents a saving . What complicates the situation , however , is that in the end , the community has to make up hos-pital deficits through higher bills , philanthropy , or governmental subsidy . This conflict of interest underscores the urgency of central-ized planning to correlate hospital expansion with need on a community-wide basis , rather than solely on the basis of the ambitions of each hospital and of its medical staff , and thereby I14 THE TROUBLED CALLING avoid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unfortunately , the community has yet to exercise its unquestionable right to insist that needed beds be utilized optimally , that unneeded beds be eliminated , and that no new ones be added without careful prior assessment of whether they are essential . There has been a tremendous expansion of hospital facilities in the United States ( luring the past few decades , at a rate more than three times as high as the growth of the country 's population . Under the impetus of Federal construction grants , obsolete facilities have been replaced on a large scale , and about 250,000 new general hospital beds have been added since 1948 . In the last few years , the construction of hospitals and other health facilities has been running at an annual rate of close to $ i billion . The expansion has been , in general , a laudable development . Antiquated buildings have been razed , and additional bed space has been provided to keep pace with medical progress and mounting demand . But the helter-skelter enlargement of hospital plants also has some highly disturbing implications . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that a community 's hospital-bed supply is primarily determined by the level of its per capita income rather than by need and that whereas some areas have more hospital capacity than they can use , others have serious deficiencies . Another result of random expansion is that there is often an excess of facilities for the treatment of acute illness and a shortage of more suitable and more economic accommodations for the chronically ill . The consequence is that long-term patients , and particularly the aged , needlessly occupy expensive general hospital beds . Competent opinion is that general hospital facilities are frequently not only poorly distributed but actually in excess of need . l ? xccssivc hospital space not only means needless capital spending but leads to low occupancy , duplication of services , and higher operating costs . It also tends to stimulate admissions for relatively trivial ailments and unnecessarily prolonged stays , especially since such abuses are encouraged by the benefit structure of hospitalization insurance . " Inefficient use is principally a matter of the number of hospital beds available , " Ray E. Brown , director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a // former president of the American Hospital Association , has said . " The fewer the beds , the greater the pressure on both the patient and his physician for more judicious use of the available hospital facilities . The only effective means of controlling hospital utilization is to control supply . A hospital bed that does not exist obviously can not be used . A hospital bed that does exist has a tendency to be used . " It is not without significance that crowding of hospitals during World War II , when shortages of material and labor halted new construction , led to fruitful experiments with quicker ambulation and discharge of patients after surgery and childbirth . Doctors found that mothers could safely go home after five days in the hospital instead of ten . They discovered that patients could he discharged seven days after an appendectomy instead of thirteen and nine days after a hernia operation instead of seventeen . These discoveries have meant not only that hospitals can take care of more people than before but also that patients recuperate much faster . Dr. Milton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute of Hospital Administration , has even come up with a new version of the principles enunciated by C. Northcote Parkinson that " work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion " and that " expenditure always rises to meet income . " Dr. Roemer 's thesis is that " utilization of hospital beds expands to fill beds as they are built . " This theory is probably an overstatement . But it graphically points up some of the wasteful results of the drift and disorder now so characteristic of our voluntary hospital system . III The issues crowding for a showdown in the hospital field add up to a series of challenging questions . To whom do the hospitals belong anyhow , and who is to regulate their operation and costs ? Are the hospitals the property of the autonomous and often competing community groups that originally founded them but no longer support them to any appreciable extent , or are they vital public assets that should be subject to full social control ? What are the proper functions of the modern hospital ? 1 16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for professional rivalries and primarily as a place where doctors bring their patients and treat them with tools provided by public investment ? Or should it instead be developed , as some of our finest hospitals already have been , into the center of the community 's health care services , where the highest professional skills arc brought together not only for treatment but also for education and research , where there is emphasis on teamwork and on preventive as well as curative care , where as much attention is devoted to ambulatory as to bed patients , and where the public interest comes first even though it may sometimes impinge on the interests of private practitioners ? These controversial questions and a string of related problems are certain to figure prominently in the rising storm over the reorganization of medical services into a more rational system to give the consumer his money 's worth . More than ever before , better medical care depends on the standards set by the hospital . It depends on the extension of the hospital 's services to ambulatory patients , whom physicians now regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the medical profession tends to neglect . Already the focal point of medical care , the hospital 's role is certain to be still further enhanced by the doctor 's growing dependence on his colleagues and on complex apparatus and by the wide range of skills and facilities required for the treatment of chronic disease , now our major medical problem . With proper organization and use of the team approach , the hospital 's services can be not only of high quality but economical as well . Tighter coordination of the private practice of medicine with the hospital 's activities is essential for greater efficiency . But expansion of the hospital 's functions is certain to intensify its conflict with the medical profession and to bring to a head the whole problem of doctor-hospital relationships . Hospital trustees , who continue to represent the philanthropy of the past , are predominantly conservative and have generally been reluctant to accept new challenges . They often rubber-stamp the recommendations of the medical staff , thereby allowing themselves to be the tools of a vested interest . But the very nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its lay manTHE // agement and the members of its medical staff . While these conflicts are usually masked by professional slogans , their base is invariably economic . The doctor 's insecurity has grown as he has become increasingly dependent on facilities he does not own and on personnel he does not employ . What he is concerned about is not only interference with the traditional freedom of his practice but , most of all , possible restrictions on his earnings . Underlying the growing contentiousness of doctor-hospital relationships is the fact that through its staff controls on the standards of performance , the hospital has , at its best , already become the most powerful police agent of the medical profession . Scientific developments are pushing it inexorably still further in the direction of becoming the profession 's chief organizing force as well . The doctor is an independent entrepreneur in the conduct of his office practice , where he can do pretty much as he pleases . But the hospital imposes a variety of restraints on him in return for the opportunity for the cost-free use of equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital , the patient is no longer the physician 's exclusive property . Case records are subject to review , there is policing against unnecessary surgery , and incompetence and bungling are aired at clinical conferences . This may go against the grain of the profession 's traditional freewheeling ways , but it improves the quality of medical care and sometimes also affects its quantity . As the hospital 's functions have broadened , the cry has mounted that it is encroaching on the prerogatives of doctors and engaging in the practice of medicine . Organized medicine has long opposed the right of hospitals to employ physicians on salary for some technical services , and the issue is certain to be progressively sharpened with the expansion of hospital outpatient departments . What the profession obviously fears is that the employment of some salaried specialists will be used by the hospitals as a precedent for invading all fields of practice . For a number of years , doctors have tended to follow their paying patients by shifting their offices to more prosperous neighborhoods , away from the poorer areas with their greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not moved . Finding themselves in sections that have deteriorated into 1 18 THE TROUBLED CALLING congested slums , some of our large urban hospitals have been forced into providing medical services for their neighborhoods through their outpatient clinics . This has been particularly true of teaching hospitals affiliated with medical schools . The schools are increasingly coming to feel that students not only must have hospital training but also should be exposed to the patient 's home environment and are extending their services to some homes . While the doctors are content to leave patients who pay little or nothing at all to someone else , this development nevertheless adds fuel to their fears that the hospital will more and more emerge as the middleman between physician and patient . The extremes to which these fears can be carried are shown by the bitter dispute between the medical profession and the hospitals over the so-called corporate practice of medicine . The feud has so far been centered on the employment of salaried physicians in hospital radiology , pathology , and anesthesiology departments . Since these specialty services require large outlays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hospitals consider it logical to staff them as far as possible with salaried specialists . The custom also has been to use the profits from these departments to cover hospital operating deficits . This has incensed the medical profession and has brought charges that doctors are being exploited and that having to work on salary lowers their professional dignity and may impair their professional judgment . All of which is arrant nonsense . It is ludicrous to contend that physicians are ethical only under certain circumstances or that salaried employment in itself is apt to affect judgment . Some of the most prized scientific discoveries have been made by salaried physicians and allied scientists . What the struggle is basically about is not professional ethics but who will have direct access to the patient 's pocketbook . The wrangle over corporate practice in the narrowly technical hospital departments is merely a preview of the pitched battle yet to be fought over the large-scale extension of outpatient services and the establishment of hospital-based grouppractice units . As hospitals are gradually transformed into community health centers , it becomes ever clearer that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more effective and more // economical services to ambulatory patients , no less so than to bed patients , instead of having them go from the office of one specialist to that of another . But the expansion of outpatient departments is fiercely resisted by the doctors as a grave economic threat . Because of the adamant opposition of the medical profession , outpatient services have up to now been largely confined to the indigent . The profession 's pecuniary interests can not , however , stand much longer in the way of the march of the industrial revolution in medicine . In one way or another , the economics of medical practice will have to be reorganized to the advantage of the community and not just of the doctors . A straw in the wind has been the growing tendency for physicians in recent years to move their offices into , or adjacent to , hospitals . A number of hospitals have erected special buildings for rental to their staff members . This is a step toward integrating the doctor more closely into the framework of the hospital and permits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well-run outpatient clinics utilize manpower more efficiently than private practice does , tend to reduce resort to hospital beds , and can lower the total cost of medical care . Given the backing of insurance coverage , which they now lack , such clinics could not only perform a myriad of services for the walking sick but also become the focus of health promotion through timely preventive procedures . It is true that the very term " clinic " has the depressing connotations of charity services and instantly brings to mind hours of waiting on hard benches , dreary offices , and a lack of privacy . But hospital clinics do not have to be the sort of basement operation they have all too frequently been . There is no reason why they can not be as well equipped and staffed as the hospital 's inpatient facilities are , provided the insurance programs and enough doctors would agree to cooperate . The logic of medical progress calls for making the hospital the pivot of a coherent system that not only serves the traditional function of bed care but also provides group-practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The separation of doctors ' offices and the hospital , which leads to duplication of equipment and wasted time on the part of physician and patient alike , has been rendered obsolete by new knowledge and                     