@@773554

txt // 179 ) . These broad definitions give very little attention to the nature and origin of overt sympathetic behavior as a reaction that is specific to the observed or anticipated distress of another person . As in the case of altruism , empathic or vicarious experience must be inferred as a prerequisite of sympathetic behavior . An act that has the effect of relieving another person 's distress would obviously not be sympathetic , for example , if it were motivated primarily by the actor 's own direct experience of the same distressful events . An act is truly sympathetic only to the extent that it is elicited through the actor 's empathic or vicarious affective response to the actual or anticipated distress of another person . We already have noted that a concept of altruism can not properly be applied to the findings of those experiments in which animals merely have been shown to perform actions which relieve the distress of another animal ( for example , Miller et al. , 1963 , or Rice and Gainer , 1962 ) . The experiments are carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the observed distress cues as having the value of aversive events which impinge directly upon itself . For the same reason , the results of these experiments do not permit the inference that the animals are behaving sympathetically . The requirement of perceived distress emphasizes , in accordance with common understanding , that sympathetic behavior is controlled by an aversive affective state . An act that is intended to give pleasure to another person might well be described as altruistic , but it would not ordinarily be described as sympathetic . However , the conditions of reinforcement of sympathetic behavior are in another sense less restrictive than those for altruistic behavior . A person 's sympathetic behavior may be altruistic to the extent that its anticipated reinforcing consequences are limited to the reduction of empathic or vicarious distress which the person will experience when another person is relieved or protected from distress . Recent experiments with college students appear to demonstrate such altruistic components in sympathetic behavior ( Buss , 1966 ; Schopler and Bateson , 1965 ) , as do the experiments which Lenrow ( 1965 ) and Roscnhan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though sympathy itself requires the capacity for empathic or vicarious experience of distress , overt sympathetic behavior is also often under the control of the individual 's anticipation of direct social reward or of subsequent reciprocity from another person . Observations of the behavior of children in naturalistic settings clearly illustrate that sympathetic behavior can not always be assumed to he altruistic ( Isaacs , 1933 ; Murphy , 1937 ) . Children will often // aid their peers , or show solicitude toward them , because they anticipate social approval or the mutual benefits of cooperation in a shared difficulty . The internalized status of a sympathetic act may therefore vary in accordance with the extent to which its motivation and reinforcement are independent of external outcomes which are directly experienced by the actor . This analysis of sympathetic behavior requires the socialization of the behavior to have two basic components . First , the child must acquire empathic or vicarious affective sensitivity to the cues which serve as indicators of another person 's experience of distress . Secondly , the child must acquire specific forms of overt behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's distress . When the required contingencies of social conditioning have established the young child 's empathic and vicarious dispositions toward sympathy , then overt sympathetic acts can become part of its social behavior in a number of ways . Certain behavioral dispositions which the child already has acquired ? for example , giving affection or sharing possessions ? may be further shaped into sympathetic behavior when they are subjected to the selective contingent reinforcement of external outcomes which are associated with the relief of another person 's distress . These reinforcing outcomes may take the form of observable cues which indicate relief of distress for another person , since the child 's affective response to such cues may be a reduction of its own empathic or vicarious experience of distress . Or the reinforcing outcomes of sympathetic behavior may take the form of approval , affection , or other direct social rewards for the child . Both of these types of outcomes can produce an attachment of potentially reinforcing affective value to the intrinsic correlates of the child 's sympathetic behavior , so that the maintenance of the behavior is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others or its direct consequences for the child . After the child has had some opportunity for the direct observation of social cues of distress and relief of distress in other people , then the changes of affectivity which motivate and reinforce its sympathetic behavior may come under the more internalized control of its cognitive representation of the consequences of its actions . The shaping of sympathetic behavior by reinforcing outcomes is not the only channel of learning through which the behavior can acquire internalized value . Indeed , because sympathetic dispositions often appear to emerge with remarkable suddenness and accuracy in the overt behavior of the young child , behavior-contingent learning alone would not appear to // give a very plausible account of their acquisition . The early initiation and rapid spread of sympathetic dispositions toward peers , pets , and representational figures such as dolls , point to an important contribution of imitative modelling and other forms of learning based on observation of the behavior of others . Opportunities for observational learning would occur whenever the child observed the sympathetic behavior of others in conjunction with its own experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base for this kind of learning is provided , as a necessary consequence of caretaking , when the young child is the recipient of the actions with which socializing agents reduce its own direct experience of distress . But the affective value of relief of distress may also become attached to the observed sympathetic behavior of a model when the child 's empathic or vicarious experience is elicited by its perception of the experience of others to whom the model 's actions are directed . Even the child 's opportunities to observe how others relieve their own distress may contribute to its learning of sympathetic behavior through empathic or vicarious experience . All of these opportunities for observational learning may attach an intrinsic affective value , which corresponds to relief of distress , to the child 's cognitive representation of a model 's sympathetic behavior , and therefore to the cognitive correlates of its own emerging repertoire of sympathetic acts . The child can then reduce the empathic or vicarious distress that it experiences , in response to the perceived distress of another person , by reproducing the model 's sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathetic act , and of its consequences , have already acquired some internalized affective value as a result of the observational learning process , the reinforcement of a performance of the act will tend to be at least partially independent of its immediately observable consequences . It is also possible that the child 's sympathetic behavioral dispositions can acquire some generalized intrinsic value as a result of observational learning that does not necessarily produce imitation of the same behavior that has been displayed by a model . Lenrow ( 1965 ) found that the verbal expression of sympathy among both children and adults , and the performance of concrete sympathetic acts by children , were correlated with the extent of their actual or role-played previous experience as the recipient of other forms of sympathetic behavior under conditions of distress . The author and Vivian Paskal recently have conducted a study which used experimental paradigms of socialization to examine the mechanisms for children 's learning of sympathetic behavior ( Aronfreed and Paskal , 1966 ) . The paradigms were designed first to condition the children 's emALTRUISM // pathic reactions to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them observe the sympathetic actions of an agent who relieved their own distress . The experiment was carried out with seven- and eight-yearold girls and a female socializing agent . The experimental design was a sequence of three separate and immediately successive phases of socialization , the last of which gave the subject an opportunity to respond sympathetically to the distress of another child . The conditions of socialization were varied within specific phases to create five distinct sequences or experimental groups . During each phase of any sequence , the child was engaged in the classification of a number of small toy replicas of real objects . She was instructed to classify each toy in accordance with whether she thought it most appropriate for a house , a dog , or a school . Twelve discrete classification trials were used in each of the three phases , and the toys were changed between phases . The child indicated her classification of each toy by pushing down one of the three levers on a choice box . Since the middle lever was used for the dog category , and the toys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was ordinarily chosen very infrequently or not at all . This arrangement made it possible to treat choices of the middle lever as being irrelevant to the classification task , and to use them as an index of sympathetic behavior during the third ( test ) phase of the various experimental sequences . The prototype for the learning of sympathetic behavior was the first of the five experimental sequences . It may be used as the reference point for a description of the basic design of the three phases within any of the sequences . The first phase was designed as a paradigm of the original acquisition process for conditioning a child 's empathic affective response to expressive cues which indicate the distressful experience of another person . The contingencies for conditioning were introduced through a temporal contiguity between the observable distress cues of the socializing agent and the child 's own direct experience of distressful stimulation . Both the child and the agent wore earphones , on the pretext of monitoring occasional noise from within the choice box . The agent told the child that the noise in her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child 's earphones . Among the twelve classification trials , there were six on which the child heard a highly aversive loud noise through her earphones . The noise lasted for seven seconds . It did not begin until well after the child had made her choice , and was actually confined to the intcrtrial interval that followed the child 's classification of a toy . The noise was not contingent on the child 's choice , and its pattern of occurrence across trials was unpredictable . Three // seconds before the onset of the noise , the agent began to show cues of distress by placing her head in her hands ( apparently because of the noise in her own earphones ) . The agent 's distress cues were continued until the noise terminated . The second phase of the first sequence was designed to maximize the distress-reducing value of the agent 's sympathetic actions toward the child . During the second phase , the agent wore no earphones and showed no evidence of distress . She used another choice box to indicate her own classification of each toy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also told the child that she might be able , while she was using her own choice box , to turn off the noise that the child would still occasionally hear through the earphones that she continued to wear . When the child had completed the classification of each toy , the agent would appear to think for two or three seconds , with her hand poised above one of the two outer levers in the array of three on her choice-box . These outer levers were marked to represent house and school , and they were clearly the only correct choices for almost all of the toys . The agent did finally choose one of these two levers on six of the twelve classification trials . But on the remaining six trials , the child began to hear the highly aversive noise through her earphones at this point . The noise again was unrelated to the child 's previous choice and unpredictable across trials . The noise lasted for only three seconds , since the agent moved fairly quickly to push the middle lever on her choice box . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agent said that she was choosing the middle lever in order to turn off the noise . She thus clearly gave up for the moment the task of making a correct classification , so that she would be able to reduce the child 's distress . The third phase of the first sequence was designed to test whether the child had acquired a disposition to reproduce the observed sympathetic actions of the agent . The child was given opportunities to reduce her empathic distress , in response to another child 's distress cues , by performing the same act which the agent had used previously to reduce the child 's own direct exposure to the noise . The third phase also was designed so that elimination of the other child 's distress cues would be a potentially reinforcing event that was contingent on the subject 's behavior . This procedure made it possible to exercise some control over the subject 's actions through external events which would provide both empathic motivation and reinforcement for her behavior . At the beginning of the third phase , another girl was introduced as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a subject previously , and she had // been subsequently trained to the role of a more or less innocent dummy , who was to emit distress cues at critical junctures in the test phase of another subject 's socialization . The primary subject now was given the adult agent 's earlier role of using the second choice box to classify each toy , following its classification by the dummy . The dummy wore earphones , of course , but the subject did not . The agent now sat as an observer behind the subject . On six of the twelve classification trials , the dummy and subject simply made their successive choices . On the remaining six trials , the dummy placed her head in her hands , in response to a low signal from her earphones , at the point where the subject was about to make her choice . This distress cue was the same as the one that the agent had emitted earlier during the first phase . If the subject made the sympathetic choice of the middle lever ? the choice which the agent had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase ? the dummy would immediately raise her head and thus terminate her distress cues , in response to the termination of the low signal in her earphones . But if the subject made a nonsympathetic , task-oriented choice of one of the two outer levers , the dummy would not terminate her distress cues until five seconds after the subject had made her choice ( so that such a choice would not be reinforced to any significant extent ) . It can be seen that the entire first sequence was designed first to condition emphatic distress , then to maximize the potential intrinsic reinforcement value of the child 's representation of the agent 's sympathetic actions , and finally to provide external social stimuli which would empathically motivate and reinforce the child 's overt reproduction of the sympathetic behavior . The remaining four experimental sequences represented a variety of controls on the specific contingencies which were employed in the three phases of the first sequence . The second sequence differed from the first only in that the agent 's distress cues were not paired , during the first phase , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noise occurred at the same six intertrial intervals at which it had occurred for the first sequence . But the distress cues were emitted only during the noiseless intervals which followed the remaining six trials . This sequence exposed the children , then , to the same frequencies of occurrence of noise and distress cues as had been used in the first sequence , but without the temporal contiguity that would he required for the conditioning of empathic distress . The third experimental sequence also replicated the first , with the exception that the noise which the child heard during the second phase was sharply reduced to a very mild intensity . This sequence was designed to // minimize the potential distress-reducing value of the agent 's sympathetic behavior toward the child , so that it would be ineffective in establishing the child 's disposition to reproduce the behavior . The fourth and fifth experimental sequences were again identical to the first sequence , except that two levels of reduction of social cues were introduced during the third phase . These last two sequences were designed to examine the extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete external distress cues . In the fourth sequence , the dummy wore earphones during the third phase , but she emitted no distress cues . In the fifth sequence , the dummy did not even wear the earphones . ' The results of this experiment were a striking confirmation of the distinct contributions of both empathic conditioning and observational learning to the acquisition of sympathetic behavior . During the first two phases of all of the sequences , all of the children were highly task-oriented in their classification of the toys . Across the twelve classification trials of either phase , the children typically chose the task-inappropriate middle lever ( classification in the dog category ) only once or twice . During the third phase , however , the choices of the children in the basic first sequence moved to a marked preference for the middle lever . Half of the children from the first sequence chose the middle lever on six or more trials ? and it will be recalled that the dummy emitted distress cues on only six trials . Almost all of the remainder of the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five times , which represented a sizeable increment in the frequency of their use of it . Of course , in choosing to perform this sympathetic act , the children forfeited the opportunity to make a correct classification . In contrast , children from all of the other four sequences continued to show a strong task-orientation during the test for sympathetic behavior . Although some of these children showed a tendency to increase the frequency of their choice of the middle lever , in response to the dummy 's distress cues , the frequency distributions of their choices were quite similar to the corresponding distributions for the first two phases . When the five groups of children from all of the sequences were compared with respect to the shifts of frequency of choice of the middle lever , between the first two phases and the test phase , there was a powerful and highly reliable difference between the effect of the first sequence and the effect of any other sequence . With one notable exception which we will // examine shortly , the groups of children from the second through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the frequency of their choices of the middle lever . The difference between the effects of the first and second sequences clearly indicates that the empathic experience of distress must be established as a base for sympathetic behavior . When the distress cues of the agent and the children 's own direct experience of distress were not associated under the precise contingencies of a conditioning paradigm , during the first phase of the second sequence , the children showed little evidence of sympathetic behavior during the test phase . They did not act to relieve another child 's observable distress , even though they previously had been the recipients of a sympathetic act that was now readily available for their use . Apparently , sheer information about the experience of another person was not sufficient to elicit their reproduction of the previously observed sympathetic behavior of the agent . Their sympathetic behavioral dispositions seemed to be dependent on a reinstatement of the affective experience under which the agent 's behavior had originally acquired value for them . The fact that the third sequence produced little sympathetic behavior during the test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first sequence were not determined merely by their earlier observation of the actions of the agent , even though these actions were directed to their own welfare . Nor was their sympathetic behavior controlled only by their knowledge that reproducing the actions of the agent would reduce another child 's distress . During the first phase of socialization , children from both the first and third experimental sequences were exposed to contingencies which were designed to condition their empathic response to the distress cues of another person . But during the second phase of the third sequence , the agent 's sympathetic acts toward the children terminated only a mild noise , in contrast to the highly aversive noise which they terminated for the children in the second phase of the first sequence . The difference between the effects of the first and third sequences therefore seems to be attributable to a difference in the acquired potential values of a sympathetic act for reduction of the children 's empathic distress during the test phase . It appears that an important determinant of the observational learning of sympathetic behavior was the change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their observation of the agent 's sympathetic actions toward themselves . The relative ineffectiveness of the fourth and fifth sequences in producing sympathetic behavior demonstrates the specific function of distress // cues as elicitors of the children 's acquired sympathetic dispositions during the test phase . When the dummy did not emit distress cues , the children did not repeat the acts with which the agent had previously reduced their own distress . The control of the affective value of sympathetic behavior by the children 's observation of distress cues was also clearly confirmed by inspection of the pattern of test trials on which children in the first sequence chose the middle lever . The increments in the frequencies of their choice of the middle lever were almost entirely confined to the six trials on which the dummy emitted distress cues . It seems clear that the reinforcement value of the imitative dispositions which the children had acquired , as a result of their exposure to the sympathetic actions of the agent , was under the affective control of their empathic experience of distress . The sympathetic behavior of the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition to repeat the previously observed actions of another person . In the earlier analysis of observation learning and imitation , it was pointed out that the intrinsic representational value of an imitative act is often easier to discern if the act has some topographic fidelity to the structure of the model 's behavior . However , even an act that is a relatively discrete choice , as in the case of the sympathetic act in the present experiment , may be identified as having a component of intrinsic representational value , when experimental contingencies are arranged to make this representational component apparent . The design of the experiment does permit some of the comparisons which can be made among the effects of different sequences to be used as evidence that the sympathetic behavior of children in the first sequence had a component of value that was independent of its reinforcing control over the termination of observable distress cues . Although external distress cues obviously exercised significant control over the sympathetic behavior of children in the first sequence , through the elicitation of their empathic distress , other comparisons reveal that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of termination of these cues . For example , the experience of children in the third sequence provided the necessary information about the distress-reducing consequences of choosing the middle lever , and also gave them the motivation and opportunity to reduce their empathic distress by terminating another child 's external distress cues . Yet these children did not show a significant increment in their disposition to choose the middle lever ( hiring the test phase . Apparently , this act had acquired a certain amount of addiALTRUISM // tional intrinsic value for the children in the first sequence , who had previously observed the agent 's sympathetic performance of the act in direct association with the reduction of their own relatively intense distress . It is the effect that can not be attributed to the control of external distress cues which suggests that part of the value of the sympathetic act was inherent in its being a representation of an earlier external sample of behavior . The behavior of the children in the fourth sequence , during the test phase , gave an indication of another component of representational control over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increments in the frequency of their choice of the middle lever , despite their fairly strong task-orientation . Their increments were in fact closer to the large increments shown by children in the first sequence than were the increments for any of the other control sequences . Moreover , they chose the middle lever significantly more often than did the children from the fifth sequence , in which the dummy wore no earphones . Of course , since there were no observable distress cues from the dummy during the fourth sequence , the children distributed their choices of the middle lever more or less randomly among the twelve test trials . Since their behavior was independent of any exposure to distress cues , it seems probable that their sympathetic acts were controlled by their cognitive representation of the distress-reducing ( or distress-avoiding ) consequences of their actions for another child who was wearing the earphones . Their behavior suggested that the cognitive representation of the outcomes of a sympathetic act is another potential source of the mediation of its internalized affective value . Some additional evidence of the role of cognitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children gave during a verbal inquiry that directly followed the experimental session . In the three sequences in which the dummy emitted distress cues , almost all of the children perceived the cues as indicators of loud noise in her earphones . A substantial proportion of the children 's reports did not reveal , however , a clear recognition that their choice of the middle lever would have relieved the dummy 's distress . Among the children in the first sequence , reported awareness of this contingency was a very reliable predictor of maximal sympathetic behavior . Among the children in the second and third sequences , reported awareness of the contingency was unrelated to their behavior . Suppression is a term which is commonly applied to the passive restriction of active behavior . Socialization does include some paradigms of learning which require that children learn to suppress active behavior in order to avoid punishment . However , children generally engage their social environment quite actively , and they must therefore usually learn to avoid punishment even when their behavior is in a continuous stream of activity . Of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship to another active form of behavior that is being punished and suppressed . Children also acquire a certain amount of internalized aversive control over their behavior through socialization that corresponds more closely to laboratory paradigms of active avoidance learning . For example , they may learn to initiate one among several alternative forms of behavior , in appropriate stimulus situations , on the basis of their experience with the aversive consequences of failure to make an active choice among the alternatives . Passive inactivity as well as acts of commission might therefore be said to be subject to suppression . And behavioral suppression could be broadly defined to include any reduction in the probability of one form of behavior , relative to the probabilities of other forms , as a result of punishment or other avenues of aversive learning . Nevertheless , it is the suppression of an active form of behavior which can be used most effectively to illustrate the internalization of aversive control over social conduct . Some recent experiments on the effects of early experience have used special conditions of rearing to immunize certain species of animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of other species ( Denenberg , Hudgens , and Zarrow , 1964 ; Kuo , 1960 ) . Ethologists have noted that the aggressive behavior of some animals seems to be forestalled or attenuated by " submission " signals from another member of their species , with the implication that the effect of the signals is strongly determined by unlearned predispositions ( Lorenz , 1966 ; Marler , 1968 ) . These observations indicate that the aggressive behavior of animals can be eliminated or prevented by both the predetermined and the acquired capacity of social stimuli to elicit incompatible or competing forms of behavior . The variation in dispositions toward aggression that we observe across human societies ( as described , for example , in Whiting and Child , 1953 ) suggests that the early social experience of children may also establish alternative dispositions which curtail the development of aggres- // The arrest of the development of a behavioral disposition , or the social elicitation of incompatible forms of behavior , is quite different from the kind of suppression of well-established behavior that can be produced under aversive control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restricted to the effects of punishment and other forms of aversive control in reducing the overt behavioral manifestation of dispositions which are already prepotent in a specific situation . A possibly better example of how social experience can produce behavioral suppression in animals may be found in studies of the effect of defeat on the aggressive behavior of mice ( Scott , 1958 ) . The effect appears to be especially strong when defeat occurs at an early age ( Kahn , 1951 ) . But even in the case of this phenomenon , there is some ambiguity about whether aggressive dispositions are merely suppressed or are completely arrested in their development . A number of different lines of investigation have established the variety of conditions under which the active avoidance behavior of animals may persist , for substantial periods of time , when punishment is no longer the consequence of failure to avoid ( Kelleher , Riddle , and Cook , 1963 ; Melvin and Smith , 1967 ; Sidman , 1955 ; Sidman , Herrnstein , and Conrad , 1957 ; Solomon and Wynne , 1954 ) . Studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have learned in order to obtain food have shown that suppression of active forms of behavior can also remain stable over significant periods of time , during which punishment is no longer an outcome of the suppressed behavior ( Boe and Church , 1967 ; . Hake , Azrin , and Oxford , 1967 ; Whiting and Mowrer , 1943 ) , or during which the animal has been removed from the punishment situation ( Boroczi , Storms , and Broen , 1964 ; Masserman , 1946 ) . Most of the experiments which have shown that punishment can make a contribution to children 's learning employ discrimination paradigms or other tasks of a type which are not well suited to a demonstration of behavioral suppression ( Brackbill and O'Hara , 1958 ; Nelson , Reid , and Travers , 1965 ; Spence , 1966 ; Stevenson , Weir , and Zigler , 1959 ) . In the paradigms which are used most commonly , the child is required simply to make a correct response to a discriminative stimulus . The incorrect punished response does not have an independent motivation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies of the internalization of behavioral suppression , which will be described later in this chapter , there has been very little empirical work on the use of punishment to suppress the overt manifestations of a motivated behavioral disposition in children . Hollenbcrg and Sperry ( 1951 ) found that punishment had only a mild and temporary suppressive effect on children 's aggression in doll play.Lovaas , // Schaeffer , and Simmons ( 1965 ) have used electric shock as punishment , however , to produce a highly effective suppression of some of the characteristic behavior of autistic children . Other investigators have shown that deprivation of candy can be used as an effective suppressor of either the dominant or the cooperative behavior of children ( Blum and Kennedy , 1967 ; Weingold and Webster , 1964 ) . Outcomes which generally are assumed to have an aversive value do not always have suppressive effects on motivated behavior . It is not uncommon to observe , for example , that mild punishment of an early component in a sequential pattern of motivated behavior may actually facilitate a child 's learning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain and punishment can serve as a signal that a specific performance will produce other outcomes which are highly valued by the child . The findings of a number of experiments with animals have shown that discrimination learning can be facilitated not only by the use of electric shock as an outcome of incorrect responses , but also by the use of shock as an outcome of correct responses ( Curlin and Donahue , 1965 ; Fowler and Wischner , 1965 ; Holz and Azrin , 1962 ; Muenzinger et al. , 1952 ; Prince , 1956 ) . These findings suggest that punishment of mild intensity sometimes may have significant cue properties which facilitate learning because they focus the subject 's attention on relevant discriminative stimuli or because they provide additional information to confirm the correct response . In all of the experiments which are cited above , punishment for the correct response has the informational value of an association with the reward of food for a hungry animal . Moreover , comparisons within and among the experiments clearly indicate that the informational value of the punishment is salient only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , punishment appears to facilitate discriminative control over learning only when it is applied to the suppression of nonrewarded ( incorrect ) behavior ; intense punishment tends to interfere with learning when it is applied to rewarded ( correct ) behavior . In two of the experiments ( Muenzinger et al. , 1952 ; Prince , 1956 ) , a single substantial intensity of shock as an outcome of correct responses facilitated learning only when the animals had first become adapted to the shock . Similar effects have been observed in other experiments ( Murray and Nevin , 1967 ; Sandler , 1964 ) , in which punishment has been introduced into the learning or maintenance of rewarded sequences of behavior which animals are free to perform without the control of explicit discriminative stimuli . Intense punishment has the more common effect of suppression of the behavior , even though performance // continues to be rewarded . Punishment of mild intensity , or punishment that is introduced very gradually , tends to facilitate the performance of the behavior . The context of sequential behavior in which these effects occur suggests the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incentive value , as well as informational value , when they are followed by rewarding outcomes of sufficiently high magnitude . Punishment that is directly contingent on a particular class of overt acts is not the only source of aversive control which can produce behavioral suppression . The occurrence of a stimulus that has been repeatedly associated with a noxious event will independently suppress the well-established behavior which an animal has learned in order to obtain food , even though neither the stimulus nor its noxious correlate has been selectively contingent on the animal 's behavior ( Estes and Skinner , 1941 ; Kamin , 1965 ) . This phenomenon commonly takes the form of a more generalized suppression of ongoing behavior in the presence of the stimulus . It can be attributed to the conditioned aversive affective value which has become attached to the stimulus . The behavioral suppression may be highly persistent when attempts are made to extinguish the value of the suppressive stimulus by eliminating its association with the noxious event ? particularly if the noxious event has been used inconsistently in the original establishment and maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1967 ) . Under certain conditions , a conditioned aversive stimulus may still retain a generalized suppressive effect after an interval of years during which it has not been tested ( Hoffman , Selekman , and Fleshler , 1966 ) . Conditioned aversive stimuli also have been shown to suppress behavior when they are given the function of secondary punishers ? that is , when they are used as selective outcomes of a specific form of behavior ( Hake and Azrin , 1965 ; Seligman , 1966 ) . All of these findings from paradigms for the conditioning of aversive affective value in animals have an obvious parallel in the socialization of children . Many kinds of social cues will acquire a generalized and durable aversive value for children , as a result of their intermittent association with noxious or painful experience . The cues will acquire some of their value because they have served as warning signals of the occurrence of a potential punishment . Other components of their value may be established by their association with the child 's experience of aversive events which are not contingent on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppressors of the child 's ongoing or incipient behavior , without the inuncdiatc support of explicit forms of punishment . Once the aversive // value of certain significant classes of social cues has been established , the cues may actually assume a more extensive role than that of direct punishment in the control of the child 's behavior . Although the socialization process generates a number of distinguishable contingencies for the establishment of aversive control over a child 's behavior , the most important original source of these contingencies is the type of learning situation in which the child 's overt behavior results in punishment . A wide variety of aversive stimulus events which are socially transmitted may produce suppression when they are contingent on a child 's behavior . As was pointed out in Chapter Four , the range of these aversive outcomes goes beyond the more obvious categories such as physical punishment and explicit disapproval or rejection of the child . The disruption of pleasurable activity , the withdrawal of anticipated rewards , and other sources of frustration , are also potentially suppressive outcomes of a child 's behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a multitude of milder stimulus changes which can not be described as punitive , but which nevertheless can function as suppressive outcomes of the child 's behavior , because of their previous association with other events of established aversive value . For example , changes in another person 's tone of voice or facial expression may acquire the function of conditioned suppressors . It is useful to subsume under the concept of punishment all of the types of aversive outcomes which can produce suppression of the behavior on which they are contingent . Some of the forms of punishment which are embraced by such a broad concept will have an aversive value that is entirely acquired . Other forms of punishment may have certain components , such as abrupt physical contact or vocal stimulation of a high magnitude , whose value is highly predetermined by the child 's unlearned dispositions . But the early experience of the child probably results in the attachment of some conditioned anxiety to specific stimulus components of virtually all forms of punishment . Even physical punishment may have elements of aversive value which are the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such events as loss of physical support or withdrawal of a mother 's presence . The precise effects of punishment learning can not be predicted from only a knowledge of the contingencies between the child 's behavior and the occurrence of punishment . In the socialization of the child , punishment seldom produces a generalized suppression of behavior . It is typically the case that suppression of one overt form of the child 's behavior enhances the // probability of occurrence of other active forms of behavior . These alternative forms of behavior may be reinforced not only because they avoid punishment , but also because they produce rewarding social outcomes . The prediction of a child 's internalized choice of conduct in a particular stimulus situation would therefore require a knowledge of the past history of its experience of both punishment and reward for the relevant behavioral alternatives in similar situations . Experiments with animals have demonstrated that punishment makes a more effective contribution to the maintenance of learned behavior when it has been used in paradigms which also provide positive reinforcement of nonpunishcd alternatives to the punished behavior ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mowrer , 1943 ) . Failure to capture the interaction between the effects of punishment and reward undoubtedly accounts in part for the ambiguous findings of some of the surveys which have attempted to assess the relationship between the disciplinary practices of parents and the suppression of socially prohibited behavior by their children ( Burton , Maccoby , and Allinsmith , 1961 ; Grinder , 1962 ; Sears , Rau , and Alpert , 1965 , Chapter 6 ) . The distinct role of punishment in producing internalized aversive control of the child 's behavior can be separated out , however , in experimental paradigms of socialization which eliminate variation in the effects of positive reinforcement . Among the different types of interaction between positive and aversive control of the child 's behavior , probably the most important determinant of the suppressive effect of punishment is the positive incentive or reinforcement for the punished behavior itself . Common observation reveals that it is often difficult to produce suppression of behavior which has highly valued positive outcomes for a child . Most of the behavior that is exposed to punishment in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlearned or acquired value for the child . And in many instances , the reaction of a parent to a child 's behavior may be a source of simultaneous reward and punishment . There is consistent evidence from studies of animal learning that the effectiveness of the suppression which is produced by punishment is inversely related to the magnitude , frequency , and immediacy of positive reinforcement of the punished behavior , and also to various indices of the strength of the motivation that is relevant to the positive reinforcement ( Brown , Anderson , and Brown , 1966 ; Church and Raymond , 1967 ; Ferraro , 1966 ; Martin , 1963 ; Miller , 1959 ) . The results of other experiments indicate that punished behavior is most sharply suppressed when the punishment is well removed in time from the point at which the behavior receives positive reinforcement // ( Akhtar , 1967 ; Holz and Azrin , 1963 ; Williams and Barry , 1966 ) . This last finding suggests that the positive affectivity which is induced by reward may actually arrest or attenuate the aversive affectivity which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the findings of experiments which have examined the effects of the interaction of positive and aversive intracranial stimulation ( Buckwalter et al. , 1967 ; Olds and Olds , 1965 ) . Observations of children in both naturalistic and experimental situations confirm the expectation that the effectiveness of their suppression of socially prohibited and punished behavior will be inversely related to the strength of their positive motivation for the behavior . For example , Liebert and Ora ( 1968 ) have placed children in a situation where they could privately adhere to or violate the prohibition that was implied in the imposition of a high performance criterion on their self-administration of token rewards . Children for whom the tokens represented a highly valued positive incentive violated the prohibitions more frequently than did children for whom the tokens represented no additional incentive . The same type of relationship appears when well-established socialized dispositions , rather than the controlled incentives of a specific experimental situation , are used to assess children 's positive motivation for prohibited behavior . Mischel and Gilligan ( 1964 ) found that the extent to which children cheated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ index of the strength of their need for achievement . Pearlin , Yarrow , and Scarr ( 1967 ) have observed that the children who are most likely to cheat in achievement tasks are those who experience the greatest pressure for success from their parents . There is also some more indirect evidence that the suppressive effect of potential punishment is stronger when the child 's behavioral dispositions are relatively free of its anticipation of the immediately pleasurable consequences of its actions . Mischel ( 1961a ) found that children who were identified as delinquent more frequently chose an immediate smaller reward , in preference to a delayed larger reward , than did children who were not identified as delinquent . The findings of Mischel and Gilligan ( 1964 ) indicated that children 's dispositions to cheat were inversely related to their dispositions to choose delayed rewards . Livson and Mussen ( 1957 ) found that children who were most persistent at a task for which reward was delayed were also least aggressive in their nursery school setting . Grim , Kohlberg , and White ( 1968 ) also have found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheating . Some of the findings which are summarized above clearly imply that a // child 's orientation toward delayed rewards supports its maintenance of suppression of punished forms of behavior which may have more immediately rewarding outcomes . But it does not appear that the facilitative effect of an orientation toward delayed reward on the suppression of punished behavior can be attributed merely to a reduction in the intensity of the positive affective arousal that might be associated with the anticipation of an immediately pleasurable outcome at a behavioral choice point . Other evidence suggests that both the maintenance of behavioral suppression and the orientation toward delayed reward are closely related to the temporal span of the child 's cognitive representation of anticipated outcomes of its behavioral choices ( Brock and Del Giudice , 1963 ; Mischel , 1961a ) . Brock and Del Giudice found , for example , that children who were most likely to steal money from an experimenter also showed the shortest temporal span in their construction of stories . A theoretical conception of the role of punishment in the establishment of internalized behavioral suppression was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mechanisms of socialization ( see the analysis of behavior-contingent aversive learning in Chapter Four ) . Here only an abbreviated version of the conception is required in order to introduce the rationale of the design of a series of experiments . Any form of behavior may be defined as a transgression for a child when it has become discriminably associated with punishment that is sufficiently aversive to produce some degree of behavioral suppression . The punishment is always a social constraint on the child 's behavior , even though it may not occur in a verbal context that would provide the child with a cognitive structure for evaluation of the transgression . One effect of the punishment is to condition anxiety directly to the discriminative behavioral cues and cognitive representations which are intrinsically correlated with the transgression ( for example , to the child 's cognitive representation of an actual performance of the transgression ) . The subsequent elicitation of anxiety by the intrinsic correlates of transgression is then the source of the motivation for the child 's suppression of the transgression in the absence of potential agents of punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentions , and to other cognitive or behavioral precursors of the transgression , as well as to the intrinsic correlates of an overt performance of the transgression . Punishment of a child 's transgression will usually not produce a generalized passive suppression of behavior , but will instead facilitate the appearance of active behavioral alternatives to the transgression . Behavioral alternatives to transgression acquire a value that corresponds to reduc- // tion or inhibition of anxiety , in part because of their effectiveness in avoiding or terminating punishment ( or warning signals ) , and in part because they arrest the anxiety that has already become attached to the intrinsic correlates of an incipient or ongoing transgression . Anxiety-reduction thus becomes directly conditioned to the behavioral and cognitive correlates of an act which is not punished . And the child 's non-punished behavior receives the reinforcement that is inherent in anxiety-reduction , even though it may have no reinforcing external consequences . This conception of the internalization of punishment learning is an extension of the two-process conceptions of aversive learning which have been formulated largely on the findings of experiments on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapter 2 ; Solomon and Brush , 1956 ) . These conceptions make a fundamental distinction between two processes which interact in the control of aversive learning . The first process is the Pavlovian conditioning of anxiety to either external cues or the intrinsic stimulus correlates of behavior . The second process is the reinforcement of behavior which is instrumental to the reduction of the anxiety . One way of testing the applicability of such a conception to the internalization of behavioral suppression is to examine the effect of the timing of punishment within as well as beyond the components of a punished act . The use of such an experimental design as an approach to the mechanisms of internalization was first suggested by R. L. Solomon ( Mowrer , 1960b , pp. 399-404 ) . // THE TEMPORAL LOCUS OF ANXIETY Variation in the timing of punishment is particularly well suited to the problem of uncovering the mechanisms through which children internalize their control of behavioral suppression . When any form of conduct acquires some independence of social surveillance and external outcomes , it does not also become free of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishment attaches to an act is rarely ( or perhaps never ) indiscriminate with respect to the external conditions under which the act occurs . The affective consequences of the onset , performance , or termination of the act , and of the behavioral alternatives to the act , continue to be governed by a stimulus complex that includes both internal and external cues , even though the child 's behavioral choices may no longer be controlled by external reinforcing outcomes . In order to isolate the component of anxiety that has become attached to the discriminative cues and cognitive representations which are intrinsically correlated to punished behavior , it is therefore necessary to vary the temporal relationship between these intrinsic correlates and the occurrence of punishment , while the temporal position of external situational cues remains relatively constant . Any act may be thought of as having a number of sequential intrinsic components . These components include intentions or other precursors of the act , motoric or cognitive correlates of the initiation and performance of the act , and corresponding intrinsic correlates which extend beyond the point of completion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anxiety by the intrinsic correlates of a transgression , then the temporal locus of the original punishment should be a potentially powerful determinant of the point at which subsequent suppression will be motivated most effectively . Punishment at the point of a child 's initiation of a transgression would attach maximal internalized anxiety to the intrinsic correlates of transgression which are present at that point . Conversely , punishment that follows the child 's completion of a transgression would attach a greater intensity of anxiety to the intrinsic correlates of completion . Of course , the point of maximal intensity of anxiety could be varied more widely , within the course of punished behavior , if the behavior had sequential components with some duration in time . In short , the timing of punishment would be expected to determine the point at which Pavlovian conditioning mechanisms would attach the greatest intensity of anxiety to the sequential intrinsic correlates of punished behavior . And to the extent that behavioral alternatives to the punished behavior are motivated // by anxiety ( and reinforced by anxiety-reduction ) , they would have a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incipient transgression if punishment originally occurred at the onset of the transgression , even though the child may no longer perceive any risk of punishment . It is a well-established finding that the suppressive effect of punishment is a function of the immediacy with which the punishment follows the punished act . Experiments with animals in a variety of learning paradigms have shown that the strength of behavioral suppression falls off quite rapidly with increasing delay of punishment ( Baron , 1965 ; Bixenstine , 1956 ; Camp , Raymond , and Church , 1967 ; Kamin , 1959 ; Mowrer and Ullman , 1945 ) . Banks and Vogel-Sprott ( 1965 ) have observed the same difference between the effects of immediate and delayed punishment on the learned performance of human adults . The findings of an experiment that was reported by Azrin ( 1956 ) may be especially relevant to the effect of the timing of the inconsistent punishment contingencies which children commonly experience in the course of socialization . Azrin used punishment that was scheduled to occur in either a fixed or variable interval pattern , and found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rats than was delayed punishment . The indices of suppression which have been used for investigations of the effects of timing of punishment generally are based on the performance of nonperformance of a single active form of punished behavior , rather than on the subject 's choice among active forms of behavior under the control of discriminative stimuli . But Walters ( 1964 ) found that immediate punishment was also more effective than delayed punishment in facilitating the discrimination learning of children , in a situation where correct choices were rewarded and incorrect choices punished . In all of the experiments which have been cited , the timing of punishment was varied only across points which followed completion of the punished act . The timing was not varied within the components of the act . Other experiments have shown , however , that suppression is most effective when punishment follows closely on the initiation of punished behavior ( Bolles and Warren , 1966 ) , and also that the sequential components of punished behavior are differentially suppressed in proportion to the closeness with which they precede the occurrence of punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been outlined here , for the effect of the timing of punishment on the internalization of behavioral suppression , was initially confirmed by an experiment in which nine- and ten-year-old // boys were the subjects and a male experimenter took the role of the socializing agent ( Aronfreed and Reber , 1965 ) . Each child was confronted with a discrimination learning task during which he had to choose between two toys on each of nine training trials . A different pair of toys was used on each trial , but each pair consisted of one toy that was highly attractive and another that was relatively unattractive . All of the toys were small replicas of common objects in the child 's environment . The child was instructed to pick up the toy in each pair that he wished to tell about , and then to describe its function at the agent 's request . He was told also that certain toys were " only supposed to be for older boys , " and that he was not supposed to choose these toys . But he was given no further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child was permitted to pick up the unattractive toy , and to describe its function , without any punishment . When he chose an attractive toy , however , the experimental agent punished his choice with verbal disapproval : " No ! ? that 's for the older boys . " In one experimental paradigm , the agent always administered punishment just as the child was reaching for an attractive toy and before he actually touched it . In a second experimental paradigm , the child was permitted to complete the transgression of picking up the attractive toy before the agent administered punishment ( roughly two or three seconds after the toy had been lifted ) . The agent simultaneously expressed his disapproval and removed the toy from the child 's hand , where it was being held and displayed in accordance with the instructions . There was also a control paradigm in which children were never given the opportunity to pick up toys or to experience explicit punishment . They were instructed only to point to the toy of their choice , and both toys were simply removed without comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training trials , all of the children initially preferred the attractive toys . But the children in the two experimental groups shifted their choices to the unattractive toys after only one , two , or three punishments . And they consistently chose the unattractive toys thereafter . It was evident that the children discriminated easily between the two classes of toys , and that they quickly perceived the association between the choice of an attractive toy and the occurrence of punishment . Yet despite the narrow range of variation in the speed of learning , the children who were punished at initiation of a transgression suppressed their attractive choices after significantly fewer punishments than did the children who were punished at completion of a transgression . This finding was in accordance , of course , with // the expectation that the suppressive effect of punishment would be a function of its temporal contiguity to the initiation of a punished act . The more dramatic effect of the timing of punishment appeared , however , during a common test for internalization that directly followed both of the punishment paradigms . This test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of surveillance and of any risk of punishment . Two test objects were introduced as the first pair of toys in another choice task . Again , one toy was highly attractive and the other was unattractive . The agent then left the room on a pretext that would obviously take him far from the scene , and the child remained alone for five minutes within a protective nest of room-divider screens . The criterion of internalization was the observation of whether the behavioral suppression that had been acquired during training was still effective in the absence of the agent of punishment . When the agent returned to the experimental room , he was able to observe a covert marker which indicated whether or not the child had picked up or handled the attractive toy . There was a much smaller incidence of transgression during the test among children who had been punished at initiation of transgression than there was among children who had been punished at completion of transgression , even though the former group actually had received fewer punishments during the training . Among the thirty-four children who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handle or pick up the attractive test toy . But among the same number of children who had been punished at completion of transgression , only ten refrained from transgression during the test . The behavior of the children from the control paradigm made it clear that the highly reliable difference between the two groups of children from the punishment paradigms , in the effectiveness of their internalized suppression of punished behavior , was attributable to variation in the timing of punishment and not to the difference in the opportunity to pick up attractive toys during training . Twenty children in the control paradigm had no opportunity to pick up any toys during their training . Yet almost all of them picked up the attractive test toy . As is often true in naturalistic socialization , restriction of opportunity to transgress was insufficient , without explicit punishment , to produce internalized suppression of the children 's dominant behavioral dispositions . These basic findings have been more powerfully replicated and broadened in a recent extensive series of experiments ( Aronfreed , 1966 ) . Fxcept for certain minor modifications , the procedures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described . The age range of the // subjects was widened to include children who were eight to ten years old . Boys and girls were used in equal numbers in each punishment training paradigm . The children were exposed to ten training trials , and the punishment was expanded to include deprivation of candy ( that had already been given to the child ) as well as verbal disapproval . In the paradigms which simply varied the timing of punishment , there was no reference , during either instructions or punishment , to certain of the toys being appropriate only for older children . The child was told that there were some toys which it was not supposed to choose , and that it would be punished if it chose these toys . But the agent gave no further cognitive structure with which the child could identify the punished choices or account for the constraint on its behavior . The learning situation was reduced essentially to choices and outcomes . During the test for internalization , the agent remained out of the room for ten minutes . A covert monitoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the amount of elapsed time ( latency ) since the agent had left the room . Forty children were used in each of four paradigms which represented variations in the timing of punishment for choices of attractive toys : punishment when the child reached for the toy , punishment when the child completed the act of lifting the toy , punishment after the child had held the toy aloft for six seconds , and punishment after the child had described the toy 's function in response to the agent 's inquiry ( roughly twelve or more seconds after the child had lifted the toy ) . Comparisons across these training paradigms indicated that suppression of attractive choices tended to appear more slowly with increasing delay of punishment ? a tendency that was in accordance with the expectation that more immediate punishment would have a facilitative effect on performance in a discrimination learning task . Paradigms which represented adjacent values of timing of punishment were not reliably different , however , in the number of punishment ( error ) trials which were required to produce suppression , because all of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive and unattractive toys . Regardless of the timing of punishment , all of the children undoubtedly had the benefit of their cognitive representations of the contingency between attractive choices and the occurrence of punishment . The absence of a significant effect of the timing of punishment on the speed of learning also has been observed in other experiments which have used the punishment of a social agent to produce discriminative suppression in the behavior of either children or dogs ( Parke and Walters , 1967 ; Solomon , Turner , and Lessac , 1968 ; Walters , Parke , and Cane , 1965 ) . // The more striking effect of the timing of punishment was apparent in the strength of behavioral suppression when the agent of punishment was absent during the ten-minute test for internalization . Latency of transgression was used as an index of suppression during the test situation , and no transgression at all was treated as a maximal latency . The strength of internalized suppression was a direct function of the immediacy of punishment during training . The earlier was the punishment during training , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experimental effect was quite powerful and was reliably sensitive to differences between each two adjacent values on the parameter of timing of punishment . The findings have been completely replicated with both male and female socializing agents . and also with certain variations of the agent 's pretext for leaving the room . Separate analyses of the findings for boys and girls showed that the experimental effect was essentially the same for the two sexes . The effect of the timing of punishment on children 's internalization of behavioral suppression has been largely confirmed by the findings of other investigators who have adopted the same general experimental design ( Parke and Walters , 1967 ; Walters et al. , 1965 ) . The same effect also has been demonstrated in experiments with dogs ( R. L. Solomon , in Mowrer , 1960b , pp. 399 ? 404 ; Solomon et al. , 1968 ) . These experiments have shown that punishment upon a puppy 's approach to a forbidden food will produce more prolonged suppression , during a subsequent test in which the punitive agent is absent , than will punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of the timing of punishment as a determinant of the strength of internalized behavioral suppression provides strong support for the view that the suppression is under the control of the intensity of the anxiety that has become attached to the discriminative cues or cognitive representations which are intrinsically correlated to a transgression . The fact that the timing of punishment so markedly affects the internalized persistence of a complete suppression of transgression , when the locus of punishment has been varied within the sequential components of the punished act , indicates even more specifically that suppression of the initiation of transgression is controlled by the anxiety that becomes attached to the intrinsic correlates of the incipient act . The close relationship between the timing of punishment and the effectiveness of internalized suppression also provides some indirect support for the hypothesis that nonpunished behavioral alternatives to a child 's transgressions are reinforced by the anxiety-reducing value that becomes conditioned to their intrinsic correlates. ' there was more direct confirmation of // the operation of an anxiety-reduction mechanism in some additional findings from the experimental series which used four variations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which followed all of the punishment training paradigms , the covert monitoring system recorded the latencies with which the children picked up both the attractive and unattractive test toys . The latencies with which the children picked up the unattractive toy tended to be inversely related to the delay of punishment during training , just as in the case of the latencies for picking up the attractive toy . The more immediate had been the punishment of attractive choices during training , the longer was the elapsed time before a child would pick up the unattractive toy during the test ( although differences between paradigms which represented adjacent points on the timing parameter were not always reliable ) . There appeared to be some generalization , then , of the suppression that had been induced by punishment of the children 's choices of attractive toys . But the overwhelmingly typical test behavior of all of the children was nevertheless a pattern of picking up the unattractive toy before picking up the attractive toy . This last finding was in sharp contrast to the findings of other independent tests which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attractive toy . It pointed quite clearly to the possibility that nonpunished choices of unattractive toys might have acquired anxiety-reducing reinforcement value for the children in the course of the training paradigms . Further analysis of the differences among the contingencies of the four punishment training paradigms suggested that the reinforcement of a child 's non-punished choices , through a mechanism of anxiety-reduction , might well have been highly sensitive to signals which were created by the consistency of a fixed temporal locus of punishment . During the early phase of any discriminative punishment learning , when a child has not yet fully decoded the external information that will enable it to distinguish between punished and nonpunished behavior , it will necessarily experience some anxiety in connection with any behavioral choice that it is about to make . And the reduction of the child 's anxiety after a non-punished choice will initially be dependent on external cues which have acquired the value of signals of the avoidance of punishment . The occurrence of these signals of punishment-avoidance will therefore enhance the suppression of the child 's transgressions by serving to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments in the animal laboratory clearly // support the expectation that a stimulus will acquire the capacity to inhibit or attenuate anxiety when it functions as a signal that the animal will not be subjected to electric shock ( Rescorla and LoLordo , 1965 ; Weisman et al. , 1966 ) . Under the conditions of naturalistic socialization , the occurrence and timing of social signals of punishment-avoidance will often have an unpredictable relationship to the timing of punishment . But the four punishment paradigms of the experiment that has been described here were constructed in such a way that the child always received its first signal of punishment-avoidance , as an outcome of its choice of an unattractive toy , at precisely the same point in time at which its choice of an attractive toy would have been punished ? for example , when the child 's hand arrived at a toy without punishment in the first paradigm , when the child was asked to describe a toy after picking it up in the second paradigm , and whenever the child would have been punished for an attractive choice in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be attached to signals of punishment-avoidance , the reinforcement of a non-punished choice would be expected to be inversely related to the delay between the initiation of the choice and the occurrence of the signals . There would thus be a delay-of-reinforcement effect for non-punished choices , which would be parallel to the delay-of-punishment effect for punished choices , across the four variations of timing in the training paradigms . The variability in the timing of external signals of punishmentavoidance , across the original four training paradigms , suggested a more explicit test of the role of anxiety-reduction in the strengthening of internalized behavioral suppression . Forty additional children were exposed to a modification of one of the original paradigms . In the modified paradigm , the timing of punishment was maintained at a locus of six seconds after the child had lifted an attractive toy ( the third value on the original timing parameter ) . But the signal of punishment-avoidance now occurred at an earlier point ? the point at which the child had just lifted an unattractive toy . The effect of this paradigm on the children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an early signal of punishment-avoidance would strengthen internalized suppression by providing greater reinforcement of the behavioral alternatives to transgression . The children showed the usual test choice pattern of first picking up the unattractive toy . Moreover , the latencies with which they picked up the unattractive toy were comparable to the latencies for the children from the original third paradigm that served as the baseline for the timing of punishment ( in which the punishment and the signal of punishment-avoidance // were equally delayed ) . However , the children who had been trained under the early signal of punishment-avoidance showed more prolonged suppression of the transgression of picking up the attractive test toy than did the children from the original baseline paradigm . Although the monitoring system did not provide information about the duration of the children 's handling of the two test toys , it is reasonable to suppose that the children who received the early signal of punishment-avoidance during training may have spent more time in handling the unattractive test toy before they picked up the attractive toy . In any case , the pattern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the view that behavioral alternatives to transgression acquire internalized reinforcement value as a result of the anxiety-reduction which becomes conditioned to their intrinsic correlates . Variation in the timing of punishment is clearly a useful artificial device for teasing out the mechanisms of the internalization of behavioral suppression . The effect of the timing of punishment supports a conception of the internalization process which is grounded on the conditioning of the excitation and inhibition of aversive effectivity to intrinsic correlates of the child 's behavior . But common observation suggests that the timing of punishment can hardly be a crucial determinant of the effectiveness with which children internalize their behavioral suppressions under naturalistic socialization . Of course , the social environment generates many sources of aversive control over a child 's behavior . Once a child has had some experience with direct and explicit punishment of a specific form of behavior , the role of punishment in suppressing the behavior can easily be displaced to social cues which have acquired secondary aversive value through their previous association with the punishment . A child 's incipient or ongoing transgressions will frequently be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emitted in the behavior of others . However , even when this extension of aversive control is taken into account , it is obvious that parents and other agents of socialization will have few opportunities to arrest the course of a transgression before it is committed . The mobility of young children increases radically during their early development , and their behavior comes to be under increasingly distant surveillance . Their experience of punishment will therefore necessarily have its greatest density of occurrence after transgressions are socially perceived as having been already committed . It can he seen that an account of the effectiveness of naturalistic socialization in producing internalized behavioral suppression presents the same // problem as does an account of whatever internalized suppression was produced by the experimental paradigms in which punishment was delayed to various points in time beyond the initiation of an attractive choice . The problem is essentially one of finding a route by which the intensity of the internalized anxiety that is mobilized at the point of an incipient transgression can be sufficient to motivate any suppression of the initiation of the transgression , despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encountered by the child until the transgressions already have been committed . Naturalistic socialization has a number of features which would govern the occurrence of punishment and anxiety in such a way as to guarantee effective internalized suppression , without requiring that parents be able to anticipate the point at which a transgression will be initiated . For example , the patterning of the temporal contingencies between a parent 's punishment and a child 's behavior will often be determined by the duration or intermittency of the behavior . Parents frequently punish after a discrete act that the child already has committed but is about to repeat . Their punishment can therefore attach substantial anxiety directly to the intrinsic correlates of an incipient transgression , even though the punishment is not elicited until a transgression has been visibly committed . This pattern of contingencies was not present , however , in the experimental paradigms which controlled the timing of punishment , since there the transgression was a discrete choice that could not be repeated on a single trial . Naturalistic socialization also often has the advantage of introducing punishment into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sequentially different components in its behavioral topography . The intrinsic discriminative cues and cognitive representations which are directly correlated to such a continuous topography would tend to be relatively uniform between the point of initiation of a transgression and the later point at which punishment may attach anxiety to the transgression . The delayed punishment that is characteristic of naturalistic socialization is also made more effective by punishment-avoidance contingencies which reinforce suppression even after a transgression has been committed . The relatively weak internalized suppression that was produced by the longer delays of punishment in the experimental paradigms may have been partially attributable to designed constraints on contingencies for the avoidance of punishment . In the experimental paradigms , a child 's suppression was instrumental to the avoidance of punishment only when it prevented the occurrence of a transgression . Once the child had initiated // the choice of an attractive toy , it was given no opportunity for a corrective suppression . Consequently , suppression could not acquire much value for reduction of the anxiety that was becoming attached to the occurrence of committed transgressions in the course of training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that suppression loses its instrumentality for punishment-avoidance when the child already has committed a transgression . However , parents often modulate their punitive behavior in ways which permit the child to avoid or reduce punishment by suppressing an ongoing or repeated transgression . The child 's behavioral suppression can therefore acquire some intrinsic anxiety-reducing value even when it does not initially prevent the occurrence of a transgression . In the full context of a parent 's characteristic habits of discipline , a child 's internalization of behavioral suppression would also be determined by the interaction between the timing of punishment and a number of other regularities in the parent 's behavior . For example , Burton et at . ( 1961 ) found that young children whose mothers reported that they intervened before their children had touched a forbidden object were actually somewhat more likely to transgress , in a controlled situation which was designed to test private conformity to an externally imposed rule , than were the children of mothers who reported that they punished after their children were already playing with the object . This finding . must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ findings from the same study , which suggested that the children who were most prone to transgress were also those whose mothers more generally gave relatively close supervision to their activities . It is by no means clear that a mother 's disposition to arrest potential transgressions is an index of the readiness or vigor of her punitive reactions to the child 's committed transgressions . On the contrary , there is evidence to suggest that parents who supervise their young children closely enough to constrain opportunities for transgression may also be less punitively oriented to the actual occurrence of transgression ( Davis and Havighurst , 1946 ; Kohn , 1959 ; Maccoby and Gibbs et at. , 1954 ) . The children of these parents may have quite limited experience with the more intense and suppressive forms of direct punishment , because their parents are using preventive and verbal socialization more extensively , with the aim of inducing what will eventually be a more internalized governor of conduct . It is also possible that their parents are more highly selective in the active suppression of very specific kinds of socially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's exploratory and manipulative dispositions , with the result that the children show relatively little generalized he182 CHAPTER SEVEN havioral suppression in novel or unfamiliar situations ( such as those which are commonly designed as tests of children 's private conformity to the rules of a game ) . A mechanism of stimulus generalization might be considered as a more general route by which the punishment that follows completion of a transgression would also attach some anxiety to the self-produced behavioral cues which are intrinsically associated with initiation of the transgression . Punishment that occurs after the completion of an act would attach maximal anxiety to the intrinsic correlates of the act which are immediately present at that point . But there might be some similarity or overlap among the sequential discriminative cues which are inherent in the different behavioral components of the punished act . And a certain amount of anxiety might consequently generalize to the intrinsic cues which are associated with the behavioral precursors or initiation of the act . However , the backward generalization of anxiety from a completed to an incipient punished act , across the sequential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weak and temporally narrow basis for an account of the effectiveness of delayed punishment in producing internalized suppression , if it were mediated only by perceptual information from motor components of the act . The generalization would be limited by the differences among the specific cues at different points in the motor sequence . An even more severe limitation is apparent in the contingencies of naturalistic socialization , where punishment most frequently occurs long after the point at which the inherent perceptual-motor traces of a punished act would still be present . Under these conditions , the traces could not provide a bridge for the movement of anxiety to the point of initiation of subsequent transgressions . When punishment does occur after the initiation of a transgression , but while later intrinsic stimulus components of the transgression are still present ? for example , during the course of a transgression ? then the intensity of the anxiety that becomes attached to the intrinsic cues of an incipient transgression should attenuate across a generalization gradient . Of course , the similarity among the sequential discriminative cues which are embedded in a punished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact locus of punishment , would tend to be dependent on the temporal distance between specific cues , since the topography of the act would change as it moved from initiation to completion . When the relevant cues are sufficiently close to one another , the anxiety that generalizes to the cues of the incipient act may sometimes retain enough intensity to motivate subsequent suppressions of the act before it is committed . The operation of // such a phenomenon is suggested in the findings of an experiment that was conducted by Walters and Demkow ( 1963 ) , in which children were punished for transgression at one of two temporal positions which cut a rather fine difference into the intrinsic topography of the punished act . These investigators used reaching for a toy and touching a toy as their two contrasting loci of punishment . This variation of timing undoubtedly would have produced a substantial amount of overlap between the gradients of generalization of anxiety which were derived from two points of punishment which were so closely adjacent . And in a subsequent test of internalized suppression of the punished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of the children who had been punished at the earlier point . All of the considerations which have been outlined here point to one conclusion : that mechanisms for the conditioning of affectivity give only a partial account of the internalized suppression which can be induced by punishment that occurs over a wide spectrum of temporal relationship to the punished behavior . It appears that the internalized control of behavior which is produced by even the simplest forms of punishment training can not be understood unless a central place is assigned to the representational function of the child 's cognitive capacities . Cognitive representation eliminates any requirement that the internalized mediation of affectivity be monitored by the discriminative cues which are intrinsically available in the topography of the child 's overt behavior . Changes of affectivity can be carried much more effectively by cognitive structures which assume the function of a common intrinsic representational bridge across the entire sequence of behavioral and external cues that unfolds as a punished act is initiated and completed . The medium of language is the most discriminant channel of communication through which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representation and evaluation of its behavior . It is the cognitive structures which are transmitted in the verbal communicaition of socializing agents , rather than the cues which are immediately inherent in overt behavior , which are the most powerful and extensive mediators of internalized affective control over the child 's behavior . Language is the foundation of cognitive capacities which are not restricted to the direct or concrete representation of acts and their consequences . The capacity for symbolic representation makes abstract concepts and standards available to the child . These concepts and standards can be used to make complex discriminations within and among large classes of behavior , along cognitive dimensions which represent the properties of the behavior , the conse184 CHAPTER SEVEN consequences of the behavior for the child or for others , and the external conditions under which the behavior may occur . The child 's experience in a social environment is the generator of the development of these abstract representations . It is also the source of the affective values which become attached to different points along their cognitive dimensions . Verbal communication is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the timing of punishment as a determinant of internalized suppression . The verbal medium of socialization makes it possible for the locus of internalized anxiety to become independent of the original temporal relationship between a punished act and the occurrence of punishment . Behavioral or motivational precursors of a transgression can be given verbal and cognitive representations by both the socializing agent and the child , in direct conjunction with the occurrence of punishment , at points in time which are well beyond the termination of the transgression . These representations can then intercede to elicit conditioned anxiety and suppression before subsequent incipient transgressions are committed , since they can move relatively freely across specific behavioral and environmental cues . The intensity of the anxiety that is available to motivate the child 's internalized suppression therefore does not require monitoring by the discriminative cues which are inherent in the actual performance of the transgression . The power of cognitive structure in the child 's internalization of control over its behavior can be demonstrated in the effects of a number of extensions of the punishment learning paradigms which were used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1966 ) . The differential strength of internalized suppression that was induced by the original four variations in the timing of punishment was a product of paradigms in which children were given no cognitive structure for the representation of the criteria of transgression or of its relationship to punishment . In the extension series , however , one among several variations of a basic cognitive structure was verbally injected into each of a number of different paradigms . All of the paradigms had as their common baseline for the timing of punishment a delay of six seconds after the child had lifted an attractive toy ( the third value of the original four variations in timing ) . Equal numbers of boys and girls were again used in each paradigm . And the basic procedure remained essentially the same as that used in the original timing paradigms . But the adult socializing agent added to the instructions , and to the administration of each punishment in the course of training , a verbal statement which transmitted a cognitive structure that focussed on the relaBEHAVIORAL // tive ease and difficulty of describing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initially that it would be punished when it chose toys which were " hard to tell about " and therefore appropriate only for older children . And the agent made a corresponding statement about the difficulty and appropriateness of the child 's choice in direct conjunction with the occurrence of each punishment . During the test for internalized suppression which followed training , observations were made of the occurrence and latency of the transgression of picking up the attractive toy . Among the forty children who were exposed to punishment training in the context of this kernel cognitive structure of ease versus difficulty , there was a marked facilitation of suppression during the test for internalization , in comparison to the suppression that had been shown by children who were trained in the original baseline timing paradigm ( in which the delay of punishment was identical , but without the provision of any cognitive structure ) . Although this finding is based on punishment learning and pertains to the internalized maintenance of learned behavior , rather than to the learning process itself , it is in general agreement with the findings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been shown to facilitate children 's transfer of discriminations learned under the control of rewarding outcomes ( Kendler , 1963 ; Reese , 1966 ) . Another twenty children were then exposed to the same cognitive structure in a paradigm in which the verbal transmission of the structure did not occur in direct conjunction with punishment . The cognitive structure was verbalized instead in the intertrial interval that followed each punished choice , so that it actually occurred at ten to twelve seconds after the punishment . This paradigm also produced reliably stronger suppression , during the test for internalization , than did the original baseline timing paradigm which provided no cognitive structure . However , the strength of the internalized suppression was reliably less than that produced by the paradigm in which the agent verbalized cognitive structure in direct association with the occurrence of each punishment . The pattern of findings clearly supports the inference that cognitive structure facilitates the child 's internalized suppression of punished behavior to the extent that the structure has become a conditioned monitor of anxiety . It appears that the anxiety which punishment attaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even though socialization originally transmits both the punishment and the representations after the behavior has been committed . // Some even more striking findings emerged from additional paradigms in which the basic cognitive structure of ease versus difficulty in describing the toys was further elaborated to focus on the child 's intentions . In the first of these paradigms , the experimental agent stated during the instructions , and in direct conjunction with each punishment of an attractive choice , that the child was being punished for wanting to pick up a toy that was appropriate only for description by older children . This paradigm again produced reliably stronger internalized suppression , among the forty children who were exposed to it , than did the original baseline timing paradigm which provided no cognitive structure . But the focus on the child 's intentions did not produce reliably stronger suppression than that produced by the paradigm which used only the kernel cognitive structure of ease versus difficulty . It was then noted that in all of the paradigms which had been designed up to this point , the verbal instructions had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanting to pick up ) certain toys . In the paradigm in which the agent had verbalized a cognitive focus on the child 's intentions , the intended behavioral component ( picking up ) , as well as the intention itself , therefore already had occurred when punishment was administered at the point where the child had been holding a toy for six seconds . Accordingly , another twenty children were used in a paradigm which converted all verbal communication , during both instruction and administration of punishment , to an emphasis on telling about the toys and on wanting to tell . This variation was designed in such a way that the relevant intention ( wanting to tell ) would be present at the point of punishment , still six seconds after the child had lifted an attractive toy . But the intended behavioral component of telling would not yet have occurred . The verbalization of a cognitive focus on the child 's intentions now did produce reliably stronger suppression , during the test for internalization , than had been produced by the verbalization of the kernel cognitive structure which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishment training under these conditions in fact most commonly showed complete suppression of the transgression of handling the attractive test object . The frequency of complete suppression was equivalent to the frequency for children who had been punished immediately upon reaching for attractive toys in the first of the original four paradigms which varied only the timing of punishment . Finally , one other variation of a verbalized focus on intentions was carried out with twenty additional children . The cognitive structure that was verbalized to the child in this last paradigm again represented punishment // as the consequence of wanting to tell about toys which were appropriate choices only for older children . Punishment was actually administered , however , after the child already had told about an attractive toy , so that now both the intention and the intended behavioral component of telling had occurred before the punishment ( as in the first attempt to construct a training paradigm that focussed on intentions ) . Once again , the focus on the child 's intentions had no specific effect on the strength of suppression during the test for internalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that produced by the kernel cognitive structure of ease versus difficulty . Apparently , the verbal representation of a child 's intention facilitates internalization of behavioral suppression only when the occurrence of punishment is closely and distinctly linked in time to the intention itself . A verbalized focus on intention seems to contribute little to internalized control of behavior , beyond the general mediational properties of any cognitive structure , when punishment does not separate intention from performance of the intended behavior . The strength of the internalized suppression that can be produced , when punishment is directly associated with the child 's intentions , is another kind of evidence that suppression is highly sensitive to the intensity of the anxiety which becomes attached to intrinsic precursors of punished behavior . The evidence is also of considerable interest because of the special place that is given to intentions in accounts of the child 's acquisition of moral judgement ( Kohlberg , 1969 ; Piaget , 1948 ) . The child 's capacity for cognitive representation also enables it to acquire dispositions toward suppression which are not originally dependent on the effectiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialization provides many opportunities for children to learn selective suppression of certain forms of behavior through their observation of the behavior of others . Some observational learning of this kind may actually occur through the child 's imitative reproduction of the punitive reactions which socializing agents show toward its transgressions . The opportunity for the use of an agent of punishment as a model of suppression is particularly evident in the case of acquired control over aggressive behavior . Many investigators have pointed out that models of aggression often may be provided for the child in a parent 's punishment of transgression ( Bandura and Walters , 1959 , 1963b ; Miller and Swanson el al. , 1960 ; Sears , Maccoby , and Levin , 1957 , Chapter 7 ) . Conversely , one might expect that a parent 's punitive behavior would sometimes provide a model for the suppression of aggressive behavior . Parents frequently exer188 CHAPTER SEVEN cise obvious restraints on their aggressive dispositions in the course of reacting to their children 's behavior . Some of their punitive and mildly aggressive reactions may acquire potential intrinsic value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the anticipatory anxiety that follows a transgression . The child 's imitative tendencies may then lead it to reproduce these reactions and their acquired anxiety-reducing value when its anxiety is subsequently elicited either by its own incipient aggressive behavior or by the behavior of others . Accordingly , the child 's disposition to control its aversive experience through imitation would produce learning of some of the more socially permissible forms of aggression and a corresponding facilitation of the suppression of socially prohibited forms . There are other kinds of imitative control of internalized suppression which may not even require the child 's direct experience of aversive events . The stimulation of a social environment will often elicit a child 's empathic or vicarious anxiety in ways which are not contingent on its own behavior . For example , the child may observe aggressive or threatening interactions between adults or peers . It then also has the opportunity to observe models whose actions may terminate such interactions and so eliminate the external source of its anxiety . These actions may represent the suppression of socially prohibited forms of behavior and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extent that the actions of the models are effective in terminating the observed interactions which have elicited the child 's anxiety , they may acquire an intrinsic value that the child can reproduce through imitation when it is subsequently a direct participant in similar interactions . One other important contribution that imitation may make to internalized suppression should be noted here . Children often independently react to their own transgressions by reproducing the verbal criticisms which they have already experienced as part of the punishment that is used by their socializing agents . The internalization of self-criticism is the most common specific instance of the child 's broader tendency to reproduce certain components of punishment which have first acquired reinforcement value as signals for the termination of its anticipatory anxiety following a transgression ( see the discussion of self-criticism in the later analysis of Reactions to Transgression ) . However , socializing agents are extremely variable in the temporal positions at which they use their verbal punishment . They frequently use verbal criticism as a warning signal that more aversive consequences will follow , particularly if the child carries out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism may // therefore also serve , at least initially , as an anxiety-arousing verbal cue which elicits the child 's suppression of punished behavior . As the criticism becomes internalized by the child , its original dual signal function may well become collapsed to the single function of anxiety-reduction , since it gradually comes to be followed so closely by the effective suppression of incipient transgressions . One sometimes sees direct evidence in the overt verbalization of very young children that their internalized use of parental warning signals , even before they have committed a transgression , serves to reduce their anxiety through its rapid mediation of suppression . A variety of recent experiments are interesting demonstrations of the control of internalized suppression by the child 's observation of the punitive consequences of the behavior of others . These experiments were also cited in Chapter Five as attempts to demonstrate facilitation of children 's performance of specific acts through their observation of the rewarding consequences of another person 's performance of the acts . But the evidence for the suppressive effect of observed punishment is more impressive than the evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments which were reported by Bandura , Ross , and Ross ( 1963c ) and by Walters , Leat , and Mezei ( 1963 ) , children observed the aggressive behavior of an adult or the violation by another child of prohibitions on the handling of toys . When they were then given the opportunity to engage in the same behavior , in the apparent absence of surveillance , they were less likely to do so if they had seen the behavior punished than if they had seen it rewarded . These two experiments did not actually separate the suppressive effect of observed punishment from the possible facilitative effect of observed reward , since they provided no baseline for assessment of the extent to which observation of another person 's behavior in itself might have elicited corresponding behavior from the child , without whatever effect might have been introduced by the child 's observation of the consequences of the behavior . However , a further study by Bandura ( 1965a ) and additional studies by Walters and his co-workers ( Walters and Parke , 1964a ; Walters et al. , 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be induced by the child 's observation of the punishment of another person 's actions . In these later studies , children who saw the behavior of another person punished showed more suppression of the same behavior than did children who saw the behavior occur without either punitive or rewarding consequences . Similar effects have been obtained in the behavior of adults who observe the punishment of another person 's aggressive actions ( I . efcourt et al. , 1966 ; Wheeler and // Smith , 1967 ) . The findings which are summarized above leave no doubt that children have cognitive equipment which they can use to translate the observed punitive consequences of another person 's behavior to the control of their own actions . It is interesting to note Rosekrans ' ( 1967 ) recent finding that children who had observed a long sequence of another child 's task-oriented behavior , and who had also seen the other child exposed to verbal punishment at the end of the sequence , showed suppression only of the observed component of behavior which had just preceded the punishment . This finding suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of behavioral suppression even when the child 's anxiety must become attached to its cognitive representations through observation rather than direct experience . The concept of a model is not required , of course , to account for a demonstration that suppression of a child 's behavior can be induced by its observation of the punishment that another person receives for the same behavior ? particularly since what the child observes is the performance rather than the suppression of the behavior . The suppressive effect of the child 's observation of punishment , in the experiments which have been described , is more generally interpreted as evidence of the child 's capacity for empathic or vicarious experience ( see , for example , Bandura , 1965b , and Kanfer , 1965 ) . This interpretation is open to question . It is certainly possible for empathic or vicarious experience to be the source of the anxiety that is required to motivate suppression . The child 's affective response to the aversive consequences of its actions for others , as well as to its observation of the aversive consequences of another person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its direct experience of punishment in producing internalized behavioral suppression . But the fact that the child suppresses behavior for which another person has been punished can not in itself warrant the inference that empathic or vicarious experience mediates the effects of observation . As was pointed out in the earlier analysis of empathic and vicarious experience ( Chapter Four ) , the observed consequences of another person 's behavior may influence the child 's choice among its already established behavioral dispositions through other kinds of social transmission of affective and informational values . It is not necessary to assume that the child experiences an affective state which corresponds to what it perceives as the experience of another person , or that it has acquired any new behavioral dispositions as a result of observation . // DISCRIMINATION AND CONTROL OF OUTCOMES The burden that may be imposed on the effectiveness of punishment training , when it does not have the cognitive support of a verbal medium of socialization , can be demonstrated in the findings of another experiment , in which six- and seven-year-old boys were exposed to either mild or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Aronfreed and Leff , 1963 ) . This experiment also was designed to examine the effects of punishment training on internalized behavioral suppression . The adult socializing agent was a male , and the procedure was similar in many respects to the procedure that was used in the experiments which already have been described . The child was required to choose between two small toys in pairs which varied over ten training trials . The toys within each pair were roughly comparable in attractiveness , but they differed consistently in other properties which the child might use as cues to distinguish between punished and nonpunished choices . When the child made a punished choice , punishment was administered at the point where the child had just touched the toy . When the child made a non-punished choice , it was permitted to pick up and describe the toy . Two groups of children were confronted with a relatively simple discrimination between red and yellow toys . Choices of the red toys were punished . Two other groups of children were confronted with a complex and difficult discrimination between toys which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active internal mechanism . Choices of toys of the latter class were punished . None of the groups were provided with any verbal communication of a cognitive structure which could be used to represent the discriminate properties of the two types of toys or the relationship between choice and punishment . ' The simple and complex discrimination groups were further subdivided into paradigms in which the children experienced either a low or a high intensity of punishment for incorrect choices . The agent 's punishment was compounded of verbal disapproval , deprivation of candy , and the sounding of a buzzer which could be varied in loudness in order to control the intensity of punishment . It was apparent that even the children in the simple discrimination groups were not able to distinguish between punished and nonpunished choices quite as readily as were the older subjects in the experiments which had varied the timing of punishment . These six- and seven- // year-old boys committed more errors before arriving at fairly consistent correct performances ( choices of the yellow toys ) than did the eight- to tenyear-old children who had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( even when the older children had been given no explicit cognitive structure for the representation of the required discrimination ) . The difference in the speed of learning may have been attributable in part to the older children 's greater spontaneous use of appropriate verbal labels of concepts . Incidental observations of the children 's behavior in the different paradigms also suggested , however , that an association between punishment and the attractiveness of a toy was more consistent with their expectations than was an association between punishment and the color of a toy . Despite their initial difficulty with the simple discrimination , most of the children clearly showed an increase in the frequency of their correct choices of yellow toys as the ten training trials progressed . Intensity of punishment had no effect on the speed with which they learned the required discrimination. = But among the seventy-two children who had been trained in the simple discrimination paradigms , under either low or high intensity of punishment , forty-two had suppressed choices of the red toys to the point where they were making three or four correct choices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of the children in the two complex discrimination paradigms did not improve in the course of training . Of course , they made significantly more punished choices than did the children in the simple discrimination paradigms . But they also showed little evidence of any gradual learning of the discrimination between passive containers and objects having an active internal mechanism . For example , only twenty-five of eighty-six children attained a performance criterion of at least three correct choices in the last four training trials . A common test for internalized behavioral suppression followed each of the four training paradigms . The agent left the room on a pretext . And the child remained alone with a single pair of toys which were respectively similar in some of their properties to both of the types of pairs which had been used during training . One of the toys had red surfaces and represented an object with an active internal mechanism , so that it would be similar to toys which the children had been punished for choosing in either the simple or complex discrimination training . This test toy also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase the probability of transgression . During the test for internalization , the children who had been trained in the simple discrimination paradigms were more likely to show complete suppression of any handling of the attractive toy if they had been exposed to intense punishment than if they had been exposed to mild punishment . Only fifteen of thirty-six children transgressed after they had experienced intense punishment ; whereas twenty-seven of thirty-six children transgressed after they had experienced mild punishment . But the children who had been given training in the complex discrimination paradigms were actually more likely to transgress during the test if they had been exposed to intense punishment than if they had been exposed to mild punishment . Only eighteen of fortythree children transgressed after they had experienced mild punishment ; whereas thirty-one of forty-three children transgressed after they had experienced intense punishment . It can be seen that the proportionate frequencies were almost exactly the reverse of those which were obtained for the simple discrimination groups . These effects of variation in the intensity of punishment were highly reliable for both the simple and the complex discriminations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensity of punishment was not the only determinant of the motivation and reinforcement for internalized behavioral suppression . The experimental effect in the simple discrimination paradigms was hardly surprising , since an extremely loud and aversive sound had been used as the intense punishment . Under the assumption that internalized suppression is motivated as a function of the intensity of the anxiety that becomes attached to the intrinsic correlates of punished behavior , intense punishment would be expected to produce more effective suppression . Apparently , however , the greater effectiveness of more intense punishment obtains only when the child is able to distinguish between punished and nonpunished behavior . The usual suppressive effects of punishment may be disrupted in unexpected ways if learning requires a discrimination that the child can not resolve . Our first clue to an account of how behavioral suppression might actually be undermined by intense punishment , when the child is confronted with a difficult or insoluble discrimination , is the observation that nonpunished behavioral alternatives could not acquire discriminate anxietyreducing value under such conditions . The inability to exercise any control over the potential outcomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of maintaining a high level of aversive affcctivity in the child . For example , in the complex discrimination paradigms of the // experiment , the child would experience not only the anxiety of the immediate anticipation of punishment following a choice , but also the more prolonged anxiety and frustration which are associated with unpredictable punitive outcomes . Since the outcomes remain unpredictable , neither class of choices acquires any consistent reinforcement value through avoidance of punishment . Inhibition of anxiety therefore can not become selectively attached either to the child 's behavioral dispositions or to its cognitive representation of external informational cues . As a result , a generalized aversive value is likely to become attached to the very act of making a choice . When punishment itself has only a mild intensity , the inability to make correct choices and avoid punishment may nevertheless be sufficiently aversive to motivate a child 's nonselective suppression of any active choice . In the experimental setting , of course , the child must pick up one toy or the other on each trial , so long as it remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child may actually be learning not to try to make a choice . During the test situation , when the agent is absent , the child is no longer required to pick up a toy . Its suppression of the handling of the attractive test toy may then reflect a more general behavioral disposition which is dominated by the aversive value that has become associated with any active engagement of the toys . When a child is exposed to intense punishment , it may react very differently to its continuing inability to predict the consequences of its actions . Its disposition to attempt any correct choices may be suppressed by the aversive experience of being unable to exercise discriminate behavioral control over the reactions of socializing agents . But it may also learn to engage in active and relatively indiscriminate behavior in order to reduce the intense anxiety that has become attached to its anticipation of an intense and unpredictable punishment . Under conditions where a child must repeatedly experience intense anticipatory anxiety , the anxiety may come to be more aversive than the punishment itself . To the extent that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anxiety , it may then serve as a reinforcing outcome for any active commitment of behavior . In the complex discrimination paradigm of the experiment , for example , the active behavior of picking up either toy may reduce the child 's intense anxiety regardless of whether it produces or avoids punishment . And during the test situation , when the child 's anxiety is elicited again by the potential transgression that may he committed in the act of picking up an attractive toy , the act itself may he the most effective way in which the child can reduce the anxiety . // This entire analysis suggests , then , that a child 's punished and nonpunished behavioral dispositions may sometimes be maintained simultaneously in areas of conduct where its social experience has attached intense anxiety to its potential transgressions , but where the child has not been able to discriminate information that will predict the consequences of its behavior . What the child may learn under these conditions is that both the punitive and nonpunitive consequences of its behavior are effective markers for the termination of its anticipatory anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the effectiveness of internalized suppression is a function of the intensity of anxiety which is discriminately associated with punished or prohibited behavior . Leff ( 1967 ) has confirmed the finding that intense punishment produces stronger internalized suppression than does mild punishment , when children are given training in a simple discrimination paradigm of the type which has been described . Schachter and Latane ( 1964 ) reported that the administration of chlorpromazine , a drug which appears to depress sympathetic activation in the autonomic nervous system , increased the incidence of cheating among college women . The findings of the experiments which have been conducted by Parke and Walters ( 1967 ) are particularly relevant to the interaction between the effects of intensity of punishment and ease of discrimination . Close examination of their methods and results reveals that the effectiveness of internalized suppression was directly related to intensity of punishment when children were given clearly discriminable alternatives , but that the effect of intensity was obscured when punishment was arbitrarily assigned to the child 's acts in such a way as to deprive it of discriminant cues . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this chapter , the usual effect of intensity of punishment on the strength of internalized suppression was actually reversed , when children were exposed to conditions of learning in which they were unable to discriminate the cues that signalled the consequences of their behavior . There is no reason to expect that this remarkable reversal will always occur when socialization confronts the child with an insoluble discrimination . Intense punishment and difficult discrimination will also undoubtedly sometimes interact to produce a generalized suppression of all of the child 's relevant behavior , or to motivate the child to seek additional social information for the control of its behavioral choices . The experimental paradigms probably had specilic properties , in their range of punishment intensities and in their constraints on the child 's behavioral choices , which added a significant coin196 CHAPTER SEVEN ponent of anxiety-reducing value to behavior that was intensely punished but poorly identified by the child . Nevertheless , the fact that there are conditions under which intense punishment may facilitate the child 's subsequent engagement in punished behavior , while mild punishment is relatively more effective in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more general understanding of the aversive control of socialization . Common observation of children 's reactions to punishment will not make it seem so surprising that they may occasionally acquire temporary or even permanent equivalent dispositions toward punished and nonpunished behavior , when their own motivations constrain their behavioral options , and when learning requires information for which they do not have an adequate cognitive representation . Under these conditions of learning , children do sometimes behave as though avoidance of punishment has less value for them than does the establishment of those consequences of their actions which they can not predict . Their behavior certainly suggests the inference that the intensity of their anticipatory anxiety adds an increment of motivation to any active behavioral choice with which they can produce an external event that will terminate the anxiety , even though that event may sometimes be the occurrence of punishment . There is also a very sizeable amount of experimental evidence which indicates that the crucial determinant of the effect of punishment learning is the predictability and control of the aversive and nonaversive consequences of alternative forms of behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are primarily important as the base for the conditioning of anxiety to external cues or intrinsic correlates of behavior . Once conditioned anxiety has been established , the direction of learning seems to be determined by the relative effectiveness with which specific forms of behavior produce any class of events that reduces or inhibits the anxiety . The experimental evidence deserves some attention here , because it expands our view of the contingencies of socialization which govern the child 's acquisition of internalized aversive control over its behavior . Various indices of the effectiveness of aversive learning in the animal laboratory have been shown to be directly related to intensity of punishment . Intense punishment is more effective than mild punishment in the suppression of both discrete acts and behavior sequences which have been originally established and maintained by reward ( Azrin and Holz , 1966 ; Boroczi et al. , 1964 ; Camp et al. , 1967 ; Church , Raymond , and Beauchamp , 1967 ; Hake et al. , 1967 ; Rachlin , 1967 ) . Intense punishment also // facilitates the concurrent and subsequent extinction of behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church , 1967 ; Estes , 1944 ) and the extinction of behavior that was originally instrumental to the avoidance of punishment ( Kintz and Bruning , 1967 ; Seligman and Campbell , 1965 ) . Many studies of active avoidance training have demonstrated the same functional relationship between effectiveness of learning and the intensity of punishment for failure to avoid ( Boren , Sidman , and Herrnstein , 1959 ; Church , 1963 ; D'Amato , Fazzaro , and Etkin , 1967 ; Sandler et al. , 1966 ) . Greater intensity of punishment also has been shown to produce more suppression of the punished behavior of adult human subjects ( Kaufman , 1964 ; Sidowski , Wyckoff , and Tabory , 1956 ) . It is characteristic of the findings which are cited above that they are based on learning situations in which relatively little informational load is placed on the subject 's discriminative capacities . The value of alternative behavioral choices in these situations is not conditional on external cues which explicitly require discrimination . It is conditional at most on the presence or absence of one signal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be inversely related to intensity of punishment , at least within certain ranges of intensity , when the active control of aversive outcomes places a substantial burden on the subject 's capacity to discriminate between different cues . A well-known example of this finding was reported many years ago by Yerkes and Dodson ( 1908 ) , who observed that the punishment of incorrect choices facilitated the discrimination learning of rats within an increasingly narrow range of intensity as the apparent difficulty of the discrimination increased . Punishment that was more intense than the optimal range appeared to produce " emotional " responses which interfered with learning . More recent experiments with animals also have demonstrated an inverse relationship between intensity of punishment and effectiveness of learning in discriminative avoidance paradigms and in discrimination tasks which require the subject to learn behavioral choices which are both rewarded and punished ( Curlin and Donahue , 1965 ; D'Amato and Fazzaro , 1966 ) . There are similar implications in the findings of some of the experiments which Spence ( 1956 ) and his associates conducted with groups of human subjects who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their general dispositions toward anxiety . In simple tasks which required only a minimal use of discriminative cues in order to avoid noxious stimuli , the subjects who had been classified as being highly disposed toward intense anxiety learned more efficiently than those who had been classified as being // less disposed toward intense anxiety . But in more complex tasks ? even in those which required only a choice between two alternatives on each trial ? the subjects who were more susceptible to intense anxiety showed a poorer performance . There is reason to think that the relatively poor learning of the more anxiety-prone subjects in discrimination tasks is partly attributable to their active use of their choices to reduce anticipatory anxiety rather than to control external outcomes . For example , Katahn , Blanton , and Gipson ( 1967 ) found that college students who had strong dispositions toward anxiety gave responses of a more vigorous amplitude than did students who had weaker dispositions toward anxiety , in an insoluble problem situation where they received unpredictable electric shocks for incorrect choices . Poor learning or nonadaptive behavior have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intensity of punishment systematically , but which have employed highly aversive outcomes of the active behavioral choices of animals in very difficult discrimination situations ( Farber , 1948 ; Maier , 1949 ) . Amsel and Ward ( 1965 ) recently showed that the learning of a relatively simple discrimination was also severely hampered after hungry animals had been first exposed to the frustrating experience of being unable to use the discriminative cues consistently in their attempts to obtain food . There are a number of reported experiments , then , in which the aversive outcomes of incorrect behavioral choices appear to interfere with the learning of a difficult discrimination and even to disrupt any consistent use of discriminative cues in the exercise of active control over the outcomes . Incidental evidence in almost all of these experiments suggests that the lack of discriminative control over outcomes is in itself a source of aversive affective arousal of behavior which is irrelevant to the discrimination . The observations which are made in other kinds of experiments indicate even more clearly that a difficult discrimination is often a source of aversive affectivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1966 ) found that rats who had been trained to resolve behavioral conflicts under a simple discrimination frequently exercised the option to terminate their subsequent exposure to conflict in a difficult discrimination . Many investigators have noted that children who are being rewarded only for correct choices show lack of attention and other overt behavioral evidence of frustration when they are performing poorly in a discrimination task ( Reese , 1963 ; Spiker , 1959 ; Steigman and Stevenson , 1960 ) . The intensity of the affectivity that is elicited in a child tinder these conditions might well he // sufficient to increase the difficulty of learning by interfering with the child 's attention to relevant cues ( Easterbrook , 1959 ; Kausler and Trapp , 1960 ) . The reports of most of the experiments which demonstrate poor discrimination learning , when the subject can not quickly acquire control over the occurrence of aversive outcomes , also recurrently include formal and informal observations of two dominant patterns of behavior : a generalized suppression of active behavior or a nondiscriminate commitment to a single direction of active choice . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is difficult to resist the inference that these two patterns are the subject 's primary behavioral resources for the reduction of anxiety . When the motivation for learning or performance is entirely defined by aversive contingencies which can not be brought under active discriminative control , we might suppose that a generalized suppression of active behavior could become effective in reducing anxiety , providing that failure to make an active choice is not punished . However , if the suppression of active behavior is also punished , then a quickly negotiated active choice might be expected to be more effective in the reduction of anticipatory anxiety , even though it may result in punishment . These expectations are in fact roughly confirmed by a comparison of the findings of two experiments in which human subjects were confronted with choices between two conflicting directions of overt behavior , both of which produced aversive consequences . Sears and Hovland ( 1941 ) did not require their subjects to make an active choice , and they found a high incidence of immobilization or blocking of both directions of behavior . But Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required to make an active choice under these conditions typically made a single direct and uncorrected choice in only one direction . There are a number of other respects in which objective contingencies for punishment-avoidance have only a limited utility when they are used to predict whether the prevailing behavioral resolution of aversive experience will be a generalized suppression or an active attempt to exercise some instrumental control over events in the environment . For example , it appears that animals sometimes acquire a marked disposition toward immobility between their successive exposures to inescapable electric shock , neither the onset nor termination of which is contingent in any way on their behavior ? particularly when the duration of shock is so long that active attempts to escape have ceased well before the termination point ( Brookshire , Littman , and Stewart , 1961 ; Pearl , Walters , and Anderson , 1964 ) . In some instances , the inability to control the shock produces the more // dramatic effect of a passive helplessness throughout the entire course of its administration ( Maier , Seligman , and Solomon , 1968 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may enhance the later suppressive effects of punishment , when animals are placed in a learning situation where aversive outcomes are contingent on a specific form of active behavior ( Kurtz and Walters , 1962 ; Pearl et al. , 1964 ) . But the same kind of initial experience with inescapable shock may have disruptive and even crippling effects on the subsequent learning or maintenance of active escape or avoidance behavior ( McAllister and McAllister , 1965 ; Overmier and Seligman , 1967 ; Seligman and Maier , 1967 ) . Some investigators have shown that the experience of inescapable shock by newly weaned animals has adverse effects on their active escape or avoidance behavior in adulthood ( Brookshire at al. , 1961 ; Denenberg and Bell , 1960 ) . The fact that animals can be immunized against these effects of inescapable shock on subsequent escape- and avoidance-training , if they are first given shock-escape training ( Seligman and Maier , 1967 ) , indicates the importance of their total past experience of the exercise of control over aversive stimulation . It is interesting to note also that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal subsequently is able to learn an escape contingency and thus obtains some experience of control over shock . Brookshire et al . ( 1961 ) reported that the avoidance behavior which followed successful escapes actually was facilitated by the earlier experience of inescapable shock . However , Bloom and Campbell ( 1966 ) have found that even the maintenance of well-established avoidance behavior may be disrupted after a series of trials on which the absence of warning signals temporarily deprives animals of their original active control over shock-avoidance . Most of the contingencies of punishment learning which occur in the socialization of the child are unlikely to produce a generalized disposition toward suppression of active behavior . The greater part of the child 's aversive social experience occurs in situations where it continues to exercise some active control over the outcomes of its behavior . Even when it is unable to employ discriminations which would allow prediction of the contingencies between acts and outcomes , the child will still frequently have the experience of making active choices which successfully avoid punishment . Some of the child 's active choices will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishment . Under these conditions , it is still possible that extremely aversive punishments of some active behavioral choices will produce a generalized disposition toward suppression . An ex-                     