@@773930

txt 6o EMPLOYING THE FORCES makes them responsible for the effective management of the administration , training , and logistics of the Armed Forces ; and a Secretary of Defense , acting as the President 's agent , responsible for the effective and efficient direction of the military effort . In this latter task , he is assisted by the Deputy Secretary of Defense ( his alter ego ) , the Secretaries of the military departments ( his principal agents for management ) , the Joint Chiefs of Staff ( his military advisers ) , and the key officials in the Office of the Secretary of Defense ( his civilian advisers in specialized fields ) . Responsibilities of the Secretary The Secretary of Defense has been given full direction , authority , and control over the entire defense establishment . He exercises his powers through two command lines , one for the operational direction of the Armed Forces , which runs through the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the unified and specified commanders , and the other for the direction of support activities , which extends directly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major policy and program decisions are made at the top , and the direction of operational activities is decentralized . In carrying out his responsibilities , the Secretary 's attention is focused on three major duties ? the effective direction of the operational forces , the allocation of resources , and the efficient management of these resources . Each of these involves different procedures for reaching decisions as well as different roles for the principal advisory groups to the Secretary of Defense . In each case , however , the final decision is his , subject to the approval of the President and , in certain cases , of the Congress . Direction of Operational Forces The effective direction of the Armed Forces requires not only that plans be prepared for possible emergencies , but also that clear command authority exists to put such plans into effect without delay . In this area , the Joint Chiefs of Staff constitute the key element , since the group has been assigned by law the responsibility for preparing strategic plans for the direction of the Armed Forces . The unique contribution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration to alternative courses of action before recommendations are made to the Secretary of Defense . In case different points of view on major issues persist , they can be fully presented to the civilian authority for final resolution , and the opportunity of hearing the judgments of the Chairman of the Joint // Chiefs and the top military officers of the four Services assures that strategic plans and military advice are based on a thorough and broad review of all relevant issues . A good example of the unified action required at this level is the Joint Strategic Target Planning Staff . This organization , headed by the Director of Strategic Target Planning , is responsible , under the policy control and direction of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , for the development and continued review of a single integrated operational plan that covers the target assignments of the weapon systems of all forces employed by the unified and specified commanders . Allocation of Resources The proper distribution of men and materials to counter the threats of general or limited war now or in the future has been the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that not only affect our military security but also have a profound impact on our foreign policy and domestic economy . Such decisions can not be based on military requirements alone ; they must be made within the broad framework of our national goals and policies and , therefore , become the final responsibility of civilian authority . The current organization of the Department of Defense provides that the allocation of resources be determined , subject to the guidance and approval of the President , by the Secretary of Defense with full military advice . The Joint Chiefs of Staff receive the budget submissions of the military departments , the preliminary revisions recommended as a result of a review by the Secretary 's civilian assistants , and the comments of the military departments on these revisions . In addition , the Chiefs are familiar with the requirements of the combatant commanders , who periodically submit their views on the force requirements . Thus , the Joint Chiefs of Staff receive full information on the total budget , and they are able to assist the Secretary in his final determination from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This military advice is supplemented by the views of the Secretary 's civilian assistants , particularly the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and the Comptroller . The former contributes scientific and technological advice before the final judgments on the proposed research and development programs , and the latter , by the nature of his responsibility , emphasizes the cost factors and the effect of the military programs on the national economy . Other civilian assistants comment on specific programs in their particular fields of responsibility , such as manpower , installations , and // logistics . The Secretary of Defense is therefore able to probe deeply into the budget submissions of the military departments , which are responsible for the difficult task of translating the military requirements of the Services into fiscal or budget requirements . Defense Management The efficient management of available resources is a never-ending function . The size of the defense operation and the constant changing of requirements have created major problems in the past and will continue to do so in the future . In the Department of Defense , the attempt to economize is complicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a goal that can very well be threatened by economy drives . This possibility is sometimes overlooked in the field of logistics , in spite of the fact that the effectiveness of combat forces is directly dependent on the adequacy of logistic support . To maintain necessary standards , however , certain management organizations have been established ? the Defense Supply Agency , for example , which has over-all management responsibility for clothing , subsistence , petroleum , and medical supplies , among others , for the Services . The current defense organization provides for the development of ground , naval , and air forces in separate military departments and the amalgamation of these forces in the field under a single commander . ( This structure proved its value in World ' War II and since then has been required to absorb the impact of the present revolution in weapon technology . ) Each military department is separately organized under its own secretary and functions under the direction of the Secretary of Defense . The secretaries of the military departments are responsible to the Secretary of Defense for the operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are issued through the Service secretaries by the Secretary of Defense . In the defense organization , the role of the Department of Defense is to maintain and employ Armed Forces , whose functions are the following : ? To support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies , foreign or domestic . ? To ensure by timely and effective military action , the security of the United States , its possessions , and other areas vital to its interest . ? To safeguard the internal security of the United States . // ? To uphold and advance the national policies and interests of the United States . SOVIET MILITARY THREAT It might be convenient at this time for us to examine the principal military threat against which the operational forces of the Department of Defense are organized and deployed . Although the Chinese Communist forces pose a real and unmistakable threat to U.S. security , it is the large Soviet military organization with its nuclear-armed missiles and aircraft and modern land-sea forces that constitutes the overriding threat . The Soviet military establishment consists of the Ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Strategic Rocket Forces , and the Naval Forces ; in addition to these regular military forces , there are separate internalsecurity troops and border guards . Control of the Soviet armed forces is vested in the Ministry of Defense . Each component is represented by a main directorate that deals with operations , intelligence , organization , and other staff and administrative matters . The chain of command , however , passes directly from the Minister of Defense to the major operational commands at home and in foreign territory . Under the Minister of Defense , the General Staffs of the Soviet Army and Navy plan the development and employment of the Soviet armed forces and issue directives to the major operational commands of the Army and to the fleets . It should be noted , however , that , in contrast to the U.S. system , there is a line of political control outside , yet parallel to , the regular chain of command . It begins with a Military Secretary and a Central Committee Secretariat at the top ; from there on down , even to battalion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every unit . This extensive political organization is designed to keep the military completely under Communist Party control and , by indoctrination , to build support for the regime . Soviet Military Doctrine Soviet military doctrine , according to a 1961 address by Defense Minister Rodion Malinovsky , maintains that a world war , if unleashed by the imperialistic aggressors , will inescapably assume the character of a nuclear-rocket war ; that is , a war in which the main striking force will be comprised of nuclear weapons and the principal means of delivering these weapons to their targets will be long64 EMPLOYING THE FORCES range rockets . The delivery of nuclear and thermonuclear weapons in a matter of minutes by means of rockets makes it possible to achieve decisive military results , almost instantaneously , at any range and over immense distances . The targets of nuclear strikes will be whatever groupings of enemy armed forces , industrial and military centers , communications junctions , and other such large sites that support the war effort . A future world war , if it is not averted ? so the Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will lead to the deaths of millions of people , and whole countries will be turned into lifeless deserts covered with ashes . Soviet military doctrine goes on to conclude , however ? despite its contention that in a future war the decisive role will be played by rocket and nuclear weapons ? that final victory over the aggressor can be achieved only as a result of joint action by all types of armed forces . The Soviets also say that a future world war will be fought , in spite of huge losses , by mass , multimillion-strength forces ; they believe that because their country is vast , it is less vulnerable than the capitalist countries . This appears to be an advantage , although they realize that any nuclear war will be a difficult war for them. * Soviet Organization and Weapons The Soviet ground forces are organized to meet a problem peculiar to their situation ? the protection of the extensive land perimeter of the Soviet bloc . This they accomplish by operating along interior lines of communications and at reasonably short distances from principal home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , organized into about 150 line divisions . These divisions are of three basic types ? tank , motorized , and rifle ; but only about one-half of the divisions are maintained at full strength and may be classed as operational or combat-ready . In addition to the line divisions , which contain more than 1 million men , the Soviet ground forces also include support divisions , such as anti-aircraft artillery , ballistic missiles , and field artillery . The air forces of the Soviet Army include tactical , airborne , and long-range , or strategic , aviation . All components , with the notable exception of long-range aviation , are operationally controlled by the major commands of the Army . The long-range air arm is separately and directly controlled by the Minister of Defense . Tactical aviation contains about half the total air strength , reflecting the * From an address by Soviet Defense Minister Malinovsky to the 22d Congress of the Soviet Communist Party , Moscow , October 27 , 1961. // traditional Soviet emphasis on the importance of ground combat . This type of air power is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest tactical-aviation unit being the air army . A typical air army might consist of a bomber corps , ground-attack corps , fighter corps , and transport and communications units . At the present time , the aircraft of the long-range air arm consist principally of the Badger medium jet bomber and the Bison heavy jet bomber . The Badger has a maximum speed of about 600 miles per hour and an unrefueled combat radius of 1,500 miles . The Bison , also with a maximum speed of about 600 miles per hour , has an unrefueled combat radius of about 2,700 miles . Both planes are capable of delivering nuclear weapons . The U.S.S.R. in recent years has developed a refueling capability by using bombers as tankers ; such a system , of course , reduces the number of aircraft available for long-range bomber missions . The air-defense forces of the Soviet Army are organized as a separate command under the direct operational control of the Minister of Defense . These forces have the responsibility for defense against attack by aircraft and air-breathing missiles , and they are , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The air-defense system consists of fighter aviation organic to the air-defense forces , fighter aviation of the other components , anti-aircraft artillery , and communications and warning networks . In addition , the Soviets have built surface-to-air-missiles sites around their important metropolitan and industrial areas . The first of these , operational for six years , is deployed around Moscow in a dense and costly complex . The entire Soviet air-defense force is equipped with jet fighters , including some true all-weather interceptors . In total , Soviet aviation , including naval aircraft , numbers about 20,000 modern aircraft , and there are an additional 20,000 obsolescent aircraft in reserve . The Soviet rocket forces include intercontinental ballistic missiles , intermediate-range ballistic missiles , and submarine-launched missiles . A considerable number of the intermediate-range ballistic missiles , possibly numbering in the hundreds , are deployed within the Soviet Union and probably destined for targets in Europe . Estimates of the numbers of intercontinental ballistic missiles that are operational vary considerably ; however , the threat that these missiles represent will undoubtedly continue to grow , and secondgeneration versions of those weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Navy , which includes coastal-defense forces and na66 EMPLOYING THE FORCES val aviation , is at the present time the second largest in the world . Today the Soviet fleet consists of about 25 cruisers , 140 destroyers , 400 to 500 submarines , and an air arm of about 3,500 land-based aircraft . The U.S.S.R. has no aircraft carriers operational at this time . Although the size of the Soviet submarine fleet is usually estimated as between 400 and 500 ships , about half are modern long-range types , capable of operating far from home base ; the remainder are older or coastal types . Naval forces afloat are divided into four separate fleets corresponding to the four major sea areas surrounding the Soviet Union ? the North Sea , Baltic Sea , Black Sea , and Pacific Ocean . Naval aviation comprises several fleet air forces , each under the command of a surface fleet commander . Although naval infantry is organized in both temporary and permanent units , there are no Soviet units comparable to the Marine Corps divisions of the United States . U.S. ARMED FORCES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Armed Forces totals more than 2.6 million soldiers , sailors , marines , and airmen . The Army 's share is comprised of some 16 divisions and other organizations totaling 974,000 soldiers . The Navy has more than 600 combat ships in commission , backed by a force of more than 670,000 men and officers . The Marine Corps , at a strength of 190,000 , has a fighting force of 3 divisions and 3 aircraft wings . The Air Force has a total of more than 100 combat squadrons and some 830,000 airmen . A large majority of the U.S. Armed Forces are under the operational command of unified or specified commanders and organized for immediate action in case of emergency . The percentage of personnel in the operating forces ( combat and combat support ) is more than 60 per cent . These operating forces are separate from those engaged in training and support activities . More than 40 per cent of the personnel in the U.S. Armed Forces are assigned to overseas bases ? Europe and Okinawa , for example ? or to fleet and mobile activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the task of the three military departments to provide the personnel and equipment for the operating forces . The chain of command , for purposes other than the operational direction of unified and specified commands , runs from the President to the Secretary of Defense and then to the Secretaries of the military departments . These departments have the primary function of preTHE // // paring forces and establishing reserves of equipment and supplies for the effective prosecution of war ; they plan for the expansion of Reserve components to meet the needs of war ; and they maintain - properly organized , trained , and equipped mobile forces for employment in cases of limited emergencies . They organize , train , and equip forces for assignment to the combatant commands ; they also prepare the defense budget for their respective departments , justify it before the Congress , and administer the funds made available for maintaining , equipping , and training the forces provided to the combatant commands . In order to provide doctrine for the employment of forces , the departments develop tactics , techniques , and combat-unit organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new weapons , equipment , and supplies essential to the fulfillment of this military doctrine . Furthermore , they also provide adequate , timely , and reliable intelligence for their own use and for use by the Department of Defense , specifically by the Defense Intelligence Agency . Other essential functions include the maintenance of bases , installations , lines of communications , supply lines , and the administrative and logistic support for all forces , in the United States or overseas . In addition , the military departments are required to provide forces , military missions , and detachments for service in foreign countries and to assist in the training and equipping of the military forces of those foreign nations who request it . The Department of the Army is responsible for organizing and training land forces necessary to prosecute a war successfully and , in accordance with integrated mobilization plans , for the expansion of the Reserve components of the Army to meet the needs of war . Army forces include land-combat and service forces and such aviation and water transport as may be organic to these requirements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army , there are some 4 armored cavalry regiments and combat commands , 8 infantry brigades , 7 special-forces groups , 2 missile commands , and more than 70 missile battalions . The Army aircraft inventory includes more than 6,000 aircraft , both helicopter and fixed-wing types . The Department of the Navy is responsible for organizing and training naval and marine forces necessary for the successful prosecution of a war in accordance with war plans and for the expansion of the peacetime components of the Navy and Marine Corps to meet the needs of war . The Navy includes naval combat and service forces and . such aviation as rernured the Marine Coms is cornTHE // posed of combat divisions , air wings , and other services . Of the total number of ships in the Navy , more than 370 are warships , and the rest are tactical and support vessels , such as oil tankers and supply ships . Fifteen aircraft-carrier groups provide the mobile , sea aircraft forces , and 9 aircraft-carrier antisubmarine air groups provide the nucleus of the antisubmarine-warfare capability of the Navy . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of which are jet aircraft . The Department of the Air Force is responsible for the preparation of the air forces necessary for war and for the expansion of the Air Force to meet the needs of a national emergency . The Air Force includes aviation forces , combat-support units , **27;935;TOOLONG forces , and air-defense missile units . Of the more than 100 combat aircraft squadrons of the Air Force , some are allocated to the central-war offensive forces , others to the central-war defensive forces , and the remainder to the tactical strike forces . More than 15,000 aircraft are in the active inventory ; about 65 per cent of this number are jet aircraft . Combatant Commands The units organized , trained , and equipped by their respective military departments are assigned for operational command to the nine unified or specified commands established by the Secretary of Defense . ( See Figure 3 . ) There are seven unified commands ? the Alaskan Command , the Atlantic Command , the Continental Air Defense Command , the European Command , the Pacific Command , the Southern Command , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commands ? the Strategic Air Command , and the Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean Command . In general , the missions of these commands are concentrated on centralwar offensive ( strategic ) operations , central-war defensive ( continental air- and missile-defense ) operations , or tactical strike ( general-purpose ) operations . Central-War Offensive Forces United States nuclear retaliatory capability largely depends on the following weapons : The heavy and medium bombers and the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the Strategic Air Command ? all of which operate from bases in the United States , Europe , and the Pacific ? and the fleet ballistic-missile ( Polaris ) submarines . Strategic aircraft have been dispersed to a large number of airfields to provide increased protection from nuclear attack ; and to enTHE // sure a greater measure of readiness , about one-half of the strategic bomber force is on a fifteen-minute ground alert . Still another group of the long-range bombers is on a continuous airborne alert in case a surprise attack cripples the bomber force on the ground . Supplementing the strategic bombers are the intercontinental bal-listic missiles located at bases within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Titan , and the Minuteman . The Polaris missiles of the fleet ballistic-missile submarines , which are nuclear-powered , add further fire power to the strategic missile force . The impressive striking power of the central-war offensive forces will be further increased in the event of major war by numerous tactical aircraft capable of delivering nuclear weapons . The tacti-cal air forces have more than 1,000 such aircraft overseas and about 200 naval attack planes constantly on station with the Sixth and Seventh fleets in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans . To increase the effectiveness of these forces with nuclear retaliatory missions , con-tinual reviews of target assignments , which are incorporated into a single integrated operational plan , have been authorized . The plan covers all assigned forces , including the Polaris ballistic-missile-firing submarines , and designates the time sequence in which se-lected enemy targets are to be attacked in case of war . Central-War Defense Forces The responsibility for the air defense of the northern half of the Western Hemisphere has been assigned to the North American Air Defense Command , a joint United States ? Canadian head-quarters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ component . The Continental Air Defense Command is a unified command , including Army , Navy , and Air Force units . The shift in the air threat from aircraft to a combination of ballistic missiles and aircraft has required the construction of a ballistic-missile early-warning system . It includes three widely dispersed , long-range radar stations , a combat operations center in the United States , and a communications network to link them to the retaliatory missile and aircraft bases . The early-warning system is capable of pro-viding a fifteen-minute warning of a ballistic-missile attack . The warning network against bomber attack is composed of various radar installations , including the distant early-warning line ? which stretches from the Aleutians around the Arctic Circle to the east coast of Canada ? and the mid-Canada line along the 55th Parallel . Radar picket ships in the Pacific Ocean and just off shore in the At-lantic form seaward extensions of this coverage . The responsibility // for this type of air-defense warning in the northern Atlantic has been assigned to early-warning aircraft flying scheduled routes with radar equipment aboard . For active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and electronic computers coordinates the operations of aircraft and air-defense missiles . This system extends from the northeastern section of the United States to the north-central and northwestern sections . Integrated into this system is a more localized central network used to direct the fire of Nike surface-to-air missiles , which provide the local defense of important cities and air bases throughout the country . Tactical Strike Forces The bulk of the Armed Forces , organized as tactical strike forces , is available to counter limited wars and local aggression . These forces include an airlift and a sealift capability , and they have both a nuclear and nonnuclear ( conventional ) weapon capability . A large proportion of them has been assigned the task of helping our allies guard their frontiers , and the remainder are stationed within the continental United States , ready to move on short notice . The tactical forces deployed overseas are assigned to unified commands , which are responsible for geographical areas ; the U.S. Strike Command also contains Army and Air Force units based in the continental U.S. for rapid movement to overseas areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airlift and sealift capacity , they are usually called general-purpose forces . Ground forces are provided by both the Army and the Marine Corps . Eight Army divisions are stationed outside the continental United States : Five in Europe with the forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , two in South Korea , and one in Hawaii . The U.S. Strike Command includes combat-ready units of the Continental Army Command and the Tactical Air Command , and is prepared to move them overseas within a short time . A Marine division is located in the Pacific , units of which are on Okinawa , Hawaii , and with the Seventh Fleet ; another division is on the Pacific Coast , in Southern California ; and the third is in North Carolina , from which its units are deployed to the Mediterranean and the Atlantic . The ships and aircraft of the Navy are organized into four fleets . The First and Seventh fleets , with nine attack carriers , are in the Pacific and the Far East ; the Second and Sixth fleets , with six attack carriers , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are rotated between fleets on a regular schedule so that about one-third of our naval strength is constantly on duty at advanced positions , one-third near our own coast , and the remaining one-third is in port for overhaul or being used for training purposes . More than one-half of the Air Force 's tactical units are based in Europe and the Far East in response to the requirements of unified commanders . Those in the United States are organized under the Tactical Air Command and are frequently rotated for short periods overseas . In case of emergency , the necessary units will be assigned to composite air strike forces ( self-sufficient fighter-bomber organizations ) for immediate deployment . SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES To support the combat operations of the Armed Forces , the Department of Defense manages whatever noncombat activities are necessary , some of which are common to any large organization , others of which are peculiar to the defense establishment . Such activities are supervised and controlled by the civilian staff , composed principally of the Assistant Secretaries of Defense , but the bulk of the day-to-day details are carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the combatant commands are in a direct command line from the Secretary of Defense through the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the supporting activities are in a chain of command from the Secretary of Defense to the specific supporting organization . ( See Figure 4 . ) The principal supporting activities are the logistics , research and development , budget , manpower , and collective-security programs . Each of the activities is the responsibility of a designated Assistant Secretary of Defense , who , acting as a staff member , plans , supervises , and monitors the work necessary to furnish the required support for the national defense effort . Logistics and Research and Development The first two supporting activities concern the general fields of logistics and of research and development . The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Installations and Logistics is responsible for such functions as policies on contracts with industry , the procurement of major military items , cataloguing and standardizing different supply items , maintaining an inventory of weapons and material , communications , mobilization planning , and properties and installations . In recent years , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments in science and technology for military weapon systems has presented a major challenge // to the Department of Defense . To meet this challenge , research and development activities in the military establishment have been expanded and the direction of research activities placed under the Director of Defense Research and Engineering . The Director has the responsibility not only of supervising all research activities in the military departments but also of directing and controlling them by centralized management . The Budget The defense budget reflects the cost of the programs , plans , and policies of the Department of Defense . It is based on the military requirements that have been evaluated in the light of the national and international situation and possible future developments . Its formulation requires many difficult judgments , but in its final form it represents the consensus of the executive and legislative branches of the Government and summarizes the effort required for the maintenance of strong Armed Forces in the years ahead . The Comptroller of the Department of Defense is the civilian staff member responsible to the Secretary for budgetary matters within the defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been accompanied by the need for higher standards in the technical training and employment of military personnel in many diverse missions . Therefore , the Defense Department has developed personnel policies to maintain a relatively stable force , to make quality of performance the key to retention in service , and to create career patterns and a professional environment conducive to high morale . The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower supervises this activity on the staff level . The Defense Department personnel system is based on the belief that the quality and morale of the individual military man and his civilian counterpart are fundamental to the effectiveness of the Armed Forces . Collective Security Collective security is under the staff supervision of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs . The basic assumption underlying the collective-security program is that the security of the Free World is indivisible . Actions that strengthen any part strengthen the whole . To this end , the United States has assisted friendly countries in maintaining forces for their self-de76 EMPLOYING THE FORCES fense and has joined regional collective-security organizations in Europe , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist aggression . DIRECTION OF THE FORCES The concept of the U.S. military establishment as an efficient team of land , naval , and air forces is based on the principle that the effective use of the military power of the nation requires an integration of effort by the separate military Services . Such unity of effort among the Services at the national level is obtained by the strategic planning and direction of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and by coordination among the military departments ; among the Service forces assigned to unified or specified commands , it is achieved by exercising operational command , by adhering to common strategic plans and directives , and by organizing sound operational and administrative command procedures . This concept is the basis for an effective working relationship between the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of unified or specified commands , on the one hand , and between the military departments , on the other . Unified Command The combined-Service combat operations of the Armed Forces generate such requirements as the integration of land-sea-air forces for the attainment of common objectives , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commander , the development of doctrine , and the organization and training of forces for specific types of operations related to the combat missions of the Services . It is essential for such combined-Service , or unified , operation that the weapons and capabilities of each of the departments and Services be used in any military situation to the fullest extent . The functions assigned to a military department , a Service and a combatant-force commander must be carried out to accomplish the strategic objectives assigned to the Armed Forces . A single commander should be designated to control the operations of any portion of the Armed Forces wherever such unified command of land-sea-air units is in the best interest of national security . In determining the most efficient method to coordinate the forces of two or more Services for the fulfillment of the assigned mission in a single operation or a campaign , consideration is given first to the mission to be accomplished . Then other factors are assessed , such as the capabilities and functions of the Services involved , the geographical location and nature of the contemplated operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our own and the enemy 's forces . These factors determine the nature and size of the forces to be furnished by each Service , and the character of coordination and command required . Command authority provides the commander with the control necessary to carry out his mission and thereby discharge his responsibility . Of course , the authority vested in a commander must be commensurate with the responsibility assigned him . The mission to be accomplished and the objective to be attained by the mission are the two fundamental considerations in the establishment of command organization . Sound command organization should provide for centralized direction , decentralized execution , and common doctrine . Strategic Plans The Joint Chiefs of Staff are responsible for the development of strategic plans and for the provision of long-range military guidance for the military departments and the combatant commanders . Joint strategic planning documents covering three separate but related time periods are the principal planning instruments for this guidance . These plans are derived from the Basic National Security Policy Paper , which is formulated at the level of the Secretary of Defense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realistic terms of military power ? weapons and forces . The three planning documents are the Joint Long-Range Strategic Estimate , the Joint Strategic Objectives Plan , and the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan . The Joint Long-Range Strategic Estimate provides a broad , strategic appraisal for some twelve years in the future . This survey is helpful in the development of military policies , plans , and programs and provides estimates for the review of existing and proposed national-security objectives and policies . Such a strategic estimate appraises , in broad terms , world situations that may affect U.S. security during the time of the estimate , whether national or bloc alignments , friendly , neutral , or hostile . It also considers the trends that may influence these nations to undertake military , economic , political , or psychological courses of action that could affect U.S. security and well-being . Finally , it offers possible courses of action and develops strategic concepts that will help to accomplish the basic national objectives of the United States . The Joint Strategic Objectives Plan , which is prepared annually , translates national objectives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period into terms of the military objectives , military strategy , and basic military undertakings that are considered to be reasonably attainable during the midrange period . It provides guid-ance for various types of war and establishes the number of forces required to meet the established threat . These " force tabs " form the basis for the composition of the forces for the combatant com-mands and for the preparation of the annual defense budget . Short-range planning at the level of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is contained in the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan . This plan , re-vised annually , translates national objectives and policies into mili-tary terms that are consonant with actual U.S. military capabilities . It also provides for strategic and logistic planning guidance in the short-range period ; for the disposition , employment , and support of U.S. military forces ; and for the support of appropriate allied mili-tary forces under specified conditions of war . The plan also delin-eates the sequence of actions that directs the deployment of U.S. military forces on M-Day ( mobilization day ) of a general war . It should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or execute the operational war plans . They give guidance and allocate resources during the preparation of these plans , to the uni-fied or specified commanders ; then they approve the final plans , and they are responsible for seeing that the commander has the forces and supplies he needs to execute his plans . If an emergency arises or war is declared , the Joint Chiefs of Staff direct the mobilization and allocate the ready reserve forces required to reinforce the combatant commands . 5 . CENTRAL-WAR OFFENSIVE FORCES The long-range bombers and ballistic missiles of the Air Force and the Navy form the nucleus of the central-war offensive forces . ( See Table 2 . ) These weapons are presently integrated into a specified and a unified command , the Strategic Air Command and the Atlantic Command . The mission of these forces is to deter nuclear attack against the continental United States and the territory of our allies and , if deterrence fails , to retaliate by attacking strategic enemy targets ? those targets that constitute the war-making capacity of the enemy and the will of the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear general , or central , war ; it is war in which the major powers will use nuclear weapons against each other 's homeland . The major powers would , of course , be defined as those possessing nuclear weapons in quantity and having the capability to deliver them to the enemy 's territory . STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND As a specified command of the Department of Defense , the Strategic Air Command ( SAC ) is under the direct control of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of Defense , acting as the executive agent of the President ; but the President is the only one who can order SAC to strike enemy targets with nuclear weapons . SAC aircraft and missile forces are located at more than eighty bases in the United States , Europe , and the Pacific . The supervision and direction of this far-flung network of bases emanates from the command headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha , Nebraska . Organization The major subordinate commands of SAC include some seven Air Force headquarters . The Second Air Force , the headquarters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commands bases in the central United States ; the Eighth Air Force , at Westover Air Force Base , Massachusetts , commands bases in the eastern United 79 8o EMPLOYING THE FORCES States , Labrador , Newfoundland , Bermuda , and Puerto Rico ; the Fifteenth Air Force commands bases in the western United States from its headquarters at March Air Force Base , California ; and the First Strategic Aerospace Division , at Vandenberg Air Force Base , California , commands the **34;964;TOOLONG sites lo cated in that area . Overseas , the Seventh Air Division is in charge of the bases in the United Kingdom , the Sixteenth Air Force com mands bases in Spain , and the Third Air Division commands a base in Guam . An extensive communications network connects all these SAC bases and their units with the headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base . Special direct-line telephone systems , which provide instan taneous contact between command posts and bases , link key SAC // commanders with the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the Secretary of Defense , and the President . In addition , teletype @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command post at Offutt Air Force Base and strategic aircraft in flight over any part of the globe . These three separate communications systems , alternate command posts , and a constantly airborne KC-135 jet aircraft command post permit SAC to control its operations under any emergency or war condition . The Strategic Air Command is manned by some 265,000 military and civilian personnel . Its weapons consist mainly of about 1,000 jet bombers and more than 800 intercontinental ballistic missiles . The jet bombers are distributed among the various bases in the United States , Europe , and in the Pacific ; they include B-47 medium bombers , B-52 heavy bombers , and supersonic B-58 bombers . These aircraft are capable of carrying a variety of nuclear bombs and , in some cases , air-to-surface guided missiles that can extend the effective bombing range of the aircraft by almost 500 miles . And the KC-97 propeller-driven tanker aircraft and the KC-135 jet tanker aircraft , which are designed to refuel the bombers , extend their range by thousands of miles . The intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBM 's ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Minuteman . Operations and Training One of the most crucial requirements of the Strategic Air Command is the ability to strike back at the enemy during or after the launching of a surprise attack against SAC bases . To meet this threat , SAC has set up continuous closed-circuit television and telephone contact between the command posts at Offutt Air Force Base and the Combat Operations Center of the North American Air Defense Command at Colorado Springs , Colorado . The North American Air Defense Command 's aircraft and missile warning stations are designed to give SAC its first indication that the country is facing imminent attack . Once this warning is received , SAC can use its primary alerting system , keyed by the " gold telephone " that is located at critical command posts in the nation , to launch its aircraft under positive control and order missile crews to stand by for launch . More than one-half of the command bomber and tanker aircraft are on alert at all times ; aircraft are fueled , loaded , and primed for immediate take-off ; crews are kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short distance of their planes . When the alert klaxon sounds , these 8z EMPLOYING THE FORCES plaries can be off the ground within a few minutes , well before an ICBM attack materializes . The ground-alert force is tested daily , and crews are timed on their reactions . These alerts often take the aircraft to an active runway before the signal to return to the parking ramp is relayed , but crews are instructed to react as though each order were an actual wartime order . In addition , a part of the B-52 force participates in an airborne-alert training program , and each B-52 unit in SAC conducts regular airborne training missions . At operational ICBM bases , a part of the missile force is also on constant alert , ready to launch on orders from the SAC command post . Bombers and tankers at overseas bases operate under the same ground-alert status as SAC bases in the United States . These crews and planes , which are permanently assigned to bases in this country , are rotated regularly to overseas bases and do not return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This " reflex " concept for bombers at overseas stations offers three advantages : First , it places SAC aircraft closer to a potential enemy , reducing the requirement for aerial refueling ; second , it complicates an enemy 's targeting problem by dispersing the force to many more bases ; and third , it enables additional SAC aircraft to be launched in an alert situation because more runways are available . SAC missile forces in the United States are also dispersed . Missile Sites are spread over a wide area to reduce an enemy 's chances of striking a decisive blow , and many of them are of hardenedconcrete construction so that they can withstand anything short of a direct hit by a nuclear weapon . To attempt to destroy these sites , the enemy must launch a great number of his own weapon systems ; and to be prepared for this attempt places a severe burden on his industrial capacity and forces him to reduce in numbers other vital elements of his military posture . Hence , the enemy can never be sure that he can damage or destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow from U.S. weapons . Operational Strategic Weapon Systems* The oldest weapon system in the current inventory of SAC is the B-47 Stratojet , a six-engine aircraft that can fly at more than 600 miles per hour at altitudes above 40,000 feet for an unrefueled range of more than 3,000 miles . The B-47 is manned by a crew of # The following information is based upon the statement of Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara before the House Armed Services Committee ( Washington , D.C. : Department of Defense , 1963 ) , pp. 28-42. // three , carries a bomb load of more than 20,000 pounds , and has a maximum gross take-off weight of 230,000 pounds . The primary bomber in the SAC arsenal is the B-52 Stratofortress , which has eight jet engines , a speed of more than 650 miles per hour , and an altitude capability of 50,000 feet . Various models of the B-52 can fly 6,000 to 10,000 miles without refueling , and there are now 14 wings of these important strategic bombers in the SAC forces . The B-52 is equipped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air-to-surface missile that can be used to destroy either defense centers standing between the bomber and its target or alternate strategic targets . The B-52 also can carry several Quail decoy missiles ; launched in flight from the bomber , they produce images on defense radar screens similar to that of the bomber and thus , by hiding the B-52 in a " snowstorm " of radar reflections , confuse enemy radar operators . The latest SAC bomber is the B-58 Hustler , a delta-winged aircraft that flies faster than 1,300 miles per hour and operates at altitudes above 60,000 feet . The Hustler was the Free World 's first supersonic bomber ; it carries its nuclear weapons in a detachable pod slung under its fuselage . This disposable pod makes it unnecessary to haul empty bomb space after the nuclear weapons have been expended . Aerial refueling has been a routine operation in SAC for several years . By helping to extend the range of SAC bombers , the tanker fleet of aircraft enables them to strike anv target in the world and return to their bases . The oldest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last propeller-driven combat aircraft in the command inventory . This aircraft is being replaced by the KC-135 jet Stratotanker , which flies at speeds in excess of 600 miles per hour and operates at altitudes equal to those of the bomber force . The Atlas , a stage-and-a-half , liquid-propellant ballistic missile , is SAC 's first operational ICBM . It has a maximum speed of more than 15,000 miles per hour , a length of about 82 feet , and a weight of more than 260,000 pounds ; it uses two booster rockets of 15,000 pounds thrust and a main sustainer , liquid-propellant rocket engine of 60,000 pounds thrust . The original model of the Atlas stands upright in a service tower , which rolls away for the launch ; the missile rises vertically , rolls until the correct side is pointing in the desired direction , and then pitches over in an arc toward the target . Up to this point , missile control is internal and automatic . Then a guidance system controlled by a ground radio takes over , directs the missile into a preselected path , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rocket engines . At this point in the trajectory , the nose cone separates from the main body of the rocket and follows a ballistic arc to its target . But a later type of Atlas launch site replaces the tower with a coffin-type shelter for horizontal storage of the missile : For launch , the roof rolls back , the missile is erected , fueled , and launched . Still another model of the Atlas has an all-inertial-guidance system , carried completely within the missile itself , which senses any deviation from the flight path of the missile and compensates by sending signals to the rocket engines . The engines , which can pivot , steer the missile back to the desired trajectory and on to the target . The Atlas should , however , be protected before the launching . One such means is to construct the storage sites of reinforced concrete and to disperse the individual sites several miles apart . But a more advanced model , only recently developed , embodies an improved silo-launcher configuration and thereby permits the missile to be stored underground . Missile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable distance , for the chances of surviving a nuclear attack are improved by a hardened silo that can withstand a high overpressure when the multiton reinforcedconcrete sliding doors are closed . And a rapid lift elevator that raises the missile from the bottom of the silo to its launch position at the surface substantially decreases reaction time . A total of thirteen Atlas squadrons with 126 missiles on launchers are presently operational . Some of the missile sites are at nondispersed or unprotected sites with one control blockhouse ; other sites consist of nine missiles , one spare , and three blockhouses ; another arrangement has nine missiles in dispersed , semiprotected coffin sites and a blockhouse for each site ; and the latest consists of twelve missiles and one spare in the hardened , or completely protected , dispersed sites that can withstand pressures from nuclear explosions exceeding 100 pounds per square inch . The second operational ICBM is the Titan . This missile , which has two models , is designed for launching from an underground concrete silo . Titan I has a range of more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an over-all length of 97 those of the Atlas , except that the second-stage rocket engine is started in flight after the first stage has separated . Titan I missiles are stored in hardened , underground silos 14 stories deep and 40 feet in diameter ; each complex contains missiles in silos and an underground launch-control headquarters . // Launch is accomplished sequentially , but the missiles at each complex are fired in the shortest period of time . Survival is assured by hardening , by placing the operational complex completely underground , and by dispersing the missile silos several miles apart . The improved Titan II weapon system uses inertial guidance , and both the missile length and the diameter of the second stage are greater than those of Titan I. In addition , a new storable propellant , which allows a faster launch time ( because the missile does not have to be fueled during the countdown sequence ) , and an increased payload capacity , which thus provides greater targeting capability ( because the larger warhead reduces the number of missiles per target ) are two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from within a silo . Each Titan II squadron has a separate launch site , containing missile silos connected by tunnels to a launch-control center , from which the squadron can launch all its missiles at a rapid rate in succession . Selective launch by individual missiles is also possible . Twelve operational squadrons ? a total of 108 missiles ? became available at the end of 1963 . The latest operational ICBM system is the solid-propellant Minuteman . This is a relatively simple missile that can be maintained on the alert in large numbers , ready , like its namesake , to spring into action at a moment 's notice . The Minuteman is a 56-foot-long , three-stage missile ; it uses solid propellants and weighs 64,000 pounds ; and the design of the weapon permits the Air Force launch controllers to fire missiles either in salvo or in a sequence , as directed . Minuteman missiles are mounted underground in unmanned silos that are separated by several miles and hardenedlaunch-control centers arc hardened even more ? to withstand large overpressures from the explosion of nuclear weapons . A large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area of the western United States in hardened silos , which can be put out of action only by direct hits of nuclear weapons . A total of about 1,000 Minuteman missiles are presently programmed , and some 600 are now operational . One of the largest underground-site complexes , located in Montana , has the capability of launching 150 of these ICBM 's in a few minutes ' time . The Strategic Air Command , acting under the direction and control of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , is a force composed almost entirely of personnel , weapons , and support units from the Air Force . Consequently , the Department of the Air Force has the principal role in organizing , training , and providing support for SAC . It is expected that SAC 's impressive weapon-system balance between // bombers and ICBM 's will change by about 1965 , for then missiles will be able to inflict greater destruction than the bomber fleet . When ICBM 's do achieve a greater destructive potential than bombers , the shift will undoubtedly have a significant effect on SAC , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ COMMAND The second principal command employing central-war offensive forces is the Atlantic Command , composed primarily of naval elements . The headquarters of the Atlantic Command is at Norfolk , Virginia , and it has under its control certain elements of the Atlantic Fleet . The Atlantic Fleet is composed of the Second Fleet , normally located off the East Coast of the United States , and the Sixth Fleet , presently in the Mediterranean . Two carrier groups are usually deployed in the Mediterranean , and the remainder are assigned to the Second Fleet , which operates directly under the Atlantic Command . The Commander in Chief of the Atlantic Command has three geographical commands that report directly to him : the Atlantic Defense Command , the U.S. Forces Azores Command , and the Iceland Defense Force . In addition , when required , two other Service components of the Atlantic Command ? U.S. Army , Atlantic , and U.S. Air Force , Atlantic ? are organized and assigned for specialized missions . The key central-war offensive force attached to the Atlantic Fleet is comprised of the Polaris submarines that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose operational command post is located at the Norfolk Naval Base in Virginia . Although at the present time the bulk of the Polaris fleet is assigned to the Atlantic Command , additional fleet ballistic-missile submarines will be assigned in the future . to other commands , such as the Pacific Command . Operational Weapons A total of 18 fleet ballistic-missile submarines carrying 288 Polaris missiles will be operational during 1964 , and 41 submarines ( 656 missiles ) are expected to be in service by about 1967 . Operating fully submerged and continuously under way , submarines are not subject to pretargeting by enemy ballistic missiles . The high survivability of these boats precludes the necessity for a hurried decision about launching counterstrikes in the face of a possible enemy attack ? although the launching of a shipload of Polaris missiles can be accomplished in a matter of minutes . The basic Polaris weapon system consists of submarines , missiles , support facilities , and perCENTRAL-WAR // sonnel . Fleet ballistic-missile submarines carry 16 missiles each , in 8 pairs of vertical launching tubes ; the missiles can be launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polaris submarines are capable of protecting themselves from enemy surface or subsurface craft by means of modern torpedo armaments and the latest detection equipment . Polaris is a two-stage ballistic missile about 28 feet long and about 30,000 pounds in weight . The A-1 , the first model of Polaris , has a 1,200-nautical-mile range and is controlled , in flight by a self-contained inertial-guidance system . The missile is ejected from its launching tube by inert gases that force the missile above the water , where the rocket motor ignites and propels the missile toward its target . Polaris is really a projectile that travels a ballistic path through space ; lifted upward and set on course by its propulsion and guidance components , it then speeds on its way to the target , directed by such natural forces as gravity . The second model of Polaris , the A-2 , is a 1,500-nautical-mile missile , and a still later version , the A-3 , has a range of more than 2,500 nautical miles . The submarine itself serves as a first-stage weapon that shortens the distance to enemy targets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile . Fleet ballistic-missile submarines can submerge almost indefinitely , and their submerged cruises are limited only by the endurance of the crew . Since more than 70 per cent of the surface of the earth is covered by navigable waters , not only do these submarines have a tremendous domain in which to hide and wait but their nuclear  --  power plants make it unnecessary for them to surface in order to recharge their batteries or to refuel . The submarines initially designed to carry Polaris , such as those of the George Washington class , are about 380 feet long and have a beam of about 33 feet and a displacement of about 5,900 tons . They are comparable in size to a large light cruiser . Two later classes of these submarines are longer and heavier to accommodate improvements in the missile and associated systems . To back up the fleet ballistic-missile force , the Navy has established a network of support facilities that include missile-testing sites , naval shipyards , submarine tenders , experimental test-firing ships , and a navigational test ship . Submarines going on operational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missiles at Garson , North Carolina . After that , the boats can change - missiles as necessary when they come alongside special submarine tenders for maintenance and resupply . Although the fleet ballistic-missile force falls under the opera88 EMPLOYING THE FORCES tional control of a unified command , the weapons , personnel , and supporting facilities are furnished entirely by the Navy . In effect , then , this unusual branch of the United States nuclear offensive force is provided by a single Service , the Navy . Mobility and the relative invulnerability of the submarine to enemy ICBM attack are outstanding characteristics of the combination of Polaris missile and nuclear-powered submarine . The Navy provides , then , a significant supplement to the ICBM force located in the continental United States . SOVIET NUCLEAR-DELIVERY FORCES The Soviet long-range nuclear-delivery forces consist principally of bomber aircraft and intercontinental ballistic missiles . Present indications are that the Soviets do not have a substantial operational capability for launching long-range missiles by nuclear-powered submarines . Of importance , however , are the locations of Soviet bomber-aircraft and **34;1000;TOOLONG bases that might be targets if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against our allies forced the United States to retaliate . Soviet Strategic Bomber Aircraft The Soviets are known to have three principal types of longrange bombers that can deliver large nuclear weapons against U.S. and allied targets. * The first is the Bison , a heavy bomber powered by four jet engines and numbering in force some 120 aircraft . The main part of the Soviet strategic bomber force is made up of about 1,000 Badgers , twin-jet , subsonic medium bombers . Other longrange bombers are the four-engine turbo-prop heavy bombers known as Bears . Two new supersonic bombers , the Blinder and the Bounder , may increase the size of the bomber force in the future . But even with this bomber force of about 1,200 relatively short-range aircraft , the Soviets are , generally speaking , forced to use aerialrefueling techniques so that their aircraft may reach targets in the United States . The number of aerial tankers ? they are converted from bombers ? that must be provided reduces by at least one-half the effective number of bombers that can reach long-range targets . Soviet Strategic Missile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heartland , employ the T-3 , a three-stage , liquid-propellant missile Footnote // with a range estimated at up to 8,000 miles . There is some evidence that the U.S.S.R. is prepared to fire strategic missiles not only from fixed launchers but also from mobile launchers mounted on railroad cars . The rail-mounted missiles are believed to be the T-4A , which is capable of carrying a payload of 3,100 pounds and presumably has a range of at least 1,500 miles . In addition to the T-3 and the T-4A , the arsenal includes two other intermediate-range missiles , the T-2 and the T-4 , which range from 1,000 to 1,500 miles. * The Soviet launching sites are widely dispered and strategically placed to threaten Europe and the United States . In western Rus sia , a concentration of missiles faces Europe ; another in northern Russia is directed toward the Polar region and the United States ; and still others are situated on Sakhalin Island , due north of Japan , and along the southern border of Russia . It appears that the ex-planation for the lower production rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the Soviets are waiting until they have developed an advanced ICBM before initiating a crash production program . This type of missile probably compares with the Minute-man solid-propellant missile that the United States is placing into production in large numberst The U.S.S.R. has no known capability for launching long-range ballistic missiles from naval craft . Recent estimates show that al-though the Soviets possess some 25 cruisers , nearly 200 destroyer-type ships , and more than 400 submarines , they do not now have a missile firing submarine powered by a nuclear-power plant of the same type as the Polaris submarine . This considerably reduces the Soviet ability to launch ballistic missiles from beneath the surface of the ocean , but it does not mean that they have neglected sub-marines that can launch missiles while surfaced.t The fact that the Soviet submarine fleet is extremely large poses a threat to the con tinental United States because a submarine can approach within a few hundred miles of shore , surface , and then launch a relatively short-range missile at either a military or civilian target . The sum total of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensive . Although the Soviets do not appear to have a large number of aircraft , the number of their missile weapons will undoubtedly increase . In the future , the // U.S.S.R. will very likely be able to deploy large numbers of nuclearpowered submarines that can launch ballistic missiles , and it is possible that it will also be able to launch super-long-range rockets from bases in southern Russia over the South Pole to attack the North American continent . Because of the obvious advantage of a first strike with thermonuclear weapons , superiority in mere numbers is not essential to seriously cripple an enemy . Therefore , the Soviet military potential to employ central-war offensive forces is high , indeed , and should be sufficient to justify a comparable but superior effort by the United States and its allies . CENTRAL-WAR DOCTRINE The evolution of the strategy of the nuclear deterrent was ensured in August , 1949 , when the Soviets exploded their first nuclear device . This Soviet achievement indicated not only that our allies and overseas outposts would soon be threatened , but also that , within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States itself would be endangered as it had not been for more than a century . This latter threat , coupled with the low esteem in which active airdefense systems were held at the time , made the creation of a strong strategic air arm the first priority of defense . The purpose was to establish a counterthreat of nuclear retaliation that would be capable of deterring the Soviets from ever deciding to strike at the United States . Retaliatory Capability Present central-war doctrine dictates that sufficient retaliatory forces must be able to survive an enemy first strike and , in return , penetrate enemy defenses and inflict unacceptable damage upon him . In other words , the United States must have , and must continue to maintain , the ability to survive a first blow and respond with enough destructive power to cripple any potential enemy . This deterrent power depends not only on the numbers of missiles and bombers but also on their states of readiness , their ability to survive attack , and the flexibility and sureness with which they can be controlled . The objective for U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach to an absolute deterrent ? must be based on weapons that come from hidden , moving , or invulnerable locations that will not be destroyed by a surprise attack . A retaliatory capacity based on adequate numbers of these weapons should deter an aggressor from launching or even threatening an attack ? an attack that he knows could not destroy enough of our forces to prevent his // own destruction . This second-strike mission is designed to do the greatest possible damage to the critical strategic elements in enemy country ? especially to his residual nuclear striking power . In order to obtain the maximum military value for such a strike and to minimize the dangers to civilian populations , a major effort must be made to direct the retaliatory attack against the enemy 's strategic forces and targets , as conditions permit . Offensive and Defensive Deterrents A military deterrent in central war may take one of several forms . The most effective deterrent is an invulnerable , reliable nuclearweapon system that , with a high degree of accuracy , can deliver a warhead to any target any place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no defense . Defense systems , either active or passive , can be important deterrents if they are effective . Although a defense against bombers or missiles may not be 100 per-cent effective , the more enemy weapons such systems destroy or neutralize in an attack , the more difficult will be the task of the aggressor and , hence , the greater the weapon 's value will be as a defensive means . Passive defense measures also contribute to deterrence : If , for example , a nation has a widely dispersed industry , back-up facilities in communications and transportation , a good shelter system ? especially for protecting key command facilities and personnel ? and a well-trained and determined population , then it has a strong defensive posture . Passive measures alone , however , have little deterrent effect on an aggressive enemy . It is only when they are combined with strong military capabilities that they are meaningful as a deterrent . A collective-security arrangement ( providing bases from which part of our retaliatory forces may operate ) , effective conventional weapons , and the resulting moral support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of national deterrents . But probably most important of all is to convince a potential aggressor that the United States has sufficient military strength to survive a first strike and deliver more punishment than the aggressor is willing to accept . If either the United States or one of its allies is attacked by nuclear weapons , this retaliatory force will certainly be employed in retribution for the attack . Therefore , the determination of the United States to use nuclear weapons must be clearly stated in advance , and the necessary forces must be positioned and readied for action , so that there is no doubt as to what would happen if such an attack were actually made . // The capability of the United States to launch a second nuclear strike after an enemy has made the first strike demands a well-integrated military structure and a precisely controlled military effort . This is necessary not only for the long-range nuclear-delivery forces but also for the total weight of U.S. and allied military power , in all of its various forms . Strategic offensive forces must be capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's offensive strike forces but his control and support installations as well . In addition , air defense forces must be located in depth to destroy enemy mass-destruction weapon systems in flight and as far as possible from the United States and its allies . Forward-area or tactical strike forces must be deployed , in conjunction with our allies , in order to conduct initial holding actions that will deny the enemy access to key areas and prevent the infiltration or overrunning of friendly territory . The size and effectiveness of the military force required to defeat the enemy military force are dependent upon the size and capabilities of the enemy . And , finally , a civil-defense effort to provide greater protection to our civilian population is an additional strength that is an absolute necessity . EMPLOYMENT OF FORCES To ensure the destruction of enemy targets by the long-range nuclear weapons of the central-war offensive forces , careful consideration must be given to the appropriate targets and the order of attack . The latter is especially necessary not only because the delivery systems and the sizes of nuclear weapons all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. delivery systems ( bombers and missiles ) would approach Soviet territory from several directions and at various times ? some missiles traveling at 15,000 miles per hour , for example , while the aircraft were flying at about 600 miles per hour . These conditions require target selection and the assignment of a nuclear weapon or weapons to each target in accordance with the destructive effect of the nuclear weapons and the total amount of destruction required on the target. * To accomplish this important task , the Joint Strategic Target Planning Staff has been organized under the Joint Chiefs of Staff and established at Strategic Air Command Headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base . The Joint Targeting Staff is responsible for assigning strategic targets to all Footnote // weapons capable of striking them . The result is an integrated target list , which , after approval by the Joint Chiefs of Staff , is forwarded to the combatant commanders for implementation in their plan ning. * Targeting Under this system , specific targets are assigned not only to dif ferent commands but also to specific weapon systems . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic are assigned certain targets in Soviet territory ? targets that are always within the range of the Polaris missiles during the submarines ' slow patrol along the rim of the European continent . In addition , the fighter-bomber aircraft of other unified commands , such as the European Command , are assigned relatively close-in targets rather than deep strategic targets , such as Moscow . Attack planes from the Navy 's carriers have also been keyed to second-strike targets , depending on the carrier 's location ; these shorter-range aircraft , each capable of carrying nuclear weapons of substantial destructive power , supple ment the longer-range nuclear-delivery systems . To ensure the co-ordination of nuclear attacks , liaison must be maintained with allied nuclear-delivery forces . The mechanics of targeting involve many types of complex con siderations , including estimates of the percentage of missiles and aircraft that can be launched , penetrate enemy defenses , and deto nate nuclear weapons over the target . t In particular , such factors as the reliability of the weapon systems and the number of surviving weapons that can be launched after an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these factors are integrated and com puted ; the resulting percentage figures provide an estimate of the effectiveness of any such U.S. second strike . They also establish re quirements for more accurate weapon systems or for better protec tive measures so that more retaliatory weapons will survive an attack . The enemy targets included in the integrated target list are those that contribute to the enemy 's military strength and to his com mand and control means. + The priority targets are enemy long94 EMPLOYING THE FORCES range-nuclear-weapon bases , such as ICBM sites and medium- aid heavy-bomber airfields ; air-defense missile sites and key communications centers are high on the list . For each target there is a requirement that a certain level of destruction , depending on the importance of the target , be achieved . According to this requirement , nuclear weapons are allocated and scheduled for each target . For targets that are protected by underground locations or hardened structures , greater numbers of nuclear weapons are necessary . Additionally , some targets are attacked earlier than others ? by ICBM 's , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft with more weapons . Readiness and Reaction of Weapon Systems Another major requirement in the employment of nuclear-delivery forces is that of maintaining a constant state of readiness . For the intercontinental ballistic missiles , a fifteen-minute or shorter launch time is necessary because of the extremely brief warning time expected from the early-warning radars that constantly search the horizon for the approach of enemy missiles or aircraft . The Minuteman ICBM 's have a decided retaliatory advantage in this respect because they can be launched on short notice from their concrete silos . The requirement for quick launching provides a severe test for the aircraft , the crew , and the operational scheme that the Strategic Air Command employs . Since aircraft are difficult to protect , the faster they can get off the ground and become airborne , the better their chances of surviving an attack . Consequently , there has been an increase in the number of aircraft kept on ground alerts and airborne alerts ; one-half of the total strategic bomber force ? about 500 bombers ? is maintained on ground alert for launching within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the bomber force can be brought to an alert status and held there during periods of emergency ; however , this larger proportion can not be maintained on alert status indefinitely without seriously degrading the over-all effectiveness of the force . The other possibility for protecting bomber aircraft and ensuring that they proceed to their designated target is an airborne alert . About one-eighth of the heavy bombers , the B-52 force , is maintained on a continuous airborne alert . These aircraft fly training missions to various parts of the North American continent ; they can be quickly diverted to an enemy target , if necessary , during these missions . The entire heavy-bomber force is thus rotated // through training missions to maintain the airborne-alert status . Upon receipt of a warning from the North American Air Defense Command that the United States is threatened with imminent attack , an alerting system will activate all ground-alert aircraft and notify missile crews to stand by for launch orders . Bomber crews have pre-assigned targets , based on the single integrated target list , and pre-assigned flight routes to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Command 's positive-control procedure goes into effect . Each bomber has a predetermined point , well short of enemy territory , beyond which it will not go unless specific coded instructions are received from Presidential authority . Since missiles can not be recalled or diverted after launch , U.S. strategic missiles may have to " ride out " the first wave of an attack to avoid any chance of starting a war under false warning . During the interval between the launch of the bomber groundalert force and its arrival at the positive-control points , the nation 's civilian authorities will have time to determine whether there is an actual attack and whether the U.S. must strike back . If strike orders are issued , a " Go " code will be flashed in seconds to all aircraft and missile crews from underground or airborne command posts . If it is decided that no counterblow is required , aircraft will return to their bases automatically without recall orders . During the interval before the " Go " code is issued , however , follow-on missions will have been prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on enemy forces . After the initial U.S. attack on enemy targets , manned aircraft will fly over the target areas to send back damage reports , enabling the battle staff to direct nuclear restrikes where necessary to assure the required destruction . Command and Control Positive , continuous control of the retaliatory bombers and missiles is necessary to ensure that we adhere to our stated nationaldefense policies and to avoid starting a nuclear war by mistake . In addition , the President and all subordinate commanders concerned must be able to order the central-war forces into action at any stage of a surprise nuclear attack ? before , during , or after such an attack . For this reason , as we mentioned earlier , a National Military Command System was established , and it provides intelligence information and communications facilities for the high-level command , as well as a number of alternative locations for the President and others in the national chain of command . The Strategic Air Command and Control System , part of a world96 EMPLOYING THE FORCES wide military command and control system , includes automatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information that gives the readiness status of SAC bombers and missiles almost instantaneously . Several different means of communication ? radios and underground cables , for example ? connect SAC bases throughout the country . These relatively unprotected surface installations are adequate for command and control in peacetime and in the pre-strike phase of a nuclear war . In the postattack situation , however , airborne command posts and relay centers , in addition to a deep-underground support center , provide the means to survive the initial attack , order our forces to retaliate in kind , and assess the damage to our own military and civilian installations and to those of the enemy . The airborne command posts consist of specially equipped KC-135 aircraft and B-47 's as communication-relay aircraft . However , since aircraft must refuel eventually and can carry only a relatively small number of the personnel required for the detailed replanning that a nuclear attack would demand , a deep underground support center not only overcomes these shortcomings but supplements the airborne element . The underground facility has room for personnel , communications , computer equipment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in directing the national effort to recover from a nuclear attack . Polaris Missile-System Operations The requirements for employing the Polaris missile are naturally much different from those for employing aircraft and missiles of the Strategic Air Command . Fleet ballistic-missile submarines leave the United States , cruise to positions in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean , and return later to their main base at Charleston , South Carolina . ( In the future , these Polaris submarines will also maintain positions in the Pacific . ) While they are at sea , they can be outfitted with replacement missiles from special Polaris sub-tenders located in designated harbors off friendly coasts . The training of the crews for the fleet ballistic-missile submarines is extremely important , since they must remain in the limited confines of the submarine for about two months at a time . The underwater endurance of the nuclear submarine has led to a new system of manning such ships . Each fleet ballistic-missile submarine has two complete crews , tagged Blue and Gold , of about 110 officers and men . While Blue crew is on patrol , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialized training to produce highly technically trained men is common to the complex // nuclear-weapon delivery systems that are part of the central-war offensive forces . Although much effort is expended on designing new weapons of greater and better-controlled destructive power , the fact remains that the operators of the system and those trained technicians that support it are as important as the weapon itself . Obviously , any weapon system is no better than the men who operate it . 6 . CENTRAL-WAR DEFENSIVE FORCES The mission of the central-war defensive forces is to protect the North American continent from the effects of a nuclear attack by aircraft , submarine-launched missiles , intercontinental ballistic missiles , or space vehicles . ( See Table 3 . ) This , in reality , is an air defense , the purpose of which is to save as large a percentage as possible of the country 's population , installations , and central-war offensive forces ( bombers and ICBM 's ) from destruction . The measures employed for this defense are both active and passive , active in the use of fighter aircraft , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launched against enemy bombers by tactical fighter aircraft ; passive in the use of shelters and the dispersion of military and civilian facilities . The total air threat to the United States and its approaches is diversified and capable of large-scale destruction . The character of this threat continues to change : In the immediate future , the emphasis will be on subsonic and supersonic bomber aircraft , but in the long run , it will be on ballistic missiles and space-launched weapons . At the present time , however , several weapon systems are available to the U.S.S.R. ; these delivery systems can be launched from a number of directions and altitudes against such target areas in the United States as concentrations of industry , population centers , and military installations . These targets are easily identified and conveniently located for attack , since about 85 per cent of heavy industry and 59 per cent of the population are concentrated in 13 per cent of the nation 's area . AIR-DEFENSE OPERATIONS The air defense of the North American continent is the responsibility of the North American Air Defense Command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forces for the air defense of the United States and Canada . The headquarters for NORAD is located at Colorado Springs , Colorado . In discharging its mission , NORAD is governed by these air-defense prin-98 // Table // ciples : Attack the enemy as far out as possible ; increase the pressure if he continues to come in ; complicate his tactical problem by employing a family of weapons to perform the low , medium , high , close-in , and distant attacks ; and centrally control the air battle for optimum economy and efficiency of effort . Basic Air-Defense Functions All NORAD equipment , weapons , and procedures are designed to perform the four basic actions of air defense ? detection , identification , interception , and destruction . Initially , of course , the presence of hostile aircraft , ballistic missiles , or space weapons must be detected ; then , the type of target must be identified . If the target is identified as an aircraft but is not recognized as friendly , an interceptor aircraft is scrambled aloft to confirm its identity . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by interceptor aircraft or air-defense missiles . At the present time , however , there are no active means that can destroy a target in flight that is identified as a ballistic missile or some type of space weapon . Detection The detection or early warning of enemy aircraft begins with the radars of the Distant Early Warning ( DEW ) Line in the far north . ( See Figure 5 . ) This radar " fence , " which stretches across the northern rim of the continent from the Canadian Arctic to Alaska , provides warning of attack by manned bombers . The U.S. Navy provides sea flanks for the DEW Line by using radar-equipped , Superconstellation aircraft to extend its coverage from the Aleutians to the mid-Pacific and from Newfoundland to the mid-Atlantic . Behind the DEW Line , some 600 miles south , lies a second detection system , the mid-Canada Line ; built and manned by Canadian forces , it uses doppler-radio detection equipment . A third warning net , a system of radars operated by Canada , is deployed along the U.S.-Canadian border and is considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installations is a network of radars within the United States . The U.S. detection system is extended offshore by Navy picket ships and Air Force aircraft , both of which contain high-powered radar equipment , and the entire system is tied together by a communications network terminating in the NORAD Combat Operations Center at Colorado Springs . Recently , radar systems have also been installed in the southeastern section of the United States to detect any hostile aircraft attacking from that direction . // To fulfill its mission of defending against ballistic-missile and space-vehicle attack , NORAD employs a combination of a ballisticmissile warning system and a space detection and tracking system . The ballistic-missile early-warning system ( BMEWS ) is a complex radar and electronic-data network ; its purpose is to warn of missiles attacking North America from across the Polar region . There are three stations in this network : Thule , Greenland ; Fylingdales Moor , Yorkshire , England ; and Clear , Alaska . All data from BMEWS are fed directly to NORAD headquarters , and from there relayed to the Strategic Air Command 's aircraft and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is under the operational control of NORAD ; it consists of the National Space Surveillance Control Center , established to analyze and catalogue data from various detection sources , and a satellite-detection system , which feeds satellite-orbit data into the control-center facilities . Employing radio and radar devices that cover certain areas in space , the latter system is actually an electronic curtain in the sky that can detect , identify , and predict the orbit of , any satellite that may penetrate it . The network extends across most of the southern United States and helps to detect many of the satellites whose orbits cross above the North American continent . Identification The proper identification of aircraft is one of NORAD 's most difficult problems , and it is chiefly caused by the large amount of air traffic in the United States and Canada . On the average , there are 600 overwater flights to the United States and Canada every day , and there are an estimated 200,000 internal flights . To aid the identification and recognition of so many aircraft , air-defense identification zones have been established throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these zones must do so within a few miles of a pre-indicated point and within a few minutes of a pre-estimated time . If the aircraft fails to meet these minimums , it is declared an " unknown " and may be visually confirmed by the pilot of an interceptor aircraft . Interception and Destruction Interception and destruction are the two climactic actions in airdefense operations . Interception , the process of directing the interceptor aircraft or missile to within the attack radius of the hostile aircraft , is carried out by radar and radio instructions transmitted to the automatic navigational equipment aboard the interceptor . The deCENTRAL-WAR // struction of enemy aircraft is accomplished by various weapon sys-tems in accordance with the established rules of combat engagement ? when a target can be attacked , for example , and by which means , missile or aircraft . If a fighter-interceptor aircraft , while pursuing its target , flies into the area specifically defended by air-defense mis-siles , well-defined procedures can be put into effect at once to en-sure that the missiles either hold their fire or engage the hostile tar-get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the task of destruction , NORAD has available a family of missile and aircraft weapon systems , each designed to attack certain types of targets under specified conditions . THE AIR THREAT The principal threat to North America today is the possibility of nuclear weapons devastating its population and its military and industrial complexes . There are , of course , other weapons ? chemical agents , biological agents , and even large blockbuster high-explosive bombs ? that can do extensive damage to the same targets ; and since they can be smuggled into the country or placed close to its shores , they do not have to be air-dropped . However , the most likely form of attack remains a large nuclear strike launched suddenly by air-borne weapons , for that would be the quickest way to neutralize our strategic retaliatory forces and create the greatest damage in the shortest time . Soviet Bombers The first element of the Soviet air threat is the manned bomber . At the present time , the Soviets have about 1,200 bombers capable of reaching targets on the North American continent . The Badger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium bomber , and in numbers it constitutes the backbone of Soviet strategic aircraft . The Bison , a four-jet , subsonic heavy bomber , can be equated , more or less , with the U.S. B-52 , although there are only a relatively small number , on the order of 120 aircraft . Another Soviet bomber , called the Bear , is a long-range turbo-prop aircraft for which the United States has no military equivalent ; there appear also to be limited numbers of this aircraft available . The Soviets have recently introduced a medium-range bomber , the Blinder ; although it has a capability for a short supersonic " dash , " it has a limited range . A new supersonic heavy bomber , called the Bounder , is probably just starting into production , but in the fu104 EMPLOYING THE FORCES ture it may constitute a very difficult airborne target . Since many of the Soviet aircraft can carry air-to-surface missiles , they are , in effect , convertible into airborne launching platforms with the capability of standing off from targets and launching nuclear missiles into defended areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerial refueling , is such that they can reach any portion of the United States with little difficulty . An examination of a world map will show that Soviet bombers launched from their bases at Murmansk , for example , or eastern Siberia can fly to any point in the United States and still be less than 4,500 miles from their home base. * It should also be noted that attack bombers stationed in Cuba would pose an additional threat to the United States . Missile- firing Submarines The submarine-launched missile presents a threat because of the many and varied directions in which it can approach targets in the United States . Although not considered primary attack weapons by the Department of Defense , many Soviet submarines are believed to be capable of launching short-range ballistic missiles . Undoubtedly , the numbers of this type of submarine will be increased , for only a few of these submarines stationed in the Hudson Bay , the Caribbean , or off the Atlantic or Pacific coast , would be capable of launching tia simultaneous attack with missiles of a 450-mile range that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within that attack radius . With slightly longerrange missiles , the submarines could attack many of the Strategic Air Command 's bomber and **26;1036;TOOLONG missile sites in the heart of the nation . Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles The number of Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles can only be estimated , but there are probably less than 200 on operational launchers . These missiles have a speed of Mach 20 ( twenty times the speed of sound ) , or about 18,000 miles per hour , and they can carry warheads that contain large nuclear weapons . Since the flight times for the missiles are relatively short , the possibility of a surprise attack by weapons of such potential destruction has created a military threat of unprecedented seriousness . // Space Weapons There also remains the possibility of a threat from space-based vehicles such as earth-orbiting satellites . The Soviets have placed into orbit several satellites weighing upwards of five tons ; these space vehicles have been both manned and unmanned and of such weight that they could carry some kind of advanced weapon system . For instance , they might carry small rockets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with radio or radar communications . Such vehicles also might mount cameras or other detection equipment and serve as data-gathering systems for military-intelligence purposes . These satellites , although not part of an active weapon system , might provide the Soviets with useful information about U.S. forces ; in such cases , their orbits must be monitored by our detection and tracking systems . Obviously , all these weapon systems , including those that provide the air threat , are being dramatically improved in relatively short periods of time . For example , the piston bomber used so extensively in World War II has been virtually dropped from the aircraft arsenal ; soon after the heavy jet bomber came into prominence , the Soviets introduced a supersonic bomber that will undoubtedly continue to gain in numbers and effectiveness for some time to come . The latest major weapon carrier that the Soviets are beginning to build in quantity is the intercontinental ballistic missile , and it will probably be the major long-range weapon-delivery system of the future . In addition , it appears most likely that space weapons of some type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons , and the number of directions from which they can attack , make the task of continental air defense a formidable one . Effects of Nuclear Weapons It might be helpful at this point to examine the destructive effects of nuclear weapons in order to gain a better understanding of the air threat . The explosion of a nuclear weapon is characterized by the almost instantaneous release of huge amounts of energy from a point source . This release of energy produces a large fireball composed of gases with extremely high temperatures and pressures . The gases , moving rapidly and forcefully outward , produce a powerful blast wave in air , a shock wave in water , or a severe ground shock . In this respect , the nuclear weapon is similiar to an ordinary high-explosive weapon ? except that it is many times as powerful . // There are , of course , other important differences between a nuclear explosion and a high-explosive detonation . In a nuclear explosion , because of the extremely high temperatures generated in the fireball , a large portion of the explosive energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is referred to as thermal radiation ; it is significant because it can cause skin burns and start fires at considerable distances from the burst point . The nuclear reaction also produces instantaneously a highly-penetrating and harmful , but invisible , radiation energy , generally known as initial nuclear radiation . Many of the products of the explosion are radioactive isotopes and emit what is called residual radiation for long periods of time . These products are contained in the cloud formed by the fireball as it cools . As an example , let us assume a one-megaton explosion . At a distance of 9 miles from the explosion , a man would still suffer seconddegree burns ? defined as those burns that raise blisters requiring medical attention . At a distance of 4 miles , conventional wooden and brick homes would be destroyed ( by overpressure ) ; larger structures , such as brick apartment buildings , would suffer moderate to severe damage ; and people would incur blast-induced injuries such as broken bones from flying debris and punctured eardrums . At a distance of about 11/z miles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For a much larger explosion , say 20 megatons , second-degree burns would occur out to 32 miles , overpressure would destroy buildings out to 11 miles , and initial radiation would be fatal out to about 2 miles . People in an area of more than 3,000 square miles might be subjected to the risk of at least second-degree burns by such a large explosion . The immediate effects would occur in a few seconds or , at the most , in a few minutes ; the long-term effects include secondary fires that develop much later and cause a major share of the total destruction , as happened at Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War 11 . Fallout Fallout is another delayed effect against which protection measures must be designed . Fallout is created from the fission reaction in nuclear weapons , and it is composed of intensely radioactive elements called fission products . The radioactive material from megaton weapons may contaminate hundreds and thousands of square miles to the point where radiation is a hazard to life . When a nuclear weapon detonates and the fireball comes in contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth are sucked up into the // fireball cloud . The earth is melted and mixed with the fission products ; then , when the temperature drops , radioactive substances condense with the particles of earth . In a matter of minutes , the particles begin to fall toward the surface and deposit themselves in a rough circle around the mushroom cloud and then in a downwind direction . There is also a delayed fallout of very fine and invisible particles that settle in low concentrations over wide areas of the earth 's surface . This kind of radiation is less intense than the other , for radioactive decay inevitably ensues during the relatively long time that the particles remain suspended in the atmosphere . Delayed fallout radiation generally poses no immediate danger to health , although there may be a long-term hazard . ACTIVE DEFENSE Those measures that are employed directly against the enemy air threat constitute an active defense . Although these measures generally are directed at aircraft and intercontinental ballistic missiles , they must also take into account enemy submarines that can bring short-range ballistic missiles close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antisubmarine warfare , involves naval forces designed to hunt and destroy these submarines . To better'understand such defenses , let us examine the forces organized to attack each of the elements of the air threat : the bombers , the submarines , the intercontinental ballistic missiles , and the space vehicles . Organization The North American Air Defense Command , as described earlier , is responsible for the air defense of Canada and the United States . It prepares the necessary operational plans , conducts tactical exercises , and coordinates plans and requirements for new air-defense weapons . More importantly , it conducts readiness tests of its units and will direct the air-defense battle for North America in the event of war . This command is composed of two elements , the Royal Canadian Air Force Air Defense Command and the United States Continental Air Defense Command . The latter organization is a unified command operating directly under the joint Chiefs of Staff ; it performs all air-defense missions of a national nature . At the present time , a U.S. officer commands both the North American Air Defense Command and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units under his jurisdiction are the Army Air Defense Command , the Air Force Air Defense Command , and Io8 EMPLOYING THE FORCES Naval Forces Continental Air Defense Command . The North American Air Defense Command is divided into eight geographical regions , seven in the United States ( including one in Alaska ) and one in Canada , each of which has as its command post a combat operations center . Each region is , in turn , divided into sectors , the basic units for fighting the air battle , and each sector has a direction center that is the sector command post . In tying this organization together to achieve centralized control , NORAD has become the world 's biggest user of communications . The air-defense communications and information network in the continental United States and southern Canada can be compared to a nerve system . Stimulation at any point creates an awareness and then triggers a response throughout the system . The stimulus might be radar data from ground stations , reports from airborne aircraft and ships at sea , or orders from direction centers to interceptor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooms , missiles rise to firing positions , and the entire situation in condensed form ? location and magnitude of the enemy attack and readiness of defense forces ? appears on the display board in NORAD 's Combat Operations Center . The conduct of an area air-defense battle requires a great deal of information , dependable communications , and close coordination among many organizations . To receive the information , process it , and then issue proper instructions in an extremely short time ? all this is too much of a task for unaided human resources . Therefore , an electronic air-surveillance and weaponcontrol system , called the semi-automatic ground environment ( SAGE ) , is employed to do the following : Receive information , process it for the operators , determine the best weapons and techniques of attack , and communicate information and instructions to those needing it . The U.S. Army Air Defense Command is the organization under NORAD that commands , trains , and administers the Army air-defense units . The latter , located in more than 30 states and more than 200 communities , are manned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface-to-air missile battalions with which to defend major industrial population centers of the United States , as well as selected strategic command bases . All these Army missile units are in operation twenty-four hours a day , seven days a week , and their fire units are on advanced alerts , ranging from fifteen minutes to three hours . Air-defense information flows from the fifteen SAGE direction centers to Army air-defense command posts ; this essential inCENTRAL-WAR DEFENSIVE FORCES log formation contains air-defense warnings or appraisals of the probability of attack . A red warning indicates that an attack by hostile aircraft or missiles is imminent or in progress ; a yellow warning means that an attack by hostile aircraft or missiles is probable , and a white warning indicates that an attack by hostile aircraft or missiles is not considered immediately probable or imminent . Special weapon procedures or instructions are used to control the air-defense weapon systems for firing against hostile targets . For example , " Hold fire " means " Do not open fire ; missiles in flight will be destroyed , and fire units will cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Stop firing on an airborne target ; missiles in flight are permitted to continue to intercept the target ! " " Cease engagement " means " Disengage the specific tracking operation and prepare to engage another target ! " The purpose of such instructions , obviously , is to control the air battle so that if more important targets appear from another direction or at another altitude , they can be quickly engaged by the most available weapons . The Air Force Air Defense Command is organized primarily to fulfill its responsibilities for the air defense of the United States ? a task that requires more than 100,000 officers , airmen , and civilians in highly specialized roles . This command supplies and maintains the major portion of Air Force weapons and air bases and controls the DEW Line installations and other radar networks . Air Force Air Defense Command aircraft extend ground radar lines seaward from both coasts of the United States . Its functions are the same as those of NORAD ? that is , the detection , identification , interception , and destruction of hostile aerial weapon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major component force of both the Continental Air Defense Command and the North American Air Defense Command . The Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force also contribute substantial forces to NORAD . Naval air-defense forces , numbering about 10,000 men in all , employ aircraft on interceptor missions and provide airborne early warning by flying the Atlantic and Pacific extensions of the DEW Line . In addition , the Royal Canadian Air Force furnishes some 14,000 men in all ? nine squadrons of interceptor aircraft , which are stationed mostly in heavily populated eastern Canada , and two more in western Canada . The Canadians also man part of the DEW Line and the entire Mid-Canada Line of radars that extend westward for more than 2,500 miles from the coast of Labrador . Finally , the Pine Tree Line , another chain of radars , is now solely operated by Canadian forces . // Interceptor Aircraft and Weapons The aircraft that serve primarily as weapon launching platforms for the purpose of destruction are the F-101 , F-102 , F-104 , and F-106 . The F-101 , or Voodoo , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles per hour and a combat range of more than 1,000 miles ; its armament includes four 20-mm. cannons , the Genie nuclear-tipped air-to-air rocket , and both the Falcon and Sidewinder air-to-air missiles . The F-102 , or Delta Dagger , also an all-weather fighter-interceptor , carries all its electronic equipment , armament , and fuel internallv . It uses an advanced electronic fire-control system to search out a target at long range , direct the pilot on an attack course for its missiles or rockets , and , at the correct instant , automatically fire the armament . It also can be piloted at supersonic speeds , and it carries the Falcon air-to-air guided missiles and some twenty-four folding-fin-type rockets . The third aircraft , the F-104 , or Star Fighter , is a fighter-interceptor ; it has a speed of more than 1,400 miles per hour , a range of more than 1,000 miles , and it is armed with 20-mm. cannon and Sidewinder missiles . The F-106 , or Delta Dart , has a fire-control and electronic guidance system that is capable of flying the aircraft through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the direction of ground-control intercept stations . It has a speed of more than 1,500 miles per hour and carries the Falcon air-to-air guided missile and the Genie rocket . The air-to-air rockets mentioned as armament for the four aircraft are the most effective weapons that the interceptor aircraft carry . The Genie is an unguided , solid-propellant rocket , some eight feet long , with a range of about six miles ; its principal advantage is that it carries a nuclear warhead , making its total weight about 800 pounds . The Falcon series of supersonic , guided air-to-air missiles includes some that use self-contained radars for homing on enemy aircraft and others that use an infrared homing device . One model of the Falcon has a nuclear warhead , but the others carry conventional warheads . The Falcon missiles are slightly more than six feet in length , have a speed greater than twice the speed of sound and a range of more than five miles . The Sidewinder guided air-toair rocket is a simple , inexpensive missile that homes on the hot tailpipe of a jet aircraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more than twice the speed of sound , and it uses a conventional high-explosive warhead . CENTRAL-WAR DEFENSIVE FORCES III Air-Defense Missile Systems The two principal surface-to-air missile systems used in the destruction phase are the Bomarc and the Nike-Hercules . Bomarc is a ramjet-powered missile used in conjunction with the SAGE electronic control system . Bomarc is guided from the ground to the altitude of the target ; then a target-seeking device in the missile takes over to guide Bomarc directly to the enemy aircraft . As it comes within the proper distance of the target , the warhead is detonated by a proximity fuse ? a radio-transmitting device that determines the distance to an object by measuring the delay time between sending and receiving a radio signal " echo . " Bomarc is 46 feet in length and has a speed of about three times the speed of sound , a ceiling of about 60,000 feet , and a range of between 200 and 400 miles . It can carry a conventional or a nuclear warhead and has a maximum takeoff weight of about 15,000 pounds . Nike-Hercules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitude in excess of 150,000 feet and out to a range of more than 75 miles . It is launched by means of a solid-propellant booster rocket that drops off after the Hercules has gained altitude ; then a sustainer rocket takes over to propel it at supersonic speeds to the target , where the warhead , atomic or conventional , can be detonated . The Nike system uses three radars and a computer to control the flight of the missile . An acquisition radar detects the target ; then a target-tracking radar measures the target 's range , azimuth , and elevation angle while continuously sending the data to the computer ; and a missile-tracking radar similarly measures the missile 's range , azimuth , and elevation angle while sending this information to the computer . The electronic computer , continuously fed the location of the target and the missile , works out the commands required to direct the missile to the target . When the missile approaches the target , a radar signal commands the warhead to detonate . Defense against Submarines The submarine threat consists of two entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convoy attacker . The mission of the first is achieved by stealth , for it moves slowly and quietly and avoids any and all contact ; the mission of the second requires daring maneuvers , high speeds , noise , and contact on the surface of the sea . The importance of the first type of threat is obvious . Submarines can launch short-range missiles against large num112 EMPLOYING THE FORCES bers of military targets and communities in the United States . In addition , antisubmarine forces must be able to cope with the po-tential missile-launching submarine lying quietly off either conti-nental coast . The second type of threat is , of course , directed against sea transport , which still carries 99 per cent of the tonnage moved overseas . In either case , the difficulties of sorting out enemy subma-rines from other ocean traffic are extensive ; on an average day , a to-tal of 2,700 ships are at sea in the Atlantic and 3,300 in the Pacific . Antisubmarine warfare strategy consists of making strikes at en-emy submarine bases and other support facilities and maintaining submarine patrols in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instituted to block enemy submarine sorties into the open seas and to protect the continental U.S. from missile-firing submarines lurking off the Atlantic , Gulf , and Pacific coasts . To ac-complish these tasks , the operating forces of the Navy have some 370 antisubmarine ships ( including submarines ) and 650 aircraft , manned by 130,000 officers and men ? that is , almost half the ships in the Navy and more than 40 per cent of the men in the naval op-erating forces . Antisubmarine defense forces are organized for both the Atlantic and the Pacific fleets , and a total of some nine antisub-marine-warfare aircraft carriers and thirty aircraft patrol squadrons are used by the Navy to protect shipping from the submarine men-ace . Each unit is organized around an aircraft carrier and the six destroyers that support it as surface attack units . Since these " hunter-killer " groups are supplemented by fixed-wing and helicop-ter aircraft , ships and aircraft can , by means of closely coordinated movements , bring their detection gear and weapon systems to bear against the enemy submarine . For example , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable distance from the aircraft carrier may direct an aircraft by radio to the weapon-drop position . In addition , specially outfitted submarines are used against other submarines in areas far inside enemy-con-trolled waters , and in some cases the attacking submarine may coor-dinate its tactical maneuvers with aircraft in much the same way that the hunter-killer groups of surface ships do . The phases of the search for and the destruction of enemy sub-marines are as follows : Detection , localization , classification ( in-cluding identification ) , and kill . Since sounds traveling underwater probably provide the surest means of detecting and locating ( local-izing ) submarines , sound-navigation equipment , called sonar , is standard on both ships and aircraft . The sonar system sends out a sound wave that is reflected off an underwater object some distance // away and is then picked up by sensitive listening equipment as it returns to its source ; the time lapse between sending and receiving the sound determines the range of the object , and the direction is determined by the azimuth of the strongest reflected signal . The helicopter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a suspected location , lower sonar equipment into the water to obtain a quick and accurate detection reading . In spite of recent improvements in sonar , classifying a target as a submarine and then identifying it as friendly or hostile is still a perplexing problem . In the kill phase , torpedo-type weapons and depth charges are the principal means ; two examples are the surface-to-underwater rocket-assisted torpedo , called Asroc , and the acoustic homing torpedo , designed to follow the noise of a ship 's engine or screws . Antisubmarine mines and specially fused bombs for use as depth charges are also important weapons . Defense against ICBM 's Since there are , at this time , no weapon systems for the interception and destruction of ballistic missiles , a defense can presently be made only in the first two categories of air defense ? detection and identification . The principal system in operation is the ballisticmissile early-warning system ( BMEWS ) , consisting of three radar stations in the far north and Great Britain . The installations have four antenn4 reflectors apiece , each of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , and these large radars operate in conjunction with electronic computers and other complex equipment housed in some seven buildings on each site . The radar antenna sends out two narrow beams of energy at two different angles of elevation to the earth 's surface ? usually at about 2 and 10 degrees . When a missile passes through the lower beam , radar pulses bounce off it , and these are detected by supersensitive receivers ; from these " echoes , " the position and velocity of the missile can be calculated . Seconds later , as the missile passes through the upper beam , radar echoes are again picked up and the position and velocity coordinates are calculated again . From these two sets of coordinates , the missile 's trajectory can then be accurately determined because a ballistic missile in " free flight " ( the unpowered phase of its trajectory ) follows a fixed arc in accord with the laws of physics . Once the missile 's trajectory has been calculated , the impact area , the impact time , and the point of launch can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Greenland , and at the other two BMEWS sites . A warning will then be // flashed to NORAD , to Strategic Air Command headquarters , and to civil-defense agencies . In order to make sure that the targets detected are actually ballistic missiles , the computers at the BMEWS site must compare the trajectories noted with those of observed earth satellites and with characteristics of aurora and meteor trails . And , while receiving tracking data from a number of targets , the computers must also make the crucial decision as to which one is the warhead , since some of the objects may be decoys or parts of the expended missile body . The radar beams scan tremendous land areas in order to cover the approaches to North America ; consequently , a 2,000-mile-wide strip of arctic land and parts of the Eurasian continent are covered by the beams , which reach out some 3,000 miles . Defense against Space Vehicles The enemy threat from space vehicles , including earth-orbiting satellites , poses a difficult problem for an active air defense . At the present time , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no weapon systems available to intercept and destroy potentially hostile space vehicles . The space-detection and tracking system under the operation of the Air Defense Command is employed to determine the orbital periods and locations of satellites that may prove to be hostile . This system performs several missions : It provides complete and timely tracking information about all known space objects , maintains an up-to-date catalogue of space vehicles , determines the orbits of space objects , and compiles a schedule predicting satellite positions in space at regular intervals . Earlier predictions of satellite positions are continuously checked against the data from radar , radio , and optical sensing devices . These sensing devices include large telescopic cameras , high-frequency radio equipment , and other radar and tracking systems located on the North American continent and in other positions around the world . One of the most effective satellite-detection facilities is a network of high-powered tracking stations that send radio waves out in fanlike patterns to detect silent satellites ? that is , satellites that move in their orbits without transmitting any signal . This satellite " fence " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information rapidly to the satellite detection and tracking control center , to be displayed on a global map in the NORAD Combat Operations Center ; the information is then evaluated for intelligence purposes . // PASSIVE DEFENSE Passive defense measures are those used to reduce or minimize the damage to military forces and the civilian population that may result if enemy weapons penetrate the active defenses . The principal weapon against which such measures are designed to function is , of course , the nuclear weapon ; however , all other types of weapons are included ? high explosives , for example , as well as chemical and biological agents . The ability not only to defend ourselves against such attacks but then to minimize the effects is an essential element of our deterrent against enemy actions . If a potential enemy has any doubt as to his capability of dealing a decisive blow , then the possibility that he will initiate a nuclear attack against the United States is less likely . A determined U.S. effort , both military and civilian , to build strong passive defenses provides further evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . Military Defense Passive defense measures taken by the central-war defensive forces generally involve increasing the protection of the strategic bomber and **34;1064;TOOLONG sites . As stated earlier , the airborne and ground alerts for the bombers provide some protection against a sudden surprise attack by enemy ballistic missiles , but the protection is increased if adequate warning can be given by the detection and identification systems of NORAD . The dispersal of the bomber and missile sites is another means to gain added protection and to complicate a potential enemy 's targeting problem . But the command and control network must also be protected , so that the correct instructions and orders can be transmitted from the Presidential level on down , and that can be done only if information about the attacking enemy forces and the progress of any air battle is continually being monitored and evaluated . Although bomber aircraft can not be well protected on the ground except by costly structures , the hardened under round sites from which later models of intercontinental ballistic missiles are designed to be fired do provide substantial protection against large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Polaris missile , is protected by the capability of its launching platform , the fleet ballistic-missile submarine , to submerge beneath the surface of the ocean . In addition to the ICBM weapons , the central-war defensive missile systems have some protection from enemy attack be116 EMPLOYING THE FORCES cause of the hardened sites from which the surface-to-air weapons are launched . This specifically refers to the Bomarc and the NikeHercules sites , many of which are located underground . Civil Defense The nonmilitary defense of the continental United States has three principal elements : Protection of life and property in case of attack , including shelter and supporting systems ; strengthening , mobilizing , and managing the resources of the nation to support essential military and civilian operations ; and ensuring the integrity , continuity , and capability of civil government to function at all levels of our Federal democratic system under any conditions of emergency . As a system , civil defense is complementary to military defense and can best be evaluated in the context of our total defense program . It may be said to constitute a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population , fallout shelters properly identified and stocked , identification and warning systems , and an effective organization for ensuring the continuous control of public utilities . The present civil-defense program , to provide protection against nuclear weapons , is under the supervision of the Director of Civil Defense in the Department of the Army . Another civildefense organization , in the Executive Officc of the President , is the Office of Emergency Planning , which is responsible for ensuring that the country 's resources will be effectively used in an emergency . The present emphasis of the civil-defense program is upon the protection of the American people against nuclear fallout , for such protection may be just as important on a national scale as that against nuclear blast . Although a megaton-yield weapon can destroy the heart of a city , a near miss upwind can also threaten a city 's population ; consequently , its citizens must know how , in the time following the warning of a nuclear-weapon burst , to seek out properly prepared fallout shelters . This program is designed to utilize available shelter and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-cost shelter spaces . These spaces will be sufficient to provide reasonably adequate protection for about one-quarter of the national population . Existing shelters in buildings are now being modified , principally by installing a forced-draft ventilation that is operated by stand-by power sources and by planning facilities in new buildings adaptable for shelter use . In addition , community shelter space in existing buildings is being marked for identification and availability . Fallout shelter spaces for more than 100 million people // have been designated , and shelters for an estimated 20 million people have been equipped with the minimum essentials for a oneor two-week period : Rations ( austerity rations with a long shelf-life ) , two weeks ' water supply , first-aid kits , sanitary supplies , tools to remove debris , and radiation-meter kits . Communications and Control Facilities Connecting the vast network of military and civilian defensive and offensive organizations are several communications systems and alternate command posts that can be used in case one or more are destroyed or rendered inoperative by an enemy attack . On the national level , there is an alternate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several large naval vessels , specially equipped with sufficient communications to maintain contact with civil and military agencies . A 500-man underground shelter in Texas is another example of a possible alternate national command post ; it is a $2.5 million structure that houses Civil Defense Region Five , one of the eight Civil Defense regions in the United States , and it is capable of accommodating 600 persons ( who can be entirely cut off from normal above-ground activities and supplies ) on an emergency basis for thirty days . The underground center is able to withstand the blast of a 20-megaton nuclear bomb detonated some three miles away . The most important function of the headquarters , however , is to maintain communications on a national basis with other civil-defense agencies and with the national Government . This important communications network , called the National Communications System , is a 22,000-mile-long telephone and teletype web of commercial lines ; it links the Presidential headquarters with several alternate circuits , which guarantee that , wherever an enemy bomb may hit , the network will remain operational . Backing up this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communications task . Military communications and control systems are integrated with the facilities of the military commands . Of particular interest is the National Military Command Center , located on one of the underground floors of the Pentagon in Washington , D.C. If the enemy launches an all-out nuclear attack on the United States , this center will be able to Inform the President and the military commands about the extent of the damage the nation can expect from the incoming bombs as well as the damage actually inflicted by the bombs . Simultaneously , this center will predict the effect our retaliatory forces will have on the enemy and , shortly thereafter , will I18 EMPLOYING THE FORCES calculate the actual effect these forces have had on enemy installations . The capabilities of the National Military Command Center increase the national capabilities for command and control under central-war conditions . One of the most important sources of information for the center is the Bomb Alarm System , designed to provide almost instantaneous notice that a nuclear detonation has occurred on or near a critical target in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 target areas . Each target has sensors situated approximately eleven miles from estimated ground zero . The detectors can not be triggered falsely by lightning , fire , or other light sources ; only the light wave peculiar to a nuclear blast will affect the sensor . If this should occur , the information would appear as a red light behind a glass map of the United States , indicating that a target had been hit . A later , improved version of the alarm system will provide timely information on the yield , height of burst , and ground zero of nuclear detonations for the purpose of damage assessment and fallout predictions . 7 . TACTICAL STRIKE FORCES A distinct line can be drawn between the missions of the central-war offensive and defensive forces , on the one hand , and those of the tactical strike forces , on the other . The former would be used in a nuclear general , or central , war ; the tactical strike forces , which comprise the bulk of the U.S. Armed Forces , in either general war or limited wars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly governments . These mobile forces include those of the combatant commands deployed in the forward areas in friendly nations around the world ; the naval forces that patrol the seas both on the surface and beneath ; sealift and airlift forces ; and the general-purpose forces of Army , Navy , Marine Corps , and Air Force units that can be airlifted or sealifted to trouble spots anywhere on the globe . Specifically ; they include about two-thirds of the active Army forces , virtually all the active Navy and Marine Corps combat forces ( with the exception of the Polaris submarines ) , and the tactical air units of the Air Force . LIMITED-WAR DOCTRINE U.S. military strategy has as its aim the fulfillment of two national objectives : the deterrence of war and , should war come , victory in war . In essence , U.S. military strategy is intended to deter central war by the maintenance of sufficient forces to withstand an initial enemy nuclear attack or if deterrence fails , to strike back and win . A complementary strategy is designed to maintain sufficient strength to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrence fails , to win the conflict . The first part of this strategy is carried out principally by the maintenance of central-war offensive forces and central-war defensive forces ; the second part of the strategy , by the overseas or forward deployment of mobile , versatile forces that not only provide security for the United States far from its own shores but also assist in maintaining the security of friendly nations . In so doing , these forces also protect the sea and air lanes 119                     