@@774361

txt  | to inquire into the nature of these analogies . Of course , one can not find out about them without taking a look at the relevant characteristics of the photographic media . Not all the art media can be said to have a peculiar character : the various styles in painting , for instance , are least dependent upon the materials stylized and given technical factors . But photography resembles the diverse branches of knowledge in that it calls certain properties its own which tend to condition work within its confines . As far back as the archaic days of the medium , discerning critics diagnosed them by marvelling at the camera 's exceptional ability to record as well as reveal visible , or potentially visible , physical reality . Gay-Lussac for one revelled in the " mathematical exactness " of every detail on photographic plates and insisted that no detail , " even if imperceptible , " can escape " the eye and brush of this new painter . " ( The term " painter , " as used here , calls to mind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) By the same token , a Paris journalist would , toward the end of the century , praise the first Lumiere films for presenting , or indeed being , " nature caught in the act . " In short , it was recognized at the outset that photography is uniquely equipped to follow the realistic tendency to an extent unattainable to the related traditional arts . This led the naive 19th-century realists to identify photography as a reproduction technique . They were agreed that it records nature with a fidelity " equal to nature itself " ; and they extolled prints which , to paraphrase Ranke 's dictum , seemed to them to show how things actually are ( wie es eigentlich ist ) . Delacroix compared daguerreotypy to a " dictionary " of nature . Photography is in character only , those scientific- minded realists held , if it is tantamount to an impersonal rendering of external phenomena . Proust in his novel adopted this view , perhaps because it enabled him effectively to contrast his involuntary , completely subjective memories with the external and objective memories deposited in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographer 's foremost virtue . With him , the ideal photographer is an indiscriminating mirror , the counterpart of the camera lens . When meditating about their craft , historians sometimes drag in photography and then claim that the historian should not be mistaken for a cameraman . Thus Droysen declared that the historical narrative is not intended to " photograph " past events but aims at conveying our conceptions of them from this or that point of view . Modern historians chime in : " The function of the historian , " says Namier , " is akin to that of the painter and not of the photographic camera : to discover and set forth , to single out and stress that which is of the nature of the thing , and not to reproduce indiscriminately all that meets the eye . " Marc Bloch too speaks of the meaninglessness of a " simple photographie " of human reality . Such references to the photographic medium would be entirely uncalled for were not the historians making them alert to the possibility that history and photography have something to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they hint at this possibility only to deny it categorically . Why do they reject the very comparisons they themselves care to suggest ? All of them want to discredit the positivistic notion of the historian as a sheer recording instrument , passively ( and impassively ) registering a mass of unsifted data and facts . And not only Droysen , the contemporary of the primitive 19th-century realists , but also Namier and Bloch , who should have known better , take it for granted that the camera  | holds up a mirror to nature . As a result , they must , indeed , imagine the historian deserving of the name to be the antipode of the photographer . Naive realism has long since gone ; and nobody today would dream of calling the camera a mirror . Actually , there is no mirror at all . Even Proust 's ideal photographer is bound to transfer three-dimensional phenomena to the plane and sever their ties with the surroundings . More important , he can not help structuring the inflowing impressions ; the simultaneous perceptions of his other senses , certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not least his general disposition , compel him to organize the visual raw material in the act of seeing . This being so , there is no earthly reason why the photographer should suppress his formative urges in the interest of the necessarily futile attempt to achieve objectivity ? that simon-pure objectivity so coveted by Taine that he wanted " to reproduce the objects as they . . . would be even if I did not exist . " In any case , all great photographers have felt free to select motif , frame , lens , filter , emulsion , and grain according to their sensibilities . ( Was it otherwise with Ranke ? His vision of universal history , for instance , did not seem to encroach on his desire to show things as they were . Perhaps it is possible to say of him that his formative strivings joined forces with his realistic designs . ) The upshot is that photographs true to type may range from neutral renderings of physical reality to highly subjective statements . Had Namier been aware of this he might have found it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a painter . Fortunately , at least one distinguished contemporary historian ? H.-I . Marrou ? is sufficiently conversant with the medium to expose the bias of his confreres . He draws attention to the prints of men like Nadar and Cartier-Bresson ; and he judiciously argues that , thanks to the intervention of  | authentic photographers in the mechanical processes involved , their pictures have something personal about them and are profoundly informed . Should we conclude , then , that in the final analysis photography does not differ from the established arts ? The history of the photographic media tells us of efforts and achievements which seem to bear out this conclusion . Take the 19th-century " artistphotographers " : not content with what they believed to be a mere copying of visible reality , they set their mind on pictures which , as an English critic requested , would delineate Beauty instead of solely representing Truth . One of them , the sculptor Adam-Salomon , indulged in portraits which , because of their " Rembrandt-lighting " and velvet drapery , caused Lamartine to recant his initial opinion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The camera , " this new painter , " thus reassumed the function of a painter in the traditional sense . Nor do the experimental photographers of our days care about its specific abilities . Quite the contrary , they often deliberately depart from the realistic point of view , utilizing the techniques at their disposal to produce pictures which might as well be reproductions of abstract paintings . In film , the same longings for emancipation from the outer world , for self-expression , and rounded-out composition , manifest themselves time and again . The avant-garde film artists of the ' twenties , for instance , edited otherwise realistic pictorial material according to musical rhythms , freely invented shapes instead of recording and discovering them , and made real-life shots illustrate contents and meanings which were anything but an implication of what the visuals actually showed . That similar intentions also materialize in historiography should all the more be expected since history coincides with the camera crafts in challenging its adepts to capture a given universe . The challenge is strict enough to rouse  | the urge for discounting it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of historical writings impress you as being determined by their authors ' inherent form designs rather than the peculiar formation of their material . It goes without saying that I do not think here of romanced lives and the like but of certain works of professional scholarship . They testify to an acute consciousness of organizational arrangements and matters of style ; and there is an air of completeness about them which recalls the compact texture of experimental photographs . One wonders , for example , whether Huizinga 's The Waning of the Middle Ages does not primarily stem from his desire to shape a mood and from a concern with Beauty that limits the scope of his research by stimulating and guiding it . Even though Pieter Geyl finds fault with the aestheticizing attitude behind this work , he can not help respecting it as a " masterpiece . " True , in my Father 's house are many mansions , but is it not equally true that , from a secular point of view , some mansion or other may be preferable to the rest of them ? I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the more satisfactory if they build from these characteristics . To express the same in negative terms , an accomplishment defying the properties , if any , of its medium is likely to offend our sensibilities ; the old iron structures with their borrowings from neo-Gothic stone architecture are as irritating as they are venerable . It follows from this principle ? which I have called the " basic aesthetic principle " in my Theory of Film that the photographer will not come into his own unless he tries to do what his camera permits him to do better than anybody else ; he must go to the limit , that is , in recording and penetrating physical reality . Imagine two photographic portraits , one in the nature of a casual self-revelation , still " instinct with the illusion of life , " and the other so stylized in terms of  | lighting , background , etc. , that it no longer suggests life in its flux : there is no question but that the former will strike one as more intrinsically photographic than the latter . The photographer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if his formative aspirations support rather than oppose his realistic intentions . This implies that he resembles not so much the expressive artist as the imaginative reader bent on studying and deciphering an elusive text . His " intensity of vision , " one of the guild has it , should be rooted in a " real respect for the thing in front of him . " Owing to the camera 's revealing power , he has also traits of an explorer who , filled with curiosity , roams yet unconquered spaces . The genuine photographer summons up his being not to discharge it in autonomous creations but to dissolve it into the substances of the real-life phenomena before his lens , ' so that they are both left intact and made transparent . If photography is an art , it is an art with a difference : unlike the traditional arts , it takes pride in not completely consuming its raw material . A few lines after having indicated his determination to show " wie es eigentlich gewesen , " Ranke makes a remark of similar consequence : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same free development of its subject which , in theory at least , is expected in a work of literature . " ( Somewhat vague as Ranke 's theoretical observations usually are , they have the advantage of resulting not from a pottering about with a set of abstractions but from his undiluted experience as a practicing historian . ) What he wants to convey is this : It is the historian 's business adequately to render , and account for , human affairs of the past . This in turn means that his craft imposes certain restrictions upon him . He lacks the novelist 's or dramatist 's freedom to alter or shape his material as he pleases . Ranke thus formulates a principle which delimits the field of historiogra- phy ; its function is that of a " no trespassing " sign warning potential transgressors of the dangers they may incur . Need it be said that this principle ? whose validity for history in the modern sense can hardly be doubted ? corresponds to the " basic aesthetic principle " which serves as a criterion for photographic activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " historical approach " comes true only if the historian 's spontaneous intuition does not interfere with his loyalty to the evidence but , conversely , benefits his empathic absorption in it . One will now better understand why historians are filled with distrust of philosophical speculations which , like oversized garments , hang loosely around the body of facts and why they entertain scruples , legitimate or not , about historical writings whose literary beauty stands out conspicuously . The thing that matters in both photography and history is obviously the " right " balance between the realistic and formative tendencies . The conditions under which that balance materializes can be epitomized by a simple , quasi-mathematical formula : Realistic Tendency ? Formative Tendency . This formula covers a diversity of cases . They may be arranged along a continuum the one pole of which I propose to assign to statements intended to lay bare some portion of given reality as faithfully as possible . I am thinking of the many fact-oriented historical accounts which , often in the form of monographs , concentrate on the exhibition of a complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest interference of subjective preferences and formative designs . Their equivalents in the dimension of camera work are straight pictorial records , such as artless photographs , impersonal newsreel shots , and the like . Statements in this vein come nearest to being reproductions . But at least they meet the minimum requirement of their respective media . The opposite pole of the continuum is occu- pied by readings in which spontaneity and receptivity seem to be in a state of equilibrium , interpretation so perfectly matching the pertinent data that it neither overwhelms them nor leaves an undigested remainder . Alfred Stieglitz 's print of a group of huddled trees is a photograph of really existing trees and at the same time a memorable image ? or should I say allegory ? ? of autumnal sadness . Among the parallels I have come across in historiography , Panofsky 's " principle of disjunction " is as good an example as any . According to it , in the high and later Middle Ages works of art which borrow their form from a classical model are as a rule invested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a classical theme drawn from pagan - literary sources invariably represent their topic in a nonclassical , contemporary form . The principle fits the findings of empirical research all the more neatly since Panofsky is at pains to explain the known exceptions to the first alternative . If the equilibrium is strained it becomes very precarious indeed : at first sight , certain photographs ? e.g. , Moholy-Nagy 's From the Berlin Wireless Tower ? appear to be nonobjective compositions , while upon closer inspection they reveal themselves as renderings of natural objects from an unconventional camera angle . A light shift of emphasis in the same direction and the " right " balance between reproduction and construction is upset . We enter the region where the historian 's formative impulses get the better of his realistic intentions .. . There is , then , a fundamental analogy between historiography and the photographic media : like the photographer , the historian is loath to neglect his recording obligations over his preconceptions and fully to consume the raw material he tries to mould . But this is not the whole story . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two fields of endeavor . Provided the still and motion picture cameras acknowl- edge the " basic aesthetic principle , " they customarily focus on a world which is certainly not the abstract nature of science . Nor is it a world intimating some well-ordered cosmos , for " there is no Cosmos on the screen , but an earth , trees , the sky , streets , and railways . . . " Rather , " camera-reality " ? the sort of reality on which the photographer , or film maker , opens his lens ? has all the earmarks of the Lebenswelt . It comprises inanimate objects , faces , crowds , people who intermingle , suffer , and hope ; its grand theme is life in its fullness , life as we commonly experience it . Small wonder that camera-reality parallels historical reality in terms of its structure , its general constitution . Exactly as historical reality , it is partly patterned , partly amorphous ? a consequence , in both cases , of the half-cooked state of our everyday world . And it shows features which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe . To begin with , photographers seem to be prone to highlight the contingent nature of their material . Random events are the very meat of snapshots ; authentic photographs look as if their subjects were plucked en route . By the same token , film makers have a penchant for rendering transient impressions and unforeseeable encounters . ( That this susceptibility to the accidental rather than providential may be turned to advantage also by historians , was recognized already at the beginning of photography . In the Brockhaus Lexikon of 184o Friedrich von Raumer 's contemporary histories are praised for resembling daguerreotypes in that they capture the " fleeting shadows of the present " on the wing . ) Chance configurations being fragments , photography further tends to suggest endlessness . A genuine photograph precludes the notion of completeness . Its frame marks a provisional limit ; its content points beyond that frame , referring to a multitude of real-life phenomena which can not possibly be encom- passed in their entirety . And films ? It is as if they were animated by the chimerical desire to establish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondences . To make us aware of it , film directors frequently digress from the action they picture for no reason other than to explore the visible environment in which it comes to pass ; thus Olivier in his Hamlet has his camera incessantly travel and " pan " through the labyrinthine interiors of , alas , a studio-built Elsinore . Or a seeming Gestalt is broken down into virtually innumerable elements ; an ideal case in point is Eisenstein 's attempt to evoke , in his stillborn screen adaptation of An American Tragedy , the infinity of factors and circumstances instrumental in Clyde 's decision to murder Roberta. ? There is , in addition , the camera 's affinity for the indeterminate . To be sure , the photographer endows his pictures with form and meaning to the extent that he makes deliberate choices . But however selective , his prints still are bound to record nature in the raw . Like the natural objects themselves , they will therefore be surrounded by a fringe of indistinct multiple meanings . The same holds true of motion pictures as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a French critic sagaciously observes that it " delimits without defining " and that it has the quality , " unique among the arts , of offering not much more explanations than reality . " But what is the good of indulging in analogies ? Why dote on a subject only to jilt it for a similar subject ? So do monkeys swing from branch to branch , tree to tree . Moreover , such comparisons are all too often products of intellectual laziness . They serve to substitute an apparently familiar topic for the unfamiliar one under consideration ; and those making them usually capitalize on superficial resemblances to return , as fast as possi- ble , to the port from which they ventured forth . However , in the case of the present meditations , analogical procedures are justified , if not required , for two reasons . First , the analogy between historiography and the photographic media is not simply an easy expedient but results from the solid fact that work in the two areas hinges on identical conditions : both crafts are committed to concern themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performers ' creative possibilities in like ways . Second , the field of history is cluttered up with inherited habits of thought and themes of long standing which altogether render it nearly impenetrable . The ascendancy of abstract reasoning under the auspices of science and traditional philosophy is apt to obstruct all efforts to interpret the experiences and aspirations peculiar to this area in really appropriate terms . Actually , the whole area is pervaded , and overshadowed , by a curious blend of concrete ad hoc insights and ill-fitting generalities . Add to this that previous modes of conversing with the past ? e.g. , the Christian conception of history ? stubbornly survive and , camouflaged or not , continue to prove attractive ; their presence can not but create a deceptive semblance of familiarity which further blurs the picture . In contradistinction to this state of things , the photographer 's universe is , in a way , more readily accessible . As pictorial media , photography and film speak directly to the senses ; and anybody susceptible to aesthetic values is , on principle , in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without much ado . This opens up promising avenues for analysis . Not to mention that the analogy with photography helps defamiliarize habitual aspects in the historical field , the odds are that our understanding of certain issues with which the historian is grappling will greatly profit by recourse to corresponding issues in the photographic crafts . Here implications and solutions hidden  | from view in the historical dimension stand a fair chance of becoming visible at once . It may be anticipated that especially the cinematic narrative is rich in clues that afford an opportunity for enlightening comparisons .  | " On the wide ocean on which we shall venture out , " says Burckhardt in the opening passage of his Renaissance , " the possible routes and courses are many , and the identical studies made for this volume could , if dealt with by another man , . .. easily occasion essentially different conclusions . " i Burckhardt 's remark , made at so important a place , testifies to his intense awareness of the role which the historian 's personal outlook and indeed temper play in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why historical knowledge involves subjectivity to a larger extent than does strictly scientific knowledge lies primarily with the fact that different universes challenge the investigator 's formative powers in different ways . While the establishment of the world of science , this web of relationships between elements abstracted from , or imposed upon , nature , requires mathematical imagination rather than , say , moral ingenuity , the penetration of the historian 's world which resists easy breakdowns into repeatable units calls for the efforts of a self as rich in facets as the human affairs reviewed.2 That these too may in a measure be subjected to scientific treatment proper is quite another matter. )  | Because of the cognitive functions of the historian 's self , a definition of its nature would seem to be all the more desirable . Should it not at least be possible to fasten , so to speak , this elusive entity to the peg of rationally controllable conditions ? Here is where a theory comes in which ? to express it in the terms of that theory ? could not arise but in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history , the argument runs , the views they convey depend on their authors ' position in time and place . This proposition means two things ? that the historian 's mind is shaped by contemporary influences and that in turn his preoccupation with contemporary issues accounts for the why and how of his devotion to the past . The living present is thus identified as the fountainhead and goal of history . The foremost philosophical exponents of this " present-interest " theory are Croce and Collingwood . Without neglecting the conditioning power of the historian 's environment , they pay special attention to the need for his involvement , moral or otherwise , in the problems of his day . One knows Croce 's dictum that history is contemporary history ; 3 he supplements it by contending that " only an interest in the life of the present can move one to investigate past fact . " 4 ( As a person and historian , he himself was animated by a magnificent interest in the cause of liberty . ) Similarly , Collingwood features the historian as a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past out of his immersion in present-day concerns. ? In addition , both thinkers are alert to the necessity for them to justify their emphasis on the present by endowing it with metaphysical significance . This gets them into deep waters , for both of them refute , or pretend to refute , any principle governing the whole of human history and yet can not help re-introducing it in order to explain the uniqueness of the present moment . It will suffice to mention that Croce conceives of this moment as a phase ? the temporarily  | ultimate phase ? of a dialectical and , all in all , progressive movement . True , Collingwood , who radically reduces history to the ( better manageable ) history of thought , does not share Croce 's belief in total progress , ' but he too holds that the successive thoughts of the past form a comprehensible chain leading to , and climaxing in , the present . With the two of them , the ideal historian is the mouthpiece of History 's last will , or , in Croce 's words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " bears with it all its history . " 8 Whenever philosophers speculate on the " idea of history , " Hegel 's " world spirit " pops up behind the bushes . Finally , both thinkers insist that the historian can not discover that which is essential in history unless he reconstructs the past in the light of what Collingwood calls his " a priori imagination " ? an imagination which , according to premise , is geared to the requirements of the situation in which he finds himself . Indeed , if , as both Collingwood and Croce take for granted , the present moment virtually contains all the moments preceding it , only those who really live in and with the present will be able to get at the core of past life . In this view , historical truth is a variable of present interest . The time whose son the historian is not only transmits to him its preferences and prejudices but rewards his dedication to its peculiar tasks by offering him guidance as he ventures into the dark of times gone by . No doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition . The first of the two assumptions it comprises ? the assumption of the impact of the historian 's " milieu " on his ( unconscious ) thought ? is actually endorsed by many a practicing historian.9 In fact , it sounds all but self-evident . On their way through time , nations , societies , and civilizations are usually confronted with problems which , delimiting their horizon , captivate the imagination of all contemporaries . Think of such  | present-day issues as the struggle for supremacy between the democratic and Communist power blocs , the revolutionary advance of Western technology , the transition from a national to a global frame of reference , the increase of leisure time and the ensuing demand for " mass culture " on a hitherto unheard-of scale , etc. : whatever we hope and fear relates to these issues , whether we know it or not . They literally hypnotize the mind ; and arising from the crisscross patterns of divergent opinions , a confused din of them permanently fills the air . Their seeming inescapability lends weight to Carr 's advice : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social environment . " 10 Given to studies in this vein , historians of historiography advance many observations to the effect that historical writings tend to reflect responses to the fixed topics of the periods from which they issue . Butterfield , for instance , shrewdly remarks that the stand which German 19th-century historians took in the then raging political dispute between pro-Austrians and proPrussians automatically colored their ideas about the beneficial or disastrous consequences of the German medieval monarchy . As a result , " problems of German medieval history were staged against the background of the nineteenth-century struggle between Prussia and Austria , even though this involved a gigantic anachronism . " 11 There is no end of such attempts to demonstrate the projective character of historiography . Here are , selected at random , some of the findings they yield : Kant 's ethics flows from the moral convictions of German pietism ; 12 Niebuhr 's Demosthenes is a thinly disguised Stein or Fichte , his Chaeronea the counterpart of Jena ; 13 Gibbon 's work reveals him as a disciple of Voltaire , a " Europeen de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody can fail to notice that Mommsen 's Roman History mirrors the views of the 1848 German liberals.15 ( Mommsen himself was quite conscious of the  | " modern tone " of his narrative in which he deliberately used contemporary political terms to " bring down the ancients from their fantastic pedestal into the real world . " ) 16 Findings of this type immediately strike us as plausible because we are accustomed to credit environmental influences and the like with the power of swaying minds . So it is natural for us to think of the historian as a son of his time . I submit that this apparently self-evident assumption is the outcome of faulty reasoning . It can not be upheld unless one accepts Croce 's doctrine that the historical period is a unit informed by the " spirit " of that period , that any such period is a phase of the historical process , and that the historical process must be imagined as a dialectical movement whose successive phases are meaningfully connected with each other . ( It goes without saying that Coilingwood 's thesis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Croce 's . ) Then it is possible indeed to define the historian 's self in terms of its position in time ; it fulfills its true nature if it conforms to the spirit of the period to which it belongs . However , the Croce-Collingwood doctrine suffers from two irremediable shortcomings : it rests on the untenable premise that the flow of chronological time is the carrier of all history ; and it flagrantly conflicts with a large body of experiences : regarding the structure of the period . Since the interrelated concepts of the period and of historical time will be dealt with later on , I shall confine myself here to a remark , somewhat provisional at that , on the doctrine 's inadequacy to these experiences . Contrary to what Croce postulates , the typical period is not so much a unified entity with a spirit of its own as a precarious conglomerate of tendencies , aspirations , and activities which more often than not manifest themselves independently of one another . This is not to deny the existence , at any given moment ,  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes , etc . I venture to guess that their presence , an empirical fact rather than a metaphysical " must , " is in a measure accounted for by the " principle of mental economy , " established in Chapter 1 ; for the rest , would it not be surprising if there were no interaction of a sort between the heterogeneous elements that make up a period ? Simultaneity also favors cohesion . But if the period is a unit at all , it is a diffuse , fluid , and essentially intangible unit . Note the admirable caution with which Marc Bloch approaches an issue which Croce settles dogmatically . Bloch , truly a historian 's historian , acknowledges the impact which , in the heyday of the feudal age , French culture as a whole exerted on Europe , and then tentatively adds a few reasons for its sweeping success . That he himself does not set great store by them follows from his concluding remark : " But this having been said , we may well ask ourselves if it is not futile to attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of man , seems to be beyond our understanding ? the ethos of a civilization and its power of attraction . " 17 And here is the point I wish to drive home . If the historian 's " historical and social environment " is not a fairly self-contained whole but a fragile compound of frequently inconsistent endeavors in flux , the assumption that it moulds his mind makes little sense . It does make sense only in the contexts of a philosophy which , like Croce 's , hypostatizes a period spirit , claims our dependence on it , and thus determines the mind 's place in the historical process from above and without . Seen from within , the relations between the mind and its environment are indeterminate . Even supposing that contemporary influences were better definable than they actually are , their binding power would still be limited by the mind 's freedom to initiate new situations , new systems of relationships . After having brilliantly deduced  | the effects of Periclean Athens on the formation of Thucydides ' mind , Finley , the Harvard classicist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the influence of the contemporary world on any man is of a complexity which defies all but the crudest analysis . " 18 His circumspection compares favorably with the kind of observations dear to students of historiography ? observations which exhaust themselves in showing that this or that historian unintentionally projects influential contemporary ideas into his accounts of the past . To be sure , such projections do occur but they are by no means inevitable . Maitland , for example , knew how to avoid them , thereby improving on Bishop Stubbs , his contemporary , who unwittingly added Victorian liberalism " to the cargo that the Anglo-Saxons brought with them to England from their North German forests . " 19 Nevertheless , at this point an objection suggests itself which seems to confirm the impact of time and place . Are we not usually able to trace documents , literary products , or works of art to the periods of their origin ? We undoubtedly are . Upon closer inspection , however , this argument defeats its purpose , for as a rule achievements of the past can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , or at least need not , involve their intrinsic intentions and meanings . Clues may be offered by stylistic peculiarities , references to otherwise familiar events , the recourse to knowledge unobtainable before a particular historical moment , etc . Moreover , as with all circumstantial evidence , the conclusions drawn from these secondary characteristics are anything but irrefutable truths . In sum , the whole assumption examined here stands and falls with the belief that people actually " belong " to their period . This must not be so . Vico is an outstanding instance of chronological exterritoriality ; and it would be extremely difficult to derive Burckhardt 's complex and ambivalent physiognomy as a historian from the conditions un- der which he lived and worked . Like great artists or thinkers , great historians are biological freaks : they father the time that has fathered them . Perhaps the same holds true of mass movements , revolutions.2o According to the second assumption inherent in the presentinterest theory , the historian is not only a son of his time but a son utterly devoted to it . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sorrows , and objectives , or else the past he wants to resuscitate will never come to life . Croce and Collingwood bring this line of thought to its logical conclusion by contending that present-mindedness is prerequisite to any significant reconstruction of historical reality . Their radical proposition sheds light on the dangerous implications of the assumption underlying it . I intend to show that this assumption entails a shift of emphasis from the realistic to the formative tendency which threatens to upset the " right " balance between the two of them . ' Historians who proceed straight from present interest are apt to obscure , and indeed submerge , the evidence . A nice instance is the following : under the pressure of conventional preferences and , I presume , contemporary reader demands , Cortes biographers have up to now featured only the more dramatic events of his life ? the conquest of the Aztec , the expedition to Honduras , etc. ? while leaving unused the rich source material in the archives of Mexico and Spain which would have enabled them to shed light on the Conqueror @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past back into the past ; instead of conversing with the dead , he himself does most of the talking . Remember Butterfield 's remark on the " gigantic anachronism " to which 19th-century German medieval histories fell prey because of  | their authors ' naive indulgence in pro-Prussian or pro-Austrian sentiments . It pays to take a good look at Collingwood 's argument in support of his position . To be sure , exactly like Croce , he points to the necessity for the historian to secure the facts , or what we commonly believe to be facts , with scholarly accuracy ; he even requests him to " re-enact " past experiences ? a request which obviously calls for an effort on the historian 's part temporarily to disregard present-day experiences . Yet at the same time Collingwood characterizes the ideal historian in terms which make it seem improbable that he should ever be able to live up to these obligations . A counterpart of the Baconian natural scientist , Collingwood 's historian treats history as if it were nature . Instead of waiting for what the sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accordance with his own hunches and hypotheses and like a scientific experimenter forces it to answer his questions.22 How the poor man will manage to get substantial answers from the past ? a past which is not merely nature ? without waiting for its possible communications , Collingwood does not care to reveal to us . Or rather , he tries to clarify the issue by comparing the historian with the sleuth in detective novels.23 As he sees it , both figures coincide in detecting hidden truths by way of active questioning . It is a particular detective Collingwood has in mind : Agatha Christie 's incomparable Monsieur Hercule Poirot . This archetypal model of a Collingwoodian historian derides the police for collecting everything which might eventually turn out to be a clue and , strictly opposed to their pedestrian methods , emphatically asserts that the secret of detection consists in using one 's " little grey cells . " In Collingwood 's words : " You ca n't collect your evidence before you begin thinking , he Poirot meant ; because thinking means asking questions ( logicians , please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relation to some definite question . " 24 Now much as I admire Hercule Poirot 's miraculous " a priori imagination " ? miraculous because it often hits the mark in the absence of any palpable clue ? as an assiduous reader of detective stories I am bound to admit that he is not the only detective with a superior record and that some of his peers are little inclined to agree with him on this score . Superintendent Arnold Pike of Scotland Yard for one , the hero of Philip MacDonald 's delightful yarn Murder Gone Mad , refuses to rely on his " little grey cells " at the beginning of an investigation : " I just try to collect facts whether they appear to have any bearing on the case or not . Then , suddenly , when I 've been digging round long enough and hard enough , I maybe dig up something which seems to click in my mind and become a good starting-off place for a think . " 25 I might as well add that his subsequent think is very ingenious indeed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral is that Collingwood should have read more detective novels . Fortunately , the spell his theory casts over him wears thin at intervals ? which , on some such occasion , permits Collingwood to realize that his historian is in a predicament ; he is faced with the problem of resurrecting a past whose nature his involvement in present thought tends to conceal from him . The problem so posed admits only of one " solution " : if the historian does not seriously reach out for the evidence and get close to it ? if he insists on present-mindedness ? the evidence must be made to move toward him . Collingwood , intent on demonstrating that pronounced aggressiveness and intimate contact with the given material may well go together , eagerly seizes on this seeming possibility . He claims that historians had better concentrate on events or developments for which they show genuine affinity 26 The idea behind his advice is that the attraction which this or  | that aspect of historical reality exerts on the historian will be reciprocated in kind ? i.e. , cause all relevant facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him by a sort of magnetic power . They are his for the asking . Nor need he further look into them ; thanks to his sympathy for his subject matter , he knows all that there is to be known about it from within . It is understood that Collingwood 's advice ? by the way , he is not alone to offer it 27 ? fails to dispose of the problem it is meant to solve . Granted for the sake of argument that under certain circumstances the historian following this suggestion succeeds in bridging the gap between his " little grey cells " and the fardistant evidence , what will happen to those portions of the past which do not strike a sympathetic chord in him ? Are they doomed to oblivion ? More important , the device in which Collingwood takes refuge rests on the belief that love makes you see . Quite so . Yet the reverse holds true also , especially in the case where love is inseparably coupled with present interest . Then in all likelihood a historian 's affinity for his topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Arther Schlesinger , Jr . ' s Age of Jackson ? certainly a product of sympathy for this age ? is considered not so much a contribution to original historical scholarship as a " young humanitarian 's politically inspired volume that succeeded in creating a popular image of Jackson as a forerunner of F.D.R. " 28 Collingwood resorts to an ineffective expedient ; and he rejects precisely the kind of love which really serves as an eye-opener : love of the past for its own sake . But his recourse to eligible affinities plays a marginal role after all . In the final analysis the Croce-Collingwood doctrine is founded on the two thinkers ' conviction that history amounts to something like a comprehensible whole , an intelligible arrangement of things . Indeed , they must postulate the wholeness of  | the historical universe in order to justify their identification of history as contemporary history . This equation is meaningful only if the historian 's material is thought of as making up a virtually consistent and surveyable " cosmos " of a sort . Only then is he in a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past ; only then may he reconstruct past thoughts from present thought without running the risk of misconstruing them . As elements of a , so to speak , closed system all pieces of the evidence he gathers can be expected to fall by themselves alone into place . The present-interest theory hinges on the idea of such a system ? on one of the pipe-dreams of unfettered reason , that is . Once this dream is abandoned , it is easy to see that present interest lacks the magic attributed to it by Croce and Collingwood ; that the historical facts are stubborn enough not to yield their secret to a historian who just treats them after the manner of a scientific experimenter . The ultimate consequences of this theory ? consequences which Croce and Collingwood would hardly have sanctioned , though ? are illustrated by a pseudo-historical genre which lies in the border region between history proper and prophecy . Born out of an existential concern with the present and the future in its womb , the genre I have in mind springs from the experience that the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieve our goals ( or interfere with their attainment ) . " History feeds on history . " 29 I do not wish to suggest , of course , that all histories partial to a cause would fall into that border region . It all is a matter of degree . No doubt the various Catholic and Protestant accounts of the Reformation are to a larger or lesser extent " engaged , " but even so numbers of them are true histories inasmuch as they originate in an often admirable effort to render their material with scholarly detachment . This property of theirs makes them differ from what I should like to call  | " existential " histories . No sooner does the historian 's apologetic passion exceed his capacity for detachment than he crosses the threshold which separates the past as a field of study from the past as a means of exhortation , as a whip , a fiery challenge . History , as envisioned by the Jewish Prophets , is a series of partly supernatural transactions , with God 's wrath or forgiveness constantly intervening in the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquiring statehood or assuming a new existence are prone to invent a past which transforms them into the standard-bearers of significant destinies . A striking case in point is the young Nietzsche , who in his essay Vom Nutzen and Nachteil der Historie fuer das Leben champions such uses or abuses of the past . He condemns the historians of his day ? this " generation of eunuchs " 30 ? for indulging in aimless scholarly pursuits . Historicism , he has it , enlarges our horizon beyond our wants , destroys the instincts of the people , paralyzes vitality , etc. ; it is altogether a vain human effort , a science got out of hand . Instead , he pleads for histories which serve " life , " the life of the present . Croce 's dictum : " History is contemporary history " still reverberates with Nietzsche 's determination to make the past meet the needs of the living . But while Croce advocates present-mindedness as a prerequisite of knowledgeable interpretation , Nietzsche holds that the last thing we , the living , do need is knowledge : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man who is to become mature , wants . . . a delusion to be wrapped in , a ... protective and veiling cloud ... " 31 Plainly speaking , Nietzsche yearns for historians who surrender their preoccupation with what really happened to such representations of the past as foster the illusions that keep us going . The demands of " life , " however deceptive , would thus take precedence over the , in his view , emasculated search for historical truth , much of which he deems unnecessary anyway . As for these demands ,  | Nietzsche looks forward to a time when we will again disregard the masses and turn the spotlight on the individuals , " who form a kind of bridge over the arid stream of becoming . " 32 Here you have the idea of the " superman " in a pupa state . ( On the other hand , the phrase of the " arid stream of becoming " with its antievolutionary ring ? a phrase vaguely reminiscent of the Plato word quoted in Chapter 1 ? is well worth remembering . ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his inordinate and rather juvenile infatuation with " life , " shuts his eyes to the enormous achievements of historicism ; that he just wants to liquidate it instead of uncovering its meanings and then telling us where we should go from there . His essay has traits of an adolescent 's inconsequential rebellion . . . . It remains to be mentioned that the existential genre stands the best chance of materializing when the whole of history comes into view . The larger the units a historian is dealing with , the greater the temptation for him to lapse into purposeful constructions with prophetic overtones . Yet I have no intention of throwing the child out with the bath water . It would be foolish indeed to deny that , like us other mortals , the historian is often moved by present interest . And this justly so ; the fact that we live only once involves a moral obligation toward the living . The historian 's concern with them ? his desire better to understand the present ? inspires many of his inquiries into the life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the present ; and he may even wrest this or that secret from the past precisely by probing it in the light of contemporary needs 33 Burckhardt , anxious to strengthen the awareness of historical continuity , considers it proper for historians to feature all those past facts whose consequences make themselves still felt in our time , our culture.34 Is there a historian  | who would not see eye to eye with him ? To find out how we have become what we are has ever since been one of the grand designs of history.35 However , none of these customary practices can be traced to the chimerical assumption that present interest is the master key which opens all the doors to the past , the axis around which everything revolves . Rather , whenever historians ? I mean real historians ? give the present its due , they do so , as Meinecke puts it , in the conviction that this is a " legitimate and necessary goal , but neither the only nor the highest one . " 36 They would not dream of confusing present-mindedness with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transform history into a science , he insists , not unlike Collingwood , on the necessity for the historian to proceed with a scientist 's aggressiveness from the very beginning ; to cross-examine the past , that is , by means of constructs and models which flow from his " a priori imagination , " or , by extension , his present-mindedness . Yet , historian that Bloch is , he hastens to add that the models are nothing but provisional scaffoldings : " Naturally , the method of cross-examination must be very elastic . . . . Even when he has settled his itinerary , the explorer is well aware that he will not follow it exactly . " 37 ( I wonder , though , whether the elastic method suggested by Bloch will always result in adjustments fitting the case . Elastic breaks if overextended 38 ) What counts , then , is the difference between present interest as a starting-point for , or terminus of , historical studies and present interest as defined by Croce et al.39 Now present interest in the first sense so little precludes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach to the past which pays full tribute to the available evidence instead of neglecting , Collingwood fashion , its possible contributions over the allegedly superior constructions of " present thought . " It is an approach patterned on Superintendent Arnold Pike 's prudent devotion to  | the facts rather than Hercule Poirot 's magisterial indifference to them . ( But the contempt in which the little Belgian detective holds material clues makes him all the more an endearing incarnation of paternal omniscience . ) The literature abounds with testimony in favor of this mode of treating the given data . Even historians who feel that present-mindedness is of the essence request the student of history to explore the past without regard for our well-being , our calamities . So Burckhardt.40 His wavering in this respect marks an attitude fairly widespread among contemporary historians.41 ( He himself tried to escape the present , yielding to the " unfulfilled nostalgia for that which has perished . " 42 ) Others promote , or indulge in , antiquarian pursuits pure and simple . Huizinga has it that true history probes the past also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never tired of looking for the seemingly irrelevant ; " in fact , he spent all his life in byways . " 44 Still other historians ? e.g. , Harnack 45 ? make a point of combining their appreciation of disengaged research with critical comment on the tenets of the present-interest school of thought . Thus Lovejoy explicitly attacks Dewey 's proposition that " all history is necessarily written from the standpoint of the present .. : " 45 ( Dewey and Collingwood are strange bedfellows indeed ; but les extremes se touchent , especially in the near-vacuum filled with sets of sharpedged abstractions . ) The attack is borne out by a statement palpably saturated with personal experience . Lovejoy not only wants the historian to get rid , as best he can , of the preoccupations of his time but argues that such an " effort of selftranscendence " will enrich his knowledge of the present.47 He will find what he did not seek , precisely for turning his back on it.48 At the very end of his Social and Economic History of the Roman Empire , a work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if emerging from a long dream , addresses himself to his contemporaries . The evolution of the an- cient world , says he , has a lesson and a warning for us . Our civilization will not survive unless it be a civilization not of one class , but of the masses . But is not every civilization bound to decay as soon as it begins to penetrate the masses ? 49 Unexpected , like a rare flower , this meditation grows out of the soil of the past . One can not discuss the relations between the past and the present without referring , sometime , to Proust . He is one of the highest authorities on these matters . Clearly , Proust sides with Lovejoy and the rest of the anti-Collingwood historians . In his view the past gives itself up only to those who lean over backward in an attempt to make it speak ; and only an " effort of selftranscendence " in this vein will , perhaps , enable us to arrive at an understanding of our present condition . Proust 's thought is thrown into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us that he was suddenly overwhelmed with happiness when , during a carriage ride , he saw three trees which formed a pattern strangely familiar to him ; he believed them to have surged out of the forgotten days of his infancy . The sensation of deja vu he experienced went together with an awareness that the " phantoms of the past " were beckoning him . " Like ghosts they seemed to be appealing to me to take them with me , to bring them back to life . " And why did they so anxiously try to capture his attention ? Looking at them , he felt that they wanted to impart a message which concerned him personally . " I watched the trees gradually withdraw . . . seeming to say to me : ... If you allow us to drop back into the hollow of this road from which we sought to raise ourselves up to you , a whole part of yourself which we were bringing to you will fall forever into the abyss : " Note that Proust leaves it in the open whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infancy and through it on his present self . He asks himself : " . . . were they but an image  | freshly extracted from a dream of the night before . . . Or had I indeed never seen them before ... ? ... I could not tell . " 60 Proust shares Burckhardt 's nostalgia for lost causes . It follows from what I have said so far that there is no peg onto which to fasten the subjective factor , operative in history writing , with any certainty . The historian is not just the son of his time in the sense that his outlook could be defined in terms of contemporary influences . Nor is his conception of the past necessarily an expression of present interest , present thought ; or rather , if it is , his aggressiveness may cause the past to withdraw from him . The historian 's mind is in a measure capable of moving about at liberty . And to the extent that he makes use of this freedom he may indeed come face to face with things past . Orpheus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died from the bite of a serpent . His plaintive music " so far soothed the savage heart of Hades that he won leave to restore Eurydice to the upper world . Hades made a single condition : that Orpheus might not look behind him until she was safely back under the light of the sun . Eurydice followed Orpheus up through the dark passage guided by the sounds of his lyre and it was only when he reached the sunlight again that he turned to see whether she were still behind him , and so lost her for ever . " 51 Like Orpheus , the historian must descend into the nether world to bring the dead back to life . How far will they follow his allurements and evocations ? They are lost to him when , re-emerging in the sunlight of the present , he turns for fear of losing them . But does he not for the first time take possession of them at this very moment ? the moment when they forever depart , vanishing in a history of his own making ? And what happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Consider that his journey is not simply a return trip .  | Macaulay compared history to foreign travel.l Indeed , historians are much in the same position as ordinary tourists : they too wish to perceive the sights they have come to see . This is by no means an easy job . Actually many people go abroad without seeing anything . Once they have convinced themselves that , say , the Parthenon is at the place assigned to it by the guidebook , they immediately take pictures of their beloved ones before an ancient column . The column serves them as an alibi back home . For the rest , these picture hunters are less fortunate than animal hunters because they can not even " eat " their prey ; in shooting unseen objects , they irretrievably lose sight of them . Something of this kind may also happen to historians . At any rate , Pieter Geyl makes Macaulay look like such a traveler . Macaulay 's obsession with Progress and the superiority of the present , says he , caused him to treat " the generations that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mental attitude , Geyl continues , is deeply unhistorical ; it " must lead the historian to view the past in terms which may be entirely irrelevant and result in a picture lacking in the truth of intimacy . " 2 And how does the historian manage to attain to that " truth of intimacy " ?  | Certainly not by staying in the present while visiting the past . If he remains the person he is he will hardly be able to penetrate the fog that veils the sights as he arrives on the spot . To get at the core of things he must take advantage of the mind 's freedom to alter the cast of the mind . The job of sightseeing requires a mobile self . In the following I shall present a rough scheme of the mental operations in which many a historian engages on his way back to past centuries . In one of his best known statements Ranke protests his desire to blot out his self so that only the things themselves may do the talking . He wants to suspend his personal leanings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gewesen . " The objectivity at which he aims is of a special kind ; it is partly grounded in the belief that God manifests Himself in the unfolding of universal history . Ranke is prompted by religious feelings . Historiography , he also declares , lives up to its ultimate mission if it reveals itself to be in sympathy with the universe and privy to its secrets .3 The historian , then , would have to blot out his self not just for the purpose of dispassionately rendering the course of past events but with a view to becoming a participant observer engrossed in the uniquely significant spectacle that evolves on the stage of the world . In Ranke 's ideal historian the disengaged researcher who aspires to expose the facts as they are , insolubly merges with the worshiper , if not mystic , who purifies his mind to contemplate the wonders of divine wisdom.4 So the objectivity he achieves is a rather complex product ; it results from both a mind reduced to a blank and a mind more substantial and wider in scope than the one voided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing that Dilthey dismisses Ranke 's plea for self-extinction as something impossible to fulfill . Contrary to what Ranke suggests , Dilthey argues ,  | tence is that of a stranger . ' So he may look at his previous existence with the eyes of one " who does not belong to the house . " And just as he is free to step outside the culture which was his own , he is sufficiently uncommitted to get inside the minds of the foreign people in whose midst he is living . There are great historians who owe much of their greatness to the fact that they were expatriates . Thucydides expressly states that his long exile enabled him " to see something of both sides ? the Peloponnesian as well as the Athenian ... " 8 In our days Namier 's alien background ? he hailed from Poland ? is held to be partly responsible for his unprejudiced and novel approach to English history ) It is only in this state of self-effacement , or homelessness , that the historian can commune with the material of his concern . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the feel of it and not only aims at verifying his initial hypotheses and hunches with its aid . A stranger to the world evoked by the sources , he is faced with the task ? the exile 's task ? of penetrating its outward appearances , so that he may learn to understand that world from within . The most promising way of acquiring such knowledge is presumably for him to heed Schopenhauer 's advice to the art student . Anybody looking at a picture , Schopenhauer claims , should behave as if he were in the presence of a prince and respectfully wait for what the picture may or may not wish to tell him ; for were he to talk first he would only be listening to himself.10 Waiting in this sense amounts to a sort of active passivity on the historian 's part . He must venture on the diverse routes suggested to him by his intercourse with the evidence , let himself drift along , and take in , with all his senses strained , the various messages that happen to reach him . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contexts some of  | which perhaps turn out to be incompatible with his original assumptions.11 But do not his wanderings bring again his self into play , the very self which according to premise should have been put to sleep ? They do and do not . Actually the self operative in the process is only part of the self in its fullness ? that part of it which functions as a sheer receiving instrument . For obvious reasons scientific-minded historians tend to disparage this kind of passiveness , contending that it is neither useful nor indeed possible . Marc Bloch , for instance , categorically asserts that " mere passive observation , even supposing such a thing were possible , has never contributed anything productive to any science . " And he qualifies his admission that no historian can exactly follow his itinerary as he investigates the sources ? by immediately adding that without it the historian " would risk wandering perpetually at random " 12 Fortunately , Bloch 's objections need not be taken too seriously . An outcome of his ardent desire to scientize ( social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his own research procedures ; as a practicing historian he himself leans over backward in doing justice to the given data , no matter whether they corroborate his scheme of explanation or not . For the rest , not even all scientists are disposed to accept his verdict on " mere passive observation " ; the late Wright Mills held that , precisely in the interest of theory-formation , social scientists had better pay attention to the random ideas and fancies that inadvertently cross their minds.13 What I have called active passivity is a necessary phase of the historian 's work . His behavior during this phase has been characterized to perfection by a remark of Burckhardt which breathes the spirit of Wordsworth 's line : " Wisdom oft / is nearer when we stoop than when we soar . " 14 Reminiscing about the  | way in which he familiarized himself with the source material for his Griechische Kulturgeschichte , Burckhardt observes that in any such case violent exertion is least fit to force the desired result : a gentle pricking up of the ears coupled with steady industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this does not apply to Collingwood 's ideal historian who , were he ever to prick up his ears , would not hear anything because all that comes to him from the past is drowned in the din of contemporary noises . ) There are limits to self-effacement and passive observation in its wake . I have been told about anthropologists who , bent on comprehending the mentality of some primitive tribe , eventually felt and acted as if they belonged among its members . They lost their identity and accordingly ceased to be participant observers . Personality transformation in this direction defeats its purpose because it annuls the minimum distance that must be upheld between the researcher and his material . Remember that , despite his self-extinction , Marcel does not completely desert Marcel in his grandmother 's room . What this implies for even the most accurate rendering of past events was driven home to me in a conversation with a young American historian of German descent who interviewed me in behalf of his research on German intellectual history under the Weimar Republic . I had participated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The thing that vividly struck me in our discussion was that everything he had dug up so far was true to fact , while nothing had happened the way he related it . So I anticipated that in his account all that was a matter of fluctuating opinions , agonizing doubts , and spontaneous decisions during the ' twenties would freeze into a more or less rigid pattern of trends , cross-currents , majority and minority attitudes , and the like . And since many experiences I had then undergone were obviously  | doomed to slip through the net of the concepts and labels he used to establish this pattern , I wondered at the incommensurable relationship between the picture he was about to draw and the reality which it was designed to cover . He did not represent the events as I knew them ? events in flux and amenable to change ? but conceived of them as elements of a period which was now definitely a fait accompli . On the other hand , this enabled him to exhibit aspects of that period which were entirely unfamiliar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lifelessness of his prospective history was perhaps the price he had to pay for the revealing hindsight it would afford . ( Conversely , contemporary history can , and indeed must , show things in a nascent state but is by definition prevented from showing them in the light of knowledge available only to future generations . ) Such revealing hindsight ? revealing because it adduces new evidence ? should not be mistaken for the kind of hindsight which falsifies historical reality by reading alien meanings into it.16 Droysen 's all but Hegelian interpretation of Alexander goes to the limit in this respect . After having indicated that Alexander himself may have believed a Hellenized Asia to lie in the interest of his plans for world domination , Droysen introduces History in person , has her smile at Alexander 's self-deception and say : what was the goal to his ambition was to me the historical means of achieving the Hellenization of Asia 17 ( which in Droysen 's view ultimately served to facilitate the propagation of Christianity ) . One feels tempted to follow the example of History and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no doubt that they led Droysen to endow the Hellenistic era with a dignity of its own . The ways of the mind are inscrutable ..  | So much for the historian 's journey into the past . The journey continues : he must return to the upper world and put his booty to good use . Here follows a scheme of the mental operations in which he will have to engage to make the journey a success . They are about the reverse of those which helped him absorb the potential evidence . The next logical step is for the historian to assimilate to himself the material collected , with the emphasis on his factual findings and finds . His stock-taking activities serve two purposes . First , they mark a transitional stage between research proper and interpretation ? a stage which he can hardly afford to jump . If he failed to ponder and organize , somehow , his material he would not be able to assess its bearing on his initial hypotheses and freely to utilize it for analysis and in wider interpretative contexts . Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right inasmuch as they are intended to disclose the shortcomings of histories at variance with the facts . Since especially large-scale histories can not avoid beclouding or distorting part of historical reality , the task of exposing their errors is a running obligation . The results of the historian 's efforts during this phase may exclusively benefit a major work he is preparing and therefore never come to light in the form of independent reports . To quote Burckhardt again , he advises a young colleague " simply to omit the mere rubbish of facts " in his prospective narrative ( not without adding , though , that he should naturally study all that he omits ) .18 However , this advice sounds somewhat outmoded at a time when the syntheses of old are no longer fashionable . The rule today is , rather , a pronounced concern with that very " rubbish of facts " which Burckhardt wanted to clear away . Contemporary historiography abounds in fact-oriented accounts exhibiting the immediate yield of detailed research . They range from run- of-the-mill investigations which make you think of predatory raids into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the texts and remains . Of course , it is only these latter inquiries which live up to the scheme presented here . Altogether the genre of fact-oriented accounts largely coincides with what Herbert Butterfield calls " technical history . " Butterfield expressly states that technical history presupposes an " act of self-emptying " on the historian 's part 19 and at another place defines this type of history as a " limited and mundane realm of description and explanation , in which local and concrete things are achieved by a disciplined use of tangible evidence . " 20 The phrase " local and concrete things " points to one of the characteristics of the genre : its affinity for the small , the monographic form . There are good reasons for this . The state of passiveness in which any sensitive historian gathers the evidence palpably favors the influx of minutiae . And whenever he probes the sources to check the truth-to-fact of some inclusive narrative , some broader historical construction , he is likely to happen upon generalizations or macro-units which call for a fresh look at the diverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the histories in this vein come into their own only if the stories they impart " can be taken over by the Catholic or Protestant or atheist . " 21 The genre aspires to ( unattainable ) objective truth . The kind of objectivity it tries to achieve may be called " passive " because of its origin in a self which , though reactivated , is still at a low pitch and moreover refuses fully to assert itself for fear of blurring the communications received during its withdrawal from the scene . Can anything be had for nothing ? As products of a reduced self ? reduced , that is , if there is enough of a self to admit of reduction ? fact-oriented accounts are of necessity neutral and  | colorless . Such interpretation as goes into them at all merely serves to interrelate the data assembled in an unassuming way . But even so these " technical " histories are more true to type than are the many full-blown histories which inadvertently twist the evidence to make it bear out whatever they express in terms of present-day views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the historian 's formative urges get the better of his curiosity about the real course of events , the accounts I have in mind ? accounts which confine themselves to taking stock of " local and concrete things " ? unswervingly follow the realistic tendency . Bare and noncommittal as they may be , in doing so they at least meet the " minimum requirement " of the historical approach. ? Their most outspoken counterparts in the cinematic medium are documentary films designed to portray ( physical ) reality in a straightforward manner . Here you have again a case where a comparison between film and history proves rewarding . A few documentaries I know picture appalling living conditions with a matter-of-fact soberness which , as I have learned , results from the deliberate suspension of their authors ' creative powers . Highly skilled craftsmen , the directors of these films proceed from the conviction that pictorial beauty and suggestive editing would interfere with their intention to let things be as they are . They practice self-restraint as artists to produce the effect of impersonal authenticity . Now the salient point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joris Ivens relates that during the shooting of Borinage , a 1934 documentary about the miners in this Belgian coal district , he and his co-director Henri Storck realized that their very subject matter required of them photographic " simplicity . " " We felt it would be insulting to people in such extreme hardship to use any style of photography .  | that would prevent the direct honest communication of their pain to every spectator . " 22 Human suffering , it appears , is conducive to detached reporting ; the artist 's conscience shows in artless photography . Since history is full of human suffering , similar attitudes and reflections may be at the bottom of many a fact-oriented historical account , deepening the significance of its pale objectivity.23 The journey continues . After having established and organized his facts , the historian moves on to their interpretation . He is about to complete his journey . But is the historian who returns from the past still the person he was when he left the present for it ? In his critical comment on Collingwood 's philosophy of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in the negative . ( Collingwood himself was so convinced of the legitimacy of his insistence on the historian 's presentmindedness that he would never have dreamed of asking such a thing . ) Strauss arrives at the conclusion ? a valid conclusion , as I see it ? that , contrary to what Collingwood assumes , the historian does not retain his identity in the process : " He embarks on a journey whose end is hidden from him . He is not likely to return to the shores of his time as exactly the same man who departed from them . " 24 Incidentally , he is not likely either to return to his point of departure . The change of identity he undergoes must be traced to his stay in the past . To be precise , it is an aftermath of the discoveries which the historian is making in the state of self-effacement ? that phase in which he opens himself up to the suggestions of the sources . Need I repeat that his findings may obstruct his original research designs and therefore determine him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they are apt to tell him something he did not , and could not , know before . This  | points to the direction of the change . It is inevitable that the yield of the historian 's active passivity should ferment in his mind and thus eventually effect a broadening of its scope . Selfeffacement begets self-expansion . ( I do not wish to imply that the historian is a privileged person in this respect . Present-day life being of the same ilk as the life of the past , everybody going about the business of living may achieve such self-expansion , provided he is capable of losing his self . And the historian himself , trained in productive absent-mindedness as he is , will certainly not only feed on sources which have ceased to flow . ) In consequence , Dilthey 's belief that historical understanding calls for the total mobilization of our being turns out to be not sufficiently specific . What is required of the historian is not merely his " whole inner man " 25 as he happens to be but a self which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , which I have drawn between Proust 's Marcel and the historian can not be fully upheld . Despite all that they have in common they behave in a different manner . After Marcel , shrunk to a stranger or photographer , has seen his grandmother as she really looks , the palimpsest which his mind represents during this involuntary excursion into camera-reality dissolves again , and the loving Marcel underneath Marcel , the impassive stranger , re-enters the scene . True , the historian passes through the same phase of estrangement from his preferences and inclinations , but , unlike Marcel , he does not come out of it unchanged . His self which after his return from the past resumes control is enriched by the observations he has made during its temporary recession . While the reinstated complete Marcel falls back upon the ideas which he entertained of his grandmother prior to her transformation into a photograph , the  | historian assimilates to himself the very reality which was concealed from him by his ideas of it . This has a bearing on his position in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's journey on his mental build further invalidates the commonplace assumption that he is the son of his time . Actually he is the son of at least two times ? his own and the time he is investigating . His mind is in a measure unlocalizable ; it perambulates without a fixed abode . Because of the complexity of his material the historian will have to avail himself of all imaginable modes of explanation . They may range from statistical surveys to imaginative guesses at purposes and meanings ; and they are bound to vary with both his emphases and the characteristics of his particular subject matter . The history of ideas quite obviously requires a different treatment from , say , political or social history . Things human extending into multiple dimensions , one single type of explanation will rarely do ; as a rule , several interpretative approaches must be interwoven to cover the case ? any case ? under scrutiny . Dilthey , instinct with a sense of wholeness , affirms the necessity for the historian to apply them jointly , arguing that they complement and reinforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " web of interpretations . " The historian 's story is tantamount to such a web ? at least to the extent that the events he relates lend themselves to being explained at all ; whenever they prove to be unaccountable , his is largely a reporting job . And what does the web of interpretations consist of ? Conspicuous among its more articulate components is the scienceoriented approach which takes its cue from the sciences proper , especially the behavioral sciences . Since its possibilities and limitations have been dealt with in Chapter 1 , I shall confine myself to restating two major points made there : this approach  | is based on the fact that man is deeply embedded in nature ; and its objective is to explain the past from the resultant regularities and uniformities in social life and human affairs in general . Even though scientific explanations do not involve historical phenomena in their concreteness nor provide answers to specifically historical questions , they do isolate series of natural causes and effects which no historian intent on inclusive comprehension can afford to neglect . For him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not said to gladden the hearts of the computer-minded . To mistake computers for a master key to interpretation means to deprive history of its peculiar flavor by reducing it to a science pure and simple . ) Certain aspects of his data ? aspects not , or not fully , amenable to breakdowns in science fashion ? may challenge the historian to resort to explanations in a morphological vein . Thus he feels time and again tempted to render intelligible the simultaneous occurrence of events in different areas of human endeavors by reference to the sway of a force or belief supposed to govern the period to which the syndrome belongs . Whether attempts along these lines will work depends entirely on the weight of the corroborative evidence . Some of them ? for instance , Max Weber 's theory of the conditioning power of Calvinist ethics , or Pirenne 's idea of the beginnings of the European Middle Ages ? are as fictitious as they are shining.27 And they are hopelessly futile if , at a loss how to find a common denominator , they conjure up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirits still seem to haunt minds in quest of lofty vistas . By the same token , morphological description offers itself as a tool for  | the exploration of historical systems of ideas ? e.g. , Hellenistic syncretism , medieval Christianity , etc . Indeed , each such system invites inquiries into the structural relationships and the dynamic interplay between the various notions comprising it . Think of Basil Willey 's The Seventeenth Century Background or , to mention a more recent example , Hans Blumenberg 's remarkable studies of the change of thought systems at the beginning of the modern age.28 There are , moreover , historical developments which favor a similar approach . The historian of art knows of sequences of successive , if not necessarily contiguous , artistic achievements which hang together according to a sort of internal logic because they substantiate , one after another , the implications and potentialities of the work or problem that opens the series . However , much as these methods of explanation ( to which others may be added ) help the historian to come to grips with the past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand it in the full sense of the word . Rather , true understanding encompasses them , informs them with direction and meaning . It is a mode of interpretation in its own right ; and it owes its existence to a basic quality of historical phenomena which to ignore would be the death of history . Products of necessity as well as chance and freedom , these phenomena ? immensely concrete and virtually inexhaustible phenomena ? define , and fill , a universe which has many traits in common with the Lebenswelt . They stand out in it sphinx-like , as do their counterparts in the world we live in . And they would be impenetrable to us did we not in our dealings with them proceed after the very manner in which we proceed in everyday life when we assess , often seemingly on the spur of the moment , a person 's character , argue about a political decision , ponder the possible  | outcome of an individual or social crisis , etc . There is no other way for us to orient ourselves in the jungle through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thicket of things , the historian finds himself in the same precarious situation . So he too is obliged to draw on sundry value judgments , estimates , ad hoc hypotheses , adumbrations ? running comments which constitute explanations of a special type . Altogether they make up what we call " understanding . " In order to " understand " the phenomena that close in on him the historian will bring to bear on them a variety of such comments and glosses . These particular explanations are anything but digests or half-baked versions of scientific or morphological interpretations ? which is to say that they can not be dissolved or extended into statements about causal relationships , structural configurations , and the like . Nor do they easily admit of wider application . They are relatively selfcontained ; they result from , and respond to , unique encounters with opaque entities . But in entrusting ourselves to them , do we not lapse into uncontrollable subjectivity ? While they are undoubtedly subjective , they may nevertheless carry power of conviction . It all depends upon whether or not they conform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the processes of selfeffacement and self-expansion . To be to the point , understanding must , first , be grounded in the historian 's initial surrender to the facts . Second , its validity increases in direct ratio to the range of his human experience , the scope of his wisdom ? faculties bound up with a reflective disposition and the knack of passive observation . Robert Graves 's happy word : " History is an old man 's game " 29 ? he puts it into the mouth of the venerable Roman historian Asinius Pollio ? subtly intimates that the development of historical understanding is contingent on the cultivation of these faculties . In addition to pressing home the need for  | them , Isaiah Berlin also takes a glance at the way in which historians give form and body to the explanations peculiar to understanding : " Historical explanation is to a large degree arrangement of the discovered facts in patterns which satisfy us because they accord with life as we know it and imagine it . " 3 ? In other words , the insights which understanding yields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patterns of the historian 's story reflect those of his accumulated life experience , nourished , as it were , by what the past confides to him 31 In a way his story is his interpretation . It may happen ? although it does not happen often ? that the understanding historian offers an interpretation which differs from the run of them . Burckhardt 's notion of the awakening individual in the Renaissance is of this kind ; and so is Marx 's **27;1519;TOOLONG theory . The distinguishing feature of such explanations is that they seem to point beyond the material from which they are elicited . They introduce a new principle of explanation ; they reveal ? with one stroke , as it were ? yet unsuspected contexts and relationships of a relatively wide scope ; and they invariably involve matters of great import . These particular interpretations may be called " ideas . " With them , the historian 's journey definitely reaches its close . Historical ideas mark its ultimate destination . That there is something very special about them can be inferred from the fact that perceptive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes through which they may be arrived at . No sooner does an explanation in this vein present itself to the mind , says Isaiah Berlin ( within contexts intended to emphasize the nonscientific aspects of history ) , than we immediately realize that " something deep-set and fundamental that has lain unquestioned and in darkness , is suddenly il- luminated or prised out of its frame for closer inspection . " 32 Huizinga on his part coins the term " historical sensation " to characterize the moment at which we touch on an idea or are swayed by it . He speaks of " moments of special intellectual clarity , moments of a sudden penetration of the spirit . " He has it , moreover , that our contact with an idea is " accompanied by an utter conviction of genuineness and truth , " even though we hardly ever know whence it comes to us : it " can be evoked by a line from a document or a chronicle , by a print , by a few notes of an old song . " 33 I might as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sources to which it primarily applies but by " matters remote from and apparently quite unconnected with the subject of inquiry . " 34 The historian may draw his inspiration from his whole life experience . What about the position of historical ideas in the hierarchy of concepts ? Festugiere is convinced that he generalizes his empirical findings when he traces the vogue of religious mysticism in the Hellenistic era to the exhaustion and self-abdication of Greek reason ( which he in turn attributes to the lack of experimentation among the Greeks ) 35 I am afraid he is deceiving himself in thus identifying as a generalization what to all intents and purposes is much more in the nature of an idea . To be sure , historical ideas are generalizations to the extent that they are derived from , and refer back to , a hard core of discovered data , but at the same time they must be considered products of informed intuition which as such go beyond generalizations because they quiver with connotations and meanings not found in the material occasioning them . Based upon absorption in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts . They are genuine universals.36 While it is always possible to proceed from an idea down to its underlying material , the reverse way from the material up to the idea is by no means a straight route . The idea  | denies itself to additive research and an accumulation of detail . You will have to jump to capture it . Nor should these singular interpretations be confused with the kind of ideas which form the backbone of traditional philosophy . Any philosophy implementing a total vision or postulating a total goal of mankind ? and was this not the raison d'etre of Western philosophy for most of the time ? ? climaxes in assumptions and norms which not merely pretend to unconditional validity but claim effectively to control Al of reality . Unlike them , historical ideas have distinct boundaries ; their inherent intention is to explain this or that section of the past . Burckhardt 's awakening individual is the prototype of Renaissance man , not more , not less . In practice , traffic across the borders is pretty heavy . Historians longing for synthesis hanker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devise over-all models for use in the lower regions . The philosophical idea of evolution has permeated major historical writings . Perhaps it is one of the more fortunate consequences of positivistic mentality that historians have become weary of such handouts from on high . Hexter , for instance , cautions his fellow historians against the dangers of too general concepts on the ground that they obscure rather than highlight conditions at a particular time and place.37 Huizinga says of Burckhardt that he " has long since joined the masters who are exalted above the antithesis of right and wrong . " 38 Within the dimension in which this antithesis obtains no historical idea should be expected to be fully adequate . Each idea deserving of the name bears on a comparatively large portion of historical reality ? which implies that the historian advancing it must keep at a certain distance from the events he is interpreting . But from this distant point of view he can neither perceive all the perhaps relevant facts nor avoid setting them in  | a perspective bound to conceal part of them . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy into account . In addition , if a historian verifying some idea inspects the material to which it applies from a lesser distance than the one at which the idea has been conceived , he will come across ever smaller units of that material ; and they may convey suggestions which threaten to dissolve the idea of his concern . " It is a vain ambition , " Huizinga objects to Burckhardt , " to want to describe the man of the Renaissance . The numerous types offered by that rich period are divided by other characteristics more basically than any individualism can unite them . " 39 Devastating as this criticism is , I am not sure whether it is completely fair . For what does Huizinga do ? He alters the distance to the subject ; he plays off micro facts against a wellfounded macro hypothesis. ? To the extent , then , that historical ideas are generalizations they can not be " right " without being " wrong " also . The degree of their validity as generalizations depends upon the degree of their faithfulness to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history everything is a matter of degree is to restate one of the leitmotifs of this book . Gibbon 's thesis about the decline of the Roman Empire has withered away , reminding one of those ruins whose mournful sight once moved him to intuit it ; on the other hand , in the view of contemporary Renais-J sance scholars no important facts have yet been unearthed that would seriously upset Burckhardt 's famous interpretation.4o And there is the dimension above that of right and wrong . In assigning Burckhardt a place in it , Huizinga wants to give us to understand that his idea is imperishable , no matter whether or not it proves to be correct.41 Isaiah Berlin shows the same mag- nanimity with regard to the factual accuracy of the Marxist doctrine : " Even if all its specific conclusions were proved false , its importance in creating a wholly new attitude to social and historical questions , and so opening new avenues of human knowledge , would be unimpaired. " 42 Since he and Huizinga are certainly aware that an interpretation stands and falls with its ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this vital issue presumably stems from their desire to throw into relief the astounding survival capacity of historical ideas . Do not even ideas which have been shown to be " wrong " ? e.g. , Max Weber 's ideal-typical construction of the implications of the Protestant ethic ? live on in the memory and retain something of their initial splendor ? Historical ideas appear to be of lasting significance because they connect the particular with the general in an articulate and truly unique way . Any such connection being an uncertain venture , they resemble flashes illumining the night . This is why their emergence in the historian 's mind has been termed a " historical sensation " and said to " communicate a shock to the entire system . . . the shock . . . of recognition . " 43 They are nodal points ? points at which the concrete and the abstract really meet and become one . Whenever this happens , the flow of indeterminate historical events is suddenly arrested and all that is then exposed to view is seen in the light of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow to relate it to one or another of the momentous problems and questions that are forever staring at us . Marx 's **27;1548;TOOLONG theory and Burckhardt 's idea of the Renaissance are not only " right " generalizations : they make inroads into the realm of the general truths ( including those I have called philosophical ideas ) ? truths which are of absolute validity , if empty , or aglow with eternity like will-o ' - the- wisps . Note that historical ideas do not  | fuse with them but materialize at a lower level of abstraction . They mark the end of the historian 's journey also in so far as they set a limit to his strivings for generality ; beyond that limit he would lose touch with his materials . It is doubtful indeed whether the truths of the highest generality are capable at all of rousing the particulars they logically encompass . These extreme abstractions crystallize into statements so wide-meshed that the particulars ? a series of historical events , or so ? can not but drop through the net . For the historian to haul them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition ? a threshold which he may transgress only at the risk of no longer being able to bring his findings home to the port of understanding . Even though historical ideas issue from the whole self , they are not subjective in a sense that would interfere with their potential truth value . On the contrary , with them subjectivity is anything but a limiting factor . I have already indicated the reasons ; they lie with the dynamic character of the historian 's self . Schematically speaking , it comprises the messages he receives during its effacement and the experiences he undergoes as it is expanding . The objectifying effect of the fullness it thus achieves is strengthened by the movement in which it is engaged ? a movement which renders it in a measure independent of its location in time . Historical ideas would seem to be the product of a dynamized self . But the term " product " is misleading . Actually , things happen the other way round . During the period of incubation a thousand possibilities of how best to explain his data pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make his choice . And it is the fullness and relative mobility of his mind that enable him to select from among these possibilities the one which exceeds all the others in depth and comprehensiveness . The idea is not so much the product of his self as the result of a selective process , with his self acting as a divining  | rod ; it is a discovery , not an outward projection . The discovery will be the more valid ? i.e. , the less " subjective " ? the more it has benefited by all that the historian knows and imagines and is . This is what Bultmann means when he declares that " the most subjective interpretation of history is at the same time the most objective " 44 ? or rather , what he would mean were he not bewitched by the sham profundity of the existentialist outlook . Subjectivity at its most intensive transcends itself . Historical ideas are objective precisely because of their indebtedness to unmitigated subjectivity . The ( approximate ) objectivity to which they attain may be called " active " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase of self-reduction . If a screen separates us from the truth , these concrete-abstract ideas come closest to puncturing it . In following the historian on his journey , I have deliberately omitted two difficulties confronting him en route . He moves about in a universe which , because of its nonhomogeneous structure , makes it necessary for him to negotiate many hurdles . And he travels through Time ? a medium whose complexity further obstructs his advance . These difficulties call for close attention . Did history not exist , one might almost say that it is an improbable undertaking .  | Histories differ in scope or magnitude , depending on the size of the spatiotemporal unit they cover . Those of the same scope are at the same level of generality . A monograph on the battle of Leuthen is of lower magnitude , or lesser generality , than an account of the Seven Years War , which in turn forms part of a narrative of still wider scope ? say , a political history of 18thcentury Europe . And so it goes on . The whole set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere which contains similar spheres of diminishing size , each freely circling in the womb of the next larger one . The diverse histories may also be arranged along a continuum one pole of which is occupied by syntheses of extreme generality ? universal histories , that is ? while the opposite pole would have to be assigned to investigations of atom-like events . Differences in scope mark differences in distance . Any largescale history ? e.g. , the history of a people ? requires the nar- rator to step so far back from the given data that all the destinies of that people enter his field of vision . Of course , in overviewing a big slice of the past , he can not but lose sight of many circumstances responsible for his total impression of it . Conversely , Toynbee whose " intelligible fields of study " ? the civilizations in their entirety ? become visible only at an enormous distance from the evidence , speaks , not without condescension , of the " myopic " historians who , crawling deep below , ignore the grand vistas he himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties in common . Thus the historian of a century will select from among the sources other data than will the historian who concentrates on a decade or so . Nor should the two be expected to describe and specify the developments of their concern by way of comparisons of the same type or order . The comparable units vary with the level of generality at which the historian operates . Altogether these different histories constitute the historical universe . For the sake of simplification I shall divide them into two major groups ? micro and macro histories . It goes without saying that the boundaries between the two groups are fluid . A paradigmatic instance of micro histories has already been mentioned : Panofsky 's analysis of the uses which the high and later Middle Ages made of the models provided them by classical works of art and literature.f Such interpretative small-scale histories may be called " close-ups " because of their resemblance to the film shots of this name which isolate and magnify some visual detail ? a face , a hand , a piece of furniture ? to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the micro dimension , close-up studies lie in the immediate neighborhood of the bulk of fact-oriented accounts ? that first yield of the historian 's journey into the past ? and moreover share with them the devotion to minutiae and the affinity for the monographic form . But unlike them , they explore their material to the full , instead of confining themselves to neutral stock-taking . Close-ups are a direct extension of those accounts . As a rule they result from their authors ' desire to supplement , refine , or indeed invalidate notions and explanations which have been unquestioningly accepted by generations of macro historians . Jedin 's close analysis of the Councils of Constance and Basle serves a double purpose : it qualifies the widely held belief that these assemblies were of little consequence for the inner reform of the church ; and it highlights the lasting significance of their decrees which proclaimed the supremacy of general counc ; ls.3 Hexter on his part adduces detailed evidence in support of his thesis that the traditional opinion according to which the feudal aristocracy began to degenerate in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close-ups , the high-magnitude views they comment upon often strike one as rather sweeping and inaccurate . So God would be in detail ? Two great historians ? the Tolstoy of War and Peace and Sir Lewis Namier ? champion the doctrine epitomized by Aby Warburg 's famous dictum . Both declare the micro dimension to be the seat and fountainhead of historical truth . Tolstoy satirizes the many histories which attribute to the Napoleons and Alexanders of our world the power to create or destroy big empires . These histories , he argues , grossly exaggerate the range and impact of an individual 's power . In addition , they would be solidly founded only if we still believed that  | God subjects the peoples to the will of a personal ruler commissioned by Him to implement the plans of divine providence.5 Yet theological explanations have had their day . And since modern historiography refuses to acknowledge them , we will again have to inquire into the nature of the mysterious force that brings about the movements of the peoples ( or nations ) . In broaching this fundamental question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generals , and ministers but rejects all propositions affecting him as an outgrowth of macro-thinking . He denies the influence of ideas on historical change and does not place any confidence in the validity , let alone relevance , of socalled sociological laws . In his view most historians indulge in abstract constructions which pass over the real facts they claim to embrace and represent.6 His own answer testifies to his incomparable susceptibility to the ramifications and emanations of each single phenomenon ? a sense of detail which , for instance , shows in his exacting description of the moth-catching lawyer in Anna Karenina . The force behind the movements of the peoples , says he , should not be sought above and outside them ; rather , it consists in the innumerable activities of all the individual participants in the historical process. ? To demonstrate this , he time and again confronts , in War and Peace , the undeniably real , if fragmentary , experiences of his characters ? e.g. , Pierre Bezukhov 's during the battle of Borodino ? with excerpts from histories and official accounts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the empty generalizations and those first-hand impressions . With the artist 's involvement in the concrete , Tolstoy imagines historical reality as an endless continuum of microscopic incidents , actions , and interactions which , through their sheer accumulation , produce the macroscopic upheavals , victories , and disasters featured in the run of textbooks . ( By the way , he is not the only one to envision  | such an infinitesimal continuum . Fernand Leger , the French painter and film maker , dreamed of a monster film that would have to record the life of a man and a woman throughout twenty-four consecutive hours : their work , their silence , their intimacy . Nothing should be omitted ; nor should the two protagonists ever be aware of the presence of the camera . Leger realized that the pictures he fancied were bound to be shocking sights because they would exhibit the normally hidden whirlpool of crude existence . " I think , " he observed , " this would be so terrible a thing that people would run away horrified , calling for help as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logically , Tolstoy considers it the true historian 's ( unfulfillable ) task to break down the macro entities into their smallest elements . His ideas about the interrelations between these tiny units reveal his dependence on 19th-century science . He falls into outright determinism . Human reason , he has it , obliges us to conceive of the events in the micro dimension as processes controlled by unalterable laws .9 He further postulates that , if possible at all , a reconstruction of the chain of causes and effects in that dimension would yield the law of history as a whole . With Tolstoy , history is the realm of necessity ? an extension of that of nature . ( Interestingly , he refers to calculus in connection with the procedures to be used for the isolation of the micro units and their subsequent integration.l " It is as if he anticipated the modern computers . ) Tolstoy 's belief in an inexorable causal nexus gets him into deep waters . How reconcile the rule of necessity with the experience of human freedom ? The solution he offers amounts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but to degrade freedom to a phenomenon of our consciousness , something like a secondary quality . His main point is that in the world established by reason ? the ideally real world ? there is no place for  | causally unexplainable actions . What we mistake for a free decision is , in the light of reason , the inevitable consequence of given conditions . Freedom is an illusion . That the illusion nevertheless perpetuates itself must be laid to the impossibility for us to account for the infinite number of elements that comprise historical reality . The job of tracing the laws which govern their interplay exceeds human efforts . This being so , we feel indeed challenged to substitute freedom for what eludes our grasp . Freedom is unknowable necessity . " No doubt Tolstoy is a poor philosopher . He uncritically adopts the philosophical commonplace ideas of his scienceoriented age and contrives to arrange them into a pattern permitting him to eat his cake and have it ? rescue the free will and yet uphold the deterministic dogma . It does not seem to occur to Tolstoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an intelligible and , perhaps , significant succession of events . If freedom is merely a subjective phenomenon , necessity continues to carry the day in the world about us : all that happens must happen and that is that . But no sooner has Tolstoy , the would-be philosopher , had his say than the real Tolstoy takes over . Giving short shrift to those precarious speculations , the real Tolstoy ? this unique personal union of a mystic and an empiricist ? endows indifferent necessity with a soul . That which must happen , he feels , also should happen . At any rate , he is deeply convinced that in the case of the Russian people everything will be for the good if only the powers that be do not interfere with the live force moulding Russia 's future . Of course , to let things happen they will have to know what is going on between all the actors in the play . Yet is not , by Tolstoy 's own premise , such knowledge forever unattainable ? He overcomes this theoretically unmanageable difficulty by invoking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise intuitively acquire , or possess , the very knowledge which is denied minds guided by reason alone . The wise keep their ears to the ground ; they have the gift of apprehending the indistinct and often conflicting messages that constantly rise from the dark recesses of everyday life ; they themselves are part of that force which generates the movements of the peoples.12 Tolstoy lends flesh and color to this vision : his Kutuzov is wisdom incarnate . He does not plan and act ; he waits and listens . And it is his capacity for listening to , and interpreting , the chorus of confused voices from root regions which enables him to drive Napoleon into retreat . Kutuzov is an inspired leader because he is loath to follow his inspiration . His sole ambition is to bring to fruition the formless thoughts and desires he finds inscribed in millions of Russian hearts . " He knows , " as Prince Andrey puts it , " that there is something stronger and more important than his will ? the inevitable march of events . " 13 ( The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanistic notions of his time asserts itself everywhere . But this does not impinge on the truth , embodied by his Kutuzov , that really creative action is inseparable from intensive passive observation . ) Toynbee relates that Namier once told him : " Toynbee , I study the individual leaves , you the tree . The rest of the historians study the clusters of branches , and we both think they are wrong . " 14 ( He seems to have been polite enough not to tell Toynbee what he thought of the study of the whole tree . ) Namier 's field being political history , his metaphor of the " clusters of branches " obviously bears on the ideological units which are the stock-in-trade of the histories in his field . The Whig interpretation of 18th-century England which he so effectively attacked not only accepted the dominant political ideas  | and party programs of that century at face value but considered them nodal points of historical reality . The truth is , however , that these alleged units are projections of compounds of actions , reactions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are sham entities . And since practically none of the real-life phenomena they veil falls into the ideological dimension to which they themselves belong , their inherent claim to be part of reality is thoroughly unjustified . Namier insists on the fictitious character of anything ideological . As he sees it , all histories which place the emphasis on political ideology , rational thought , and verbalized argument culminate in vague generalizations incapable of capturing the very reality they are meant to explain . Like Tolstoy , Namier rejects such macro histories with their panoramic views . His negative attitude toward them is demonstrably influenced by Marx 's **27;1577;TOOLONG theory . Namier too indulges in debunking the pretense to autonomy of ideas : he too stresses the role which material needs and social conditions play in their formation.15 But for all this he is no Marxist . Not to mention his conservative temper , he is disinclined to turn from a political historian into a partisan , a litterateur engage . More important , he feels strongly about exchanging one macro conception for another : Marx 's imposing equation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class struggles does not exert any appeal on him.16 Rather , he wants to break away from the whole macro dimension ? from all those broad and comprehensive thought patterns which ultimately constitute our conventional image of the world . The image they yield is deceptive because they exhaust themselves in establishing spurious links between phantom units of largely anonymous facts . Products of our consciousness , they are not so much self-contained insights as surface symptoms of inner-life processes . And what  | he aims at is to get beneath the surface and explore the less obtrusive , less visible real happenings in deep psychological layers . Namier 's is a one-way route . This follows conclusively from his indifference to synthesis and narration proper . John Brooke says of him that he " never walked a step without looking in every direction . " 17 He can not bring himself to neglect the individual leaves for the tree . Namier himself acknowledges his indebtedness to Freud . He requests historians to uncover the " psychological springs " of political ideas , 18 points to the share of " unconscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a knowledge of modern psychology ? especially mass psychology ? is indispensable for the advance of historiography.20 Is he an orthodox Freudian ? " What matters most , " he writes somewhere , " is the underlying emotions , the music , to which ideas are a mere libretto , often of very inferior quality ... " 21 There is an artistic strain in him ( which distinctly shows in his prose ) . And his aesthetic sensibilities may well have attuned him to the efforts made in unison on all the fronts of contemporary art ? efforts which would hardly have developed in strength were it not for the achievements of Freud and Marx . In any case , it is as if he joined forces with those painters , poets , and musicians who aspire to dissolve the traditional forms and modes of perceiving . They proceed throughout from the big wholes and overarching compositions of old to , in a way , fragmentary statements which , perhaps , will never again jell into wholes . The ( provisional ) result is an adjustment of our senses to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is undone . ( What remains is at least incontestable . ) So Namier resorts to psychoanalysis as a means of disintegrating the standardized macro notions of political reality . If he is not a Marxist , he is not a strict follower of Freud either .  | The world of history , as it appears to him , offers a disquieting spectacle . While some of the political ideas peopling that world may be in accordance with the emotions , impulses , etc. , which respond to the necessities of the hour , most of them are leftovers from days long since gone . But since they continue to kindle our imagination , they keep alive or even reactivate attitudes , fears , and expectations which have ceased to conform to the actual situation . These outdated habits of thought and behavior permanently disrupt the interplay of timely desires and hopes , thereby preventing us from meeting the present on terms of its own . Much as we try to repress them , they fill our unconscious and have a way of discharging themselves in uncalled-for demands and irresponsible outbursts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiences . With Namier , the principles and programs that determine political action are as a rule disturbances rather than reliable signposts . Indeed , he goes so far as to consider their absence a symptom of " greater national maturity . " 22 There is a surrealistic aspect to the historicopolitical world he pictures : it is haunted by ghosts which , in the form of ideas and memories , invade our homes , offices , and brains . His objective is to lay the ghosts ? to trace , that is , the psychological motivations and mechanisms which , along with the material pressures of the moment , set things going in politics . Now these mainsprings of activities and events in the political area are not free-hovering agents but emanate from a very concrete nucleus ; their carrier is the individual ( or any group with an identifiable personality ) . It is individuals , Namier has it , who make up the aggregates which historians hypnotized by ideas and causes shuffle about at their pleasure , mistaking them for real units . They are not . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ micro analysis ; to explain some phase of political history  | one will have to study the lives of all the individuals involved in it . The God he worships is not merely in detail but in biographical detail . ( He might have wondered at Collingwood 's total rejection of biography as part of the historical enterprise ; yet if one proceeds straight from a philosophical " idea of history , " one is bound to arrive at bizarre conclusions . ) Namier 's method is best illustrated by his trail-blazing major work , that " fabulously microscopic examination of the composition of the successive Houses of Commons under George III . " 23 Note that , in applying this method , he pays little attention to the prominent politicians who wield influence and attract the professional biographers . He is not a biographer in the usual sense . All his interest lies with the curricula vitae of the little men , which afford more insight into typical emotions and aspirations than do the careers of the star performers . Entirely in keeping with this approach , Namier champions historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He pleads for demographic history by way of ' cooperative effort ? a program which has inspired the British History of Parliament presently in the making . His idea of micro history , I should like to add , resembles Tolstoy 's in that it foreshadows the advent of the computers . But is not every important innovation ushered in by dreams and gropings pregnant with it ? In sum , Namier as well as Tolstoy hold that the ideologies and big transactions on which our history books center arise from an infinite number of small events exceeding them in reality . And both coincide in suggesting that , in the interest of greater truth , macro historiography should be superseded by collective micro studies . However , this proposition stems from a wrong premise : Historical reality resides not only in detail , biographical or otherwise , but also extends into the macro dimension . Not all the  | subjects of high-magnitude histories are constructions after the fact . There exist long-enduring events , such as wars , social or religious movements , slow adjustments of well-defined groups to changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tangible entities . Unfolding in lofty regions , some of them presumably escape the micro-historian 's attention . Even though the names by which they are known may be imprecise abbreviations hazily covering a tangle of microscopic happenings , these events are more than sheer projections ? provided they were experienced as units at the time of their occurrence . In 15thcentury Europe the issue of church reform was a live concept , its high generality notwithstanding . Historical long-range events of this type are real to the extent that they stirred people to ponder their consequences , discuss alternatives , and advance possible solutions . Tolstoy 's satire of traditional historiography is not entirely to the point . By the same token , the past has seen ideas come and go which , as they reached their apex , belonged no less to the realities of life than , say , an individual conflict , ? no matter , for the rest , whether they were genuine or not . They have a peculiar substance , an irreducible content . And any historian treating them merely as derivatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people tick . Small wonder that the Tolstoy-Namier position has given rise to various objections . Namier , to stay with him , has , among other things , been criticized for passing off his analytical method as a panacea . But while micro analysis is certainly fit to penetrate the ideological fog that veiled the practices of the corrupt politicians under George III , it does not apply to periods informed with authentic political ideas ; the Puritan Revolution resists being psychologized away.24 Butterfield , one of Namier 's fiercest opponents , reproaches him with ignoring the reality of  | such ideas . Namier and his followers , he remarks , corrode the " avowed political purposes that give meaning as well as cohesion to the events of history " ; 25 they fall prey to the " optical illusion . . . that only the details matter " ; 25 they are not aware that , to write history , one must " possess also an eye for generalities. " 27 ( It is probably not Butterfield , the mundane " technical " historian , but Butterfield , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " because it undermines all that he believes in ? the potential meaning of history , the intrinsic value of ideas . As a Christian historian he takes significant continuity for granted and even assumes the existence of something like " God 's history , " with a supernatural planner in charge of human affairs.28 ) Nor has it eluded the critics that Namier , in flagrant defiance of his professed concern with minutiae , sometimes substitutes the telescope for the microscope , setting large portions of the past in a perspective of his choice . Was he not a fervent Zionist ? One might finally ask whether he really hits rock-bottom in examining the psychological make-up of the individual . This allegedly smallest historical unit itself is an inexhaustible macrocosm . So reality again recedes when he is convinced he has come to grips with it . The incidence of long-enduring events and ideas which more or less lead a life of their own tends to suggest that macro histories are in a measure independent of micro research.29 Even granted that these ideas , events , and wholesale arrangements grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are apt to develop and change in ways which can not be sufficiently defined by a recourse to their elements . Discussing the relations between " these macroscopic phenomena " and " the elementary , atomic data " from which they apparently issue , Marrou insists that the former are as real as the latter and stresses their relatively independent status : " They are realities of another  | order , but , each in its own , all equally authentic . " 3 ? For the rest , the fact that such macro realities are not fully traceable to the micro realities going into them ? that interrelated events at low and higher levels exist , so to speak , side by side ? is by no means an uncommon phenomenon . Most individuals behave differently in different dimensions of being . A good Christian may be a harsh landlord . Proust declares that it is " absurd to judge the poet by the man or by the opinions of his friends , as SainteBeuve does . As for the man , he is just a man , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives in him . " 31 The implication is that , contrary to what Namier and Tolstoy assume , political macro history may attain to a certain autonomy . ( It is understood that this holds true also of histories in other areas . ) If a political historian inquires , say , into the reasons for the overthrow of a regime or the causes of a war , he need not always probe the underworld of biographical detail but stands a fair chance of roughly explaining these events from motives , arguments , and reactions which belong to the same dimension in which he is operating . As long as big events loom large on the horizon they are perceived in their wholeness and therefore provoke reflections and measures of similar generality . On principle , from whatever distance a historian surveys the past , he will at each level of generality come across a causal nexus of a sort peculiar to that level ? remember the concentric Chinese spheres , each moving around independently of the others . In his short histories of Rome and Greece , Rostovtzeff organizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without ever summoning micro facts . Yet the texture is coarse and rather wide-meshed . Obviously the autonomy of large-scope histories is not to be depended upon . After having pleaded the case of macro autonomy over against Tolstoy 's and Namier 's excessive attacks on it , I now  | wish to show that its uncritical recognition involves heavy risks . To be sure , a political historian may plausibly fit together given high-magnitude events , ideas , and arguments , but if he sees his goal in the establishment of macroscopic contexts , he should not be expected satisfactorily to account for the past of his concern . The odds are rather that his narrative will misrepresent it . Macro histories overplaying their self-sufficiency are prone to go astray . The reason is this : The higher the level of generality at which a historian operates , the more historical reality thins out . What he retains of the past when he looks at it from a great distance is wholesale situations , long-term developments , ideological trends , etc. ? big chunks of events whose volume wanes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered over time ; they leave many gaps to be filled . We do not learn enough about the past if we concentrate on the macro units . It is true , as Proust says , that the poet exists independently of the man in whom he lives , but it is equally true that the man does exist also ; and the full story would tell us about the poet and the man . Moreover , with increasing distance the historian will find it increasingly difficult to lay hands on historical phenomena which are sufficiently specific and unquestionably real . Butterfield , this time in his capacity as a technical historian , observes that universal history " spreads over so wide an area that the knowledge can hardly avoid becoming too thin . " 32 He is right : all that is discernible at the very high altitude where universal history comes into view are vaguely contoured giant units , vast generalizations of uncertain reliability . Historians featuring the interplay of macro events naturally feel tempted to compensate , somehow , for the relative dearth of the material they care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been spelled out by one no less than Bacon . He  | advises the historian not to deal with too long ( or too shapeless ) a period because " he can not but meet with many blanks and spaces which he must be forced to fill up out of his own wit and conjecture . " 33 There is no lack of obliging conjectures . To negotiate the " blanks and spaces " on his road , the historian eager to sustain macro autonomy may draw on his knowledge of the road 's destination ? hindsight being used as a cementing device rather than an eye-opener . Or he may introduce , " out of his own wit , " ungiven motivations , philosophical ideas , etc. , with a view to solidifying the fragile fabric he is weaving . The outcome are histories both incomplete and overdone . Gooch says of Guizot 's historical work that it does not manifest " interest in the individual and the particular " ; 34 and Sainte-Beuve criticizes it for being history " seen from a distance . " Any such history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces the illusion . . . that it is rational . " Which leads him to conclude that " Guizot 's history is far too logical to be true . " 35 Need I expressly mention that the determined macro historian 's admixtures and amendments should not be confused with responsible historical hypotheses ? Since he often makes these additions unawares , the resultant histories abound with ambiguous concepts . Many seeming generalizations in them are in effect synthetic products , distilled from as well as instilled into the evidence . Even though Tolstoy 's and Namier 's crushing verdict on traditional macro history overshoots the mark , it springs from a conception of what history in our age should be like , which I believe to be valid . History , they feel , comes into its own if it records , and makes us understand , the past as faithfully and completely as possible . Hale , discussing Bacon , says : " It history must be as full as possible , and as true to life as possible , not like those histories that do rather set forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resorts of them : " H The basic importance of micro investigations lies in the fact that they are indispensable for any attempt to achieve such fullness . This does not mean that the integration of micro findings of which Tolstoy dreamed would enable us to get hold of the whole of history . Not all of historical reality can be broken down into microscopic elements . The whole of history also comprises events and developments which occur above the micro dimension . For this reason histories at higher levels of generality are as much of the essence as studies of detail . But they suffer from incompleteness ; and if the historian does not want to fill the gaps in them out of his own wit and conjecture , " he must explore the world of small events as well . Macro history can not become history in the ideal sense unless it involves micro history . Now knowledge of detail may be used in different ways . Frequently enough , it serves as a sort of adornment . Macro historians , that is , avail themselves of micro research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain long-range views they have come to entertain ? views attached to the distance from which they look at events . ( To be sure , these views on their part may be derived from an examination of the relevant source material , and are not some generalizations more purposeful and goal-oriented than others ? And of course , the given facts , malleable as they are , rarely let down a historian in search of evidence for his hunches . For the rest historical reality is so rich in diversified data that you can adduce from it evidence for almost everything , you want to prove . ) The many details in Macaulay 's histories seem invariably calculated , to confirm the meaning he attributes to the periods and figures under consideration . All of them converge toward his total of this or that situation ? which gives the impression that his macro-scopic insight or intuitions do not so much grow out of micro analysis but guide his selection of  | concrete fact . Brilliant narrator that he is , he knows how effectively to handle corroborative detail . Toynbee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the " myopic " historians contribute fulfill a worth-while function only if they support his large-scope constructions . To him we will return later in this chapter . My proposition that in the interest of greater completeness macro history must involve micro history points to an involvement which is not merely a seeming one . It requires historians who , not satisfied with staying where they are , really journey to the past and get immersed in what they are finding there without much regard for their macro assumptions . These assumptions may or may not be confirmed by micro analysis for its own sake . Perhaps the historian engaged in it will happen on shortterm causes defying the macro contexts he has established on the basis of macro evidence ; or he will discover that apparently negligible exceptions from the general course of events carry implications apt to upset his appraisal of it . Think of Marc Bloch 's Feudal Society . ? This is why discerning historians aspiring to history in its fullness favor an interpenetration of macro and micro history . In spite of his belief in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historian surveying a long stretch of the past had better begin " by getting to work himself , installed , first , at the level of the minute and precise investigation of detail . " 37 Similarly Butterfield , for all his anti-Namier attitude , feels con-  | strained to admit that macro history alone will not do and believes that the ideal kind of history would perhaps be " structure and narrative combined , " ? a history which is both , " a story and a study . " 38 This is in striking analogy with film : the big must be looked at from different distances to be understood ; its analysis and interpretation involve a constant movement between the levels of generality . A statement by Pudovkin quoted in Theory of Film is to the point in this context : " In order to receive a clear and definite impression of a demonstration , the observer must perform certain actions . First he must climb upon the roof of a house to get a view from above of the procession as a whole and measure its dimension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first-floor window at the inscriptions carried by the demonstrators ; finally , he must mingle with the crowd to gain an idea of the outward appearance of the participants . " 3s As I point out , the big can be adequately rendered only by a permanent movement from the whole to some detail , then back to the whole , etc.40 The same holds true of the big in history . The macro historian will falsify his subject unless he inserts the close-ups gained by the micro studies ? inserts them as integrant elements of his over-all pictures . In consequence , the historian must be in a position freely to move between the macro and micro dimensions . This raises the issue of the structure of the historical universe ? the first of the two major problems confronting any historian . Is it homogeneous , so that he may easily pass from one level to another ? Substance and validity of macro history ? its reality character ? depend upon unhampered two-way traffic . ? The author 's completed text for this chapter ends with this paragraph . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which belong to material logic . The first may be called the " law of perspective . " I have shown in the preceding chapter that historical interpretation ? " understanding " ? ultimately involves the historian 's expanded self , his life experience , his subjectivity . In other words , he must set things in a " perspective , " conforming to his experiences , beliefs , and values , all of which are being rooted in self-effacement , passive observation . Now there exists a definable relation between the role which matters of perspective are playing and the historian 's distance from his material . Marrou observes " that to the degree that the level of the generality of the historical construction and the breadth of synthesis increase , the difficulties , perils , and uncertainty grow in the same proportion . " 41 In other words , the impact of perspective treatment increases in direct ratio to the historian 's distance from his material . Why is this so ? In the micro dimension a more or less dense fabric of given data canalizes the historian 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the data increases , they become scattered , thin out . The evidence thus loses its binding power , inviting less committed subjectivity to take over . ( As already pointed out in earlier contexts , large-scale histories tend to assume an existential character . ) The conflict of Pirenne 's and Bark 's theses about the origins of the Middle Ages decidedly involves this effect of perspective ; 42 but one does not readily think of perspective in the case of close-ups , such as Panofsky 's " principle of disjunction " or Jedin 's Constance Coun- cil analysis.43 Here we again notice the importance of differences in degree in the intermediary area of history , already referred to . An observation made by Proust in his novel strikingly illustrates the fact that with the increasing scope of histories their composition is increasingly governed by the laws of perspective , as well as the consequences for the accessibility of the micro dimension from higher levels . On a carriage ride , earlier than the one referred to in chapter 3 , Marcel sees sometimes two , sometimes three church steeples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he views the surroundings . Under the impression of their varying positions he imagines them to be three " maidens in a legend , " slipping one behind another , so that only a single form appears.44 Similarly , due not so much to oversight , neglect , and the like , as to the " law of perspective , " macro historians must ignore part of the evidence at the outset . This function of perspective views which as such interfere with the accessibility of the material surveyed is the weightier the greater the distance . For example , general histories of the feudal society usually fail to do justice to its variety , which is covered up by their attempt to bring out the general features of this society ; precisely its variety , however , is one of its essential characteristics.45 Marc Bloch 's Feudal Society suffers least from this necessary shortcoming , which obstructs the large-scale historian 's intercourse with a portion of the sources and of micro histories . To be sure , the historian is theoretically free to explore the micro , dimension as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of its contents , overlooking them or rationalizing them away as irrelevant . As Ferguson observes on the problems which would have to be faced by a new attempt at the synthesis , undertaken for his day by von Martin in Sociology of the Renaissance ( 1932 ) , the author of such an attempt  | " will have to adjust his synthesis to take care of a great many inconvenient and unmanageable facts of which von Martin was happily unaware . But if something will be gained , something may also have been lost ... " 46 Whether disparaged or simply not noticed , such contents are bound to drop out of the picture . What the macro historian does not see , he ( partly ) can not see because it is overshadowed by what he does see . Two supplementary remarks may be added to this discussion of the law of perspective . One is contributed by Aron 's observation concerning the possibility of transforming one macro perspective into another . Stressing that subjective perspective is necessary for ensemble construction and that the historian must take cognizance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , he yet warns that there is between them " no numerical constant or equation . " Their diversity is an " expression of life . " 47 The other is a query : Are high-magnitude histories more affected by the " Zeitgeist " than histories at low levels of generality ? The second principle controlling the traffic between the micro and macro dimensions may be called the " law of levels . " It bears on those micro events which are not overshadowed by the mechanisms of perspective but remain visible and are actually transported to the upper regions , going into the composition of large-scale histories . What happens to them en route ? In asking this , I deliberately confine myself to examining mainly traffic conditions on the way from " below " to " above . " Also , I shall here disregard the deteriorating effect which the compositional exigencies of macro histories ? especially general histories ? produce on all micro findings incorporated in these histories . The answer to the question raised then is that the micro events are threatened with  | losing some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitudes . They arrive up there in a damaged state . Imagine , for example , three historical narratives , each of which includes a portrait of Luther ? the first a history of the German people , the second dealing with the Reformation , and the third a full-fledged biography : I believe it to be highly probable that the three portraits involve different sets of meanings and therefore are in a measure incommensurable . The " law of levels " is both illustrated and explained by the analogous phenomenon of the paradoxical relation between " close-ups " and long shots ( shots of ensembles ) in the cinematic narrative . In Theory of Film , this relation was explained with reference to the Griffith close-up of Mae Marsh 's clasped hands in the trial episode of Intolerance , which " are not only integral components of the narrative but disclosures of new aspects of physical reality . " As we are watching the big close-up of Mae Marsh 's hands , " something strange is bound to happen : we will forget that they are just ordinary hands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the hands we know will change into unknown organisms quivering with a life of their own . " 48 Similarly , the historian 's close-up is apt to suggest possibilities and vistas not conveyed by the identical event in high-magnitude history . ( The current fashion of presenting photographic detail of a work of art for separate enjoyment provides further evidence of this difference in quality and meaning ; thus a bit of background scenery drawn from Gruenewald 's Isenheim retable is vaguely reminiscent of a Japanese print . ) A theoretical elaboration may be added to this discussion of the law of levels . On principle , macro explanations claim to be valid for micro facts ? for all particulars , that is ? while micro insights on their part aspire to recognition in the macro dimen- sion . Now since , to be valid , the former ? the macro explanations and definitions ? must at least partly be grounded in micro analysis , some of the implications of micro studies are likely to be in agreement with the macro historian 's findings . But certainly not all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones . We have , then , two sets of generalizations or , rather , insights of a general nature ? those which essentially belong to the macro dimension and those directly arrived at from " below " by way of micro analysis . It is the latter type of the general which Huizinga , in his criticism of Burckhardt , opposed to the idea of the Renaissance , which represents the first type of the general insight . ' It is obvious that the generalities derived from micro investigations ? and surrounding them like a fringe ? are largely inconsistent with typical macro generalities . Can they be brought to fuse with the latter ? Suffice it here to raise this problem involving the relations between the general and the particular . fi To conclude , the traffic between the micro and macro dimension is subject to severe restrictions . Because of the " law of perspective " part of the evidence drops out automatically . And because of the " law of levels " part of the virtually available evidence reaches its destination in an incomplete state . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It comprises fields of varying density and is rippled by unaccountable eddies . Radically speaking , the resultant traffic difficulties are unsurmountable . Toynbee 's suggestion of a merger of the bird's-eye view and the fly's-eye view 49 is in principle unfulfillable . The  | two kinds of enquiry may co-exist , but they do not completely fuse : as a rule , the bird swallows the fly . How do sensitive historians react to this look of things ? Here are two examples . Kristeller 's Problem : Kristeller , the uncontested authority on Renaissance thought , aims at a synthesis of his life-long research , a comprehensive intellectual history of the period so familiar to him . But he shies away from this project because of his awareness that he would have to sacrifice to it much of what he knows and may still learn in the course of continued research . It is as if he did not want to curtail or pass over any of the precious insights which only full absorption in the sources affords ; as if he were afraid of the concealments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synthesis will most surely impose on him . His realistic passion conflicts with his formative desire to make a " whole " of his findings . Diamond 's Dream : Diamond asks himself whether a historian engaged in a large-scale narrative might not be able to avoid setting all events in the one perspective which corresponds to the distance bound up with the scope of his narrative . Why should he not look at things from different distances as he gets along ? So does a wanderer who explores a landscape ; he will first take in the panorama as a whole and then walk toward the far-distant mountain range , enjoying the ever-changing sights about him . Many films proceed in this way . That Proust , knows how to combine immersion in minutiae and long-range views will be seen in the following chapter . Diamond dreams of an American history in which he plans , among other things , to insert close-ups not as illustrations of his general assumptions but , on the contrary , as self-contained entities apt to run counter  | to his overall emphases . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This conception brings the historian 's method into perfect analogy to " Griffith 's admirable non-solution " of the dilemma of the cinematic and the theatrical in film as stated in Theory of Film : On the one hand he ( Griffith ) certainly aims at establishing dramatic continuity . . . ; on the other , he invariably inserts images which do not just serve to further the action or convey relevant moods but retain a degree of independence of the intrigue and thus succeed in summoning physical existence . This is precisely the significance of his first close-up . And so do his extreme long shots , his seething crowds , his street episodes and his many fragmentary scenes invite us to absorb them intensely . In watching these pictures or pictorial configurations , we may indeed forget the drama they punctuate in their own diffuse meanings.50 The analogy holds . And yet one should not throw out the child with the bath water : some attempts at an interpenetration of micro and macro history are more successful than others . In several cases the movement between different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new principle of explanation. ? One will now better understand the peculiar truth value of ideas and their oblique relation to factual accuracy . As a matter of course , the range of intelligibility of histories is a function of their width of scope . The higher their magnitude , the more of the past they may render intelligible . But the increase of intelligibility is bought at a price . What the historian gains in scope he loses in terms of ( micro ) information . " De-  | pending upon the level at which the historian places himself , " says Levi-Strauss , " he loses in information what he is gaining in comprehension , and vice versa. " 51 And he declares that for the historian to escape this dilemma the only possibility is " to leave history behind . . . either by going down below it . . . or going up above it " 52 The fact that the increase of intelligibility entails a dwindling of information is a special case of the " principle of mental economy " which seems to govern our social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blumenberg 's principle of the " economy of intentions " according to which the advance of scientific knowledge is bound up with the abandonment of the metaphysical claim to total knowledge . Science , says he in his Galileo analysis , accounts not for the whole of nature but for partial processes . The Lebenswelt which Husserl opposes to this particularization is but a borderline concept ; only if we could direct our intentions equally to all parts of it would it come to life.53 The belief that the widening of the range of intelligibility involves an increase of significance is one of the basic tenets of Western thought . Throughout the history of philosophy it has been held that the highest principles , the highest abstractions , not only define all the particulars they formally encompass but also contain the essences of all that exists in the lower depths . They are imagined as the " highest things " in terms of both generality and substance . This shows , for instance , in that part of the gnostic scheme which deals with the ascent of the soul from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , the transition to a higher level is tantamount to an advance in spiritual insight . " The negative law that each order is unable to see the next higher one indirectly entails the positive law that the transition of the soul to a higher  | order is at the same time an ascent in knowledge , " says Jonas on the " subordinationism " of the system of Origen.54 The repercussions of this scheme still make themselves felt in our days , and in diverse branches of knowledge . It is , for instance , at the bottom of Novikoff 's all but Plotinian principle of " integrative levels of organization , " which holds that the progress of evolution of the inanimate , animate and social worlds materializes at different levels each of which is governed by laws of its own ; and that while one can not understand high level phenomena without understanding those of the lower levels , our knowledge of a lower level does not enable us to predict what will occur at a higher level.55 I am referring here to this ingrained belief in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of throwing into relief one of the underlying assumptions of the present study ? the assumption that the traditional identification of the extreme abstractions ? say , the idea of the " good " or that of " justice " ? as the most inclusive and essential statements about the nature of things does not apply to history , or related approaches to reality . ' When the historian ascends from the micro dimension to ever higher levels of generality , he will reach a point , marked by what I have called the " historical idea , " beyond which , as he proceeds further to the dimension of " philosophical " ideas or extreme abstractions , the significance of his insights is bound to decrease instead of continuing to increase . Note the many drop-outs of micro facts in large-scale histories . The very high abstractions have no longer a bearing on the evidence they are meant to cover . They read ideas into things which the things do not include . But the historian , says Harnack , has " no right to place the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearer light than they appear in the development itself . " 66 By doing precisely this , traditional philosophy has completely obscured and , still worse , disparaged the kind of relations that obtain between the particular and the general in the area of the last things before the last . Hence the relative legitimacy of the Tolstoi-Namier objections to macro history . Close-up findings are significant in their own right , no matter whether or not their implications coincide with , or can be subsumed under , the broad views bound up with high magnitude histories . It is not sufficiently exact just to envisage , as Hexter does , a process in which " the particular and the individual define the content and the body of the general , while the general helps to illuminate and make sense of the particular . " 67 How close-ups relate to the broad views of large-scale histories in case they deviate from them will be considered in chapter 8 and may for the moment be left in the open . But this may be the place for an excursus on the significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . " 68 Toynbee raises an important issue when , in Reconsiderations , he claims that the historian must make an attempt to do justice to the enormous quantity of accumulated historical knowledge . The sheer quantity of it poses by itself the problem of what might be its purpose . It demands , so to speak , to be put to some meaningful use . But how can it be used ? The quantity of historical knowledge is taken care of in two ways . One of them is the approach of the theologians and philosophers of history . But their approach does not bear on history as a detachable reality open to scrutiny . Jewish-Christian theology springs from an existentialist relation to the past and the  |p133133  history it means extends toward a future outside historical time . History as conceived by theology is salvation history at bottom ? that is , it reaches beyond history in the modem sense of the word . The events that count are within the orbit of history and outside it . The same holds true of the great philosophies of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secular time , they explain , mostly under the influence of the theological assumption of a divine plan , the whole of the past in the light of a principle which at best conforms to part of the facts and usually is synonymous with a good cause whose ultimate triumph it is to support . The other approach is more in keeping with the scientific spirit of the age . In trying to do something about the quantity of our accumulated historical knowledge , Toynbee organizes , as also Spengler does , the given material into large units ? civilizations or , with Spengler , culture souls ? whose development he analyzes for regularities. ? But not only are the regularities thus established very general indeed , they also concern history only to the extent that it is part of nature . Aware of this , Toynbee , as we saw earlier , insists that these regularities are by no means necessary ; that , on the contrary , Western civilization may take an entirely unpredictable course . His admission , however , is hardly consistent with his emphasis on regularities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument that the regularities traced are really relevant to the whole of history . Then they must all the more dovetail with histories at a lower level of generality . Toynbee actually claims that such an interpenetration of macro and micro history is indispensable . " The solution of the problem of quantity , " he says , " lies in combining the panoramic with the myopic view . " 69 Here the problem arises  | whether this interpenetration of histories at different levels of generality is at all possible . According to the " law of levels " the contexts established at each level are valid for that level but do not apply to findings at other levels ; which is to say that there is no way of deriving the regularities of macro history , as Toynbee does , from the facts and interpretations provided by micro history . It is therefore not surprising that Toynbee 's own efforts to master the quantity of historical knowledge are not very encouraging . The regularities at which he arrives are rather irrelevant , not to mention that his insistence on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further . To sum up : the effort to do justice to the enormous quantity of accumulated historical knowledge is bought at a price . It yields , on the whole , regularities of a rather indifferent and irrelevant character . These regularities " cover " only those historical developments which mark mankind 's sinking back into pature . Finally , they represent observations which are at best valid only from the bird's-eye view . The micro events of monographs neither bear out nor directly negate what is seen from an inhabitable distance . No doubt the sheer quantity of available historical knowledge seems to request of us that we should try to take care of it in one way or another . But does it pay to follow this request ? So far any attempt at global history has resulted in irrelevant , all too general statements and arbitrary constructions ? products of wishful thinking and existentialist needs . What is captured by these attempts is the sediments of the historical process , not its real joints and hidden depths . I am afraid lest the idea of universal history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . As I see it , the vast knowledge we possess should challenge us not to indulge in inadequate syntheses but to concentrate on close-ups and from them casually to range over the whole , as- sessing it in the form of apercus . The whole may yield to such light-weight skirmishes more easily than to heavy frontal attack . The nonhomogeneous structure of the historical universe carries two interrelated implications of interest . The first bears on the constantly growing body of the fact-oriented accounts ? i.e. , historical research proper ? the kind of histories which roughly conform to Butterfield 's " technical history . " 60 The question is , are endeavors in this vein meaningful in their own right even if they are not touched off by interpretative concerns and highlevel assumptions ? Many a historian denies their independent value . They are scorned as dry-as-dust history , 61 considered a " waste of erudition " ( Bloch ) .62 Huizinga cautions against overemphasis on " detailed historical research . " 63 Other historians waver , carrying loads on both shoulders . So the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history on the ground that it not only establishes the facts but uncovers " hitherto unknown values of the past . " 64 On the other , he subordinates technical history to the exposition of values . He calls technical research " mechanistic , " holds that sheer fact-finding is pervaded with evaluations , and all in all degrades technical history to a means to an end.65 Perhaps the most incisive argument against the legitimacy of fact-finding for its own sake comes from Marc Bloch . He complains of the " split between preparation and execution , " taking up the cudgels for guided research : each historian should " struggle with the documents " in the interest of his queries ? a claim which goes hand in hand with the repudiation of research " in neutral gear . " 66 But Bloch 's argument rests on uncertain ground . It originates ? I have mentioned this before in his unfounded suspicions , as a theoretician , of " passive observation "  | and in his preoccupation with scientific history . For the rest , it is not the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to test his models and regulative ideas by micro research of his own . Presumably the most convincing argument in defense of technical history has been provided by Bury . He declares that the historian aiming at a " complete assemblage of the smallest facts " in the faith that it " will tell in the end " labors for posterity , 67 is " playing the long game . " 68 Is he ? Because of the " law of levels " ? the traffic difficulties between the micro and macro dimensions ? he is likely to lose the game : many micro data he painstakingly assembles will never reach the upper regions of synthesizing histories . Bury 's reasoning does not stand the test either . So the question as to the meaningfulness of " technical history " would seem to be unanswerable . There is only one single argument in its support which I believe to be conclusive . It is a theological argument , though . According to it , the " complete assemblage of the smallest facts " is required for the reason that nothing should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathed pity with the dead . This vindicates the figure of the collector . The other implication of the nonhomogeneous structure of the historical universe concerns the issue of the progress of historiography . The refinement of research methods , the increase of research tools , the discovery of new evidence and the broadening of our horizon in its wake ? all this speaks in favor of the belief , wide spread among historians , that historiography will grow in comprehensiveness and , as many assume , objectivity . This belief , certainly justified up to a point , is not even upset by  | the awareness that macro histories are inherently subjective . The ensuing " limitations " of high-magnitude histories , it is held , may be gradually overcome by : ( 1 ) the expansion of knowledge ( Marrou , Pirenne , Kristeller ; in a way , Hexter ) ; 00 ( z ) the recourse to comparative studies ( Bloch , Pirenne ) ; 70 ( 3 ) the reliance on teamwork ( Bloch , Marron , Kristeller ) .71 Both Bloch and Pirenne hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( Pirenne ) 72 will arise . It is understood that they will be the dupes of their hopes . As for the idea of teamwork to arrive at a factual universal history , LeviStrauss criticizes it by pointing out that " so far as history aspires at meaningfulness , it condemns itself to making choices . . . . A truly total history would neutralize itself ; its outcome would , equal zero . " 78 I might as well also mention E. H. Carr 's proprogress argument : historiography progresses as we turn from narrow to ever wider contexts of interrelationships , such as , in our days , the broad curves of socioeconomic developments . " The old interpretation is not rejected , but is both included and superseded in the new . " " 74 The flimsiness of this argument is obvious . If it falls to each successive generation to define the goals of progress in its own terms , then the nature of the historical process as a whole remains undefined . And Carr 's idea that our interpretations of history become ever more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this untenable concept of progress . All this is more or less the product of wishful thinking . ( In fact , that Bloch should conjure up the ghost of universal history is rather a shame . ) As Valery rightly insists , the subjectivity inherent in interpretative macro histories is unsurmountable ; " .. .  | since we can not retain everything , and since we have to free ourselves from the infinitude of facts by judging . . . " 75 And may it not even transcend itself in the best of them ? To try to overcome it is not only impossible but , under certain circumstances , outright devious . Since , accordingly , high-magnitude histories , including social histories with their pretense to objectivity , are subject to the " law of perspective , " they can not possibly take advantage of all the facts available . And if hitherto neglected or unknown facts are Jigged up and utilized in subsequent narratives , these in turn will then necessarily disregard other parts of the virtually inexhaustible material . In consequence , there is a limit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the progress of historiography . One might still ask whether historians should not be supposed to learn from the errors and misplaced emphases of their predecessors and thus , generation after generation , steadily improve on what went before . Improve , a new generation of historians ' may , but the avoidance of past errors hardly protects them from committing other ones , and depth of insight is not the privilege of the most recent age . It is difficult to imagine that Thucydides will ever be surpassed . The belief in the progress of historiography is largely in the nature of an illusion .  | Modern historiography conceives of history as an immanent continuous process in linear or chronological time which on its part is thought of as a flow in an irreversible direction , a homogeneous medium indiscriminately comprising all events imaginable . ) This conception , which owes much to the ascent and ascendancy of science , was preceded by notions giving a more restricted significance to linear time for an understanding of the past . The Greek historians did not fully establish a primacy of linear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there persists throughout the history of the Greek mind a dualism of a divine time and a time of men in the apperception of human events.2 Even though the ancient Jews did not ignore history as a mundane process in time , yet they largely entertained an existential relation to it . They considered history a product of the interaction between them and God , identifying the events of the past as punishments or rewards meted out by Him to His chosen people . The hoped-for redemption , envisioned by the apocalypses of later Judaism , marked not so much a new historical epoch as the divinely decreed end of human  | history . Early Christian eschatology engulfed chronology also.3 But since the parousia failed to come , the Church , while retaining the belief in ultimate resurrection , established herself in the world , with the result that she had to reconcile with each other two divergent times . St. Augustine calls them the time of nature and the time of grace or salvation and believes these two times to be insolubly intertwined in ways impenetrable to man.4 Medieval chronicles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history and mundane history , nicely reflect the attempt simultaneously to move within secular time and away from it . The anachronisms of medieval poems express a traditionalist attitude which seeks to blend the past with the present rather than to emphasize their diversity.5 Incidentally , one does well to remember what Malinowski says of his Trobriands ? that their reliance on magic does not prevent them from approaching many issues in a rational , all but scientific spirit. ? By the same token , a sense of chronological time may have subsisted even throughout periods which in their art and literature mostly ignored its flow . In studying our conception of chronological time , it would seem advisable to concentrate on a large-scale spatiotemporal unit ? say , Western civilization ? composed of successive events which are actually or potentially interrelated , so that their succession in time can be said to be of consequence . The reason is obvious : if events belong to two cultures or civilizations between which no interaction takes place , the fact of the succession or simultaneity of these events in chronological time is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time concept underlying Spengler 's panoramic world view , already touched upon in Chapter I in connection with Toynbee. ? It will suffice to speak  | of him because he more radically isolates his diverse cultures from each other than Toynbee does . How are we to imagine the common temporal medium in which the Spenglerian cultures with their peculiar times emerge , develop , and perish ? To the extent that Spengler admits of transitions between them ( i.e. , pseudomorphoses ) , they are embedded in the flow of chronological time which thus is reactivated ; but whenever he insists on the complete autonomy of his cultures , the common temporal medium turns into a quasi timeless vacuum , an unthinkable negative counterpart of eternity . And chronological time itself as the common medium may reemerge only at the rare moments at which historical and natural processes coalesce ? in prehistory which gives birth to all cultures and in case of changing relations between humanity and nature on a global scale . Weizsaecker calls the invention of nuclear energy such a turning point , I shall inquire , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a process in chronological time within the context of one and the same civilization . Three important implications of this conception for the modern approach to history should be pointed out . First , in identifying history as a process in linear time , we tacitly assume that our knowledge of the moment at which an event emerges from the flow of time will help us to account for its occurrence . The date of the event is a value-laden fact . Accordingly , all events in the history of a people , a nation , or a civilization which take place at a given moment are supposed to occur then and there for reasons bound up , somehow , with that moment . Marrou expresses this assumption of the significance of the moment in chronological time when he says that through history man knows " what he is , where he comes from , why he finds himself placed in the situation that reveals itself as being his . . . " 7 In keeping with this premise , historians usually establish meaningful relationships , causal or otherwise , be- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones to those preceding them . Second , under the spell of the homogeneity and irreversible direction of chronological time , conventional historiography tends to focus on what is believed to be more or less continuous large-scale sequences of events and to follow the course of these units through the centuries . Many a general narrative relates , say , the history of a people or an institution in chronological order and , in doing so , inevitably attributes significance to the simultaneity of the multiple events that make up the sequence . Ranke 's political histories , for instance , are full of excursions into the cultural field . The underlying idea is that , in spite of all breaks and contingencies , each such inclusive unit has a life of its own ? an individuality , as Meinecke puts it . Sometimes narratives in this vein seem to be intended to answer the question where do we come from ( or where do we go , for that matter ) . The question would hardly be raised were it not for our confidente in the workings of calendric time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time kindles a desire to translate the formal property of an irreversible flow into content ? to conceive , that is , of the historical process as a whole and to assign to that whole certain qualities ; it may be imagined as an unfolding of potentialities , a development , or indeed a progress toward a better future . This desire proves irresistible . Not to mention Hegel , whose grandiose construction of the historical process still materializes in a no-man 's land between temporality and eternity , even Marx , more down to earth though he is , can not help yielding to the temptation to map out the course of history in its totality . What the philoso-.  | phers impose from above , numbers of historians try to achieve from below . Haunted by the chimera of universal history ( that phantom-like counterpart of flowing time ) , Ranke speaks of a " general historical life , which moves progressively from one nation or group of nations to another " ; 8 Henri Pirenne 9 and Marc Bloch 10 call universal history the goal of all historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first magnitude . At this point I should like to draw attention to several observations apt to invalidate our confidence in the continuity of the historical process and , accordingly , the power of chronological time . It is noteworthy that it is precisely anthropologists and art historians ? not any historians or philosophers of history ? who are aware of the problematic character of chronological time . Henri Focillon , the art historian , insists on the inherent logic of the unfolding of art forms , and he argues that simultaneous art events often belong to different " ages . " Art forms , he says , normally pass through an experimental state , a classic age , age of refinement and baroque age , and " these ages or states present the same formal characteristics at every epoch and in every environment . " 11 Furthermore an art form asserts for these stages its own time table , independently of historical necessities . " The successive stages . . . are more or less lengthy , more or less intense , according to the style itself . " 12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a focus , a point within which everything is concentrated , " but that the history of art alone , and not even considering the relationship of events in different fields such as politics , economics , and art , " displays , juxtaposed within the very same moment , survivals and anticipations , and slow outmoded forms that are the contemporaries of bold and rapid forms . " 13 Focillon also has the concept of the emergent " event " which  | determines its environment rather than being produced by it . For example , " the most attentive study of the most homogeneous milieu , of the most closely woven concatenation of circumstances will not serve to give us the design of the towers of Laon , " or , of course , the environment they created.14 It emerges , rather , as " a highly efficient abruptness. " 15 All these elements , together , account for Focillon 's disbelief in the magic spell of simultaneity , the effectiveness of an alleged Zeitgeist . Kubler , a student of Focillon 's , has developed the latter 's suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume , The Shapes of Time : Remarks on the History of Things , 16 this brilliant art historian , who is an anthropologist to boot , attacks the preoccupation with periods and styles common among scholars in his field . Instead of emphasizing matters of chronology , he submits , the historian had better devote himself to the " discovery of the manifold shapes of time . " 17 And what does Kubler understand by shaped times ? Art works , or more frequently their elements , says he , can be arranged in the form of sequences , each composed of phenomena which hang together inasmuch as they represent successive " solutions " of problems originating with some need and touching off the whole series . One after another , these interlinked solutions bring out the various aspects of the initial problems and the possibilities inherent in them . So it would seem evident that the date of a specific art object is less important for its interpretation than its " age , " meaning its position in the sequence to which it belongs . The fact that related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time further suggests that each sequence evolves according to a time schedule all its own . Its time has a peculiar shape . This in turn implies that the time curves described by different sequences are likely to differ from each other . In consequence , chronologically simultaneous artis- tic achievements should be expected to occupy different places on their respective time curves , one appearing early in its series , a second being far remote from the opening gambit . They fall into the same period but differ in age . Levi-Strauss , too , repudiates the idea of a continuous historical process evolving in chronological time . But unlike FocillonKubler , he assigns different times not to logically interrelated series of event but to histories of different magnitudes , arguing that each of them organizes specific data into a sequence which sets a time of its own . Histories of different orders of magnitude like anecdotic history , biographic history , etc. , are , he says , coded by separate " classes of dates based , schematically speaking , on hours , days , years , centuries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not possible to proceed from the peculiar time of one class of history to that of another , but like mathematical incommensurables , " the dates belonging to any one of these classes are irrational in relation to all those belonging to the other classes . " 19 While you may interrelate histories of the same class , there is a gulf between the time schedules of histories at different levels.20 Since Levi-Strauss 's proposition mainly serves to implement the idea that the historical universe shows a nonhomogeneous structure , I shall in the following stay with Focillon-Kubler 's theory , which has a more direct bearing on the problem at issue . If somewhat modified , its pithy argument against the overemphasis on chronological time in art history is also valid for history in general . The " historical process " inevitably involves a variety of areas . History of art marks only one of them ; other areas comprise political affairs , social movements , philosophical doctrines , etc . Now successive events in one and the same area obviously stand a better chance of being meaningfully interrelated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariably gives rise to a host of ideas dependent on it , while ,  | for instance , the effects of social arrangements on cultural trends are rather opaque . To simplify matters , it may be assumed that the events in each single area follow each other according to a sort of immanent logic.21 They form an intelligible sequence . Each such sequence unfolds in a time peculiar to it . Moreover , the times of different sequences usually have different shapes , as is strikingly illustrated by a little experiment which Sigmund Diamond conducted at Harvard . He requested his students to investigate different areas of American history and to periodize the course of events on the basis of their respective findings . One student specialized in political history , another in history of literature , and so on . Finally they came together and compared notes . The result was that the periods which they had separately devised did not coincide.22 A profound general theory of a differentiated historical time was stated by Herder , to whose argument W. von Leyden recently drew attention in an article on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage concerning Herder should be here incorporated in full . . . it is significant that Herder also held the view that everything carries within itself its own measure of time , or rather the measure of its own time ; a measure that exists even if there is no other measure besides it . Presumably by this he meant that a thing is a clock , not that it has a clock . He stipulated that , if general ideas are to be banished from historical explanation , Newton 's framework of absolute space and time must likewise be repudiated within this field . For , he argued , it will be found that two different things will never have the same measure of time and therefore innumerable times may exist in the universe at the same time . ' To remove any doubt he explains that the idea of a measure common to all times , just as the idea of infinite space which was ' the  | sum-total of all places in the universe , is something introduced by the intellect : both absolute space and absolute time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . To the best of my knowledge , no one who has previously considered Herder as a historiographer has discussed or even pointed to this characteristic time doctrine . " 23 At a given historical moment , then , we are confronted with numbers of events which , because of their location in different areas , are simultaneous only in a formal sense . Indeed , the nature of each of these events can not be properly defined unless we take the position into account which it occupies in its particular sequence . The shaped times of the diverse areas overshadow the uniform flow of time . Here the historical period comes into view , this spatiotemporal unit to which practically all histories of a certain breadth of scope resort in an effort to pattern the course of events . The period seems to be so indispensable a unit that it is invented after the fact if it can not be discovered in the material . Nor is it swayed by the wavering opinions , partly nominalistic , partly realistic , on the significance of periods . Let us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , whether " found " or established in retrospect , consists of incoherent events or groups of events ? a well-known phenomenon which accounts , among other things , for the occurrence of events relatively unaffected by the Zeitgeist : thus the overstuffed interiors of the second half of the nineteenth century belonged to the same epoch as the thoughts born in them and yet were not their contemporaries . The typical period , that phase of the historical process , is a mixture of inconsistent elements . This is nothing to wonder at . Is not the individual 's mind incoherent also ? " Our  | minds , " says Valery , " . . . are full of tendencies and thoughts that are unaware of each other . " 24 And Lichtenberg , about 150 years earlier : " I have frequently one opinion when I lie down and another when I am standing , especially when I have eaten little and feel weak . " 25 Marc Bloch speaks of " the amazing interior partitions " existing in our minds and by way of example relates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many excellent fathers of families among the Terrorists . " 26 The integrated personality no doubt belongs among the favorite superstitions of modern psychology . As might be expected , there is no lack either of statements acknowledging the nonhomogeneous character of the historical period . Marx speaks of the " Ungleichzeitigkeit " ( nonsimultaneousness ) of the ideological super-structure . Curtius insists that literature differs from the arts in terms of movement , growth , and continuity.27 Schapiro believes that a unity of style throughout the culture of a period can not , where it exists , be taken for granted but requires explanation by some particular factor imposing it on the several areas.28 Raymond Aron upholds the independence of art with regard to its socioeconomic environment and defends the relative autonomy of the political area against the champions of social history.29 Mandelbaum , with a special view to history of philosophy , favors the assumption of independent , internally continuous special histories under the name of " cultural pluralism . " 3 ? Dilthey stresses not only the unified context of the life of a period but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Zeitgeist , often continuing older ideas or anticipating the future.31 But it is two different things to notice a phenomenon and to realize its potential meaning . None of these statements testifies to an awareness of what the divergence of the elements that  | comprise a period may imply for the significance of chronology . Even though Marx , for instance , is enough of a realist to perceive , and codify , " Ungleichzeitigkeit , " he nevertheless clings to FIegel 's idea of a dialectical historical process which involves the conventional identification of homogeneous linear time as the time of history . In the light of Focillon-Kubler 's views , however , the evidence rather suggests that this equation is open to doubt . Actually , history consists of events whose chronology tells us but little about their relationships and meanings . Since simultaneous events are more often than not intrinsically asynchronous , it makes no sense indeed to conceive of the historical process as a homogeneous flow . The image of that flow only veils the divergent times in which substantial sequences of historical events materialize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the march of times rather than the " March of Time . " Far from marching , calendric time is an empty vessel . Much as the concept of it is indispensable for science , it does not apply to human affairs . Its irrelevancy in this respect is confirmed by the mechanics of our memory . We may vividly recall certain events of our past without being able to date them . Perhaps the memory for qualities develops in inverse ratio to the chronological memory : the better equipped a person is to resuscitate the essential features of encounters that played a role in his life , the more easily will he misjudge their temporal distances from the present or play havoc with their chronological order . These errors must be laid to the difficulty for him to transfer his memories from their established places on his subjective time curve to their objective positions in chronological time ? a time he never experienced . Nothing is more difficult than to experience it . This once more highlights its formal character , its emptiness . How should it carry content ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a progress of humanity is untenable mainly for the reason that it is insolubly bound up with the idea of chronological time as the matrix of a meaningful process.32 The upshot is that the period , so to speak , disintegrates before our eyes . From a meaningful spatiotemporal unit it turns into a kind of meeting place for chance encounters ? something like the waiting room of a railway station . But this is not all that there is to it . Thus , Laslett is aware of the deceptiveness of general concepts projected back into the historical past , and he insists that history must seek to " reconstruct . . . in intricate detail . " 33 But understanding the whole society and large historical transformations affecting it is not therefore to be given up . It is merely turned into a question of " all these tiny little movements and reactions , " or " a question of minutiae , of residue as you might say . " 34 In further pursuit of my argument I therefore wish to focus on a case of great theoretical interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he deals with it owes much to his ambiguous , largely negative attitude toward chronological narration . ( Note , by the way , that he , too , turned from his history teaching to art teaching . ) It is not that he would refrain from rendering , on occasion , a succession of all-embracing historical situations , but he does refuse to be put in the strait jacket of the annalistic approach ; 35 and a look at his major writings makes it , evident that he is reluctant to acknowledge the homogeneous flow of time as a medium of consequence . In his Weltgeschichtliche Betrachtungen he withdraws from that flow into a timeless realm in order to pass in review the varying relationships that obtain , or may obtain , between freely developing culture and the two institutionalized powers of the state and religion ; and he  | authenticates his observations by a plethora of examples culled from all quarters of world history with only superficial regard , for their chronological order . Die Zeit Constantins des Grossen as well as Die Kultur der Renaissance in Italien testify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . In both works Burckhardt brings time to a standstill and , having stemmed its flood , dwells on the cross section of immobilized phenomena which then present themselves for scrutiny . His account of them is a morphological description , not a chronological narrative . It covers a single historical period . However , in thus repudiating chronology , Burckhardt again pays tribute to it , as is best illustrated by his Renaissance . In this unrivaled masterwork he explores , one by one , the variegated manifestations of Renaissance life , ranging from the rediscovery of antiquity to the free creation of states , from the new sense of personal values to social custom and mounting secularization . Does he want to demonstrate that , their simultaneity notwithstanding , the events he summons point in different directions ? That not all that appears together actually also hangs together ? He might , indeed , for his remark that " the highest in art does not depend directly upon the outward political life of the state " 36 clearly reveals his awareness of the incoherence of cultural epochs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Renaissance as the age of the awakening individual ? a conception , by the way , which is still considered a lasting contribution.37 Now this conception , a genuine idea rather than a mere generalization , naturally implies that one and the same spirit of ( secular ) individualism asserts itself in virtually all the activities , aspirations , and modes of being that comprise the period . Consequently , the Renaissance must be thought of not as an incoherent conglomerate of events but as a whole with a meaning which pervades its every element . Burckhardt , that is ,  | steps out of chronological time only to entrust himself to its flow in the end . Or so it looks . For once a period in its complexity is recognized as an integrated whole , the shaped area times automatically recede into limbo , and , along with the total historical process , chronology tends to re-assume significance . The wary reader will already have noticed that this vindication of chronology flagrantly contradicts my original proposition to the effect that chronological time is an empty vessel . I shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Renaissance is as well-founded as the opposite anti-chronological one . Kubler in his otherwise legitimate criticism of the art historians ' overemphasis on periods decidedly overshoots the mark in almost precluding the possibility of a confluence of area sequences : The " cross-section of the instant , " he contends , " . . . resembles a mosaic of pieces in different developmental states . . . rather than a radical design conferring its meaning upon all the pieces " ; 38 and he insists that the " cultural bundles " which make up a period " are juxtaposed largely by chance . " 39 This holds presumably true , say , of the Biedermeier period ( which had to bear with the late Beethoven ) but does certainly not apply to the Renaissance and many another era . The absence of periods with a " physiognomy " ( Panofsky 's expression ) of their own would indeed be rather surprising . The physiognomy distinguishing them may be due to events , actions , moods of an authentic reality character . And why not ? Contemporaries commune with each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their exchanges give rise to cross-linkages between the accomplishments and transactions of the moment. ? Remember , too , the " principle of mental economy " according to which an individual 's intensity at one point  | makes for his inertia , his falling back into routine ( or nature ) , at most others . ' You can not be original in all respects . Obviously this law ? which must be largely held responsible for the stubborn existence of what might be called the " world " ? favors the establishment of cross-linkages also . In consequence , even though simultaneous events as a rule occur in times of different shapes and moreover differ in " age , " there is a fair chance that they will nevertheless show common features . Simultaneity may enforce a rapprochement ; random coincidences may jell into a unified pattern . Do not , by the same token , the fragments of the self each of us believes to be sometimes converge and achieve unity or a semblance of it ? To his observation on the amazing partitions in men 's minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Were Pascal , the mathematician , and Pascal , the Christian , strangers to each other ? . . . it may be that ( the ) antithesis , correctly considered , is only the mask of a deeper solidarity . " 40 At any rate the osmotic processes that constantly take place are always apt to produce a period or a situation which may indeed breathe a spirit affecting all areas and thus assume the character of a whole . Dilthey analyzed the unified structure of the age of enlightenment as an example of this kind of unity , which he calls " not a unity which can be expressed by one basic thought but rather an interconnection of the various single tendencies of life that gradually forms among them in the course of things . " 41 There is an analogy between this precarious unity of a period and that of any entity we call a " gestalt . " Bloch asks himself " if it is not futile to attempt to explain something which , in the present state of our knowledge of man , seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization and its power of attraction . " 42 But does the period as a whole then not become part and par- cel of the historical process , thereby establishing , by implication , homogeneous time as a medium pregnant with meanings ? It should not be forgotten either that the old daydreams of mankind envision a far-distant future which can not with any certainty be said to lie completely outside chronological time ; and that the Greek conception of a progressive cultural development has managed to assert itself even in predominantly verticaloriented times : Tertullian seems to have believed in a secular kind of progress ; 43 St. Ambrose in his answer to the pagan Symmachus points to the " gradual invention of the arts and the advance of human history . " 44 " While paganism in its old age began to plead for the authority of the old , most memorably about the worship of Victoria in the Roman Senate , " says Edelstein about this doctrine of the early Christian writers , " the new creed had taken over that philosophy which paganism itself inaugurated in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day of our birth ; that we know of our position in the chain-of generations ; and that Death is shown with an hour-glass . Les extremes se touchent : our intrinsic being and the most empty mode of becoming are intertwined . So does Piaget trace mathematics back to biology . By the way , the increasing visibility of prehistory may further strengthen our confidence in the uncontestable role of calendric time . Thus we are confronted with two mutually exclusive propositions neither of which can be dismissed . On the one hand , measurable time dissolves into thin air , superseded by the bundles of shaped times in which the manifold comprehensible series of events evolve . On the other , dating retains its significance inasmuch as these bundles tend to coalesce at certain moments which then are valid for all of them . It is this state of things which must have caused Burckhardt to disparage as well as en- dorse chronology . But he never cares to bring its inherent contradictions into the open . Benjamin on his part indulges in an undialectical approach ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slightest concern over the other side of the picture . That there are two sides to it has rarely been recognized . How deal with the dilemma in which we find ourselves ? To come to grips with it I shall in the following no longer refer to the different area sequences and their peculiar time tables but focus on the relatively uniform periods or situations brought about by their confluence . Each such period is an antinomic entity embodying in a condensed form the two irreconcilable time conceptions . As a configuration of events which belong to series with different time schedules , the period does not arise from the homogeneous flow of time ; rather , it sets a time of its own ? which implies that the way it experiences temporality may not be identical with the experiences of chronologically earlier or later periods . You must , so to speak , jump from one period to another . That is , the transitions between successive periods are problematic . There may be breaks in the process ; indeed , a period may , as an emergent " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nowhere . " Dilthey quotes Burckhardt as saying about the spread of the belief in the beyond under the Roman Empire : " It is from hidden depths that such new trends usually receive their strength ; they can not be deduced from preceding conditions alone . " 4 ? Similarly , Marx 's conception of history is , in Alfred Schmidt 's words , " a philosophy of world breaks , consciously abandoning the rule of continuous deduction from one principle . " 47 Jonas believes that the movement of Gnosticism will be misunderstood so long as it is interpreted as a result of preceding ideas and beliefs rather than accepted as sui generis and arising from " something like an absolute origin , a radical new  | beginning , " 48 which as a new " prima causa " operates on the material of existing ideas and motives.40 Very similar views were more recently set forth by Blumenberg in an article in which the increasing interest of historians in the " threshold times " between distinctive periods is explained from the fact that they expose to the view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classic periods remains " hidden under its manifestations. " 50 In the view outlined by these statements , all histories featuring the " March of Time " are mirages ? paintings on a screen which hides the truth they pretend to render . Each period can be supposed to contribute a new picture ; and the successive paintings thus produced cover , layer after layer , the everexpanding screen in a manner which is perfectly illustrated by Clouzot 's documentary film , Le mystere Picasso . It shows the artist in the act of creation . We see : once Picasso has outlined what he appears to have in mind , he immediately superposes upon his initial sketch a second one which more often than not relates only obliquely to the first ; and in this way it goes on and on , every new system of lines or color patches all but ignoring its predecessor.51 Yet the same configuration of events which because of its spontaneous emergence defies the historical process marks also a moment of chronological time and has therefore its legitimate place in it . So we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linear transitions , temporal influences , and longrange developments . The statements of this chapter which coincide in discrediting the a priori confidence in historical continuity are not intended completely to deny the possibility of influences ranging over chronological time . But in order to speak of them with a measure of certainty their existence must be authenticated in any specific case . I submit that this belongs to the historian 's most difficult tasks . Let alone that , because of the  | scanty evidence , such influences are very elusive , part of them takes effect without leaving a trace . They work undercover : one word from you , long since forgotten , may have changed the mind of the man to whom it was once spoken . I have been deeply influenced by a casual remark a friend made to me two or three decades ago ; his remark altered my approach to people and in a manner my whole outlook on life . When after a long separation we recently met again we reveled in memories and I could not help mentioning my indebtedness to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having said anything of the sort to me . Substantial influences seem to be predestined to sink back into the dark . It occurs to me that the only reliable informant on these matters , which are so difficult to ascertain , is a legendary figure ? Ahasuerus , the Wandering Jew . He indeed would know firsthand about the developments and transitions , for he alone in all history has had the unsought opportunity to experience the process of becoming and decaying itself . ( How unspeakably terrible he must look ! To be sure , his face can not have suffered from aging , but I imagine it to be many faces , each reflecting one of the periods which he traversed and all of them combining into ever new patterns , as he restlessly , and vainly , tries on his wanderings to reconstruct out of the times that shaped him the one time he is doomed to incarnate . ) In a sense , Ranke seems to have been aware of the paradoxal relation between the continuity of the historical process and the breaks in it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is given in the full context , which runs : At every moment again something new may begin , something that can be traced only to the first and general source of all human action and inaction ; no thing merely exists for the sake of the other outside of itself ; there is none  | that entirely resolves into the reality of the other . Yet there is also at the same time a deep connection of things of which no one is entirely free and which enters everywhere . By the side of freedom there is necessity . It resides in that which is already formed and can not any more be undone , which forms the basis of every newly emerging life and activity . That which became constitutes the connection with that which is becoming . But also this connection itself is not something which can be assumed arbitrarily ; it was in a certain way , thus and thus , not otherwise . . . . A longer series of events ? following each other and side by side ? , connected among each other in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . .52 I have emphasized the double aspect of the period with a purpose in mind ; two modern attempts ? are there more of them ? ? to do justice to both the emptiness and the meaningfulness of chronological time assign to the concept of the period , a key position . Their discussion may help clarify the inextricable dialectics between the flow of time and the temporal sequences negating it . To begin with Croce , his argument is outright fallacious.53 This inveterate idealist who does not want to be one boasts of having dealt a deadly blow at Hegel 's transcendental metaphysics . Hegel , says he , postulates an absolute spirit , or world spirit , which is both immanent and transcendent ; it realizes itself in the dialectical process of world history and at the same time has its abode beyond history as the goal of this process . Croce has it that this ontological transcendentalism will no longer do . And he puts an end to it by dragging the absolute spirit lock , stock and barrel into the immanency of the innerworldly universe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Absolute above and outside of our changing world but materializes only within  | history ; to be precise , it provides us with concrete answers to the concrete questions raised in every given situation ? questions which , of course , vary with the requirements of the moment . Croce , then , assumes the existence of comparatively autonomous situations or periods , each with a spirit peculiar to it . But if the manifestations of the spirit are inseparable from the specific needs of different periods , their meaningful connection in chronological time poses tremendous problems . Now Croce is so deeply concerned with the historical process that he nevertheless aspires to give chronological time its due . How does he solve the problems contingent on this task ? He does not even see them . His heart 's in the Highlands , his heart is not here . To say it bluntly , it still quivers with nostalgia for the idol he believes to have demolished . Oblivious of the fact that , according to his own premise , the spirit does not spread over the expanses of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his otherwise admirable sketch , " Concerning the History of Historiography , " 64 identifies its successive revelations from antiquity via the Middle Ages , the Renaissance , etc. , to the present as phases of an intelligible dialectical process to which he moreover attributes a progressive quality . True , he tries to adjust the notion of a wholesale progress to his basic assumption of the complete immanency of the spirit by eliminating the idea of an absolute good and enhancing instead the spirit 's effort to achieve a betterment of the conditions that obtain in any particular period . Yet this is a sheer playing with words in view of Croce 's idealistic desire to equate the total historical process with a progressive movement , a movement toward " liberty . " In sum , after having thrown out Hegel with great aplomb , Croce reintroduces him by the back door , unaware that what is possible to Hegel is denied to him . Indeed , while Hegel 's transcendental spirit is fully qualified , alas ! , to determine the direc- tion of the whole of history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions ? arising from situations beyond which we can not ask ? is not in a position to account for the course of events . Croce evades rather than tackles the problems bound up with the antinomic character of chronological time . Instead of asking how , if at all , the two contradictory time conceptions can be related to each other ? how , that is , chronological time can be reduced to nothingness and yet be acknowledged ? he undialectically , and absent-mindedly , presents them side by side . And the Hegelian he is wins out over the Hegel-destroyer he would like to be . And there is Proust 's unique attempt to grapple with the perplexities of time . Strangely enough , its consequences for history have not yet been realized . In dealing with it , I shall feature only such traits of his novel as are relevant to my present theme.55 Proust radically de-emphasizes chronology . With him , it appears , history is no process at all but a hodge-podge of kaleidoscopic changes ? something like clouds that gather and disperse at random . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act the historian and rejects the ideas of becoming and evolution . There is no flow of time . What does exist is a discontinuous , noncausal succession of situations , or worlds , or periods , which , in Proust 's own case , must be thought of as projections or counterparts of the selfs into which his being ? but are we justified in assuming an identical being underneath ? ? successively transforms itself . It is understood that these different worlds or situations reach fullness and fade away in times of different shapes . With great ingenuity Proust demonstrates that each situation is an entity in its own right that can not be derived from preceding ones and that indeed a jump would be needed to negotiate the  | gulf between adjacent worlds . Throughout his novel he systematically veils the moments of their junction , so that we learn about a new world only after it is already in full swing . And to discredit completely our belief in the operating power of time , he removes the most imperishable , and most tenuous , connecting link @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the novel and the embodiment of Proust 's past selfs , anticipates future fulfillments in every situation ; yet no sooner have his hopes come true than their magic dissolves , along with the self that nurtured them ; and the succeeding self starts afresh on a path beset with other , if increasingly fewer , expectations . The gulf is unbridgeable ; time , far from being the All-Father , does not father anything . Why not then simply ignore it ? This is precisely what Proust does . He invariably turns the spotlight on time atoms ? memory images of incidents or impressions so short-lived that time has no time to mould them . Touched off by accidental bodily sensations , his involuntary memories assert themselves with complete indifference to chronology . The events they by and large evoke are much in the same nature as the seemingly insignificant minutiae of daily existence which Tolstoy calls more real and more significant than the big victories and heroes played up in the history books . Proust restores these microscopic units to their true position by presenting huge enlargements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ texture of reflections , analogies , reminiscences , etc. , which indiscriminately refer to all the worlds he , not only Marcel , has been passing and altogether serve to disclose the essential meanings of the incident from which they radiate and toward which they converge . The novel is replete with close-ups in this vein . They are penetrations in depth whose components ? those meditations and recollections ? follow unaccountable zigzag routes spreading over the whole  | scroll of the past . The patterns they form can no longer be defined in terms of time ; in fact , their function is to lift things temporal into the near-timeless realm of essences . So far it looks as if Proust , unconcerned for dialectics , confined himself to arguing the case of the discontinuous worlds and their shaped times . However , this is only part of the story . Even though Proust blurs chronology , he is at pains to keep it intact . Much as the close-ups with their time-confusing patterns tend to obstruct our awareness of a flow of events , they not only point to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which renders Marcel 's successive selfs in their chronological order . On the whole , the novel abides by a strict itinerary . Or as Jauss puts it , behind the mosaic of anachronistic moments there lurks , concealed from view , the " precise clockwork of irreversible time . " 68 Not content with installing it , Proust tries to re-embed the chronologically successive worlds ? worlds which are spontaneous creations arising from nowhere ? in the flow of time . The reason is that he wants to make that flow an equal partner in the game . For he can not resolve the antinomy with which he grapples unless he really confronts and dialectically reconciles with each other its two opposite aspects ? the incoherent series of shaped times and chronological time as a homogeneous flow . His solution inevitably involves a detour : he establishes temporal continuity in retrospect . At the end of the novel , Marcel , who then becomes one with Proust , discovers that all his unconnected previous selfs were actually phases or stations of a way along which he had moved without ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he recognizes that this way through time had a destination ; that it served the single purpose of preparing him for his vocation as an artist . And only now Proust , the artist , is in a position not only to identify the discontinuous worlds of his   past as a continuity in time but also vicariously to redeem his past from the curse of time by incorporating its essences into a work of art whose timelessness renders them all the more invulnerable . He sets out to write the novel he has written . The profundity of this solution should not lead one to overestimate the range of its validity . Proust succeeds in reinstating chronological time as a substantial medium only a posteriori ; the story of his ( or Marcel 's ) fragmentized life must have reached its terminus before it can reveal itself to him as a unified process . And the reconciliation he effects between the antithetic propositions at stake ? his denial of the flow of time and his ( belated ) endorsement of it ? hinges on his retreat into the dimension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Neither has history an end nor is it amenable to aesthetic redemption . The antinomy at the core of time is insoluble . Perhaps the truth is that it can be solved only at the end of Time . In a sense , Proust 's personal solution foreshadows , or indeed signifies , this unthinkable end ? the imaginary moment at which Ahasuerus , before disintegrating , may for the first time be able to look back on his wanderings through the periods .  | Maurice Mandelbaum has recently drawn attention to a " rather strange fact " ? that " those who have concerned themselves with the general problems of historiographical method have rarely discussed the question of how the methods of special histories , ' such as histories of philosophy , or of art , or of technology , or of law , are related to what they regard as paradigmatic cases of historiographical practice . " 1 The " paradigmatic cases " are narratives of a type which we most readily remember when we vaguely think of history as a branch of knowledge ; what then immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of an age . Altogether narratives in this vein constitute a species in its own right which , in keeping with Mandelbaum 's definition , may be called " general history . " ( The term " general " was originally applied to political histories , which in their heyday occupied a privileged position . ) Whether or not much cultivated today , general history is a major genre of modern historiography . One of its chief characteristics lies precisely with the fact that it is general : it essentially differs from special histories in that it extends over a variety of areas . Whereas the special historian fo16.E  | cuses on phenomena within one and the same area ? relatively homogeneous phenomena at that ? the general historian concerns himself with virtually all the events that make up the whole of a temporal sequence or a situation . It should be obvious that this difference is bound to carry methodological implications of consequence . A general theoretical statement rarely reveals all the relevant aspects of the particulars it covers . So a look at their actual configurations will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , it is certainly true that general historians may survey spatiotemporal units of any size , big ones or small ones ; but is it not equally true that they by and large favor narratives which encompass wide expanses of the past ? To all intents and purposes , general history falls into the macro dimension . Also , in practice the boundaries between the two genres are fluid . There is hardly a specialized inquiry that would not venture beyond its set confines . Such " transgressions " are all the more required if the events in a particular area can not possibly be isolated from activities and changes outside that area . Stubbs 's Constitutional History and Maitland 's History of English Law enjoy the reputation of being the best ( general ) histories of medieval England ; 2 that , say , a history of art should ever attain to a similar status seems highly implausible to me . For the rest , even if an area history takes on all the airs of a general narrative , it still retains a peculiar character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historian makes inroads into neighboring domains , while the general historian tries to marshal masses of facts from diverse regions . Where the first seeks to supplement his specific insights , the second aspires to synthesis at the outset . Indeed , the subject matter of general history must be imagined as representing a whole of a sort . Without a unifying frame  | of reference the genre would not be viable . Its very existence depends upon the possibility for the historian to relate his materials to a common denominator . Is the unity he looks for discovered or imposed ? Assuredly , he will be inclined to believe that it is inherent in historical reality itself . And what does the unity consist of ? There is no clear-cut answer to this either . Mandelbaum holds that the genre invariably centers on the life of society at large and that , accordingly , the general historian " is concerned with human thoughts and actions in their societal context and with their societal implications . . . " 3 Palpably inspired by the current infatuation with social history , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The common substratum might as well be the identity of a people through the ages , or such an entity as an empire or a body of all-pervasive beliefs . Any substratum will do . And any of them can be supposed to give rise to the unifying arrangements and interpretations which are prerequisite to a narrative built from disparate elements . If the general historian does not succeed in interconnecting , somehow , these elements and impressing upon us continuity and cohesion , he had better relinquish his job . But to say this is to suggest that his whole undertaking rests on uncertain grounds . The unity he needs ? does he trace or postulate it ? ? is not guaranteed ; the facts he musters are refractory . And yet general history exists and subsists . How is this puzzling genre possible ? Whether he knows it or not , the general historian is in a predicament . He has to cope with a tremendous problem ? the antinomy at the core of chronological time . ' There is , on the one hand , no denying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole of human affairs . Within certain limits and contexts , it makes sense to speak of developments over time and the common features of selected periods . This would seem to justify the general historian 's pursuits up to a point . Favorable winds may allow of relatively smooth sailing as he proceeds to render and explain the general run of things . On the other hand , he is constantly prevented from proceeding this way because the events he tries to connect belong to different areas and therefore resist being treated as elements of a unified and meaningful temporal sequence . The reason why they do not easily lend themselves to participating in the joint enterprise must be laid to the fact that they are primarily members of sequences which evolve according to timetables peculiar to their respective areas . The opposite , no less powerful aspect of chronological time is that of an empty medium , a flow carrying with it phantom units and insignificant aggregates of happenings . As compared with the special historian , who in the ideal case moves along a time curve formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at a disadvantage : he is caught in a cataract of times . ( Since the antinomic character of Time has been mostly overlooked , the little attention paid to the methodological differences between the synthesizing and specializing approaches till now is not so strange after all . ) Once again , how is general history possible ? The answer is simple enough . The genre can materialize only if the historian manages to dispose of the obstacles which spell doom to his project . Of course , it is not given him to bridge , let alone eliminate , the existing temporal chasms ; nor is he in a position to transform the many random complexes of events he encounters into real live units . All that he is able to do about these permanent disturbances is to play them down as best he can . To achieve his ends , the general historian must take refuge in  | manipulative expedients and devices , permitting him to advance his narrative with a somnambulist 's assurance . They are to make us ( and him ) forget that the highway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His efforts in this direction are facilitated by two circumstances . The first is the effect of the " law of perspective . " Operating in the macro dimension , the general historian reviews the potentially available evidence from an appreciable distance . At the place he is occupying detail recedes and the air becomes rarefied . He is in a measure alone with himself ? more alone than he would be in the micro dimension where hosts of facts are apt to crowd in on him . But the less he is exposed to their pressures , the more he will feel free ( and entitled ) to give rein to his formative powers . And this naturally relieves him of inhibitions in his recourse to expedients and adjustments . Second , since the story he tells unfolds at a comparatively high level of generality , the deceptive ease with which generalizations can be transferred from the milieu of their origin to any other environment stands him in good stead also . Once established , they claim independence and admit of all kinds of uses . Their apparent malleability is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he not capitalize on it to keep his narrative going ? Of course , in doing so he is taking certain risks . Generalizations are fragile products which demand to be handled with care . Whenever they are removed from their native soil and made to sustain alien contexts , they may become dumb and no longer echo the meanings that led to their formation . In his History of Europe , Pirenne summarizes the state of affairs under the emperor Justinian as follows :  | Justinian , as we know , closed the school of Athens . . . But the dogmas and mysteries of religion provided an abundance of material for the passionate love of dialectic which had for so many centuries characterized Hellenic thought . No sooner did Christianity appear than the East began to teem with heresies ; there were pitched battles in the great cities , Council attacked Council . . .4 Passionate love of dialectic ? Teeming with heresies ? The opaqueness of this montage of generalizations can not be more complete . In the interest of story continuity they becloud the very situation they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historian 's foremost concern is the unruly content of his narrative . Perhaps the most conspicuous device to bring it into line consists in the adaptation to the historical medium of one or another of the several great philosophical ideas which pretend to cover and explain the whole historical process . ( Need I repeat that philosophical and historical ideas are two different things ? ) ? Many a general history seems to be informed with the ideas of progress , or evolution , or any mixture of them . It is not as if the narrator would have to impose them upon his material ; the air is impregnated with these ideas , so that they may appear to him as something given and selfevident . Indeed , he may not recognize them as the speculative abstractions they are when he falls back on them in his quest for substantial unity . This is corroborated by the typical language of historical writings ; a discerning contemporary historian J. H. Heater has it that such words as " tended , grew out of , developed , evolved ; trend , development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing vocabulary. , ( Under the  | spell of the ideas at its bottom narrative historians sometimes represent the history of a people or the like as a succession of events which lead straight to the present . The result is a more or less closed success story which , because of its necessary reliance on teleological considerations , not only spawns falsifying hindsight but further tightens the bonds between the elements of the narrative , thereby smoothing away all the existing rifts , losses , abortive starts , inconsistencies . ) Along with the family of ideas which champion progress , perfectibility and/or some variant of the Darwinian scheme , philosophy also provides the model concept of cyclical change . And its biological version ? the image of recurrent processes of organic growth and decay ? likewise offers itself to historians as a convenient means of passing off large portions of the past as coherent and intelligible sequences . References to this image , which has been no less internalized than the notion of progress , even turn up in accounts otherwise impervious to biological analogies . " At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the world had become tired . " 6 Clearly , philosophical ideas have a way of changing from valiant attempts at total interpretation into opiates and treacherous signposts . I have mentioned these idea-oriented histories only to eliminate them at the outset . Wary of speculations which beg the question , conscientious historians try to get along without such ideological props or crutches . There are in fact numerous general narratives which give a wide berth to a priori assumptions about the direction and meaning of history ; they neither equate it with a progressive movement nor presuppose that it runs in cycles . Pirenne , for instance , would not have dreamed of letting himself be guided , or misguided , by philosophical total views . It is these , so to speak , uncontaminated narratives which are of particular interest here because they best permit one to find out  | about the less conspicuous devices needed for their build-up ? devices of which their authors must avail themselves in order to be able to tell the story they wish to impart . To be sure , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not want to manipulate its content ; yet if they refrained from making the appropriate adjustments , the whole edifice would immediately collapse . So they will do what they have to do all but against their will and often without being aware of it . The genre forces the hand of its devotees . This explains why the adjustments to which they willy-nilly resort are much in the nature of slight retouchings , soft pressures ? you hardly notice the magic . Yet there they are . And quite understandably , many of them serve to strengthen the impression of continuity over time . Now the chronological sequence is threatened every moment with dissolving into the divergent strands of events of which it is composed , so that this impression can be upheld only against overwhelmingly heavy odds . Small wonder that under such desperate circumstances even scrupulous historians see no other way out than to adduce flighty arguments in support of the unified sequence . Two random examples may illustrate this . Paul Wendland in his Die hellenistisch-roemische Kultur , a true classic , accounts for the rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the Imperial period it is symptomatic that an intensified religious life turns with vehement passion to the oriental cults . Extraneous factors encouraged this development . " He summarily lists them and then continues : " The decline of culture and decay of the sciences conduce to every sort of superstition . " 7 Obviously possessed with the urge to feature the sway of longitudinal influences , Wendland draws on a totally imaginary  | life experience ? that superstitions largely result from the decay of paideia ( as Werner Jaeger would have said ) and the decline of science . Do they ? True , Dodds in his The Greeks and the Irrational reasons in a similar way : he holds that the " failure of nerve " ( Gilbert Murray 's term ) in later antiquity was responsible for the acceptance of astrology and that we moderns are in the same boat as the ancients ? or rather , would be in it were it not for the intervention of psychotherapy which , he hopes , will immunize us against any new-fangled version of Chaldean be , liefs.8 But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said in favor of the opposite interpretation according to which psychotherapy , as commonly practiced today , would represent not so much a sobering antidote as the modern counterpart of Hellenistic astrology with its pseudo-scientific calculations and directives . Over against Wendland one might as well contend that scientific progress makes for an increase of superstitions . On occasion even Marc Bloch unduly stresses linear developments . After having , in his Feudal Society , depicted the disastrous effects of the Arabic , Hungarian , and Scandinavian invasions , he declares that " a society can not with impunity exist in a state of perpetual terror , " and inserts the following transitional paragraph : " The havoc had nevertheless not been merely destructive . The very disorder gave rise to certain modifications ? some of them far-reaching ? in the internal organization of Western Europe . " 9 This paragraph in turn introduces a sketchy survey of what happened in France and England once the worst was over . Were all of the partly positive changes a direct consequence of the incursions ? Bloch suggests that they were by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe was not merely destructive . But in this way he decidedly overburdens the incursions with causal responsibilities .  | Temporal continuity is inseparable from meaningful togetherness . In addition to bolstering that continuity , the general historian will therefore automatically try to make any period of his concern appear as a unity . This calls for adjustments of story ' content , enabling him to blur the discrepancies between coexistent events and turn the spotlight instead on their mutual affinities . It is almost inevitable that , as a matter of expediency , he should neglect intelligible area sequences over crossinfluences of his own invention . From Ranke to the present , examples are found in highly respected places . Whenever Ranke himself looks out of the window of political history to survey the neighboring regions of art , philosophy , science , etc. , he insists on explaining goings-on in them from the total situation , at such and such a moment , of the nations or peoples whose destinies he narrates . In other words , he contrives to fit the cultural events of the period into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they conform to the general state of affairs . But his very eagerness to bring these events onto the common denominator of a whole that moves in time prevents him from probing their essences , their real historical positions . Ranke presents distorted pictures of them , in defiance of his own claim that history should tell us " wie es eigentlich gewesen . " The profile of Erasmus in his Deutsche Geschichte im Zeitalter der Reformation is as lifelike and lifeless as a slick court painter 's portraits.10 And aside from being irrelevant , his comments , in Die Geschichte der Paepste , on Guido Reni , Palestrina , and other exponents of late Italian 16th-century culture are couched in terms so flowery and amateurish that any college student today would be ashamed of using them . " Note , though , that Burckhardt as a young man knew parts of this famous work by heart.12 ( But none of us is immune against magic splendor , however futile . I remember  | having been in my youth completely under the spell of Thomas Mann 's Tonio Kroeger with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue-eyed doers . In fact , my whole generation was . ) The pattern set by Ranke is followed throughout . And often enough the narrator 's compulsive efforts to interrelate things actually miles apart result in statements which are far-fetched , to say the least . The mirage of unity can be authenticated only by chimerical evidence . Somewhere in his History of the Early Church Hans Lietzmann dwells on the deterioration of the arts in later antiquity . Having mentioned that sculpture then lost its tradition , he opens the next paragraph with the sentence : " The economic distress of the second half of the third century also spoiled the spirit of literature . " 13 This statement which correlates economic conditions and artistic manifestations for the sake of unification is nothing but a flimsy ad hoc improvisation without any basis in reality . The spirit of literature blossomed in Germany after World War I ? at a time of acute economic distress , that is . Or take again Wendland . In a section of his book , entitled " Individualismus , " he lumps together a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individualistic tendency , which in science leads to a division of professional branches , and everywhere to division of labor and a separation and mutual delimitation of spheres of interest , shows strongly also in literary production . " 14 A hypostasized generalization ? the " individualistic tendency " ? is here elevated to the central cause of a variety of phenomena , the fictitious thus begetting the real . Yet a look at the phenomena themselves suffices to make you realize that , for in- stance , scientific specialization can not possibly have been an effect of that " cause . " Wendland puts the cart not only before the horse but before the wrong horse . ( By the way , his Hellenistisch-roemische Kultur is an inexhaustible repository for adjustments of this type . They climax in a veritable gem of a misstatement ? the lapidar pronouncement : " With daemonic strength , Augustus also impressed unity on his time . " 15 It would be difficult to establish the unity of a period in a more categorical and less conclusive manner . ) However , all these adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which they bear . The past is threaded with unaccountable changes and incoherent compounds of events which stubbornly resist the kind of streamlining required by general history . Were it only for the historian 's attempts to gear story content to the needs of the genre , the genre might falter for lack of sustenance . To maintain it as a going concern , he will have to supplement these attempts by formal expedients involving structure and composition . There is practically no general narrative that would not draw on them . What the narrator cannot- accomplish in the dimension of content he expects to achieve in the aesthetic dimension . And this brings the age-old controversy about the relations between history and art into focus . The extreme views taken of the matter by the ancient rhetoricians and antiquarians still retain exemplary significance . Robert Graves in his novel , I , Claudius , nicely epitomizes these views by introducing the Roman historians Livy and Pollio ? the same Pollio whom he has say that " history is an old man 's game " ? as spokesmen of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dullness , the latter insists that you can not mix poetry and his-tory :  | " Ca n't I ? Indeed I can , " said Livy . " Do you mean to say that I must n't write a history with an epic theme because that 's a prerogative of poetry . . . ? " " That is precisely what I do mean . History is a true record of what happened , how people lived and died , what they did and said ; an epic theme merely distorts the record . " 18 Within the framework staked out by this dialogue , the debate has been carried on throughout the modern age , with ambivalent attitudes by and large getting the better of analysis and argument . Symptomatic of the wavering are Bury 's contradictory comments on Thucydides : he praises Thucydides for repudiating Herodotus ' epic designs and preferring " the demands of historical precision to the exigencies of literary art , " but then again defends his " speeches " as serving the " artistic purpose of pauses in the action . " 17 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history is a science as well as an art . 18 Even in our days with their emphasis on scientific method and social change historians find comfort in this formula which veils rather than tackles the issues at stake.ls To come to grips with them one will have to discriminate between the two different functions which art may assume in historical writings . One of these functions is vital indeed . Concretizing Meinecke 's hints at it , 20 Marc Bloch elaborates on the essential role of art in a statement which gets to the core of the matter : " Human actions , " says he , " are essentially very delicate phenomena , many aspects of which elude mathematical measurements . To translate them properly into words and , hence , to fathom them rightly . . . great delicacy of language and precise shadings of verbal tone are necessary . " He concludes : " Between the expression of physical and human realities there is as much difference as between the task of a drill operator and that of a lutemaker : both  | work down to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the lutemaker is guided primarily by his sensitivity to sound and touch . . . Will anyone deny that one may not feel with words as well as with fingers ? " 21 Art , then , fulfills an indispensable function if it is not so much a goal as a consequence of the historian 's pursuits . The very nature of his explorations may enjoin on him a language which is impressive aesthetically ; yet its peculiar beauty denotes only the depth of his understanding ; it is a by-product , not a set objective . To the extent that the historian produces art he is not an artist but a perfect historian . This is what Namier means when he compares the great historian with a " great artist or doctor . " 22 The emphasis is on the art of the great doctor ; and the rationale of the comparison lies in the fact that both the doctor and the historian operate in the orbit of the Lebenswelt , dealing with human realities which , to be absorbed and acted upon , require of them the diagnostician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would be . " That is something these people as well as a few others no longer know , " he writes to Gottfried Kinkel in 1847 , " that real history writing requires that one live in that fine intellectual fluid which emanates to the searcher from all kinds of monuments , from art and poetry as much as from the historians proper ... " 23 The other function of art is nonessential to the medium . Art in this sense is an accretion , an adornment . As such it may still serve the legitimate extramural purpose of making the expert 's accounts more palatable to the layman . History is also a public affair ; and stylistic know-how need not interfere with scholarly accuracy . The Society of American Historians distributes awards for works which best combine " scholarship and literary excellence . " 24 If the request for " literary excellence " means nothing  | more than that the historian should keep a watchful eye on his prose , the Society 's policy will be objectionable only to professionals who believe indifference to the manner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a limit to the historian 's aesthetic strivings , a threshold beyond which they tend to encroach on his intrinsic preoccupations . ( The late Garrett Mattingly 's stories of the Armada and of Catherine of Aragon lie dangerously near to that border ; I wonder whether they do not sometimes cross it . ) No sooner does the historian aspire to the status of an artist ( in addition to that of an historian ) ? arrogating to himself the artist 's freedom to shape his material in accordance with his vision ? than beauty as an unintended effect of his inquiries proper is superseded by beauty as a deliberate effort . And his triumph as an artist is apt to defeat the cause of history . In consequence , the saying that history is both a science and an art carries meaning only if it refers to art not as an external element but as an internal quality ? art which , in a manner of speaking , remains anonymous because it primarily shows in the historian 's capacity for self-effacement and selfexpansion and in the import of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully implement his narrative designs unless he pays special attention to the form of his story . This need not mean that he would reach out for , or indeed achieve , " literary excellence " ; actually , he may be a poor writer . But it does mean that he must use specifically literary devices after the fashion of an artist bent on moulding his mate- rial . In the case of general history , that is , the nonessential function of art becomes an essential one ; aesthetic arrangements turn from an external embellishment into an internal requirement . In conjunction with the pressures put on story content , these arrangements are contrived to yield patterns which connect the unconnected , establish illusory contexts , and , all in all , solidify the unity of temporal sequence . So the willing readers are safely guided through Time . They are in about the same position as those caravans of vacationing tourists you meet everywhere in Europe ? no by-roads for them , no opportunity to deviate from the preordained routes planned by their respective travel agencies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines that even the most perceptive craftsman is powerless to evade them . Werner Kaegi has it that Burekhardt 's Renaissance includes formulations with which you do n't exactly know if they are informed more by painstaking consideration of the subject or by the formative need for a formal delineation . " 25 Sham transitions are a much-favored surface expedient . They create the illusion of a flow , substituting , in Croce 's words , " aesthetic coherence of representation for the logical coherence here unobtainable. " 21 , The following example is drawn from Nilsson : " While art in the Augustan age turned back to classicism and various trends appeared under the following emperors , a romantic return to the old ( archaism ) asserted itself in the second century with Hadrian . . . " 27 Aside from toying with stereotyped generalizations of no avail , Nilsson in this sentence throws a bridge joining the different art movements of successive periods . Yet it is a purely verbal bridge , constructed with the aid of a single word , the not very trustworthy conjunction " while . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crossing a real bridge is quite another matter . Pirenne 's History of Europe is replete with similar dodges ? perhaps for the reason that it speedily reviews a diversity of topics which must be brought together , somehow . Discussing the developments in Italy that led up to the Renaissance , Pirenne first elaborates on the North-Italian bourgeoisies ? a paragraph closing with the praise of Florence . The subsequent topic is the Papal States . He introduces it by saying : " Neither in their wealth , nor in their political , social or intellectual activity would the Papal States bear comparison with Lombardy or Tuscany . They presented . . . " 28 Built from an uncalled-for comparison , or confrontation , this threadbare transition testifies to the indomitable desire for stylistic adhesives . At another place , Pirenne deals with the rule of Alfonso V and the significance of Aragon for Spain : " It was Aragon that opened up for Spain , cut off from Europe by the Pyrenees , the only possible means of communication , the highway of the Mediterranean . " Then he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this change of subject be too much of a shock for us ? To cushion it he inserts a transitional sentence which reads : " However , not Aragon but Castile was the true Spain . It was Castile . " zs Follows information about things Castilian . The sentence reminds me of the student of zoology whom his professor requests to tell him something about the elephant . Having been coached only for the fly , the student answers : The elephant is much , much bigger than the fly . As for the fly .. . This polishing job would by itself alone hardly be of consequence , did it not fall into line with other , more substantial expedients . Altogether they aim at tightening the composition of  | the general narrative , so that it assumes an air of wholeness reminiscent of works of art . In the absence of ideological props such compositional arrangements will be all the more needed . The task of simulating cohesion in the aesthetic dimension admits of a variety of solutions . The narrator may organize successive waves of events or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he proceeds , as a playwright would , with an eye to dramatic suspense . Or he so shapes his story that it exudes a singular mood ? the case of Huizinga 's The Waning of the Middle Ages . What happens here has its counterpart in film . The cinematic quality of film stories varies in direct ratio to their transparence to camera-reality . Since this contingent and indeterminate reality is partly patterned ? as is the historical universe with its longenduring events ? stories , or fragments of them , can easily be discovered in it . ( Think of Flaherty 's Nanook , and the like . ) They certainly are in character . And so are episodic films , the episode by definition emerging from , and again disappearing in , the flow of life . To be precise , their cinematic flavor is a function of their porosity ; they must be permeable to the chance manifestations of that life . Now many commercial films are not true to the medium in this sense . Paying tribute to the prestige of the established arts , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage plays or novels , or modelled on them in terms of structure and meaning . The " theatrical film , " as this story type may be called , sacrifices porosity to dense composition ; and it unfolds above the dimension of camera-reality instead of passing through it . In the play Romeo and Juliet the Friar 's failure to deliver Juliet 's letter in time is significant inasmuch as it denotes the workings of Fate . But in the Castellani film Romeo and Juliet the same event affects the spectator as an outside intervention unmotivated by what goes before , a story twist which for no reason at all alters the course of action . The whole affair  | belongs to an ideological continuum , not the material one to which film aspires . It is a sham entity which would have to be broken down into its psychophysical components to become an integral part of camera-life.30 The general narrative resembles the theatrical film . In both media compositional exigencies set the tune . None less than Rostovtzeff inadvertently surrenders to them by reducing , in his short history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a mere bagatelle 31 No doubt he knew better . But he shrank from pulling down the structure he was about to erect . All these devices and techniques follow a harmonizing tendency ? which is to say that their underlying intentions flagrantly conflict with those of contemporary art . Joyce , Proust , and Virginia Woolf , the pioneers of the modern novel , no longer care to render biographical developments and chronological sequences after the manner of the older novel ; on the contrary , they resolutely decompose ( fictitious ) continuity over time . Proust 's work rests throughout upon the conviction not only that no man is a whole but that it is outright impossible to know a man because he himself changes while we try to clarify our original impressions of him.12 As Erich Auerbach puts it , these modern writers " who prefer the exploitation of random everyday events , contained within a few hours and days , to the complete and chronological representation of a total exterior continuum . .. are guided by the consideration that it is a hopeless venture to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet to make what is essential stand out . Then too they hesitate to impose upon life , which is their subject , an order which it does not possess in itself . " 33 In other words , they seek , and find , reality in atom-like happenings , each  | being thought of as a center of tremendous energies . The " order of life , " ungiven them , may or may not exist . In fact , they rather doubt whether the small random units in which life , really tangible life , materializes are meaningfully interconnected , so that in the end the shadowy contours of a whole will delineate themselves at the horizon . Modern art radically challenges the artistic ideals from which the general historian draws his inspiration ? from which he must draw it to establish his genre . And because of the ensuing change of aesthetic sensibilities , his quest for aesthetic coherence has lost much of its appeal . Nor is the kind of " literary excellence " attainable to him in harmony with our way of seeing , our notions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mattingly 's magnificent histories . The disruptive intentions of modern writers and artists are paralleled by the increasing misgivings of historians and thinkers about the synthesizing narrative , with its emphasis on the " total exterior continuum . " It would be tempting to trace these similarities to a common source . But the Zeitgeist is a mirage ; and cross-influences are often counterbalanced by sundry inconsistencies . Burckhardt combined an acute sense of discontinuity in human affairs with an outspoken predilection for harmonious wholeness in works of art . Before turning to the misgivings and criticisms I have in mind , I should perhaps caution the reader against confusing them with the running attempts to check and question the faithfulness to reality of the general historian 's accounts . Since its inception , modern historiography has made it its Penelope-like business to weave syntheses and unravel them again . This is beside the point here . What I do wish to stress is , rather , the nega- tive attitude toward general history as such . Opposition to it comes from diverse quarters , asserting itself in direct and indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still more convincing were it not for their provenance from his unflinching faith in the natural-science approach . Sagacious observer of the intellectual scene that he is , Valery reproaches general history with leaving chaos unpenetrated and at the same time champions , in keeping with Focillon-Kubler 's proposition , the study of what he calls " comprehensible series " ? the very series featured in special histories : " I have derived something now and then from reading specialized histories ? of architecture , geometry , navigation , political economy , tactics . In each of these fields , every event is clearly the child of another event , " whereas in " all general history , every child seems to have a thousand fathers and vice versa. " 35 Valery puts his fingers on the central problem : the general historian 's fatal inclination to restore their fathers to all the foundlings in his care . He mistakes ancestry for explanation.36 It is this obsessive recherche de la paternite , this overindulgence in origins , wholesale developments , and longitudinal influences which is the main target of contemporary attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we know , seeks to explode the notion , dear to synthesizing historians , Marxist or not , that the feudal age was followed by the steady decline of the landed aristocracy and the concomitant rise of the bourgeoisie . He does so by arguing that the straight line of development suggested by this notion is nothing but an " imaginary construction , " calculated to evoke the image of a consistent chain of becoming . In reality , he says , it neither explains the changes in question nor demonstrates their inevitability . His criticism is coupled with a recommendation : historiography might improve if " historian af- ter historian re-examines the place and time with which he is mainly concerned , and seeks to contrive , for telling about what went on in that bounded place and time , a vocabulary of conceptions better suited to bring out its character than the fairly shopworn one now in use . " 37 Similarly , Peter Laslett disparages the habit , common among historians , of explaining the so-called Scientific Revolution of the 17th century from alleged large-scale socioeconomic developments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalist economies . A student of 17th-century society , Laslett denies the existence , in Stuart England , of a middle class in our sense of the word and by the same token chides the textbooks for relating the growth of the rational scientific outlook to the processes of economic rationalization . All of this is summed up in his objection to the imposition of imaginary unifying concepts and their use as levers for interpretation.311 Hans Blumenberg on his part takes exception to the widely sanctioned view according to which the idea of progress is a secularization of the eschatological interpretation of history . In this view the hope for infinite mundane progress would directly descend from the religious hope for ultimate redemption , transferring it from the supernatural to the innerworldly plane . Actually , there is no such lineage . Pointing to the origin of our conception of progress in the battle between the ancients and the moderns , 39 Blumenberg has it that the belief in its religious ancestry is an illusion pure and simple . That the illusion perpetuates itself must be laid to the surplus functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been burdened with the obligation to cater to the very human needs which once found their outlet in messianic prophecies . But while it is true that the Communist Manifesto stirs up about the same expectations as those aroused by these prophecies , it is no less true that  | its content , its substance proper , can not be traced to them . Blumenberg 's opposition to traditional Geistesgeschichte with its bias in favor of linear developments is based on a premise which I believe to be of crucial significance : he submits that we are entitled to speak of a spontaneous generation of thoughts and ideas.4o Passive resistance to general history adds to these frontal attacks . It has been observed that Namier persistently refuses to provide sustained narrative.41 Burckhardt 's ingrained suspicions of the genre show precisely in places where , for one reason or another , he sees fit to follow the turns and bends of a chronological sequence . The frequent use he makes of the word " nun " ? approximately the English " now " ? on these occasions is quite revealing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the era of the Greek tyrants : having related , for instance , that many a tyrant tried to ingratiate himself with the populace by remitting burdensome debts and confiscating the landed property of the nobles , he seems to be all set to report on the little success of the bribes ; no sooner are the fickle masses won over to the tyrant 's cause than it occurs to them that they might be even better off without a strong man at the top . But at this point a " nun " disrupts chronology : " Und nun ( my italics ) , " Burckhardt continues , " ? and now he the tyrant has to experience how much easier it is to seize power than to hold it . " 42 The story is full of such " nuns . " They literally puncture it , serving the narrator as loopholes . Through them he time and again escapes from the tyranny of the chronological order of things into more timeless regions where he is free to indulge in phenomenological descriptions , communicate his experiences , and give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To be sure , his account is still a story of sorts , but the influences connecting the " before " with the " after " turn slack like muscles . Burckhardt is not much concerned with them . He prefers to shift the emphasis from the  | possible causes of past events to their consequences for posterity , their effects on the well-being of the contemporaries . Thus he asks what the Greek polis contributed to the happiness and unhappiness of its individual members.43 His meditations about " good fortune " and " misfortune " in history 44 raise moral questions in the form of a running comment on the colorful scenes before the spectator 's eye . Moral concern here insolubly fuses with aesthetic interest . So does the art lover appraise beauty and ugliness . It is noteworthy that , contrary to the general historian 's aesthetic arrangements , Burckhardt 's escapes into the aesthetic dimension are not meant to deepen the impression of chronological continuity but unmistakably intimate that history abounds with contingencies which we must take in our stride . However , this is not all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against general history appear to be justified , they have not succeeded in suppressing the nostalgia for synthesis , for large-scale narration . The genre is doomed to perish and yet proves indestructible . It seems to fade away , succumbing to the specialists ' agoraphobia , their fear of all too wide themes and spaces , and nevertheless continues to attract the minds . " If we ask ourselves , " says a contemporary historian , " what historians have commanded the most lasting admiration , we shall find ... that they are .. those who ( like imaginative writers ) present men or societies or situations in many dimensions , at many intersecting levels simultaneously . . : ' 45 The achievements of these past masters cast their spell even over historians who are fully aware of the methodological tangle in which any practitioner in the field is caught . I am thinking of certain sporadic attempts to re-endow general history with theoretical respectability . As might be expected , they coincide in trying to reconcile the establishment of long-term developments with the acknowledgment of all the facts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a declared opponent of the genre . There is no better proof of its eternal attractiveness than Hexter 's apparent lack of consequence . On the one hand , he blames the broad general narrative for indulging perforce in purely imaginary constructions and claims that it should be replaced by histories of more limited scope . On the other , he proposes a compromise apt to keep this very genre alive . The narrator , Hexter holds , might reduce its worst defects if , at each major change he comes across , he discontinues his story , with a view to relating that change to the conditions of the moment . So his inevitable concern with lasting influences will every now and then be checked by inquiries into the interaction between the divergent elements that make up ( and disappear in ) the procession of events along the " corridors of time . " 46 Whether or not this compromise is workable remains to be seen . The compilation of inclusive macro histories by way of cooperative effort may be said to represent another attempt in this vein . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stringing together , and adjusting to each other , monographs by specialists , the editors of these composite works want to kill two birds with one stone ? give the total chronological sequence and at the same time avoid the distortions , foreshortenings , etc. , to which the narratives rendering it are prone . They want to construct macro history by aligning a series of micro histories . But this is a mechanical device . Histories at different levels of generality require different treatment ; and it is extremely improbable that a collection of such monographs should achieve the kind of wholeness which is of the essence to general history .  | These compromises ( to which still others might easily be added ) do not even pretend to solve the general historian 's problems . Is there a solution to them ? The only real solution ? provided it is one ? has been offered centuries ago . We owe its rediscovery to Robert Merton who , with his flair for the genuine , has spotted it in Tristram Shandy.47 Tristram 's answer to the question of how penetrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temptation of reproducing it to the full : Could a historiographer drive on his history , as a muleteer drives on his mule ? straight forward ; ? for instance , from Rome all the way to Loretto , without ever once turning his head aside , either to the right hand or to the left , ? lie might venture to foretell you to an hour when lie should get to his journey 's end ; ? but the thing is , morally speaking , impossible : For , if he is a man of the least spirit , he will have fifty deviations from a straight line to make with this or that party as he goes along , which he can no ways avoid . He will have views and prospects to himself perpetually soliciting his eye , which he can no more help standing still to look at than he can fly ; he will , moreover , have various Accounts to reconcile ; Anecdotes to pick up ; Inscriptions to make out ; Stories to weave in ; Traditions to sift ; Personages to call upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that : ? All which both the man and his mule are quite exempt from . To sum up all ; there are archives at every stage to be look 'd into , and rolls , records , documents , and endless genealogies , which justice ever and anon calls him back to stay the reading of : ? In short , there is no end of it . . .48 Of course , this preciselyeis the rub in it . just as Tristram himself never manages to expedite the narrative beyond his child- hood days ? there is so much to tell , so much to look into ? it is , " morally speaking , " impossible for any historian following him ever to reach Loretto . He is no muleteer after all.49 General history , then , is a hybrid , something between legend and the Ploetz , that imperishable annalistic manual which we as schoolboys used to memorize the dates of battles and kings . How explain the astounding longevity of this impossible genre ? What to us appears as an " imaginary construction , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time . Our preoccupation with the course of history is grounded in religious prophecy , theological computations , and metaphysical ideas about mankind 's lot . Like all basic inquiries , the quest for the destinies of empires and peoples originates with the approach from " above " ? a mode of apprehending and reasoning which only in the modern age has given way to the approach from " below . " Not completely , though . The old questions , goals , and mirages linger on , joining forces with the needs and interests which arise from the historian 's involvement in the affairs of his day . They too invite him to account for temporal sequence , the past as a whole . Indeed , under the impact of both these contemporary and traditional concerns he can not help driving his mule straight to Loretto . General history might be more vulnerable to attacks did it not largely serve nonhistorical ends .  | One may define the area of historical reality , like that of photographic reality , as an anteroom area . Both realities are of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a definite way . The peculiar material in these areas eludes the grasp of systematic thought ; nor can it be shaped in the form of a work of art . Like the statements we make about physical reality with the aid of the camera , those which result from our preoccupation with historical reality may certainly attain to a level above mere opinion ; but they do not convey , or reach out for , ultimate truths , as do philosophy and art proper . They share their inherently provisional character with the material they record , explore , and penetrate . Now the whole realm to which photography as well as history in the modern sense belong has up to now been overshadowed by misconceptions founded on the traditional prejudice that there exists no field of knowledge in its own right between the hazy expanses in which we form opinions and the high-level areas harboring the products of man 's most lofty aspirations . Thus photography has been misunderstood either as an art in the established sense or a sort of recording medium , yielding merely impressions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history has been misinterpreted as a matter of negligible opinions or a subject which can be adequately covered only by the philosopher or artist . In this treatise , I consider it my task to do for history what I have done for the photographic media in my Theory of Film ' ? to bring out and characterize the peculiar nature of an intermediary area which has not yet been fully recognized and valued as such . This implies that , from the angle of philosophy or art , we , so to speak , stop in the anteroom when coming to terms with history on its own grounds . But what is the significance of our stay in the anteroom ? Had we not better directly tackle the last things instead of idly focusing on the last before the last ? Evidently , my task is not completed unless I speculate on the meaning of anteroom insight . I have pointed out in Theory of Film that the photographic media help us to overcome our abstractness by familiarizing us , for the first time as it were , with " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ; 2 they help us to think through things , not above them . Otherwise expressed , the photographic media make it much easier for us to incorporate the transient phenomena of the outer world , thereby redeeming them from oblivion . Something of this kind will also have to be said of history . For the purposes of the subsequent investigation I should first like to delimit , however provisionally , the area into which historiography falls . The differences between history and the scientific approach proper as well as art have already been made out in earlier contexts , in Chapters 1 and 7 . And there is no need for expressly distinguishing historical knowledge from sheer opinion . What remains to be pondered is the relations between history and philosophy .  | But how define philosophy in a general way ? Such definitions are impossible independently of a definite frame of reference . The best is perhaps to characterize philosophical reasoning by those of its peculiarities which strongly impress themselves upon the historian . In a passage summarizing results of a historical survey of philosophy , Dilthey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency to universality and toward reasons and causes , the direction of the mind at the whole of the given world . And always its metaphysical urge to penetrate into the core of this whole is found struggling with the positivist demand of general validity of its knowledge . These two aspects belong to its essence , and they distinguish it from the areas of culture most closely akin to it . In contrast to the sciences , it seeks to resolve the enigma of the world and of life itself ; but in contrast to art and religion , it wants to give the solution in generally valid form . " a It appears from this and from other examples , 4 that the historian is inclined to attribute to philosophy some such features as these : First , philosophy aims at truths about man 's ultimate concerns ? the nature of being in general , of knowledge , of the good , of beauty , and not least of history . It deals with the very last things , assuming or doubting their existence . Hence , in part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements are of the highest generality , resting on the premise that they automatically cover all pertinent particulars . There is practically no philosophy of history that would not try to render intelligible the whole of history . Philosophy 's claim to highest significance is also based on the conviction that its general statements about the world fully encompass that world . Third , philosophical statements aspire to objective validity , or so at least does it appear to any historian aware of his dependence upon empirical evidence . Roughly speaking , one might  | indeed say that philosophy , whether postulating or denying absolutes , wants to arrive at statements of unlimited authority ? statements which seek to emancipate themselves from the conditions of time and place . This lies in the nature of human reason . And it accounts for the preoccupation of contemporary philosophy with the implications of historism . Fourth , the historian may be struck by what often affects him as the rather sweeping radicalism and rigidity of philosophical truths . They do not seem to fit certain particulars of his interest ; and they tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which he attaches importance . Jaeger , in Paideia , reproaches the " severe historians of philosophy " with dismissing integral features " in Plato 's picture of Socrates as mere poetic decoration . It all seems to lie beneath the high level of abstract thought on which philosophers ought to move and have their being . " s Historiography differs from philosophy in all these respects . Instead of proceeding from , or climaxing in , statements about the meaning , or , for that matter , the meaninglessness , of history as such , it is a distinctly empirical science which explores and interprets given historical reality in exactly the same manner as the photographic media render and penetrate the physical world about us . History is much closer to the practically endless , fortuitous , and indeterminate Lebenswelt ? Husserl 's term for the basic dimension of daily life ? than philosophy . Consequently , the historian would not dream of assigning to his findings and conclusions the kind of generality and validity peculiar to philosophical statements . He is unconcerned for high abstractions and absolutes ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The difference between the two approaches shows , for instance , in the history of ideas . While the philosopher , in dealing  | with it , is bent on stressing the inherent potentialities of some idea as the driving power behind its development ? e.g. , Jonas 's Gnosis ? the historian ( to the extent that he does not , like Kubler , connive at the behavioral sciences ) prefers to drag the idea whose unfolding in time he records through the underbrush of history ( which Jonas also tries to do ) ; think of Daniel Halevy , a or Bury 's The Idea of Progress . ' In fact , as we know , many historians nurture misgivings about and distrust the philosophical approach . One might even speak of their resentment against it ? a sort of frustration traceable to the fact that they have rarely the tools to meet the philosopher on his own ground . And conversely , as viewed from the lofty regions of philosophy , the historian devotes himself to the last things before the last , settling in an area which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is this " anteroom " in which we breathe , move , and live . ) The boundaries between the areas of historiography and philosophy are fluid , as is illustrated by the existence of concepts belonging to both areas . Originating with theological and metaphysical speculations , the concepts of universal history and progress are a matter of concern to the historian also . Their ambiguous nature will be discussed in the course of the following meditations , which bear on two issues of tremendous importance for both philosophy and history ? the issue of historicity and that of the general in its relation to the particular . These meditations may shed light on the constitution of the anteroom . The problem . Nineteenth-century historism is largely responsible for the firm establishment of the consciousness of man 's historicity , the belief in the formative powers of time as well as place . Dilthey was perhaps the first fully to realize the conse- consequences of this belief . According to it , there are no " eternal truths " ; rather , all our thinking is a function of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conviction of the relativity of human knowledge . ( Weizsaecker , as we know , has it that the natural laws are not immune against changes either , although this participation of nature in the historical process would be at a very slow pace . ) Once historicity is recognized as part and parcel of the human condition. , the problem arises as to how to reconcile the ensuing relativity of knowledge with the quest of reason for significant truths of general validity . It is the key problem of modern philosophy . All philosophical attempts to solve it try to find a way out of the dilemma confronting contemporary thought ; they seek , that is , to legitimate the efforts of reason to get hold of absolutes , sometimes even suggesting their attainability , and at the same time to uphold the idea of historicity . These attempts can be divided into two groups . Two " solutions . " There are , first , numbers of alleged solutions which may be called " transcendental " ; altogether they are an aftermath , or indeed the backwash , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of evolution being thrown into the bargain . They proclaim , at the outset , the possibility of timeless truths , positing a realm of absolute values , norms , and the like . So Ranke and Droysen , in a sense Scheler , 8 Rickert , 9 Troeltsch , 10 Meinecke , " etc . All of them attempt to escape the clutches of historical relativism which they are nevertheless obliged to affirm , and , in keeping with the demands of reason , to regain access to the lost paradise ? that realm outside time which they nostalgically envision . How do they do it ? To say it plainly , by way of some subterfuge or other . What hap- pens is invariably the same : you still believe you are swimming in the stream of time and all of a sudden you find yourself ashore , face to face with eternity . It is great fun to watch these thinkers move ahead toward their castles in the air . Somewhere en route they inevitably perform what to all intents and purposes resembles the famous Indian rope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I should like to term " immanentist , " proceed the other way round . They repudiate the conception of timelessness and any assumption of an ontological character . With them , historicity is a basic tenet which , once adopted , precludes the recourse to eternal truths . So the only possibility of salvaging the absolute is for the philosophers of this denomination to place themselves in the immanence of the historical process and bring historicity to its ultimate logical conclusion . These more recent attempts begin to take shape with Dilthey 's desperate labors . He rejects the independent existence of timeless norms , purposes , or values , 12 and instead champions " full recognition of the immanence in the historical consciousness even of those values and norms which claim to be absolute . " 13 And he endeavors to show that generally valid truths may grow out of history itself . " This , " he says , " at first appears as an insoluble riddle . We must construct the whole from the parts , while only in the whole is to be found the element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given part . But we already saw that this is what in fact moves history itself . . . . History itself creates values , whose validity derives from an explication of the conditions contained in life , as for example the sanctity of contract , or the recognition of the dignity and worth in every individual , looked at as man . These truths are generally valid because , if applied in the historical world at any point , they will make a regulation possible.14  | In another place he concludes that " not the relativity of every view of the world is the last word of the mind that passed through all of them , but its sovereignty against each of them , and the positive knowledge of how in the plural attitudes of the mind we have the one reality of the world given to us. " 1,1 Comment on Dilthey 's position : he is still immersed in the very philosophical tradition he fights . This is also shown by his obsession with big schemes and arrangements . Croce and Collingwood , too , want to elicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and exploiting , Dilthey , the Heidegger of Sein and Zeit goes farthest in this direction ; he postulates a historicity of being itself , thus radically uprooting the subject-object relation , and the venerable notions of substance and essence in its wake . ( But radicalism is not necessarily a virtue ; and of the subject-object relation Hans Jonas judiciously says that it " is not a lapse but the privilege , burden and duty of man . " 16 ) The immanentist trend which is at the bottom of existentialism has spawned a partly syncretistic literature ? e.g. , Karl Mannheim 's 1924 essay , " Historisrnus , " 17 with its borrowings from Dilthey , Weber , etc. , and its irrelevant classificatory finesse . Mannheim rejects the recourse to the static absolute , endorsing the historicist assumption that there is no absolute truth . Truths and values can be grasped only in perspective . But we need not despair for that reason because we are justified in assuming that each " truth " is the last word within its own concrete situation and that the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that all solutions in this vein must " absolutize " history in order to retrieve the absolute from it . This is precisely what Gadamer does in his Heideggerinfluenced Wahrh ? it and Methode , 18 which amounts to a smooth fusion of major immanentist motifs . Symptomatically , he resumes Dilthey 's emphasis on Wirkungszusammenhaenge and  | Wirkungsgeschiehte . Indeed , with him , the nonexistentialist main current of immanentism comes to completion : he hallows historical continuity and sanctifies actual tradition without looking for truth criteria outside . But in this way history becomes a stuffy closed system which , in accordance with Hegel 's dictum , " What is real , is rational , " shuts out the lost causes , the unrealized possibilities . History as a success story ? Burckhardt would never have accepted the underlying assumptions of modern hermeneutics . Historical relativity . All these solutions are fallacious . Their failure to deal effectively with the implications of historism must be traced to their reliance on an oversimplified notion of historical relativity . Both the transcendental epigones and the immanentists start from the premise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this be the case , then indeed historical relativity becomes inescapable ; and all efforts nevertheless to justify the quest of reason for absolutes , ontological or not , necessarily involve expedients , doubtful intellectual maneuvers . However , as I have tried to show in Chapter G , the traditional conception of historical time requires qualification . Because of the antinomy at its core , time not only conforms to the conventional image of a flow but must also be imagined as being not such a flow . We live in a cataract of times . And there are " pockets " and voids amidst these temporal currents , vaguely reminiscent of interference phenomena . This leads me to speak , in a provisional way , of the " limited " relativity of certain ideas emerging from such pockets . Historical relativity thus turns from a matter of course into a puzzling problem . What I have , in effect , said in Chapter 4 about historical ideas , e.g. , Marx 's or Burckhardt 's , ? certainly also holds for general philosophical      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      