@@773796

txt UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION organizations and foundations which have explicitly encouraged and supported the study of religion , the preparation of teachers for the field , or in fields where religious perspectives have been regarded as relevant . Among the most outstanding organizations in terms of prestige and experience has been the National Council on Religion in Higher Education , founded by Charles Foster Kent of Yale in the late 1920 's . His purpose was that of lifting the level of undergraduate instruction in religion by encouraging adequate and specifically vocational preparation for the teachers of religion and allied fields . This group has provided fellowships for graduate training in various fields , including religion , a consultative service for establishing and evaluating religion departments and programs , and a placement service . The Hazen Foundation , often working in close connection with the Council , has also provided support and encouragement for the study of projects bearing on the relations between religion and higher education . A more recent and highly influential impact has been made by the Danforth Foundation , which offers substantial fellowships for graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal arts curriculum . The purpose of the grants is to bring men of high competence into college and university teaching who , from their own religious traditions , are aware of the religious dimension of their fields and who show signs of growing religious maturity . No doctrinal basis for the acceptance of candidates has been established by the Foundation . The recent union of some phases of the work of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education , now known as the Society for Religion in Higher Education , and the Danforth Foundation will un-Footnote 6o GROWTH IN RELIGION INSTRUCTION doubtedly strengthen the work of both groups , and new programs will be forthcoming . The Lilly Foundation , among other encouraging benefactions , has responded to needs among religion professors by establishing research and study grants , which are handled by the Hazen Foundation . And one hardly need mention those aspects of the Rockefeller , Woodrow Wilson , Seaatlantic , and Ford foundations which at graduate school , seminary , or undergraduate levels of instruction have reflected marked interest in the role of religion in higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more informally arranged , have arisen and flourished during the first half of the century . The Society for Biblical Literature , founded in the late nineteenth century , has continued to grow . The National Association of Biblical Instructors ? a patent misnomer , since many of its members are undergraduate instructors in phases of religion which are not specifically biblical ? provides a common meeting place for the majority of religion teachers of the country . College teachers of religion will also be found in the American Philosophical Association , the American Society of Church History , and the recently formed Society for the Scientific Study of Religion and the Society for the History of Religions . In 1953 the Society of Catholic College Teachers of Sound Doctrine was also formed , the purpose of which is " to assist teachers in imparting to college students adequate religious instruction well integrated with the rest of the curriculum . " Shaping the Christian Message , ed . G. S. Sloyan ( Macmillan , 1958 ) , p. 183 . ) The continuing relation of recipients of Danforth and Kent Fellowships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national conferences , provides yet another means of invigorating discussion and study of the relations of religion to the realm of higher education . With this general rise in interest in religion in higher education there has gone hand in hand a notable growth in graduate 6i UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION education in theology and religion . Although most graduate theological education continues to aim at the production of clergy and personnel for other church vocations , a marked rise in the training of scholars and teachers of religion has taken place , beginning in 1920 , at such institutions as Chicago , Duke , Union-Columbia , and Yale . And it is not without interest that , although the opportunities for college and graduate teachers of religion are relatively few compared with the fields of history , literature , or the sciences , the most recent analysis of teacher supply and demand estimates that by 1970 five hundred new teachers of religion will be needed for colleges , universities , and junior colleges . Teacher Supply and Demand in Universities , Colleges , and Junior Colleges , 1959-60 and 1960-61 ( Research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is notoriously difficult to identify and assess causes of cultural changes , but insofar as such a procedure is ever successful , the following factors may be suggested as having played a significant part in the invigoration of religion in higher education . Whereas sectarianism and secularism seemed to have effectively closed the doors to any substantial advance in making religion a part of a liberal education in the early part of the twentieth century , the much heralded impact of the " moral and spiritual crisis " had its effects on higher education . Horrifyingly spelled out by two world wars among supposedly highly cultured nations , and by an unusually pernicious form of moral relativism in Western culture , the crisis alerted some educators to the unacceptability of an education which failed to deal trenchantly and convincingly with the foundations of human values . The sectarian emphases of churches and church-related college education had been ineffective in meeting the crisis , and in some cases their influence had been provincializing . The secularistic reading of human experience at its worst dogmatically denied man 's spiritual nature and fervently preached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " objectivity " and a " value-free " approach to the human enterprise . It did provide , if not an explicit philosophy of education , at least an atmosphere of opinion which made it difficult for both the religious dimensions of life and the field of religion itself to gain fair hearings . Even at its best , prevalent secularistic attitudes had refused , in the name of emancipation from Christian or Jewish dogmatism , to consider the depths as well as the heights of human life . Certain ideas born of the Enlightenment and the Renaissance had seemingly indelibly impressed the university mind with their universal validity . Not a few educators as well as professionals in the predominant religious faiths of American culture questioned anew the validity of both sectarianism and secularism . The futuristic optimism upon which secularism had prodigally drawn for motivation and justification , and the rigidities within which denominations attempted to interpret and change the world , simply could not stand up to the brutally compelling facts of twentieth century life . And generations of students , leaving colleges and universities with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were viewed as semi-educated barbarians poured into a common pool of humanity which was already dispirited and purposeless . As if drawn by some vague but irresistible lure , influential opinion began to swing to the notion that religion in some equally vague sense could check the drift to social and moral chaos . This illusory hope has not been realized . What the churches had not done , the introduction of religion into the curriculum could not be expected to accomplish . Except in those institutions where something close to indoctrination serves as an academic philosophy , religion has had to settle for a modest place among the humanities or , in some cases , the social sciences . It has had to accept its role on common humanistic // grounds , as do other fields in which man studies himself . It has not been in a position to serve as an integrative center to offset the sprawling , divisive specializations of even the smallest college . Neither has it arrived on campuses , some authorities to the contrary notwithstanding , with a readily adoptable value system by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is not to say that effective transitions in campus attitudes toward religion have not taken place in many cases . In fact the re-entry and reinvigoration of the academic study of religion on campuses have often provided the first glimpses these institutions have had of scholarly methods and presentations which made religious phenomena something besides a butt of flippancies or crude caricature . Nor can it be denied that the return of religion to the curriculum in many cases enlivened the intellectual life of the campus generally , even going so far as to raise questions concerning the purposes and nature of education itself . But it must also be insisted that many who pressed for the return of religion on the grounds that it would be a major agent in checking secularism , relativism , scientism , and other academic ills created a burden of responsibility which could not be borne by any department or group of courses . Wherever the re-entry of religion was launched on these assumptions , an atmosphere of misunderstanding was created . Some administrators were disappointed that a few courses in religion did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students only grudgingly admitted the presence of religion . Thus when publicly cast in the role of a remedy for social , educational , and religious ills , and proclaimed as coming upon the campus with scarcely concealed polemical interests , religion has been regarded with suspicion . Launched into the academic arena with nonacademic intentions , it has been regarded as a threat to the assumptions of liberal education . The most talented and perceptive professors of religion have been struggling to extricate themselves // from the unbearable burden of these false expectations , and to educate others ? administrators , colleagues , students , and churchmen ? to the opinion that they come to the campus to cast into the common treasury such knowledge and insight as they possess rather than as messiahs bent on establishing domination over other provinces of learning or singlehandedly saving the spiritual substance of Western civilization . However , the mood created by what G. F. Thomas and J. M. Moore have called " the turn in the tide " against secularism , value-neutralism , and sectarianism helped to give religion the opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able so largely to vindicate its return because it has met the challenge with a continuing and enlarging stream of well-prepared instructors who had been developing in the 1930 's and 1940 's , many of whom had undergone longer , broader , and in some cases , more rigorous training than colleagues in other fields . Furthermore , certain trends in religious philosophy , social ethics , theology , and biblical studies current in these decades provided unusually helpful and even exciting means for coping with the prevailing ignorance about religion and the secularistic climate of the campus . The late Twenties and Thirties found religious liberalism regnant in the seminaries and graduate schools of religion . The effect of liberal criticism on stereotyped views of the Bible broke the lances of those whose conception and interest in that book ended with the Scopes trial and Bryan 's benighted attempts to make the Bible read like a geology and biology text . The openhanded spirit of liberalism in dealing with philosophical and religious questions further opened the way for fresh understandings of man 's religious nature . Nontheistic humanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sophisticated following , could be met on its own ground and matched , if not overcome , by the extreme and // novel forms of religious liberalism of an empirical cast represented by Wieman at Chicago and Macintosh at Yale . The strong appeal of the social gospel , with its liberal advocates , similarly helped to counteract the impressions of those who saw religion largely in reactionary and individualistic terms . In the 1940 's and 1950 's the trends of graduate education took another turn which severely challenged the liberal influence which had to a great degree won its way on many campuses by accommodating itself to the currents of Enlightenment thought . No one term catches up the full flavor of what has been called the theological renaissance . Probably the least appropriate but most often used term is neo-orthodoxy , though scarcely an influential figure in the movement would accept the term . Some have called it neo-Protestantism or neoReformation theology , because there was in Protestant circles a return to the Augustinian insights about man and a fresh appraisal of the reformers . Yet the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berdyaev of the Orthodox Church , Buber in Judaism , and Maritain in the Roman Catholic Church fresh and exciting interpretations of the sources of these faiths . So far as preparation for college teaching was concerned , however , the Protestant movement by virtue of sheer numbers has been most influential . The notes struck in the movement were dissonant to the religious liberals , and to those who by inclination and training were drawn to the Enlightenment view of man . The word sin , in no simple moralistic sense , came back into at least a muted respectability ; arguments for God 's existence based on human experience of the natural world gave way to talk of revelation and the centrality of Jesus Christ . Criticisms of man 's optimistic view of himself and his capacities to realize even his most beneficent aims within historical time were launched , showing how inextricably in personal , social , and political life good and // egoistic pride were intertwined . The Bible , once relegated to textual scholars and courses in literature , was discovered to have a unity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamic categories presumably more or less unique to the biblical or Hebraic mind and distinct from the more static modes of Greek thought in which the Western mind has been amply drenched . Biblical theology instead of the religion of the Bible came into its own as a discipline . An existential , participative stance was advocated as the proper manner in which knowledge of the divine came to man . This attitude was found to be predominant among the biblical authors , and it was underwritten by new interest in the insights of Kierkegaard and Buber . The wide influence of Paul Tillich 's philosophical theology , which has caught up many of these elements into a synthesis , and Tillich 's openness to the interplay of religious faith with various cultural forms , has added another ingredient to the ferment of religious ideas . If the advantage of religion scholars trained in the 1920 's and 1930 'S lay in their having a position which was congenial to the best of secular thought , and if they taught to show that the best in religion thought was but an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the human mind and spirit , those who came up in the late Thirties , Forties , and Fifties increasingly found themselves enjoying the advantage of a posture from which to criticize the assumptions of the whole enterprise of religious liberalism . Instead of the accommodation of religious learning to secular opinion , more recent crops of graduates were convinced of the folly of attempts to reduce the rugged uniqueness of Christianity . They refused to limit Christian faith to the proportions of those views which confidently regarded man as a supremely rational being whose efforts to acquire virtue were frustrated occasionally by ignorance or immature emotionalism . Without surrendering the validity of // biblical perspectives , or insights of traditional theology , religion professors looked increasingly to contemporary life , literature , and art for the evidences of what they were saying about the human condition . Writers such as T. S. Eliot , W. H. Auden , Albert Camus , and Jean-Paul Sartre provided illustrative commentaries on the human possibility ; on the other hand , books on the reconciliation of science and theology were less highly regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Tennessee Williams yielded hitherto unexpected dividends of insight , while the more " realistic " interpreters of international relations were as commonly referred to in religion classrooms as the Bible , Augustine , or Calvin . The fresh excitement in the religion classroom , therefore , often has come not from insistence upon traditional " humane " virtues or from an invitation to flee to otherworldliness , the medieval or Renaissance past . It has arisen from the kind of teaching that challenges the polite gentilities of liberalism by speaking of the spiritual and moral ambiguities of man 's historic and contemporary experience , made especially serious by the contemporary summons to weighty choices to be made in a chancy world . The type of religious insight which speaks out of and to this kind of situation has had a lively impressiveness beside which the blandness of former liberalism shows only the more sharply . The advantage of teachers who have been thus persuaded is that they show religious values in a new exciting light , and act as disquieting agents within the serenities , if such there still be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the most persuasive reasons offered for the resurgence of interest in religion in the academic world was the overdue realization by all but the most prejudiced opponents that religious phenomena constitute so large a segment of human experience that without specialized study and instruction in it , a college or university could scarcely be regarded as offer- // ing a liberalizing education . On this ground , if no other , religion has found its place in academic curriculums as a field where not only the principal cultural forms of man 's religious experience may be studied , but where opportunity also is afforded for that growth in sensitivity , understanding , and appreciation which these studies ideally share with all humanistic learning . The recognition that secularistic and sectarian interests have too long robbed the educative process of the contributions which competent studies in religion could bring to it has been emerging into full clarity . The genuinely favorable response of students to these studies continues to show the wisdom of the return . So long as men are curious about the ends of living and continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer , the religious dimension will continue to demand informed consideration . Thus the vital pull of the questions themselves seems to have drawn sensitive educators to accept religion into the university not simply as an extracurricular option , or as a morale booster , but as a necessary and substantive contribution to liberal education itself . As Huston Smith has ably put it : " The strongest force returning religion to the curriculum has been the pull of the vacuum created by its removal . " " The Interdepartmental Approach . . . , " op. cit. , p. 61.1 69 ' ? 5 &?'; PURPOSES OF RELIGION INSTRUCTION The vigorous rise in interest in religion in the academic world has demanded a serious reappraisal of the purposes for which it is to be taught . On the one hand , it has been necessary to tone down the earlier exuberant expectations which anticipated an overthrow of secularism , the overcoming of the curricular fragmentation , and the development of spirituality and moral virtues . A decade or two of experience has showed that returns are less than satisfying and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , the hard experience of teaching religion in secular-minded institutions where suspicion or opposition was based on fear of subversion of a truly liberalizing education has also pressed for a restatement of ends . After all , certain forms of " theology " had in the past triumphed over science or attempted to control the freedom of the mind , and the academic memory is long in such matters . That memory rises to haunt the religion teacher at many turns and rankles in the minds of his opponents . Consequently , statements of goals have had to be wrought out in an area defined so as to limit the more extravagant expectations of some educators and churchmen , and the often no less extravagant fears of those opposed to instruction in religion . In the last analysis , in relative independence of both groups the specific purposes of religion teaching have been developed in accordance with the religion professor 's understanding of what constitutes a liberal and humane education in religion . Obviously , without an exhaustive survey of the expressed purposes of all who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be impossible to speak in universally valid terms . Although no all-inclusive survey is here attempted , the formulations offered below do not seem to distort drastically the convictions with which many work in the field . To be sure , departments and courses all too often appear on campuses without much conscious planning as to their contributions to the wider aims of higher education . Courses often linger in the curriculum because of inertia or the private interest of an instructor , thus contradicting the purposes which ostensibly govern the offerings of a given department . However , when allowance has been made for the creaky machinery by which execution is laggardly conjoined to ideal academic ends , there remain representative purposes and objectives in the teaching of religion . These , of course , are to be stated in the context of liberal education , whether such education is carried on by college or university , private , state , or church-related . Discussion of the preprofessional aims of religion instruction will be found in a later chapter . The purposes of religion instruction cluster about two centers : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which constitute the field itself , and on the other , the student and his needs . Teaching which emphasizes the first of these has as its initial purpose that of acquainting students with religious phenomena , to show man in his characteristic religious postures . In doing so the nature of the field is set forth , and the student is enabled to recognize the variant forms which the religious dimension assumes . This objective may be formulated more precisely : to acquaint the student with the perennial questions which men have raised and attempted to answer concerning their meaning and destiny as these are reflected in systems of thought , cultic acts , and characteristic attitudes and beliefs . To accomplish this end , the instructor brings before the student the relevant literatures , scholarly studies , technical vocabulary and // methods of critical study which the field involves . No attempt will be made here to specify the courses which implement this purpose , but a survey of the types of questions with which religions deal may be helpful in exhibiting the structure and content of the field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these questions , but religion , when taken in its broadest span as a human activity , embraces the majority of them . Every religious system or outlook is in some sense a scheme of salvation , whether or not the term appears in its literature . It is concerned with the identification of the source , nature , and the appropriate methods of removal of some evil believed to afflict human life . It is equally concerned with the achievement , or the reception of the gift of some " blessedness , " release , or fulfillment which transcends the evil in either this world or the next , and possibly both . In technical jargon this central issue is called the soteriological question . Unlike philosophies , religions arise out of the practical side of man 's nature rather than the theoretical , which plays its part in religion at a greater remove from this dynamic center . It should also be noted that religions are not first of all concerned with theories about gods or God , but with responses to concrete practical needs and powers which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of escape from them . Even if , as in some religions , there be no conception of deity , the religious quality of the system of belief and practice is determined by the concern with which the soteriological question is formulated and answered in its theoretical , ethical , or cultic forms . About this central soteriological question , with varying degrees of emphasis , there circle other basic questions . The theological question , understood in its literal and therefore broadest sense , deals with the issue of the nature of supreme beings or being , or whatever functions in the system as the supreme validity in place of more conventional conceptions of deity or deities . // The religious attitude , properly understood , is not first of all concerned with arguments for or against the existence of such beings or being . Rather gods or God are the experienced objects of religious devotion and practice and only secondarily are regarded as conceptions or hypothetical entities , to be treated with speculative interest . To understand a particular religious outlook calls for a knowledge and an appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important beings . The religious dimension as a datum may thus be distinguished from philosophical and theological methods which take over the tasks of explication , defense , and evaluation . To deal properly with the theological question means then that the instructor and student must look as fairly as possible at the manner in which men understand their relation to the object or objects of devotion and at the systems of thought in which this relationship is expressed . Of equal importance with the theological question is the anthropological question , that of the nature and possibilities of man . Obviously this query is intertwined with the soteriological question , since in many religious systems , such as Christianity , Hinduism , and Buddhism , man 's nature sets the problem of evil and decisively affects the ways in which to escape from it . Deep meditation on one 's nature in upanishadic Hinduism may become a method of salvation , whereas in orthodox Christianity sin deeply embedded in man 's nature sets the stage for salvation by divine grace . Even a humanism of a nontheistic form raises its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's capacities for its achievement , and thereby connects the anthropological with the soteriological question by offering a way out of the evils of superstition , ignorance , and prejudice in the direction of the fulfillment of a richer life . In those religious systems where deity plays a decisive part , the issue of knowledge of the divine will arises . This question // may be labeled the epistemological question , though it should be construed in broad enough terms to include those religious systems which , like Judaism , Christianity , and Islam , prize revelation . Consideration of this area of religion calls for an understanding of how devotees believe themselves able to communicate with deity , and how deity makes known its will to them , as through prayer , vision , sacred literature , intuition , or reason . The ethical question plays an important part in most religions , for it raises the issue of appropriate forms of conduct to . ward the deity and fellowmen , often stated in terms of codes , norms , or laws . It allows also for the consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students the issues raised by this question may seem most central to religious phenomena , it is important to see them as usually subordinate to the central dynamic of the religious system as expressed in worship and the quest for salvation in some form . Another typical question familiar to many religions is the eschatological question , which in its sociohistorical form deals with the end or limits of history , culture , and time , and in its individualistic form with death and the possibility of immortality . When the cultic question arises , it refers primarily to the nature and meaning of those acts by which a religious faith assumes public embodiment . In its broad scope the cultic question treats the social organization of the religious community , the functions of personnel set apart for specified religious duties , the modes of worship by which members of the cultus approach the sacred dimension , and the devices used to guarantee proper group and individual conduct . Often , since the cultus offers the assurance of salvation to its members , the acts of worship themselves are regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of salvation . The examination of religious phenomena under the rubric of cultus may lead to consideration of the place of symbols , characteristic gestures , and forms of speech , and // even to the effects of religious belief upon architectural and art forms . Perhaps of somewhat less significance than other questions , but of great interest to certain religious systems , is the cosmological question , which refers to man 's theories and visions of the creation , nature , and form of the world and his place in it . The conflict of science and theology ( rather than religion ) has often been connected with this question , arising when both parties to the dispute have assumed that particular religious orientations are inseparable from fixed readings of the nature of the universe . The foregoing schematic analysis of religious phenomena not only gives a major clue to some of the issues with which the study of religion deals , but also strongly suggests the purpose of those studies which are primarily descriptive or phenomenological . They show that one dimension of the instructor 's task is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials of the field . This may be done in a variety of ways , such as courses in introduction to religion , primitive or world religions , or by taking as subject matter the narrower scope of Western religious orientations found in Judaism and Christianity . Biblical and historical courses have been the normal means for doing this . What the instructor aims to do is to help the student see in as vivid a way as possible the issues with which religions deal , to inspire him to recognize the need for a breadth of comprehension in respect to viewpoints hitherto unknown to him and to insist on a precision of observation and descriptive analysis commensurate with the complexity of the material . A second aim of instruction moves from the descriptive phase to the evaluative and critical emphasis . Here stress falls upon the ability to distinguish and to assess the various forms of religious , philosophical , and theological statements , such as arguments , presuppositions , convictional utterances , myth , symbol , // and the like . It involves naturally the raising of appropriate critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little of the difficulty experienced at this level is due to a lack of clarity in the use of norms appropriate to particular religious systems or less systematically formed orientations . What passes for criticism of religious ideas and practices sometimes dissolves into triviality when meaningless questions are asked , such as " Is religion itself true or false , valuable or valueless ? " or " Is a particular religion as a whole true or false , valuable or valueless ? " One of the first tasks of the instructor in the evaluative area is to show that questions of this type do not permit any reasonable answers in the context of phenomenological analysis and logic . He must go further , of course , to show that there are recognizable differences between evaluative judgments reached on the basis of criteria which the religion itself accepts , and those which are derived from criteria more widely accepted but which may be alien to the professed aims and methods of the religion in question . On the one hand , it is proper to evaluate a religious position in part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expresses itself in the forms of tenets , statements , creeds , and propositions . It is equally valid to evaluate a religion by its ethical or social consequences in accordance with what it has taught and preached . On the other hand , the critic passes judgment at a quite different level if he forms his evaluations on the basis of , say , the " democratic " ideal or the intrinsic value of individual personality if neither of these is a constituent part of the religion 's professed aims . To insist that Judaism is superior to mystical Hinduism because the former stresses moral responsibility of men and the value of individual personality , while the latter has historically tended to withdraw men from the world of external events to seek a culminative union of Atman and Brahman in which individual differentiations vanish , is a judgment passed not on the basis of universally valid // criteria to which all religions must bow . It represents an importation of standards initially inconsistent with the aims valued by this form of Hinduism . The point of this illustration , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when intelligently and carefully worked out , is invalid a priori . The point is that discrimination must be used in assessing presuppositions which give validity to the criteria themselves , and care must be exercised in recognizing at what level of investigation the criteria are employed . Other factors also enter into the making of evaluations . It is fitting to evaluate religious systems on the grounds of their capacity to do justice to the actual complexities of man 's relations to himself , nature , and the superhuman . Some religious perspectives may be regarded as inadequate because they place excessive emphasis upon the welfare or the salvation of the individual , or upon cultic acts to the detriment of social action , or upon ethical actions at the expense of man 's yearning for aesthetic satisfaction or the experience of worship . Or again purity of doctrine may be stressed at the expense of depth of devotion or inclusiveness of concern for mankind . In these instances the criterion used is the adequacy with which the religion treats the manifold dimensions of human existence , presupposing the value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , for evaluation to do justice to the variety of phases which a particular religion exhibits in its own right . For example , there are not only conservative elements to be found in Christianity but also the sources of revolutionary social movements . To interpret Christianity only in terms of one or the other of these aspects would be to pass a one-sided judgment upon it . Christianity embodies rational and volitional as well as emotional elements . Intellectual formulations stand side by side with symbolic acts which delineate and express religious convictions . Any substantive and accurate evaluation of the Chris- // tian movement demands that these various facets be given seri-ous consideration . It need not be assumed that a neat classification of courses separates the evaluative purposes of religion instruction from the descriptive and historical ones . Although ideally a reasona-bly sure grasp of the descriptive aspects of religion studies should be presupposed for evaluation , it is more common to find these two purposes mingled in religion courses . Biblical and historical materials repeatedly call for evaluative ap-proaches which can not be shunted aside to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed , how-ever , which are primarily evaluative in purpose . Among these there may be mentioned advanced courses in world religions , philosophy of religion , theology , Christian ethics , and modern or contemporary religious thought . ' The purposes of teaching religion are both informational and evaluative ( a term which includes the appreciative element as well ) , but correlated with these purposes is another which par-takes of both , yet which is sufficiently distinctive to call for fur-ther comment . Religion has been studied and taught in a broader dimension by relating it to cultural forces which them-selves are either not directly religious in intent or which have cast religious convictions in more vividly appealing forms than sober discursive prose , propositions , and creeds can achieve . In some instances an attempt has been made to use religious values to integrate survey courses in Western culture or to serve as the basis of a general humanities course . In these courses religious beliefs and outlooks are seen as shaping and being shaped by // different cultures or aspects of Western civilization . Reports on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treating religious phenomena in their cultural milieux , but also indicate the dangers of superficial treatment . The effectiveness of courses of this type is diluted if they are taught at the introductory level , where students are likely to have insufficient acquaintance with religions and other areas of thought . Apparently such courses are more successful in doing justice to the rich complexity of cultural interplay after students have some semblance of mastery of the principal cultural elements . Other methods of showing the relation of religion to civilization are those in which personnel schooled in the field of religion and in another discipline are attached to departments where they are to show , where relevant , the religious factors involved in these disciplines , or where courses are offered within these departments serving the same purpose . In spite of the practical problems involved in the various methods by which this purpose has been worked out , there seems little doubt that there result a considerable enrichment and advancement in understanding not only of the role of religion in culture but of the nature of culture itself . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and government are brought into significant relation with religious belief and behavior the effect can be one of mutual illumination . One of the most important places at which the study and teaching of religion in relation to culture has been developed is in the area of literature , drama , and the fine arts . In recent years there has been a serious attempt made to bring these fields into closer union with that of religion . This has been due in part to reconceptions of the field of religion itself and in part to the increasing realization by scholars in other fields that the study of religion is highly relevant to their work . Henri Peyre , speaking // of studies in French literature , frankly admits that " the scholar 's equipment is frequently deficient today since theology has been a closed book to many researchers since the Fathers of the Church are seldom consulted and scholasticism is known but to a very few . " Proceedings of the Second Conference , Frank L. Weil Institute for Studies in Religion and the Humanities , chap . 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside departments of religion have moved in the direction of bridging gaps between the study of religion and the study of literature , drama , or art . Camus , Sartre , Kafka , Rouault , and Picasso have become familiar classroom figures in courses bearing the title religion . Even as the Confessions of Augustine has been a staple of history courses in Western civilization , the book of Job a part of comparative literature , or the study of Gothic cathedrals a component of art history , so now in turn Euripides , Sophocles , Shakespeare , Dostoevsky , Hawthorne , Joyce , Yeats , Fra Angelico , El Greco , Rembrandt , and Jackson Pollock are likely to turn up in religion courses or in books written by theologians . There are those who may complain at this breakdown of traditional provinces over which history , philosophy , art , or literature departments have long held sway , but their complaints are somewhat hollow . For years intracurricular " poaching " of this kind has been going on . Plato , for example , has long been taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world literature , as well as in religion . For decades , religion departments have watched the Bible disappear into literature courses , philosophy of religion into philosophy departments , Christian ethics into general ethics courses , and world religions into history courses of Eastern cultures . It is understandable that the " loss " of materials long held as a kind of private preserve by certain departments may be resented , and that the competence of the " poaching " department may be questioned . Yet clearly , so long as there are specific religious concerns expressed in 8o PURPOSES OF RELIGION INSTRUCTION literatures and art , and there are those who are competent to interpret them , no ironclad divisions for their treatment can be devised . The second focus for the purposes of instruction in religion is the student himself . Unquestionably , the majority of religion professors would agree that one of the motives which has drawn them to teach has been the opportunity to work with young men and women at an impressionable and creative period in their lives , and to bring them into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally moved in two directions : that of enlightening the general run of students whose attitudes may range from apathy or downright antipathy to that of extreme piety , and , secondarily , that of finding and helping to train those who may be committed to a religious vocation or to the teaching of religion . There is little doubt in the minds of religion teachers that the general student beginning studies in religion represents both a challenge and a source of frustration . He is abysmally ignorant . In spite of what churches , synagogues , preparatory schools , and summer camps have attempted , he enters the college classroom at a level of preparation which if found in English , mathematics , or history would consign him to pre-high school levels . He is usually ignorant of the Bible 's content or any intelligible way of understanding it ; he is ignorant of the teachings of his own religious tradition if any ; he has the scantest and vaguest notions of religious groups other than his own , and of world religions he has perhaps the slightest acquaintance by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He may have either closed his mind to religion on the basis of an unpleasant experience in family or church or opened it so widely that a jumble of ideas about the Bible , clergymen , the Ten Commandments , God , sacraments , and whatnot jostle each other about in his head . He has seldom seen religious ideas or // literatures dealt with in a systematic manner in an academic setting . His identification of religion has normally been with the institution of the church and its personnel , rather than the academic world . Since he has seldom had any rigorous education in religious matters , as distinct from preaching or indoctrination , he is surprised if not shocked to discover that scholars have been at work for centuries , producing books and interpreting ideas about religion , and that he is now expected to learn something of all this in a situation where piety or the lack thereof is no compensation for knowledge and the ability to think critically . The redeeming feature of this admittedly dark picture is the amazing quickness with which , given a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and curiosity , the student picks up competence and interest in the field . Sometimes its very novelty , in comparison with other subjects well worn with long handling in preparatory and high schools , proves a spur to achievement . If the most explicit purpose in teaching religion is simply to dispel ignorance , another purpose which the religion instructor pursues is a more " existential " one . This may be formulated in statements of this type : " To assist the student in coming to an understanding of himself in the light of a broadened and deepened understanding of the nature of religious orientations as found in his own and others ' cultures " or " To encourage the student to think with fairness and discrimination about his own religious beliefs and those of others , thus enabling him to formulate a comprehensive view of life which is not only intellectually defensible , and emotionally and ethically satisfying , but also possessed of the openness requisite for further growth in knowledge and appreciations . " This purpose has also been expressed as that of stimulating and calling forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either participate or refuse to participate in religious institutions and ex- // periences without defensiveness , irrationality , or dogmatism . " In all these statements the underlying assumption is that a student is not properly at grips with the study of religion unless he also , in a manner conformable to the aims of a liberalizing education , has confronted himself in some phase of the religious posture , whether it be influenced by Christian , Jewish , humanistic , or Oriental insights . Furthermore , it is presupposed that attitudes toward religion are educable , that a person can change his mind by new insights , new information , and criticism . In brief , it is assumed that religious convictions are not adamant , ingrown structures of the self . It is eventually pointless to defend any form of education pertaining to valuation which does not assume that the person being educated can in fact grow in discrimination and selfunderstanding . This is as true of poetry , art , or music as it is of religion . At last the learner must , and in fact does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even when explicit efforts are made to convince or persuade a student to certain religious viewpoints he does finally decide for himself . Hence the question is one of whether his instruction has presented him a sufficiently wide range of viable options and their criticisms to provide a context for intelligent commitment , and whether the instruction has provided an atmosphere of openness within which the student has been free to exercise his option in an unabashed and public fashion . The teaching of religion presupposes as the basis for this aspect of its work that whatever the content of belief may be , some posture of belief , conviction , or loyalty moves and directs men as they try to make sense of or find value in human experience . No matter how transient , fragmentary , or inexplicit the loyalties or commitments may be , they in fact constitute the living stuff of religions . They express themselves through social structures and movements which in turn play back into the intimate subjectivity of // personal convictions . Without this presupposition , the teaching of religion is in large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no paradigmatic experiences to which to refer , for understanding the religious behavior of others or oneself . The science teacher may " do " science in the laboratory ; the literature professor may have his students write a poem and thus in a sense " do " literature ; the language instructor may have his class " do " a language by using it ; the philosopher may have his students " do " philosophy by practicing philosophizing ; but the religion teacher finds that he and his students can not " do " religion in the same sense . He can not turn the classroom into a laboratory in worship or a studio of prayer . These characteristic forms of religious conviction must be left outside the academic gate . Visits to churches , synagogues , or studies of religious conditions in a community , or occasional lectures by competent representatives of various religious faiths at best only provide the most meager of opportunities for a participative knowledge of diverse religious traditions and practices . The only recognizably legitimate parallel to the scientists ' laboratory or field trip , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy , is an opportunity , provided at some point in the religion curriculum , for the student to come to grips with his own life posture , to identify to the best of his ability what he believes , to evaluate and defend what he believes in the light of increased knowledge and evaluative techniques developed by the study of religious concepts and practice . So long as the student deals with his own deepest concerns and not those which he believes to be agreeable to the instructor , and so long as the instructor 's aim is that of assisting the student to clarify and enrich his own beliefs , the purposes of liberal education are served . Even as sensitive instructors of humane letters or philosophy do not feel their task is done by teaching about their fields without effort to engage the student in the excitingly informative task of personal evalua- // tion and appreciation , so the religion teacher claims equal rights to do the same in his area . If interiorizing as well as criticism of values be an aim of humanistic learning , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the teaching of religion legitimately may provide for these practices within its own territory . The question is less whether such instruction is compatible with a liberal , humanistic education than it is whether an education which purports to be liberal can exclude this dimension of religion instruction . At this juncture the vexing and complex issue of " indoctrination " is bound to appear . 85 u4 6 &b'; THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION The highly charged issue of indoctrination is one that the religion professor meets perhaps more often than members of any other department of the university . Departments of economics , government , sociology , and philosophy have been subjected to the charge , but these attacks have seldom been sustained nor have they often been mounted from within the university itself . The religion professor , on the other hand , frequently finds himself from the outset looked upon as the only faculty member who by virtue of his field alone is likely to indoctrinate students . Efforts to dominate education by the state and secular pressure groups even in the recent past , abroad and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but past interference with the intellectual life by religious authorities continues to be regarded as a lively threat by the academic community . Even when historical precedent has not initiated suspicion , confused notions about the character of religion itself and the methods by which instruction and scholarship can be carried on in the field have engendered antagonism to its incorporation into liberal education . Those who maintain that instruction in religion automatically involves indoctrination in specific religious beliefs and attitudes consequently regard religion as totally incompatible with the purposes of a liberal arts education . Indoctrination is not a simple idea ; in the university setting , it appears in at least three forms . The first of these immediately springs to mind when the word is mentioned : a conscious attempt to bypass critical judgment in order to elicit a desired re- // sponse to certain ideas , beliefs , and attitudes . The essential methods of this form of indoctrination are the studied effort by the instructor to produce predetermined effects and the use of deliberate techniques for evasion of a critical response in the student . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wishes to produce and he must seek it inflexibly . The means he devises may be various : limiting discussion , disregarding views opposed to his own , restricting reading lists to those books which support his purposes , adopting an excessively polemical or authoritarian manner of presentation , or using ridicule or deprecating remarks about positions other than his own . It would seem that indoctrination of this type could be easily detected , but there are a number of accompanying features which stand in the way . The privacy of the classroom , one of the safeguards of the professor 's academic freedom , makes difficult the discovery of what a professor actually does when teaching . Furthermore , in a liberal arts college or university it would be rare indeed if anyone would confess that he is indoctrinating . The presumption is that no one , unless it be the religion professor , is indoctrinating . Few faculty members would admit that indoctrination takes place when ideas congenial to their own points of view are in question . Usually indoctrination is supposed to be taking place only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration . Thus in some cases the ideas themselves as well as the manner of presentation may play a part in determining what is considered to be indoctrination . In view of these difficulties it is all the more remarkable that there are those in the academic community who suppose that indoctrination is so obvious a fact that it can be detected without ever entering the classroom of the presumed offender . Indoctrination in the form described above , whatever the difficulties of its detection , constitutes a major evil in the university . The instructor who practices this kind of brainwashing // has failed to abide by the claims of the ethos of the free university which he is assumed as a man of moral integrity to have accepted when he entered upon a teaching career . His is a moral shortcoming which has infected not only his own university but the academic world at large , a tacit admission before his colleagues that he and his field can not stand the contest among ideas freely and honestly expressed in the arena provided by the university . And as important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract with the student 's legitimate demand for intellectual growth , which is shortchanged even when inherently valid ideas are introduced by means of indoctrination . If indoctrination of this type is a betrayal of the ground rules of the university , opposition to it is the responsibility of every member of the faculty . No exceptions or privileges can be granted to any field , and the possibility of its occurrence must be as sternly watched in philosophy , literature , or economics as in religion . Indoctrination in another form assumes a more subtle guise , recognition of which reveals how ambiguous the term itself is . The characteristic feature of all indoctrination remains that of bypassing the critical judgment of the student . But this can be done without forethought . Unconscious indoctrination consists of the impression the instructor makes upon the student by his personal characteristics or unspoken attitudes toward course materials . Any professor worth his salt presumably exudes a respect and enthusiasm for his whole field . He will probably , however , respond with more vitality and interest to some features of it than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular viewpoint , he may unwittingly lead the student to attach unjustified significance to it . Conversely , by the brevity of treatment or dullness of presentation he gives to some periods of history or philosopher 's ideas , he may , without conscious intent , fasten in the student 's mind the notion that they are unworthy // of serious treatment . Thus the instructor 's personal response to materials may decisively affect the student 's understanding and appreciation of them although no conscious effort has been made to influence the student in a certain direction . Other variations of unconscious indoctrination occur . The materials studied may prove so engaging to the student that in spite of the professor 's efforts to preserve an evenhanded treat-ment of them the student uncritically accepts them and identi-fies himself emotionally with their viewpoints . A professor studying the writings of Kierkegaard or Kafka with his class may even be overtly unsympathetic to the intense subjectivity found in their pages , but the writing itself may so deeply enter into the student 's consciousness that no amount of criticism will dislodge the impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professor may lend such an air of authority to his comments that even his most trivial observations may determine the student 's conception of the field or influence him in his voca-tional choices . ' This type of indoctrination seems inescapable , and some feel that its effects in the form of attracting students to various fields and courses which they may otherwise have put aside is not alto-gether baneful . By the same token , however , students may avoid studies which have great value . Undoubtedly ideas gain impressive power when they seep into the undergraduate 's mind unchallenged at the time by critical assessment and when no conscious effort is being made for indoctrination . It is also probably true that attempts to deny faculty members the right to be themselves in the classroom are futile and wrongheaded . Indoctrination carried on in this way will probably remain a // feature of university life whether for good or ill . All that can be asked is that professors not use their status or personal characteristics as a way of unduly shortcircuiting the critical process and that all self-conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it deserves . A third form of indoctrination involves paradox . The publicly professed aims of liberal education usually include reference to values ? not only knowledge of them , but the incorporation of them as habits of mind and outlook for the students . Resounding statements on the purpose of education as the training of the mind are paralleled by announcements of equally compelling goals which relate the human person to definite roles desired by society . We educate for citizenship in a democracy rather than in an autocracy , for knowledgeable participation in a complex , mixed economic system rather than in a government-controlled economy . In the humanities we seek to develop discriminating tastes in literature , the arts , and music , and reflective practice in philosophy and religion . Much of what is said and written about the appreciative aspect of education is another way of affirming that the educational task can not approach finality until the student has come to some value commitments which have emerged out of doubts , confusion , questionings , and debate . It is assumed as a goal and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value discrimination , and that it must develop in the depth of the human personality . However , doubt persists about an education which moves in these directions because it is not clear how value formation and commitments can come about without running the dangers pointed out in connection with the two types of indoctrination mentioned above . Values seem to be both taught and caught , as the expression runs . Thus we find the curious circumstance that even with the loftiest aims of an education which seeks liberalization of the mind there also runs the explicit goal of in- // fluencing the student by some fairly definite preferences which the academic community holds to be desirable . In a sense , these preferences are not debatable , since they form the essential context in which any debate about educational purpose is placed . That freedom of the mind is better than a closed mind , that knowledge is superior to ignorance , that informed rather than emotional , snap judgments are to be sought , that free contests of conflicting ideas are preferable to rigidly prescribed conclusions , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opinion , that honesty rather than deceit is the basis of the academic enterprise ? such preferences are the subsoil of education known at its best , and to the development of them education directs its energies . But is the inculcation of these preferences and the largely tacit acceptance of them as goals a form of indoctrination ? Some undoubtedly would deny that the word indoctrination can be properly used in this connection . They would point out that the goals or presuppositions are in clear contradiction to the nature of indoctrination as understood in its first form and that no process of inculcating them can be regarded as indoctrination . So long as free debate goes on about these goals and presuppositions and so long as the achievement of them as aims is carried on without resort to methods which bypass critical assessment , the question of indoctrination does not arise . On the other hand , there are some indications that indoctrination is involved . True , these preferences may be debated openly , but success in justifying them ultimately depends upon presupposing them in order for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ validity is made clear in the debate rather than by its conclusion . They are accepted as the basis of the debate rather than its end . They are open to debate only in terms of themselves and as such are not seriously in question at any point . As in the case of indoctrination of the first type , the presupposi-9r UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION tions and goals to be achieved are accepted or known in advance . They are not the results of a free-for-all discussion , but the preferred values of a community which defines itself by reference to them . They can not be disputed except on some other ground which by definition is unacceptable to that community . Thus , for example , indoctrination in its most obvious form is counted to be wrong although the viewpoint for which the indoctrination takes place may itself be valid . But the method of indoctrination itself acts against the accepted principle of the free encounter of ideas which is one of the norms of the academic community . This observation , incidentally , enables us to understand that indoctrination has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions alone . It can freely attach itself to any field and any shade of opinion or knowledge . Here then another aspect of indoctrination shows itself . If we take seriously the announced aims of most colleges , discussion about values is not the sole goal of education . The achievement of certain value attitudes by the student is given high priority . But are not the achievements of these preferences in fact carried out often by means which do bypass the critical functions of the student ? Are they not inculcated , and intended to be so , not simply by talking about them and lecturing upon their advantages but by the " spirit " of the campus and by the behavior and attitudes of faculty members who are committed to them ? These preferences in some way it is hoped and expected will be internalized by the student , and not a little academic effort is expended , if only in an extracurricular manner , to this end . The adoption of these preferences may come as a by-product of the educational process , but it may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferences persuasively before the student . Sometimes deliberate intent , a characteristic of indoctrination , may be lacking , but it is not un- // common to find even this feature in the educative process . Education in any recognizable form therefore seems to involve something more than the acquisition of knowledge . It publicly announces that decision , commitment , or acceptance of values which enter into the very texture of the student 's life are also its concern . But this is to say again that education necessarily treads close to the shadowy line which divides it from indoctrination . The preceding analysis may give pause to the facile use of the term indoctrination . Indoctrination is not a simple idea ; it does not have peculiar affinities only with certain viewpoints or fields ; it is less easily detected and proved than some have assumed ; it is not easily eradicated in any of its forms from the university ; it enjoys an anomalous connection with the valuational goals and presuppositions of education ; and it is a term which itself too easily may become indoctrinational when used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions about which men disagree . The university mind is at one in repudiating it in its most patent form , but normally lives in relative peace with its less obvious but no less pervasive forms . Consequently the issue for religion is usually posed as one of indoctrination of the type first mentioned rather than the second and third types . The virtue opposed to the vice of indoctrination is custornarily called objectivity . It carries with it a sense of openness to all points of view , a refusal to distort evidence willfully or to twist arguments to preconceived ends . It suggests a resolute neutralism as to the value of what is being taught and a disengaged , nonparticipative attitude on the part of the instructor . It is the safeguard against bias and prejudice , and as such ranks very high in the hierarchy of values accepted by the university . It is often praised as the prime requisite of a liberal education . It brings before the university mind the image of the scientist in the laboratory , his mind freed of all preconceptions , simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as such it hovers over the academic scene as an abstract model . As a rule of thumb , objectivity in this rather straightforward sense is the obvious and effective counteragent to indoctrination . As the opponent of conscious efforts to bend students ' minds to that of the instructor , the value of objectivity can not be overestimated . It safeguards younger , more impressionable minds from the tyranny of older and more prestigious ones . When expressed in the form of " teaching about " the subject , it represents the absolute , minimal requirement of instruction in any field . The ideal of objectivity , however , may cloak pitfalls of its own . Since in its pure form objectivity is extraordinarily difficult to achieve , it may appear on the academic scene as a pose without substance . In a specious form it may cover the timidity or the unwillingness of the instructor to show his own engagement with the materials at hand . At a deeper level it may be a posture consciously assumed to hide intellectual laziness or to defend the validity of the instructor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its ideal form necessarily a virtue which blankets all education . There are some aspects of human knowledge , especially to be found among the humanities , which derive only from a participative attitude on the part of the instructor and the student . The place of what may be called subjective understanding , or understanding from " within " a position , constitutes no less an important element in liberal education than does objective understanding in the narrower sense . To place oneself , if only imaginatively and temporarily , within a particular philosophical perspective , religious system , artistic or literary viewpoint may be the only way to come truly to intellectual grips with these positions . Some of the most exciting teaching which has been done has been carried through in this manner , and certainly if evaluative // work of any substantial worth is to be encouraged , the role of subjective understanding can not be dismissed on the grounds that it fails to accord with an abstract model of objectivity . A genuinely effective objectivity would seem to call not for an uncommitted professor without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lackluster neuter whose posturing seldom deceives students in any case , but one who with as full recognition of his commitments and presuppositions as human nature permits is willing to place them in the public arena and to change them in the light of the insights he receives in the battle of ideas which is bound to ensue . Then education takes on life and becomes surcharged with enthusiasm about issues which are held by someone in particular rather than by some faceless author of a text or a remote historical personage . Certainly , one of the great experiences to which every student is entitled is to hear a first-rate mind at work on a subject of which it is master and about which it has profound convictions . Equally important should be the opportunity provided for the meeting with a mind which vigorously but without rancor disputes the passage of the student 's ideas rather than lets them pass with bland permissiveness . Objectivity should not mean in all cases a disengaged approach to materials and issues of importance . Rather it should make place for the expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human life itself . So long as there is no attempt made , intellectually or psychologically , to cudgel the student into conformity with the beliefs held by the professor , the threat of indoctrination is fully met by an objectivity so conceived . The pertinence of the preceding discussion to the question of religion instruction should be clear . The charge of indoctrination as made against religion as an academic field reveals the same ambiguities of meaning as it does when made against any field of study . But in the case of religion there seems to be an // uncommon virulence in the charge , making it less easily swept aside by the defender than when it is lodged against other fields . Furthermore , it is a charge which not only arises within the precincts of the university but also among leaders and members of religious groups . The teaching of religion in the university is not greeted with universal approval by churchmen . Some think that religion instruction is destructive of the distinctive tenets of their faith as taught to their young people , and they see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as understood in their terms . The typical grounds alleged for the charge of indoctrination as made by this group are these : Students have returned from college skeptical of the viewpoints , doctrines , and practices of their home church or synagogue . They have been demoralized personally by the loss of their faith , and nothing positive has been put in its place . Instructors in religion have taken unfair advantage of the innocence , ignorance , and gullibility of students by influencing them toward non-Christian or non-Jewish ideas and have undercut their belief in God , the Bible , Jesus Christ , and the church . By their unceasing analysis of the Bible and religious notions , they have left the student adrift . In their practice of an " objective " or " neutral " attitude toward religious matters , professors have left the impression that all religious options are equally valid or equally invalid . Religion instructors are not themselves convinced Christians or Jews and are therefore unsympathetic to the readings of Christian or Jewish faith . Therefore , it would be better if churches and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often concurred in by the more secular-minded on other grounds ? since only distortion can be expected when instruction takes place within the general academic world . In brief , indoctrination against Christianity or Judaism has been taking place under the guise of scholarly instruction . // Except in rigidly controlled denominational colleges , charges of this kind probably bear less weight with the religion professor than those made by his secular colleagues . Nevertheless , answers have been offered . While it may be admitted that a certain amount of teaching does indulge in iconoclasm for its own sake , the majority of teachers would probably hotly deny that they have intentionally been engaged in indoctrinating students against family and church religious traditions . They would assert that change and development in religious ideas is desirable , and that although some of that change may come through taking religion courses , some of it comes from the campus atmosphere and other courses . Responsibility for the student 's faith , they feel , can not properly be placed on the religion professor . After all , the student psychologically is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from whatever source with ideas at variance with his former beliefs is apt to be unsettling . Nor is it evident that beliefs held by the student when he comes to the classroom are inherently valid or sacrosanct or that churches have the right to attempt to forestall criticism of them . Furthermore , the instructor may insist that his is not the function of the preacher or pastor , but that of the teacher , and that , in the open market of ideas provided by the university , religious beliefs must take their chances along with other beliefs . He may point to those instances where he is convinced that students have deepened and broadened their religious convictions rather than lost them . And in the last analysis , he may argue that if indoctrination has been charged against him the charge is supportable only by evaluation of his work on academic grounds , not by tests established by religious bodies external to the institution where he does his work . The question is solely one of academic or educational competence , not one of ecclesiastical affiliation or effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // sting is that made by certain members of the academic community . No one word accurately and fully describes the attitudes of this group , but in the main it is composed of those who are confident that they possess a fair degree of objectivity in their own work , who are dedicated to the preservation of the intellectual freedom of the university , and whose conceptions of religion are deeply infected by ideas current in the Enlightenment . They may be called secularists ? although some religion professors covet this term for their own approach to the study of religion and are not inclined to use it in a pejorative sense . A fair example of a moderate statement of the secularist position may be found in Professor Morton White 's book , Religion , . Politics and the Higher Learning . Professor White opposes instruction in religion in a secular undergraduate college because it involves the danger of special pleading . He sees a place for teaching about religion , although apparently he also has some reservations on this score . Commitment to a religious position , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the instructor , and he does not suppose that all religion professors will misuse their classrooms . But he suggests that other types of commitment are less likely to lead to indoctrination than those of a religious nature . Religion , Politics and the Higher Learning , chaps . 8 and 9 ( Harvard , 1959 ) ; see also John A. Hutchison 's review of White 's book and the author 's reply , Union Seminary Quarterly Review , XVI , 4 , 397 ff . White 's distinction between teaching in religion and teaching about religion is plausible but it is one which , although simple and attractive , may prove misleading and as difficult to maintain as it is in philosophy , art , or literature . It validly represents one aspect of the religion professor 's task , but it fails as a neat and comprehensive solution of the problem of indoctrination . A more severe expression of the charge of indoctrination is one which regards all teaching of religion as necessarily in- // volved , even when conscious intent is lacking , with the inculcation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand the rigorous test of intellectual conflict in the university . In an even more suspicious mood , there are some who charge the teaching of religion with being an illicit smuggling into the academic world of ideas and attitudes which will ultimately subvert the free intercourse of ideas for which liberal education stands . Instruction in or about religion , in their opinion , is a method of accomplishing for the churches what they have failed to do for themselves , namely , to indoctrinate their young people with their beliefs , in this case , under the guise of a respectable college education . Unfortunately , critics of this type seldom seem to be aware that religious groups may be equally suspicious of religion professors for precisely the opposite reasons . Innumerable disclaimers of intent to indoctrinate have been made by religion professors and those who support their position . Father Thomas C. Donlan writes : " A supine acceptance of indoctrination has no more to do with virtue than it has to do with learning , and that is nothing at all . " Theology in the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Priory , 1961 ) , p. 36 . John C. Meng , also a Roman Catholic , insists on the need for objectivity in scholarship and in the university . " Remove objectivity from scholarship , " he writes , " and you kill scholarship . Objectivity ? the cold , hard , unbiased assessment of an idea or a fact for what it is worth ? is the soul of scholarship . . . . No Catholic scholar and no Catholic university worthy of its title should place denominational fences around the flow of ideas or facts . " " American Thought : Contribution of Catholic Thought and Thinkers , " Bulletin of the National Catholic Educational Association , LIII ( August 1956 ) . Similar vigorous protests against indoctrination and defenses of university standards have been made by Protestants and those sympathetic to their tradition . Professor Virginia Corwin at- // tempts carefully to mark the difference between education and indoctrination when she suggests that " religion by its very nature may involve the student in that further step of becoming a participant , committed to religious faith and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . But he must take this further step by himself . . . . This must be a by-product of classroom teaching , not its end . " " The Teaching of Religion " in Liberal Learning and Religion , ed . A. N. Wilder ( Harper , 1951 ) , pp. 183-84 . ) Statements in this vein have been published for the last three decades at least , but apparently they have yet to be accepted at face value . The notion that religion instruction is irremediably biased still seems to rule the minds of many of the secularistic group . They apparently find it well-nigh impossible to understand the simple distinction between the two uses of the term religion , employed in the university setting as a referent to the field of study and commonly applied in nonacademic circles to a system of belief and practice , the activity itself . The confusion of the words religion and religious causes the critic to convert the idea of teaching religion into the notion of religious teaching . Yet the field of religion involves numerous courses which call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as demanding and objective as anything found in other fields . Even when this is brought to the critic 's attention , he may still insist that the ultimate object of these accessory disciplines is somehow to persuade students of the validity of certain religious ideas without recourse to critical , objective considerations . Or he appeals to what seems to him to permit no successful contradiction , namely , that there are several major religious traditions in the world , and that consequently the teaching of them , if it is to be done well , must be done by a partisan of each . If it be asserted on the contrary that the religion instructor is as capable of presenting in an academically I00 THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION respectable fashion more than one viewpoint or tradition , as is a professor of government , history , or economics , the comment may be met with a knowing look and the observation that " after all , religion is different . " This seems to be a way of saying that the critic , who may never have studied religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in religion instruction and the field than the trained instructor himself . ' Thus , the charge of indoctrination may expand into questions of competence or , at worst , questions of the motives of the reli-gion professor . In replying to these charges the religion professor finds him-self at a disadvantage at several points . He must admit at the outset that there are instructors who see their task as that of indoctrination , of bringing students around to certain religious beliefs and attitudes regarded as indispensable . They may not call their work indoctrination , but in one way or another this is the way they conceive their function as agents of a religious tradition or body . The professor who denies the charges further realizes that some of his materials deal with dimensions of hu-man experience which easily lend themselves to the bypassing of the critical faculties . He also knows that to answer the charge of indoctrination he can not violate professional eti-quette by inviting his critic into his classroom to see how in fact he does treat differing religious viewpoints critically and con-structively . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the faculty as the one most likely to be IOI UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION guilty of indoctrination that out of sheer weariness with the charge he may be tempted to retire to the ground of the " tu quoque " argument , evidence for which is no more difficult to gather than that used against him . ' But this would only be to admit the charge rather than to answer it . He might take the position , which is not without validity , that indoctrination against the teaching and study of religion rather than candid examination of its claims is often found in the university , since indoctrination , as we have seen , can work in the interest of more than one opinion . But this also might prove to be a fruit-less debate because of the ambiguous character of indoctrination itself . In the final instance he patently must exhibit in his own professional conduct a high respect for the ideal of the free spirit of the university , and he must turn aside the charge of indoctrination as a blanket accusation by substantial argument . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that the critic often conducts his case without benefit of informa-tion as to what has been going on in the field of religion . He may be ignorant of the quality of graduate training through which the instructor has passed , a training which generally does not suffer by comparison in either breadth or depth with that of other fields . ' He may seldom , if ever , read the journals IO2 THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION and books in the field where the give and take of scholarly debate goes on across and within denominational lines . He is often unacquainted with the professional societies in which many religious viewpoints are presented and where interchange seldom follows the lines of religious affiliation . He may be unaware of the degree to which scholars cooperate across religious lines or of the way in which religion studies progress in various areas and how positions change or are surrendered under the impact of new insights . Several years ago , a careful study of representative textbooks in various fields indicated how limited and how inaccurate were the portrayals of religion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was neglected when it was called for by the context . The editor of the study commented : " The lightness of touch and even ignorance with which intellectual issues having a religious bearing of import are dealt with would seem little less than astonishing when the expansion of scholarship in general is taken into account . Moreover , the hostility to religion revealed in some of the textbooks described becomes perhaps most effective when it is implied or suggested through the aggressive development of a positivistic attitude . " College Reading and Religion : A Survey of College Reading Materials ( Yale , 1948 ) , p. x . ) A series of consultations with faculty members also revealed a dreary picture of the lack of intellectual sophistication respecting religion in the academic world . Dr. Howard Jefferson was moved to conclude that " the reports of the consultants make abundantly clear that a substantial number of college teachers are religiously naive and in some cases they hover on the brink of religious illiteracy . " The Teaching of Religion in American Higher Education , ed . Christian Gauss ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a similar vein , Dr. Helen C. White comments that " we still have in intellectual circles a widespread suspicion of theology with an equally // widespread ignorance of what it is all about . " Religion and the State University , ed . E. A. Walter ( U. of Michigan , 1958 ) , . p. 90 . ) These judgments are not examples of " name calling , " but represent the sober opinion of those who have for a considerable period of time dealt with the problems of religion in higher education . Moreover , it should be made clear to the critics that much goes on within the field which is not essentially religious in character . The study of the prophet Isaiah , for example , calls for attention to the political and military aspirations of Assyria , Syria , and Egypt ; the study of the religious life of America calls for as much attention to industrialization , emigration , and urbanization as any similar course in history ; a course in New Testament calls for the use of the methods of textual and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this ; a course in the philosophy of religion or contemporary theological trends demands as much discriminating and concentrated attention as courses offered in philosophy proper ; a course in Christian ethics calls for understanding of sociological , economic , and political factors . The point to be insisted upon is simply that the religion instructor is not at all times handling volatile materials which are ever ready to explode into indoctrination . It is also important to note that since no one instructor can effectively teach all the areas which the designation religion encompasses , there are some professors who seldom get close to potentially indoctrinational materials . When course materials do involve value considerations , especially those of a philosophical and theological type , it has not been impossible to treat them objectively and descriptively and the value judgments made in these courses have not been notably marked by bias and prejudice . As one commentator has put it : " It has been demonstrated that it is possible to treat the ma- // terials of religion in such a way as to produce in students a genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with regard to their own faiths , and an intelligent tolerance of others . " The Teaching of Religion in American Higher Education , p. 71.1 Indeed , precisely because the threat of indoctrination lowers over the religion instructor he may fall into the opposite danger of " leaning over backwards " to be as objective as possible both in descriptive presentation and in evaluation . Nor should it be forgotten that there is no simple and direct relation between the study of materials weighted with value considerations and the appropriation of these values by the student mind . Many a professor of literature can testify that the study of great literature does not guarantee that its ennobling visions will become the possession of students . And the case is no different in the teaching of the literary deposits of man 's religious consciousness such as the Bible , the Upani-shads , the Analects of Confucius , the Confessions of Augustine , the Summas of Aquinas , the writings of mystics , or the Dog-matics of Barth . It might even be said that the dangers of in-doctrination are considerably lessened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students when matters of religious import are discussed , the possibility of which is height-ened by the fact that few student bodies are monolithic in religious persuasion . ' Insofar as the charge of indoctrination is based upon simple ignorance or oversight of what is being done in teaching and scholarship in religion , the accusation is without merit . If the idea that " everyone " knows what religion is , and is therefore competent to pass judgment on the nature and limitations of // religion instruction and scholarship , were used in reference to any other academic area , it would be laughed off the boards . The notion that , since religious belief and practice are widespread , the knowledge of religion and its disciplined study are equally widespread has for too long dominated certain academic circles in their approach to the problem of indoctrination . The charge of indoctrination does not always stem from ignorance or oversight . The crux of indoctrination for some critics lies in the problem of commitment itself . With ample justification it is urged that religion , the activity itself , involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a being , the danger of a closed mind appears in the form of what is glibly known as " dogmatism . " The teacher of religion who holds such a point of view , it is contended , inevitably will fail to approach his studies with the same candor and fairness that mark the secularist 's approach to his materials . Stated in these plain terms , there is no question about the desirability of excluding religion from higher education . But there is another aspect of the problem which carries beyond that of the threat of a biased or closed mind . Certainly religious commitment on the part of a professor need not be an unmitigated evil if at the same time he is able to conduct his work within the intellectual framework laid out by the university . But an additional danger does appear when any attempt is made to make one form of religious commitment the precondition for instruction in religion or when a certain type of commitment is enforced in some way upon the college or university as a whole . Thus it is not commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence by some authority that only a certain kind of religious commitment be admitted to the institution . Professor White has stated this problem of commitment most clearly . " Creative work in any field is impossible without io6 THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION the adoption of a set of beliefs and attitudes and therefore it is not likely that a man who has no firmly held convictions or deep feelings about the problems of his field will come to anything whether he be a theologian , philosopher or historian . " White goes on to suggest that theology by historical precedent has often insisted upon certain beliefs which must be held . " The history of scholarship and teaching , especially in theology , has shown the danger of codifying and calcifying the doctrines that a man must hold . " He concludes : " Every creative scholar does and should begin with certain basic beliefs and commitments , but any attempt to legislate what they should be is bound to imperil our scholarly tradition and educational system . " Morton White , op. cit. , p. zoo . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The crucial importance of Professor White 's remarks lies in his understanding that commitment as such is no barrier to academic excellence , and that in fact it is the sine qua non of competence in scholarship and teaching . Whether the pressure to uniformity of belief in theology is as great a threat as he implies , however , might fairly be questioned . If commitment as such is not a danger to the university , why then has it often been placed at the center of the problem of indoctrination in respect to religion ? In part because statements by church leaders have made the university suspicious of their motives in introducing religion into the curriculum . It has been previously noted that the rise in interest for offering religion studies was due partially to the desire to offset secularism , fragmentation of curriculums , and to strengthen the moral and spiritual fiber of America . But this is to say that religion then comes to the university not as an intellectual enterprise among others sharing the responsibilities of the institution , but as a foreign agent bent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own conceptions of the meanings of human life . It represents social groups outside the university . I07 UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION Distrust of the purposes with which religion is proposed as an academic subject also arises when reputable scholars insist that it can only be taught by representatives of Roman Catholicism , Protestantism , and Judaism ? as though religion as an academic field were coterminous with these three traditions or that religious commitment necessarily is to be identified with commit-ment to an institution . ' Nor is concern about the motives of religion instruction alleviated when interpretations of the relation of religion and education in denominational institutions are set forth so as to suggest that certain religious bodies alone possess a truth which is incompatible with the spirit of other institutions of higher learning . Thus Thomas J. Higgins , S. J. , argues that Catholic leaders can only come from Catholic colleges and reminds his readers that Canon 1374 of his church " forbids under pain of mortal sin the attendance of a Catholic at a non-Catholic school , without explicit permission of his Ordinary . " " Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature , " he adds , " it will be our own fault if we fail to breed leaders . " Quoted in American Catholicism and the Intellectual Ideal , ed . F. L. Christ and G. E. Sherry ( Appleton , 1961 ) , p. 107.1 In a more liberal mood , Edward B. Rooney , S. J. , observes that " the only limitations that Catholics will put on freedom , re-search , publication and teaching are the limitations of truth it-self and sound moral principles . " Ibid. , p. 124.1 But even in this statement one detects the influence of a religious commit-ment which by determining the " limitations of truth and sound moral principles " might block out the freedom which the uni-versity cherishes . Protestant authorities may not have been as I08 THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION forthright in their statements about the relation of religion to education in their institutions , but conformity in belief or adherence to a particular ecclesiastical body is not an unknown ideal in some of their colleges . The question is not whether a religious body is free to inculcate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so is part of American religious freedom . Whether such institutions should be recognized as liberal arts colleges is another question about which many would have doubts . What is significant in the present context is the impression made upon the university world at large when religious authorities and educators offer interpretations which , although they may be acceptable within their own institutions , confirm the worst fears about religion instruction when it is proposed that such instruction be offered in private , secular , or state institutions . Commitment on the part of an instructor in religion then becomes a focal point of concern . Whatever threat commitment offers to the university seems to lie in two intertwined factors , the content of the commitment and the manner in which the commitment is held . Some religious commitments generally regarded as narrow may be held with such intensity as to make impossible the fair treatment of other viewpoints , especially those of an agnostic or atheist . Similar ideas , on the other hand , may be held in ways that illuminate opposing viewpoints and come into fruitful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some holding extremely liberal views maintain them with a rigidity which makes it impossible for their holder to understand views of a narrower compass , while others accepting the same beliefs maintain a spirit of openness which invites the freest possible communication . It would seem then that it is not simply the narrowness or breadth of the content of belief which determines the possible danger of indoctrination , but the manner in which // such views are held . It is possible ? to take an overly simple example ? to believe in a supernatural deity whose power and knowledge are absolute and unlimited except by the principle of noncontradiction . The person holding this belief may maintain it against all comers with fanatical zeal ; he may regard every doubt expressed about its existence as a personal affront not only to the god in which he believes but to himself ; his manner of teaching becomes infected with a defensiveness which staves off all rational inquiry , and he may feel the day wasted which does not see another student won to his point of view . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another instructor 's commitment , but his interpretations and reactions may be quite different . His is a notion of deity whose absoluteness renders relative all knowledge and earthly realities including religious knowledge itself ; he is less concerned to defend his conception of deity than to explain it , to entertain questions and arguments about it , and to show how his view of deity better illuminates other beliefs and viewpoints than its alternatives . He is able to enter fully into the academic enterprise not as a propagandist but as one who from a particular vantage point can contribute understanding of the meaning of human existence . He finds a freedom for his own intellectual endeavors both by virtue of his view of god and the acceptance of the standards of the university community to which his commitment has led him . His motives for the acceptance of the free spirit of the university may be different from those of his secular colleague , but his adherence and defense of it are as firm and resolute . From such a commitment there need be no fear of indoctrination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion professor holds religious convictions of the type referred to . There are instructors whose interest in various aspects of the field of religion is ruled not by religious but by intellectual motivations . IIO THE PROBLEM OF INDOCTRINATION The field is one which holds interest for them in the same way as history or philosophy does for others . They find satisfaction in the study of it and in the sharing of their insights with others . Their commitment is only to the general goals of humanistic education , and their private convictions may be reserved to a separate compartment of their lives just in the same degree as they are by scholars in other fields . Probably the number of such instructors is small and it is no more likely that their convictions at all points are rigidly prevented from entering into contact with their materials than are those of a similar persuasion in other fields . But professors of this type are to be found in the field of religion serving as successful teachers and scholars . Again , the threat of indoctrination by them would seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charge of indoctrination can be sustained against religion teachers in some instances , but it has also been pointed out that indoctrination is not a danger inherent in the teaching or study of religion itself . The supposition that the religion instructors may justly be singled out as more prone to indoctrinate than other faculty members is gratuitous , since suspicion of motive is neither evidence nor proof of the charge . There is enough evidence to show that religion professors are able to handle without distortion and prejudicial treatment controversial subjects upon which they may have the deepest convictions . By virtue of training and sensitivity to their position as faculty members they have been able to show their allegiance to the ideal of free intellectual interchange . Although the professor can not insist on a preferred position because of the high importance he attributes to his field , he must insist that he be free to handle his materials even in their valuational aspects and to function as a teacher to the fullest range of his abilities without the constrictive pressures of some dominant campus ideology . III @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in American society is promised to individuals because they are citizens , not because they are members of this or that church . Religion and American Society ( The Fund for the Republic , Inc. , 1961 ) , p. 18.1 So the religion professor derives his freedom to teach because of his " citizenship " in the academic community , not because of his adherence to certain religious ideas or membership in a religious body . His right to challenge alternative positions within the bounds of that citizenship can not properly be disputed . His commitments as a religious person can not be used as the grounds for barring him from the university . All that is at stake is his competence and his faithful observation of those principles which govern the treatment of evidence and argument within the academic community . If his religious commitments are demonstrably at odds with those of the university , he has no place in it . But it may be that his religious convictions , when introduced into the pattern of academic discourse , will provide rich contributions to the unending search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF RELIGION INSTRUCTION AND THEIR EVALUATION The modern university or college builds its educational program on the departmental system . Various rationales have been offered for this arrangement . It provides an orderliness to human learning without which the administration of higher education would become more unwieldy and cumbersome than it already is . It makes possible , as no other system can , the concentration of study and teaching in a particular area in the absence of which specialization and its rewards would flag and the entire field of higher education would be a confused and amateurish affair guided by men who were jacks of all trades and masters of none . Moreover , the system has behind it the power of tradition . Critics from time to time have challenged its effectiveness and the arbitrary limits which it places upon subject matter , but departments seem to be a fixed feature of the academic scene . Seldom is the existence of departments of classics , literature , or philosophy challenged , although the materials with which they deal touch upon a wide range of human experiences which tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human concerns and the materials arising from them are not taken as a guide to the organization of the modern university . The departmental system , whatever its faults , remains the principal method by which educational purposes are carried out . Other humanistic disciplines are stabilized as departments , but religion is in an anomalous position . In the main it is taught // within a department , usually within the division of the humanities , less often in the social sciences . It has been estimated that all church-related colleges , over half of all colleges , and about 45 per cent of state colleges and universities employ the departmental method for teaching religion . Judged solely on the basis of numbers of departments , religion would seem to have found its place in the collegiate structure . But it is also taught by other arrangements , and from this state of affairs arises doubt about the validity of the departmental approach . In earlier days special responsibility for instruction in religion and morals often rested upon the president and Bible instructors in the college . The teaching of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mastery of which was necessary to a liberal education , than as a means of lifting and maintaining the religious tone of the campus . The early decades of the twentieth century saw the beginnings of a trend which separated the practice of religion from instruction in it . This transition , by no means as yet complete , was marked by a more resolute and self-conscious effort to set the teaching of religion within the departmental structure . Sometimes joint departments of religion and philosophy were developed on the supposition that both offered culminative insights into life 's meaning and that they shared certain methods and content . This alliance , once so fruitful , still is to be found in some colleges , but in more recent days it has become noticeably frayed . Each field has emphasized certain technical features of its respective provinces and both have declined increasingly to serve as campus morale agencies . Philosophy , under the impact of analytical and positivistic views , has moved away from the development of world or life orientations and in some quarters shows dwindling enthusiasm , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and theology . Similarly , religion has increased its emphasis on the technicalities of biblical study and has stressed I14 STRUCTURES OF RELIGION INSTRUCTION the importance of historical subjects . Often its theological insights have moved in directions diametrically opposed to those found in philosophy , and the result has been a mutual divorce of the two fields which is now lamented by many . The increasing autonomy of the religion department has also reflected the desire of religion professors and administrators to establish the study and teaching of religion on grounds of independent , intellectual equality with other disciplines . It has come to be understood that religion can not be satisfactorily treated as a mere addendum to other fields of inquiry , but must be taken seriously as a province of intellectual inquiry in its own right . Thus , for example , a committee at Princeton University , in recommending the establishment of religion studies in that institution stated : " It religion ) is an independent power , the study of which is worthy of an independent place in the curriculum along with the other humanities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Religious Education " ( Princeton , 1935 ) , p. 2 . ) To execute this purpose at any institution has called for trained specialists in the various subdivisions of the field . Thus the development of religion in the departmental form has in turn given new impetus to the development of highly trained personnel to staff religion departments . The teaching of religion is not confined to religion departments . Probably no other field appears at so many places in the curriculum and in so many arrangements as does religion . Certainly its right to departmental treatment is anything but settled . Some educators and professors of religion argue that religious attitudes and beliefs are so closely intertwined with other human concerns that it should be taught only in connection with those departments where these concerns are treated . Any other manner of instruction would distort the vital relationship of religion to life interests . Thus as a matter of academic policy // the components which ordinarily constitute the offerings of a religion department are parceled out to other departments and are sometimes controlled by them . A committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the work in some cases . The practice of teaching religion through other departments sometimes has been resorted to on grounds of expediency or because legal restrictions forbid the establish-ment of a religion department . This approach most naturally is employed in publicly supported institutions . As a whole , this approach to the teaching of religion might be called nondepart-mental , since a religion department is not involved , but since other departments do take up the task it is preferable to refer to it as the diffusionist approach . Instruction in religion also takes place in the university even when there is no conscious planning . Courses which in some instances would be grouped within a religion department are often offered in other departments . Courses in Hindu or Bud-dhist thought may be taught in a department of Oriental stud-ies ; courses in the literature of the Bible appear in English literature departments ; courses in medieval and Reformation thought are not uncommon in history departments . Thus cer-tain aspects of the field may be taught without benefit of title or department . Furthermore in certain institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the philosophy curriculum might , if placed within a private or Protestant-related college , be counted as religion courses . ' The diffusionist method of teaching religion then falls roughly into two categories : the structured form in which in-struction is carried out for reasons of academic policy or on the // basis of legal restriction , and the unstructured form in which teaching occurs because it naturally arises out of the materials treated in a department . The former method , with certain variations , is used at Stanford University , the University of Michigan , and Washington University in St. Louis . The latter may be found in many state universities . The departmental and diffusionist approaches presuppose that religion is an integral part of the university structure . The teaching is done from a nonsectarian position , and credit is granted for the work . But there are still other structures which have been used in religion instruction , largely due to sectarian and legal pressures . The first of these is the cooperative pattern in which a school of religion is established in connection with a university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university . The school is largely , if not entirely , supported by private funds , manned by teachers from the several religious traditions , and supervised by a joint board composed of representatives of these religious faiths . Courses offered by the several faiths are given credit in the university , which may retain academic supervision , and may , as in the case of the School of Religion at the State University of Iowa , even finance certain aspects of the program . At this institution the school operates essentially as a department of the college of liberal arts , although it is not in all respects an integral part of the university . In some universities , majors are offered , and at Iowa graduate work has been developed . Sometimes faculty members are accepted in full standing in the university , but in other cases they are not . In variant forms , this general pattern has also been developed at the state universities of Kansas , Montana , Missouri , and Tennessee . Although sectarian interest has been accepted as basic to such schools , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best teacher is one who is I17 UNDERGRADUATE INSTRUCTION a competent and articulate interpreter of the religious tradition which he represents . As corporate entities these schools are not sectarian in the sense that they attempt to indoctrinate in the tenets of a particular religious faith , although the selection of faculty would seem to presuppose sectarianism . They represent serious and quite successful attempts to link the religious pluralism of American culture to the free atmosphere of the university world . Finally , there are cooperative programs which are financed , administered , and sponsored by denominational groups , but which have some recognized standing with the university near whose campus they operate . Religious foundations , chairs , and institutes provide courses taught by their representatives , who meet certain standards established by or in conjunction with university authorities . Although the personnel of these arrangements are not part of the university as such , usually their appointment and the courses offered by them are approved by the appropriate bodies within the university . Usually the number of hours of credit accepted by the university is limited . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alabama , Idaho , Illinois , North Dakota , and Texas may be singled out as representative of this type of cooperative program . Programs of this type , whatever the intrinsic merit may be of their courses , are burdened by the yoke of sectarianism and legal restrictions . They represent the churches ' attempt to place worthy representatives in the environs of a center of higher learning , as well as to make contributions to the educational fulfillment of students . They are sometimes hopefully regarded as temporary arrangements to be admitted later into the university on grounds of academic and legal respectability . In any event , they do provide the possibility of faithful presentations of the various religious traditions and enjoy a certain freedom in I18 STRUCTURES OF RELIGION INSTRUCTION instruction not always found in the colleges and universities themselves . Legal restrictions have made it difficult to assess satisfactorily the merits and demerits of some of these structural types . Whereas , for example , a judgment made solely on academic grounds might find it preferable to have a department of religion in a publicly supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a state law forbidding this arrangement would make fruitless efforts to do more than argue the desirability of the departmental arrangement without much hope that under present circumstances the conditions will be changed . The evaluation offered here must then be confined to a major problem concerning the organizational placement of religion on grounds of academic validity alone , and leave to another context the issues raised by legal restrictions , or other nonacademic factors . In recent years a rather warm but friendly debate has been carried on between those who contend for the desirability of a department of religion and those who insist that the study of religion be carried on in connection with other departments where religious issues arise naturally . The question as to whether the present system of departments in higher education is a desirable one is not at stake here . To be sure , there may be good reasons to question the departmental pattern as a whole , but it is highly unrealistic to carry on the debate concerning departments of religion without reference to the departmental pattern . We are best introduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the diffusionist method . Two of the ablest among several advocates of diffusion have been the late Alexander Miller of Stanford University and Dr. Huston Smith , formerly of Washington University , St. Louis , and now I I 9                     