@@773569

txt 16o THE POLITICAL SYSTEM The specific political affiliation of these leaders seems to be related to historical factors , especially to the circumstances under which their region became part of the Greek state . There are 20 eparchies in which the Right has almost always received a majority . Between 1946 and 1963 , the collective right-wing vote in these areas was usually 70 or 8o per cent , and the Left seldom made much of an inroad . All of these eparchies were in the original Greek kingdom , in either the Peloponnesus or the Cyclades , except for Corfu and Paxi , both annexed in 1864 . In the nineteenth century , and even in much of the twentieth , these areas supported individual families or local notables ; the families , although originally factionalized , were forced to combine into some type of political grouping after 1910 to combat the Liberal Party of Venizelos . The representatives from the solidly traditional areas are still the major figures in the right-wing parties . In this case , the loyalty of the voters to families and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders happen to represent . There is little temptation to switch to the other side ; at most , there may be an occasional tendency to form splinter parties . The major Center grouping has a similar stronghold although the stratification of eparchies is more complex . There are eleven eparchies that have consistently given the center grouping majorities , usually from 75 to 90 per cent of the vote . All but one of these eparchies are on Crete ? the home island of Eleutherios Venizelos , who brought the island into the Greek kingdom and also founded the first Center coalition . The lone exception is the eparchy of Kalimnos in the Dodecanese ; although the Dodecanese was the last region to become part of Greece , its annexation was presided over by the son of Venizelos . The memory of Venizelos is sufficient to hold the political allegiance of all these areas . Where there is competition , it is within the same political grouping . To these eleven eparchies must be added an additional seven , all on Crete . These have almost always voted for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eight elections since 1946 . The year of exception to the rule has varied , but in nearly every case there has been a split in the ranks of the Center . In the eparchy of Temenos , which includes the city of Iraklion , the Left was able to capitalize on this split to pick up a small plurality . In Lassithi , the Right received a majority because the representative of a traditional political family ran on their slate . The electoral geography of Crete is very complex , although the island as a whole can be counted upon to // support the organizations that have descended from the Venizelist party . Many of the twenty eparchies are extremely small and isolated . Allegiance to certain families remains the rule . In some of these the traditional loyalty may be to a family descended from those who were at odds with the Venizelist faction in the internal politics of Crete prior to her absorption into the Greek state . These quarrels occasionally surface today , when the Center splits over the formulation of electoral lists , or when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of eparchies , some nineteen in all , has voted for the Right in all but one election . Most of these are in the old portions of the kingdom ? five in the Peloponnesus , four in the Cyclades , six in Old Greece , and two in the Ionian Islands . Two , Kastoria and Grevena , are in Macedonia . Kastoria , on the northern frontier , has been extensively resettled with peasants from the crowded areas of the Peloponnesus to replace citizens who died or defected to the adjacent Communist countries during the civil war . Grevena is a different case : a popular local leader joined the lists of the Right in 1950 and has managed reelection since that time . The reason for the one off year in all these eparchies is not clear . There is , to be sure , always some shifting of deputies and candidates from Right to Center lists . However , most of the exceptions came in 1950 and seem largely due to the proliferation of candidates that the new proportional representation system encouraged in that election . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the vote shifted abruptly from one political grouping to another and continued to favor the second . Usually , this happened in 1951 or 1952 , and the switch can be associated with the formation of the Greek Rally , led by Field Marshal Papagos . In ro of the 13 areas in this category , the leading political figures changed parties , and the district followed suit ; these areas were primarily in the Epirus and Thrace . The switches in the other three eparchies occurred because local notables wanted a new patron , or because a popular new entrant appeared on the list of the minority party . The remaining 76 eparchies and the various urban electoral districts are not as strongly traditional in outlook , and their electoral behavior can not be explained so easily . Most of Macedonia , Thrace , Thessaly , the Aegean Islands , the Epirus , and Old Greece fall into this category . The attachments of Macedonia , Thrace , the Aegean Islands , and even the Epirus had been to Venizelos as an individual ; this loyalty was not transferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Crete . Thessaly is somewhat dif162 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM ferent : an area devoted to commercial agriculture , with a tradition of agricultural dissent , it has tended to fluctuate or to take an independent course in most elections . The major cities of Greece are also located in the eparchies in this large category ; in these cases , too , the traditional attachments have become more tenuous . In studying these areas , I assumed that the fluctuation in support for either major political group would be contingent upon something other than traditional attachments , which were lacking or severely eroded . An index of fluctuation was constructed for each eparchy , and was then correlated with the acreage of various cash crops and with urbanization. * Nothing of significance emerged ; in fact , there was a negative correlation between political fluctuation and the amount of land devoted to cash crops . ( In retrospect , it might be argued that cash crops are so subsidized that political fluctuation is not likely to occur because of farm prices . ) One must conclude either that the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic determinants found there , or that Greek politics is simply not explicable in nonpolitical terms . Although economic influences , urbanization , and the like are felt in these eparchies more than in other areas of Greece , their influence is not specifically on party affiliation but on an individual voters relationship with a particular deputy or candidate of any political grouping . Thus the personal political relationship remains the most crucial factor in Greek electoral politics . 7 . Politics at the Parliamentary Level The chamber of deputies and the government selected from it are important sectors of the Greek political system . Elections create parliamentary majorities , which invest certain leaders with ministerial office ; in return , the political resources at the disposal of the ministers flow through clientage networks to the deputies , and eventually to individual Greeks . However , parliament is the context for bargaining only among the more traditional elements of the Greek political system . Bargaining between parliamentary leaders and the other major political groups does not take place in an institutional framework . Certainly , the chamber of deputies is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional sector or for the whole system . However , the modest importance of the Greek legislature in policy making can not be ascribed to the general causes of similar decline elsewhere . ' Basically , the decline of legislatures in the West has been attributed to the complexities of the modern industrial setting . The subject matter for legislation is considered too complex for legislative understanding ; and the pace of the modern world requires more rapid decisions than the legislative process allows . Given this complexity , the devices for control of the executive by the legislature have also been inadequate . Sometimes the shortcomings of representative bodies have been traced to the party system : party discipline prevents initiative and makes a mockery of executive control . ' Refinements of this argument suggest that ideological conflict has subsided , and that the leaders of parties formulate policy without consulting the rank and file ; or , conversely , they suggest that ideological conflict is extremely severe and must be settled by elite negotiation outside of the parliamentary setting . ' Nevertheless , in each of these cases leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining and negotiation , and making decisions for the whole political system . The major portions of society view the parliament and its derivative institutions as the legitimate arena for // conflict resolution . The concern with micropolitics and patronage so characteristic of the Greek parliamentary system , though not completely absent , is far less important in Western governments . Certainly , part of the difference can be traced to differing levels of economic development , which influence the type and number of demands and the level of political organization . Family influence , for example , is likely to be much more pervasive in the less industrial settings . The existence of particular political institutions can also have a significant influence on the style and focus of political activity . In other transitional societies , the nature of parliamentary politics resembles the Greek pattern . The concerns and the channels for action of the rural Mexican are not unlike those of the rural Greek , and the village cacique is still an important figure . However , political bargaining and negotiation takes place within and between the sectors that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institucional ) rather than at the level of the Mexican Congress . ' In Iran , the political system is essentially a traditional one , according to Binder , and " its principle mode of operation is through bargaining . " 5 There are a number of independent power centers : the shah , the military , the separate ministries and councils , the great families and tribes , and some others . Bargaining takes place between these groups , outside any formal institutional setting . Clientage structures are the fundamental Iranian social units ; and they are concerned with appointments , administrative favors , special legislation , and the like , rather than with broad demands . The bureaucracy is heavily penetrated by these clientage groups . The government is characterized by lack of coordination , and generally can not deal competently with the major problems of modernization . ' As in Greece , the parliament ( Majlis ) seems to be unconcerned with high policy making ; however , the parliamentary representatives are not the major channels for individual demands , as they are in Greece . The relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the vote as a bargaining tool . In part this can be ascribed to the late development of parliamentary institutions in Iran : other channels predated the representative body ; and clientage networks do not culminate in the Majlis because the powerholders in the Iranian political system are not ordinarily found there . As earlier references have suggested , the pattern of Philippine politics ( as presented by Jean Grossholtz ) has many parallels with the pattern of Greek parliamentary politics . ' The political culture and the style of bargaining ( " the use of the vote as the quid pro quo for quite personal services " ) are // much the same in both countries S Philippine congressmen are concerned not with appropriations , budgets , or policy as such , but with the acquisition of the " necessities of electoral success " ? in other words , with public works , patronage , and bureaucratic intervention . However , in the Philippines the major decisions for the whole society seem to be made entirely within the political sphere . The president and his associates do not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other " veto " groups that do not participate in parliamentary politics . In the Philippines , as in Greece , the traditional clientage structures were congruent with representative institutions ; in both settings , the bureaucracy developed in the same way , and was penetrated by clientage networks . But in the Philippines the colonial experience ( and perhaps a peculiar combination of international factors as well ) has produced a military that accepts civilian control . In all of these " transitional " systems the characteristic social structures have been patron-client relationships based on reciprocal obligations . Few Mexicans , Iranians , Filipinos , or Greeks are concerned with legislation in the sense of broad policy decisions ; instead they pursue the satisfaction of individual demands . The method of satisfying these demands has varied in each context , depending on the institutional channels available . In addition , the role of the constitutional institutions in settling those major policy questions that do exist or in maintaining a balance between the major political sectors has varied , depending on the groups involved and on whether they view the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolutionary elites and their heirs took command of the representative institutions before a bureaucratic apparatus had time to develop . The parliament was never an instrument of the bureaucratic elite , as it was in some systems described by Riggs . ' The early politicians simply operated as patrons , interceding in administration for the benefit of their rural clients . The bureaucracy was not a mechanism for control of the political sector ; it was an instrument for the use of the parliamentary elites , who occupied the ministerial chairs . Wealth , status , education , and political resources in the form of votes were all in the hands of the same political elite . This orientation toward government output continued throughout the nineteenth century , and is the prevailing attitude of parliamentarians and the general population today . In modern Greece the top echelons of the bureaucracy and the parliament are interchangeable . The minister who heads a government department is of necessity a prominent politician . In general , he is the master of his bureaucratic house , although his personal connections // and the expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The future of any government department is largely dependent on the political influence of the minister who heads it . It is his task to innovate programs , and to find ways to finance them . The assignments and promotions of the ministerial employees are largely dependent upon him . Finally , a minister may be able to build a parliamentary following because of his control over departmental patronage . The Greek bureaucracy , then , is hardly a monolithic structure ; it is penetrated by the political world . Patronage , seniority , tenure , and part-time employment are all individual concerns . As in other sectors of Greek society , it is still largely a matter of each individual bureaucrat against every other . Administrators are more concerned with protecting existing relationships or with acquiring new status than with organizational output . Scarcity contributes as much to insecurity in the bureaucratic world as in other parts of Greek society . The traditional political groups , as represented by the ERE , have stressed national security in large part because it gave them protection against new socially mobile elements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties that could get them into government service . There is a formal merit system for hiring and promotion in the Greek civil service ; but it is undermined because the pinnacle of the system is political , and nearly every politician can intervene at the lower levels . A bureaucrat with personal aspirations can not afford to alienate the political leadership . He is likely to have less loyalty to higher authority in his own department than he has to influential politicians outside it . All of this forces a bureaucrat to concentrate on playing politics , rather than on doing his job . The assumption that policy making ought to be the central concern of the political system underlies all formal constitutional relationships in Greece , as it does in most Western countries . However , neither parliament nor the cabinet pays much attention to policy . In a society characterized by ties of personal loyalty , there are few general interests and demands to be articulated and answered ; there is only the reality of each personal demand . The ministerial level has little knowledge of available resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this knowledge , since it is also concerned with personal matters ; besides , it may not have any adequate sources of information either . As a result , policy making becomes a rather formal exercise . Theodore Couloumbis notes that the most momentous policies in postwar Greece were presented to parliament by ministers with little knowledge of their content or consequences . The parliament passed them // with very little debate . For example , the NATO alliance was approved in 1949 in an atmosphere of complete unconcern 10 The association with the European Common Market seems to have been made in a similar way 11 The Greek government sometimes tries to use legislation as an instrument of social change , almost always with unintended results . Few government leaders have an accurate picture of the real situation in any sector of Greek society ; hence there is no way to plan changes , or to integrate programs of change in one sector with those in another . The habit of looking upon legislation as a way of increasing political resources further limits the possibility that a given policy or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern of the parliamentary level is the satisfaction of individual demands on the government , politically motivated exceptions to any policy always appear , and contradictory legislation is often forthcoming . The political world , then , is an unreal world , a world of micropolitics , personality , and patronage . The consequences of Greek legislation for the promotion of economic development are worth examining in detail . Adam Pepelasis has outlined the role of legal factors in Greek economic development Y2 One theme that constantly recurs is the wide range of government interest . But here , as elsewhere , government action promotes the interests of particular individuals rather than those of the nation as a whole . The twin requirements of economic advancement and political necessity rarely coincide . The legal system , the primacy of family considerations , and the general mistrust in Greek society have worked to keep the forms of enterprise primitive and industrial activity retarded . The behavior of Greeks involved in the economic sector has differed from that of entrepreneurs in the West simply because the environment in which they operate is different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it is assumed that corporations will invariably bilk the public and the government by their extraordinary skill in finding tax loopholes , and will rob minority stockholders because of family control of the corporation . The corporate form seems to have been discouraged by the government as a public service . For these and other reasons manufacturing between 1911 and 1930 did not contribute more than 10 per cent of the gross national income in Greece ; ls in 1960 , the figure was only 19.7 per cent 14 There is still no real protection for minority interests when they do exist ; and devices like accounting standards , audits , and honest publicity , which might make corporations more responsible , are all lacking . Even foreign // consultants have difficulty in acquiring the trust that enables them to see the second set of books . In the past , corporate charters had to come from the Ministry of National Economy or from the cabinet itself . Only after 1955 did legislation allow a true limited liability company to be formed ; and even this legislation was faulty in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appealed to the highest court as a matter of course . These delays were compounded by judicial moratoria that prolonged settlements for generations . Several cultural factors have also impeded the development of a substantial manufacturing sector in Greece . The middle class , often nonexistent in other underdeveloped countries , has a high propensity to save for items such as dowries and education . Funds for these purposes are usually invested in real estate or left in liquid form , rather than being put to more productive uses . Greek business has tended to invest in commercial ventures ( i.e. , in trading rather than manufacturing ) , since these can usually be financed by family funds and can respond quickly to changed economic and social circumstances 15 The same bias is found among other agencies with investment capital ; pension and welfare funds , for instance , do not invest in corporate securities either . The traditional Greek pursuits of commerce and shipping have remained more lucrative and prestigious . The upper class , often with fortunes derived from speculation in real estate , has not acted to advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Basically , any industrialization efforts have to face these attitudes , which make capital difficult to secure ; they have also been hampered by the widespread feeling that a Greek product could not possibly be as good as a foreign one . One might expect that foreign concerns would take advantage of this demand for capital ; but there was little foreign investment in Greece before World War II , and postwar efforts to attract foreign investment ( especially a law that allowed favorable terms for the repatriation of capital and profit ) were unsuccessful . Internal stability has been more important in creating capital inflow than anything else.7 ? The Greek government has tried to use tax subsidies to encourage economic development . However , taxes are particularly liable to favor certain individuals and firms at the expense of competitors . Political resources are created , but economic development is only incidentally encouraged ; and the tax structure becomes more warped than before . For example , the Greek turnover tax is not applied to construction firms , service and retail industries , and newspapers ; yet these are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic development is to result 17 The lack of a capital gains tax also encourages speculation in the less vital sectors . The use of standards of consumption to assess income taxes does promote saving among the upper classes . However , only the fact that the method for checking on commodity tax payments is so intricate and cumbersome removes one 's suspicion that these taxes have been specifically designed to penalize the most modern and efficient firms , and to allow the least progressive , such as small urban craftsmen and retail traders , to escape . The governments since 1952 have attempted to encourage economic reconstruction and development by granting loans to private enterprise at favorable rates and by building state industrial plants . In the second case , inefficiency , nepotism , and other features of the Greek bureaucracy are merely transferred to the public enterprise . " Public corporations merely create additional fields for political intervention . The government 's willingness to enter any particular sector of the economy is a political weapon that can be used against existing firms . Given the small number of firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit a few easily identifiable firms or individuals . This is true whether state funds are used to upgrade old production units or to create new ones . It is especially true when the state locates plants and picks the managers and workers itself . In recent years , there have been numerous programs to encourage the relocation of industry into underdeveloped regions in Greece , which is intended to speed up regional development by creating provincial industrial zones . The concentration of industry in the Athens-Piraeus area can easily be explained in economic terms : this is simply the optimum location in all of Greece . " Despite this , subsidies and other enticements are offered to industries that locate in the more remote provincial areas , even when their placement is inherently inefficient . Here , too , the administration of the programs is motivated primarily by political requirements . The same patterns can be noted in Greek policies toward agriculture . Legislation designed to improve agricultural output or better the position of the peasants has often had the opposite effect . The limitations and failures of the cooperative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's approach to the problem of farm fragmentation is similarly instructive20 State land distribution schemes have been primarily responsible for fragmentation , although the topography of Greece has contributed to the problem . Inheritance laws ( which encourage equal division of land ) and the Greek dowry system have kept holdings small . Excessive fragmentation // results in a waste of land and manpower , and limits the possibilities of mechanization and modernization . However , given the peasants ' distrust of any government agency , schemes for voluntary consolidation are not likely to be successful . Until recently , in fact , the government pursued contradictory policies of distribution and consolidation with equal vigor . Other efforts at agrarian development ? the development of irrigation works , the encouragement of the use of fertilizers or mechanization , and state efforts to develop markets by special agreements with other nations ? seldom benefit the peasant in practice . For example , the government operates one fertilizer plant itself , and has supplied capital to a private group for another ; but government policy throughout has favored the manufacturer of fertilizer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often meant that a farmer pays higher prices for the imported goods he must use . Although the rural Greek 's position is improving , he has not benefited from the recent economic gains to the same extent as the urban dweller . Regardless of its purpose , legislation in Greece is almost exclusively the province of the government in power . Ministers submit proposals to parliament , and these are forwarded to the proper committees . The rank and file of the government party are rarely called upon for advice ; in fact , they generally receive no advance notice of impending government legislation . Even those deputies with backgrounds in the relevant subject are allowed to do little more than react . The chief legislative officer , the president of parliament , is part of the inner circle of the majority party group . The content and scheduling of legislative business is a matter for him and the premier to decide . Although the Greek parliament has a complete panoply of committees , which correspond to the ministerial portfolios , they are not crucial to the legislative process . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 , reflects the relative party strengths in the entire parliament . Although formal assignments are made by the president of parliament , there is a fair amount of cooperation among the various factions on these matters . In most cases , the individual deputy has little control over his committee assignment . Since committees are relatively inconsequential in the legislative process , and since a deputy may have little interest in the particular legislative committee to which he is assigned , it is not surprising that the average deputy gives committee work a low priority , and that attendance at committee meetings is poor . Most deputies would prefer to spend their time in satisfyThe // ing the patronage requests of their constituents , a far more productive and necessary activity . When committees do function , they rarely hear anyone other than the minister directly concerned with the legislation . Committee proceedings are ostensibly closed , but in most cases individual deputies , bent on publicity for the home folks , make arrangements with the press gallery for leaks . The committee has no option but to report the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The report of the committee is appended as an introduction to the bill , together with the minister 's introduction . Any deputy may then propose amendments , even if he is not a member of the committee that has considered the legislation . These amendments are submitted to the president of parliament , who directs their printing and their submission to the committee and to the rest of the deputies . The minister who originated the bill controls committee proceedings and the final hearing in the chamber , and announces which amendments he will accept and which he will not . Even the full parliamentary sessions are not important to most deputies . The premier and the ministers rarely appear ; when they do , their main purpose seems to be receiving applause . Individual ministers appear whenever they are scheduled for questioning on legislation or on the activities of their ministries . Policy statements are given to the press , rather than to party or parliamentary gatherings . Debate between party leaders often takes place in the newspapers rather than in parliament . Although parliamentary rules require attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of relatively mute deputies do attend because of them . During my interviews with the sample of 55 deputies , it was rare to find anyone engaged in legislative work . For the most part , no trace of proposed bills , committee reports , or even a record of the previous day 's legislative events could be found in their offices . The major function of legislation at the traditional level of Greek politics is the creation of " artificial " political resources . Here , formalism becomes functional . Legislative enactments can ignore reality because there is little expectation that they will be enforced or implemented . The ministers , either by legislative initiation or by administrative ruling , have many opportunities to create resources useful for the satisfaction of political demands . Tax rates can be raised or lowered for specific groups . Fees and tariffs can be varied , and can he collected or not . Concessions can be given , and competition restricted . The general controls over imports and foreign exchange , as I72 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM well as the controls on both commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes . Foreign loans and grants are also distributed by the ministers . Since most economic sectors are small , there is always the possibility that a general policy can be directed to specific ends . Since demands for favors , access , and all the goods and services subject to government control are always greater than the supply , some noneconomic criterion for distribution is necessary ; and political obligation becomes the standard , rather than fairness or equality . In short , the highest level of traditional politicians has a control over most groups in Greek society that can be used to maintain political power . As the formalism in the society increases , citizens increase their demands for the mitigation of its effects . These personal demands can be satisfied by the traditional political system ; more general demands for material benefits can not be so easily satisfied . The description of prismatic finance offered by Fred Riggs , since it is predicated on a scarcity of resources , seems appropriate for Greece 21 The tax base in Greece is too narrow to support the tasks of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher levels of taxation . Reliance upon grants or loans from abroad , the Greek practice since independence , is one solution to this problem . The territorial expansion of Greece and the attraction of material and human resources from the provinces to the capital have also been useful . The gap between the wealthy and the poor is widened by widespread tax avoidance and by the government 's reliance on regressive indirect taxation , compounded by unfair exemptions . Bribery and bargaining between payee and collector are common practices . Duplex bookkeeping , part of the Riggs model , is also the normal procedure . The formal apparatus of governmental accounting and auditing , although it involves innumerable cross-checks and much red tape , does not reflect actual practices . Kickbacks and bribes are a concomitant part of the administrative process . Other aspects of Riggs 's prismatic model are evident in the Greek case . Both state and private monopolies of the control and sale of particular goods and services are common , and they invariably provide the government with funds . Revenue collected from a particular source is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in itself " prismatic . " For example , gasoline-tax revenue in the United States is often devoted to road construction . The difference is that in Greece the source of taxation and the ultimate recipient of the tax revenue have little connection . As a result , some activities arc over-financed and others poorly supported 22 Revenues earmarked for // specific purposes are really the result of ministerial attempts to innovate or to create personal political resources . In general , a minister can not call upon the ordinary revenues of the state to finance new activity . The state revenues are insufficient ; moreover , other major political figures are unlikely to gratuitously increase the political resources of a competitor . By separating the new source of revenue from the service it is to finance ? essentially , by hunting for a new source of uncommitted funds rather than trying to justify the diversion of already existing funds ? a minister avoids the political costs of assigning revenue on the basis of program priorities . The actual priority of Greek financial programs depends on the needs of the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The government must also make concessions to political groups that are not formally represented in parliamentary politics . Riggs suggests that in a prismatic society officials must place the demands of the military , the interior departments , and the education departments above those of housing , labor , agriculture , or cultural activities ; 23 this is certainly true in Greece . The most influential politicians gravitate to the ministries with the greatest political resources . Under these conditions , and in the absence of annual financial legislation , resource allocations tend to be initiated and perpetuated without regard to program priorities . Greek finances are further strained by a fluctuating balance of payments , which makes financial planning difficult . Two classical sources of legislative authority , control of the purse strings and rule-making , do not have much importance in the Greek system . First , both have been limited by the environment . Subsistence agriculture , the paucity of natural resources , and the small commercial and industrial sector have all caused Greeks to rely on outside sources for financial solvency . Because of the fluctuations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grants , the governmental purse has never really been subject to complete parliamentary control . Policy making is similarly limited by financial deficiencies and the concerns of foreign powers . Second , even though the fiscal powers of the government have increased , particularly after 1952 , most legislators do not regard this as a threat . Instead , both they and the ministers view budgeting and rule-making simply as ways to increase personal political resources.24 If legislative control is attempted at all , it will be by minor " combative " parties or by the out-of-power traditional groups . In the latter case , control is used to embarrass the government in the hope that it will fall , or sometimes to provide a lever for the extraction of favors 25 The chamber does come to life when the legislation before it can be // applied to the specific patronage or constituency interests of the various deputies . For example , in general sessions devoted to legislation that sets subsidies for various agricultural products deputies from nearly all constituencies feel called upon to speak ; considerations of retirement laws , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual deputy to seek specific favors for his own clients . This kind of legislation is as predetermined as any other , but its character is such that loopholes can be inserted by amendment . In order to keep his own support within the parliament , a minister must accept a certain number of " photographs , " as these riders are called in Greece . The deputies , of course , are far more concerned with the " photographs " than they are with the total bill . In some cases a minister may be able to promote a measure that is something more than a collection of special pleas , but this is unusual . All deputies except those of the leftist EDA engage in this behavior . The leftists are most concerned with general demands based on class or group interests . They discourage any concern with personal favors on the part of EDA members , and they barely tolerate personal demands from their few supporters outside the party . This practice helps to maintain the feeling of solidarity essential to left-wing political operation , which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment . The party is able to continue its intellectual and moral disapproval of patronage chiefly because most other deputies would probably not go along with EDA efforts to secure " photographs . " Normally , the chamber of deputies convenes several times a week at about 7 P.M. , with a question hour at each session . One minister is questioned each time , according to a regular rotation . There will be a number of prepared questions , followed by one general criticism expressed as a motion to conclude the proceeding . Except for certain topics that have priority , such as Cyprus , the matters questioned will not be current , but will have been placed on file months earlier . Regardless of the government , the great majority of the questions will have been submitted by the deputies of the Left , who often combine their relevant remarks with a general criticism of the government . The rest of the deputies rarely have policy questions ; most of their queries are concerned with specific state injustices against individual constituents . The ordinary deputy uses his public questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the minister privately ; only if the results are unsatisfactory will he be likely to ask open questions in the chamber . Although the deputy is sacrificing publicity by acting informally , he may be able to get // results for his constituent by doing so , and he may build up a reserve of goodwill with the minister . It is a bargaining relationship , pure and simple . In short , the Greek legislative process does not involve the parliamentary deputy very heavily , and he is not especially concerned about it . Functions shaped by the clientage structures characteristic in Greek society are more important to him . Most legislation is developed by ministers and their staffs outside the parliamentary arena , and the legislature is not viewed as a place for framing solutions or alternatives . The public regards the deputy as a counter to the state rather than as a part of authority itself , and he is not expected to translate demands into legislation . Moreover , most Greeks recognize that solutions and alternatives are limited by forces external to Greece . Neither the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes that involve the " institutionalization , crystallization , and resolution of social and political conflict . " 26 LEGISLATIVE ROLES A useful method for studying the parliamentary level of Greek politics is the technique of role analysis suggested by John Wahlke and his associates . " Role orientations are probably not unrelated to the legislator 's perception of the power pattern of the political system and the kinds of functions which the legislature is called upon to perform . " 27 These authors distinguish several types of role orientations : purposive , emphasizing legislative decision making ; representational , emphasizing the style of representation ; areal , emphasizing the relationship between the legislator and his district ; and pressure-group or party orientations . In Greece only the first two categories , purposive and representational , can be said to exist . For the most part , a Greek deputy is not bedeviled by overlapping role orientations . If there is any conflict , it is between his idealized concept of what a legislator should do and Greek reality . The 55 deputies interviewed for the present study were questioned on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would you describe the job of being a deputy ? What are the most important things you should do ? Are there any differences between what you think this job is and the way your constituents see it ? " The responses to these questions fell into the purposive and representational categories . Those in the purposive category were the most numerous ; and we will examine them in detail before considering representational role orientations . The purposive responses could be divided into four classes . The first , or i76 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM " ritualist , " group included deputies who were oriented to the job of lawmaking in terms of parliamentary rules and routines . They tended to ignore legislative functions that might be influenced by the goals of parliamentary groups or the power situation in the total system . The complexity of the legislative process was their biggest concern , and legislative maneuvering became an end in itself . The " tribune " category included legislators who looked upon themselves as the advocates of popular demands or the defenders of the public against the state . The term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for discovering solutions and exploring alternatives to public issues . Finally , the " broker " orientation indicated a concern for the conflicting demands of pressure groups ; deputies in this category felt that the proper role of the legislative body is the integration of national economic and social life by the negotiation and bargaining of group claims 28 Many deputies responded in more than one category . Among the total purposive responses , there were 34 ritualists , 45 tribunes , 15 inventors , and only one broker . The two major purposive role orientations , the ritualist and the tribune , are related to the pattern of development of the Greek representative institutions . The tribune orientation , which sees legislators as advocates of the people , is congruent with the basic clientage relationships found in Greek political life ; however , the Greek deputy is less concerned with the demands and interests of all the people than with those of individual persons . The ritualist orientation looks at parliamentary life in terms of lawmaking or legislative control2 ? Sophisticated deputies know that parliaments elsewhere are concerned with these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a standard against which they measure Greek performance . These two orientations are often found together : a Greek deputy thinks that he should act as a ritualist , but he actually functions as a tribune . The inventor and broker orientations are not highly developed in the Greek context . The 34 deputies who indicated a ritualist outlook , a concern for the parliamentary process itself , were expressing sentiments at odds with the reality of Greek parliamentary institutions . A concern for the etiquettes , privileges , and procedures of the parliamentary process is the chief characteristic of a ritualist orientation , and Greek parliamentary history is primarily an exercise in the disregard of these matters 30 Although the parliament has been in existence for over a century , there is still little force of tradition behind it ; few Greek deputies have any " feel " for the parliament as an institution . " There is no conscious effort to train new deputies in the procedures and // habits of the chamber , and there is little emphasis on seniority . The intricacies of the legislative process are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I placed in the ritualist category were quite unambiguous ; they seem completely congruent with the Western ideal of legislative life : " The job of the deputy is to legislate , both by helping to prepare bills and by giving them thoughtful consideration in committee . The major role is parliamentary control of the government , although this is done mainly by the opposition deputies . " Other responses showed a more realistic view of Greek parliamentary life , but they still emphasized parliamentary activity . One recognized the dominating role of the government in legislation : " The most important job of the deputy is to work in the Parliament by debating and improving laws submitted by the government . It is theoretically part of the deputy 's job to introduce legislation , but in fact , that aspect is rather impractical . " Others adopted a much more passive role : The job of the deputy is to watch continuously the work of parliament . A deputy must watch the work of making laws and try to improve them , and must watch and control the ministers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living . The primary emphasis in these responses was on parliament as an institution . The functions deemed important were lawmaking and control of the government . It was not always clear whether " government " was perceived as the executive alone or as the executive and the parliament . In most cases , a deputy 's ritualist response was primarily conditioned by his knowledge of what parliaments were supposed to do . Generally , a ritualist response was qualified by a statement about the real situation in parliament . Your work in parliament , bills and speeches , is the most important , although , of course , you must think about the matter of reelection .... The constituents expect their deputy to do things for them . To legislate is a deputy 's main function , but the people do not understand that the deputy is for legislation ; they want him as a tool for their own purposes . The main job of the deputy should be to work in parliament , but unfortunately , the deputy today must deal with everything but parliament . .. . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job and responsibility is to promote their personal affairs . A deputy 's job is to make the right laws , and to ensure real parliamentary control of the government . . . to make sure the right questions are put to the government // and the correct answers returned .... Most voters see the deputy as the instrument for the promotion of their personal affairs , right or wrong . The most important job of the deputy is legislation ? discussing and amending legislation proposed by the government . However , in Greece , outside the EDA , no deputy has the time to look at legislation because of the necessity of doing favors for his constituents . In my opinion , the deputy 's job is to legislate , and to judge and criticize the government if necessary .... The voters are interested only in personal favors . It would seem that these deputies experience a conflict of roles , the magnitude of the conflict depending on how seriously they take the Western notion of parliamentary purpose . The deputies who qualified their statements with remarks about Greek reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece . For them , the socialization gained from their education and experience in Greece was in conflict with knowledge gained elsewhere . In many responses the ritualist perception merged into the tribune perception . The first might be concerned with control of government as a proper function of the legislature ; the second felt that the deputy should be able to influence the state machinery in order to protect his constituents . In a society characterized by popular distrust of authority it is not surprising that most Greek deputies consider themselves " tribunes . " Those who do appear to have less role conflict , precisely because they do not think of lawmaking as a distinguishing feature of the deputy 's job ; their attitudes and specific activities involve the advocacy and defense of particular constituent demands . These demands are not likely to be phrased in terms of constitutional or property rights , but in micropolitical terms . Parliamentary ability is required in order to support the rights of the voter . The deputy 's main task is to survey the legislative work , and to defend the needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faults of the bureaucracy . I think that there are no basic differences between the deputy 's opinion and the constituents ' opinion , because , apart from favors , they want their man to do well as deputy . The job of the deputy is to help the people of his area ; there is no difference between this view and the constituents ' view . The deputy must be devoted to the interests of the people and the nation .... I le must help his district through legislative action . There are no differences between his conception and that of constituents . // The deputy should study people 's interests and take care of them and defend them in the Vouli . Unfortunately , most of the voters see the deputy 's role in a different way . People 's needs are great , and the resources to meet them are few ; people need the state services , which do not work well , so the voter needs his deputy to help him . This orientation was voiced for the most part by deputies from the rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterized traditional Greek politics . However , there is no relationship between a deputy 's orientation and his visits to his constituency or the number of constituents who visit his Athens office . The number of callers at the political offices of the deputies interviewed ranged from six to 900 per week ( one deputy claimed to see 2,500 per week ) , depending on a deputy 's position in his party and the proximity of his constituency to Athens . The number of times the deputy visited his constituency was more dependent on his tenure in the parliament and the state of his personal finances than on anything else . The tension between ideal and reality was also evident in those deputies whose primary interest was in problem solving , a response that placed them in the inventor category . Here , a role calling for general solutions to general problems conflicted with the demands of individual constituents . The inventor is interested in political input , whereas his constituents are concerned with government output . The main job is to help the government , if that helps the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the problems it is dealing with .... The demand for personal favors is the exception , met with only in case of absolute necessity ; unfortunately , the necessity of my constituents is great . The work of the deputy is national foreign policy and internal reconstruction . The voters are occupied , for the most part , with their personal problems . The work of the deputy is to find , both in parliament and the party , measures and policies which serve the general interests of the country . . . . The deputy 's tasks , unfortunately , can not be done well by the Greek deputy , especially the government deputy . He must support the right demands and stand up for his ideology in parliament , mainly by voting on laws . He must avoid personal interests and promote only the general interest . In one case , although the deputy offered specific solutions for particular economic and social problems , he still felt that his constituents were of a different mind . 18o THE POLITICAL SYSTEM The deputy 's job is to form better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution of public income . This could be done by some laws that would stop what happens today .... A few strong people are squeezing blood from the rest .... One should stop this even if some corporations have to be nationalized . The constituents have a different view .. . . If their party or deputy does favors , they will have constant demands . In this category it was rare to find a deputy who did not include a statement deploring the difference between his own perception of duty and his constituents ' view of his role . However , representatives of the Left noted that the views of their constituents did not differ from their own . My task , after the maintenance of democracy , is the independence of our country , liberation of Cyprus from the imperialism of NATO , the improvement of the standard of living of the Greek people , disarmament , and the stabilization of Greece and the world . My voters have the same opinion . The job of the deputy involves the deepest study of economic and social policies , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . There is no difference between these views and the views of the constituent . The deputy must know the problems and their solutions . He should try to promote these solutions and to inform parliament about them .... The conscious , not the transient , voters of the EDA ... have the same point of view as their deputies . The rest think that the deputy 's job is to solve their personal problems . An inventor orientation marks the Left off from traditional parliamentary politics , and three of the four EDA deputies perceived their function in this way . Wahlke et al . have noted that the inventor orientation " comes at a later stage of political development than the foregoing orientations. " 32 The EDA stands out as the one modern political organization operating in the Greek parliament . Only one deputy saw his role as that of a " broker " who balances diverse pressures and conflicting group interests . As previous chapters have suggested , interest groups of the Western associational type are not well developed in Greece . Even if clientage organizations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a personal level . Moreover , such bargaining would be unlikely to involve the average deputy and would not occur in the parliamentary context . In my sample of 55 deputies , 27 mentioned group memberships , but these memberships appeared to have political significance in only a few cases . All but two deputies said that groups came to see them , but most deputies gave no indication of paying attention // to group demands . If attention was given to a group spokesman , it was given to him as an individual rather than as an organizational representative . It is difficult to distinguish some aspects of the representational role orientation from the tribune category of the purposive role orientation . The representational role implies a more sophisticated view of the political system than that required for purposive perceptions , in which the deputy is merely " representing the demands " of his constituents . The representational role orientation is concerned with who is represented ? a group , individuals , or an area . It is also concerned with determining which factors weigh most heavily in legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as representatives are oriented toward the district or province . According to the Greek constitution , each deputy represents the entire nation ; in practice , each deputy is concerned chiefly with his constituency , and especially with specific clientage groups . A deputy may have obligations to specific party leaders , but he has none to the party as a whole . The lack of interest articulation means that few deputies view themselves as the representatives of special groups . Since only a few deputies are personally involved in shaping legislation , constituents seldom judge their representatives by legislative voting record ; thus a deputy rarely has to choose between his conscience and instructions from his constituency . The responses to the general question on legislative role that fell into the representational category were coded into three groups : trustee ( 18 ) , delegate ( 5 ) , and politico ( 2 ) . The third role orientation combines the roles of trustee and delegate . These roles may be held simultaneously ( making role conflict likely ) or one at a time , depending upon the legislative context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of conflict , more flexible in posing alternatives , and in general less dogmatic in his orientations than the other two . To some extent , the politico orientation seems to result from the multiplicity of group demands that conflict with each other and with the public interest.33 It is not surprising that so few Greek deputies are found in this category , since few demands are phrased in group terms and there is little concept of a " public interest . " The trustee sees himself as " a free agent in that , as a premise of his decision-making behavior , he claims to follow what he considers right or just , his convictions and principles , the dictates of his conscience . " 34 He may feel that his principles or objectives are in harmony with those he represents ; he may act on his own because he does not trust those from whom he might take advice ; and if his opinion differs from the opinions of his constituents , I82 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM he feels obliged to convince them that his position is correct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their principles and objectives were in harmony with those of their constituents ; moreover , many felt that the deputy himself should try to change opinions in his constituency . The main job of the deputy is the transformation of the people . The deputy should not only be the servant of the people ; he should not have to act for them in personal matters , but only in general matters . The deputy 's main task is to deal with legislation in the parliament for the country , his district , and the Greek people . Quite often people are confused about the deputy 's job ; but the state machinery is responsible for this , not the people themselves . In my opinion the deputy must be mainly interested in the promotion of his district 's interests , and then in leading the people and his voters as a shepherd does . I do n't think there are many differences , except that voters try to use the deputy as their employee and to ask for impossible things . He must work for the general interests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters that this is the right path , and not the favor-making one . The deputy must work for the elevation of the educational , cultural , and technological standards of his district . . . . You know what the constituents think . Several mentioned difference and said nothing more : " I have a basic difference with my voters because they want me to carry on their personal cases and only that . " One deputy evaded the issue by posing the confrontation in different terms : " In the case of a difference between party policy and that held by myself and constituents , I would publicly state my objections to party policy . " Regardless of this conflict in perceptions of the legislative role , the demands of the clientage system prevent much actual variation in legislative behavior . Little policy is set by the parliament , and even that policy is of little relevance to most voters ; the average deputy is probably free to vote or not to vote , as he wishes . The major determinant of voting behavior would seem to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tied through a high-level clientage network , since a deputy must provide parliamentary support for the leaders of his political group if he is to receive the political resources necessary to maintain his personal position . The " delegate " category of representational roles is somewhat misleading in the Greek context . A delegate is presumed to make legislative decisions on the basis of instructions from his constituents , his party , or interest // groups . However , it is unlikely that many Greek constituents have views on particular legislative proposals ; they are simply not oriented to the input side of the political system . The pervasiveness of personal demands retards associational development , and this precludes instructions to the deputy from interest groups . Although conjecture would give the political party primary importance in legislative decision-making , no deputy mentioned his party as the determiner of his vote . Presumably , deputies whose responses put them in the delegate role are really perceiving themselves as representatives not in the legislative arena but in the state machinery itself . If they are delegates , they represent traditional clientage networks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almost every deputy deplores the errand-boy function so pervasive in Greek politics ; but in the final analysis , only those with substantial staff assistance or strong support in their districts can afford not to pander to the wishes of the voters . The deputy must keep in close touch with the voters and listen to their demands . He must be on call 24 hours a day and listen to their fantastic demands . The constituents do n't care how well the deputy is educated or what he does in the parliament as long as he serves them . The deputy , in his work , should try to help his people solve their problems and should report to the parliament the problems , desires , and needs of the people he represents . He must study the problems of people by coming in contact with them . He must also take part in the meetings of the parliament . . . . In Greece and in some other countries , the deputy 's job is not what it should be . He is the servant of the people ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to do favors for them . Very few deputies looked upon themselves as representatives of particular segments of the population , as did this deputy : " My passion is to serve the poor working-class people ... but perhaps from habit , or need , quite a few voters , when they vote , see their deputy as the executor of their personal affairs . " Ordinarily , a representative is expected to be the spokesman for district interests , since there is little else to represent . But Greek deputies do not feel any need to discover the interests of their districts . In any case , the districts are small enough so that interests are usually not very diverse . Although some deputies mentioned their concern for national problems , most focused on the district level . A deputy must deal with the general problems of his district , and also with the personal problems of his constituents , which are many and various . // he feels obliged to convince them that his position is correct . Few of those with responses in the trustee category felt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their constituents ; moreover , many felt that the deputy himself should try to change opinions in his constituency . The main job of the deputy is the transformation of the people . The deputy should not only be the servant of the people ; he should not have to act for them in personal matters , but only in general matters . The deputy 's main task is to deal with legislation in the parliament for the country , his district , and the Greek people . Quite often people are confused about the deputy 's job ; but the state machinery is responsible for this , not the people themselves . In my opinion the deputy must be mainly interested in the promotion of his district 's interests , and then in leading the people and his voters as a shepherd does . I do n't think there are many differences , except that voters try to use the deputy as their employee and to ask for impossible things . He must work for the general interests of his people , and he must persuade his constituents and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the favor-making one . The deputy must work for the elevation of the educational , cultural , and technological standards of his district . . . . You know what the constituents think . Several mentioned difference and said nothing more : " I have a basic difference with my voters because they want me to carry on their personal cases and only that . " One deputy evaded the issue by posing the confrontation in different terms : " In the case of a difference between party policy and that held by myself and constituents , I would publicly state my objections to party policy . " Regardless of this conflict in perceptions of the legislative role , the demands of the clientage system prevent much actual variation in legislative behavior . Little policy is set by the parliament , and even that policy is of little relevance to most voters ; the average deputy is probably free to vote or not to vote , as he wishes . The major determinant of voting behavior would seem to be the demands of political leaders to whom the individual deputy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must provide parliamentary support for the leaders of his political group if he is to receive the political resources necessary to maintain his personal position . The " delegate " category of representational roles is somewhat misleading in the Greek context . A delegate is presumed to make legislative decisions on the basis of instructions from his constituents , his party , or interest // groups . However , it is unlikely that many Greek constituents have views on particular legislative proposals ; they are simply not oriented to the input side of the political system . The pervasiveness of personal demands retards associational development , and this precludes instructions to the deputy from interest groups . Although conjecture would give the political party primary importance in legislative decision-making , no deputy mentioned his party as the determiner of his vote . Presumably , deputies whose responses put them in the delegate role are really perceiving themselves as representatives not in the legislative arena but in the state machinery itself . If they are delegates , they represent traditional clientage networks ; they do not seek policy , but patronage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek politics ; but in the final analysis , only those with substantial staff assistance or strong support in their districts can afford not to pander to the wishes of the voters . The deputy must keep in close touch with the voters and listen to their demands . He must be on call 24 hours a day and listen to their fantastic demands . The constituents do n't care how well the deputy is educated or what he does in the parliament as long as he serves them . The deputy , in his work , should try to help his people solve their problems and should report to the parliament the problems , desires , and needs of the people he represents . He must study the problems of people by coming in contact with them . He must also take part in the meetings of the parliament . . . . In Greece and in some other countries , the deputy 's job is not what it should be . He is the servant of the people ; the voters expect their deputy to solve their private problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked upon themselves as representatives of particular segments of the population , as did this deputy : " My passion is to serve the poor working-class people ... but perhaps from habit , or need , quite a few voters , when they vote , see their deputy as the executor of their personal affairs . " Ordinarily , a representative is expected to be the spokesman for district interests , since there is little else to represent . But Greek deputies do not feel any need to discover the interests of their districts . In any case , the districts are small enough so that interests are usually not very diverse . Although some deputies mentioned their concern for national problems , most focused on the district level . A deputy must deal with the general problems of his district , and also with the personal problems of his constituents , which are many and various . // I know that the deputy must be sincere and honest , and one who knows the general problems of the district and stays away from micropolitics . Voters are interested in national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal favor he is lost . The deputy 's job is intense and continuous activity on behalf of his country , religion , family , and people . To bring about a renaissance of the Cyclades and Syros , every party must have the same purpose . The job of the deputy is difficult and complex . The mission of the deputy is national representation . He has an obligation , theoretically , to deal with the country and society 's welfare . But in reality , there are so many demands from his voters that his need for reelection forces him to overlook moral rules , and even obligations toward society , in order to become useful to their demands . The district interest , in fact , merges with the personal interests of those to whom a deputy has obligations in his constituency . The patronage and favors that the deputy can provide can not be distributed to the whole district ; a minister might be able to provide public works or a plan of regional development , but a deputy has only the means to satisfy individual demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ models for political behavior . On the one hand , there is the Western pattern , in which legislators are presumed to be concerned with lawmaking , the representation of general interests , and the balancing of conflicting social interests . The structure and the rules of the Greek parliament are congruent with this model . On the other hand , there is the traditional Greek pattern , with its clientage networks that extend from the village to the parliamentary level and require the satisfaction of individual demands . These personal demands are directed at governmental output ; they arise because of the basic distrust present in Greek society , because of the malfunctioning of the state machinery , or because of formalistic legislation . They are not the kind of demands that can be absorbed in more generalized concerns . Each request must be satisfied largely by intervention with the top political leaders or in the bureaucracy , rather than through legislative activity . As long as the Greek population remained rural and relatively unmobilized , and as long as the basic social organization depended on clientage , the traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the satisfaction of his demands rested on the mutual performance of obligations , and did not expect to have access to patronage if the clientage // network to which he was connected was not in office . However , with urbanization and with the decreasing isolation of the peasant , both economically and intellectually , traditional legislative roles are subject to increasing strain . First , social mobilization has produced more demands . Despite increasing governmental resources ( as measured by expenditures since 1954 ) , scarcity has never really been overcome . Second , many new problems can not be settled simply by the amelioration of individual dissatisfactions ; they are actually group needs , even if the individual does not perceive them as such . Third , even Greeks in the more remote parts of the country demand equal treatment , and they are less willing to accept the political consequences of supporting the wrong man . And finally , there are increasing numbers of Greeks involved in the clientage networks . The Greek parliament , then , because of limitations imposed by its environment , can not operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of providing solutions to broad problems or balancing conflicting group interests does not occur at this level . However , the penetration of the modern representative institutions by the traditional clientage structures has given the parliamentary representative definite roles . The deputy representing the least modern sectors of Greek society does function as a " tribune " ; he does represent his constituents in the battle with the state . As long as these traditional roles are maintained ? that is , as long as the satisfaction of individual demands remains the major focus ? the stability of the larger system is maintained . However , if a political group in the parliamentary milieu should change its style , either because of new interest pressures in the society or because of ideological reasons , the parliament would begin to operate more on the Western model . Policy would be decided , and new resource allocations would be made . Political blocs unrepresented at this level and elements refusing to recognize parliamentary institutions as the authoritative decision-making agency would find this situation intolerable . 8 . Politics at the Extraparliamentary Level The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crisis level . This is the arena where rival ideologies clash . During and after World War I , the conflict over the nature of the regime and the direction of Greece 's international allegiance was fought out between King Constantine and Venizelos at this level . In this instance , and during the crises caused by the rule of General Ioannis Metaxas and by the civil war , the traditional political level vanished or remained quiescent , only to reassert itself once " normality " had been restored . Normality was usually restored because international society expected a return to a democratic parliamentary structure , and because prolonged rule by an extraparliamentary element soon fell into the traditional political pattern . In the past , political crises that had to be resolved at the extraparliamentary level were caused by disruptions within the parliamentary world , and the chief participants were also involved in parliamentary politics . Today , an extraparliamentary level exists alongside the traditional level ; its forces , though standing apart from parliamentary politics , continually intervene in parliament informally , usually because of conflict at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Greece were well suited to the slow transition from an unmobilized society to a mobilized one . The more modern forms of political organization found at the extraparliamentary level have only become important with the appearance of a large mobilized population and the increasing complexity of the international scene . The events of the world wars , the influx of refugees , and the growing marketization and urbanization of Greek society have produced a population that can not always be accommodated in the traditional parliamentary system . Some mobilized elements are no longer a part of traditional clientage networks , and have demands that can not be satisfied on an individual basis . Because the traditional political organizations have monopolized the parliamentary level , these new elements have operated outside of the parliamentary arena , where clientage tics arc largely absent . // The extraparliamentary structures are characterized by hierarchic authority , impersonal bureaucratic organization , and ideological coherence . They have been heavily influenced by foreign models . Two major components of the consociational system are in this category : the military establishment and the left-wing political organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level , although both will cooperate with that level in certain situations . They either actively oppose the traditions of patronage and favoritism or grudgingly accept these practices as part of present-day Greek reality . Both the Left and the military are concerned with policy , and especially with modernization and economic development . However , the ideologies and the policies they espouse are opposed on almost every substantive point . The EDA would like to forge stronger ties with the neutralist and Communist countries , and to modify those with the West . The military views this as a treasonable policy . The Left advocates thoroughgoing reforms within the traditional society . This would require an assessment of governmental programs in terms of basic priorities , which would bring significant reductions in military spending . The military not only feels its own position threatened , but looks upon the segments of the population who support the EDA as unreliable citizens . The military tends to view itself as a model for government operation ; it feels that governmental policies themselves are correct , but that they are administered incorrectly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces creates a threat to the precarious balance of the consociational system . If the Left seems likely to gain because of specific operations by traditional parties or because of increasing frustrations among the modern , mobilized sector of the population , the military must intervene . If the military gains because of parliamentary policies or foreign assistance , the Left feels challenged . The dynamics of the Greek political system hinge on the interplay between the left wing and the military , and on their relations to the traditional level of Greek politics . THE MILITARY In the nineteenth century , the Greek military took part in the factional struggles of the parliamentary world . However , the military men of that period were virtually indistinguishable from any other members of the political elite . Throughout the period of the revolution , and well into independence , political and military leadership tended to coincide . The military did not have a monopoly of higher education , as in Turkey . Although a separate military school was created , it coexisted with the University of Ath188 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM ens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control because there was little differentiation between civilian and military leaders . A competent professional army became necessary as Greek territorial aspirations increased and as the armed forces of adjacent states , particularly the Ottoman Empire , improved . The military academy was reformed , and foreign military missions trained junior officers and noncoms . The new professionals , largely drawn from the growing middle class , imbued with modern training , and formally separated from the political world , were no longer willing to let dilettantes lose battles or monopolize the higher command positions . Therefore , they constantly attacked the traditional military establishment represented by the crown prince and his brothers , particularly after the Greek defeat by the Turks in 1897 . The professionalism of the new military establishment could only be preserved and developed by intervention in civilian politics . For this reason , professional officers formed the Military League , which promoted the revolution of 1909 . At this point , Greek civil-military relations appear to fall into the democratic-competitive category suggested by Morris Janowitz , in which the military offers important political support to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the officers retired from the arena of active politics after their demands had been met by the new political men . The professional military was given social status , more independence , and a greater role in Greek society . Unlike the military in many new states , the Greek armed forces did have an immediate function . Greece was at war almost continuously from 1912 to 1923 and from 1940 to 1949 . A large part of the national income went to the military ; and a military career , like any with security and bureaucratic status , was quite attractive to the average Greek . In spite of its new importance , the Greek military was not a completely " modern " organization for some time after 1909 . The crisis over foreign alignment during World War I split the military establishment , as it did the rest of Greek society , into rival camps supporting either Venizelos or King Constantine . Each of these strong figures had a personal following in the military , as well as a traditional clientage structure with military components , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted many men to rise from the ranks ; many of these new officers were devoted to Venizelos . Constantine , too , had attempted to create personal ties in the army by expanding royal use of the traditional kumbaros relationship . From this time until the end of World War II and the civil war , there were really // two military blocs : Venizelist and republican , and anti-Venizelist and mon-archist ? In 1922 , younger officers staged a coup and executed the politicians and the general deemed responsible for the Greek military failure in Asia Minor . This was the capstone to military involvement in the political arena . By this time , many younger officers were committed to the idea of a republican regime , and other military elements were clearly monarchists . Each of these groups intervened whenever it appeared that the traditional parliamentary groups with which they were identified might compromise on the regime and return to normal parliamentary pursuits . As the political parties alternated in power , by either elections or coups , the officer corps of the Greek military establishment also alternated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups had its own formula of legitimacy and its own ideal of state institutions . This pattern was upset when General Metaxas seized power in 1936 . The republican officers were removed from the Greek armed forces , just as royalist forces had been demobilized during periods of republican power . The left wing had gained strength as refugee and other urban elements , increasingly alienated from the traditional political forum , voted for the Communist Party in 1936 . The Metaxas regime , which represented the older , more conservative , and highly professional military elements , attempted to eliminate all politics , Right , Center , and Left . The politicians of the Populist Party were formally royalist ; this did not prevent their detention and exile . It would be a mistake to characterize the regime as merely super-royalist ; rather , it was antipolitical . The military dictatorship of Metaxas , a variant of the traditional military oligarchy , succeeded in removing parliamentary politics . Since they no longer had access to government resources , the traditional politicians lost their political ties and were forced into retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization , retained their identity . Metaxas made only half-hearted and unsuccessful efforts to create a mass base . His nonpolitical , authoritarian regime lasted as long as it did because of outside threats that gave it temporary legitimacy . Metaxas died at the beginning of World War II , and his successor committed suicide ; the king then called upon a politician to lead Greece . The armed forces that met the initial Italian invasion of Greece in 1940 were largely commanded by professional officers with royalist tendencies . These " establishment " officers were far better trained , because of Metaxas 's // efforts , than the republicans whom they had replaced . In fact , the former republican officers , demobilized in 1935 , served as enlisted men if they served at all . After the Nazi occupation some of the regular officers collaborated with the occupation regime ; others escaped from Greece to form the nucleus of the Greek forces in exile . The republican officers , who mostly remained in Greece , could contribute to Allied victory only by service with the resistance forces . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually dominated by Communist elements . During the war the guerrilla movements in occupied Greece and the Greek forces elsewhere in the Middle East were under British command . In fact , by the end of the war the British had created two Greek armies : the exile army was chiefly staffed by professional officers from the old army ; the resistance included republicans and new recruits . At the end of the war , once the Communist direction of the resistance army was apparent , the exile forces and the military men who had remained quiescent during the Nazi occupation combined to form the new Greek military establishment . When the civil war broke out , some republican officers remained in the guerrilla forces ; but nearly all officers and men ever involved in the major resistance groups were considered Communists , if only by association . Under the confused conditions at the end of the occupation and during the early stages of the civil war , the military was unavoidably involved in the traditional political world . Army units could not pursue guerrilla bands because influential politicians demanded that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff control was impossible ; orders came to be consensual instead of being issued through hierarchical command . ' The inability of the political leaders to manage domestic crises caused instability ; this increased the uneasiness of the military , since the degree of foreign military and economic aid often depended on government stability . After the United States announced the Truman Doctrine in 1947 , the direction of the war was taken from the politicians and placed in the hands of the general staff alone . The establishment of a joint United States-Greek command further removed the conduct of the war from purely political considerations . The United States supplied virtually all military equipment and much of the direction . ' Officers and noncoms were sent to the United States for professional training . The defeat of all armed opposition in the last months of 1949 marked the beginning of a new era for the Greek military ? a period in which it emerged as a major power bloc quite independent of the traditional parliamentary // level . The armed forces became a symbol of national unity ; they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army , created by the fight against the guerrillas , can be compared to armies formed by national liberation movements elsewhere . It had an ideological commitment , a cohesion formed by common experiences , and a heightened sense of self-esteem . ' Once the old regime was reestablished , and once the monarchy was secure as the national symbol , the military could assume a " nonpolitical " stance while retaining an interest in politics . The army felt that its main purpose was to protect the nation from Communists , both foreign and native . Its external mission complete , it now proposed to maintain internal security . All young Greek men are liable for military service , and those with higher education serve as reserve officers . The armed forces , especially the army , set up a thorough indoctrination program to evoke anti-Communist sentiments and to imbue recruits with loyalty to the nation , as represented by the armed forces and the monarch as commander in chief . The military maintained ties throughout the country by a network of military stations and a system of reserve units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The split in the military establishment that had been evident before the war no longer existed . From the outside , at least , the Greek armed forces appeared to be united and above politics . The basic ideological position of the military , based on postwar experiences , was a hard-line anti-Communism . There was little awareness of the contemporary Communist world , and little understanding of the Left 's changing character in Greece itself . The goals of the military were shaped to some degree by its dependence on the Americans , but the only common theme was anti-Communism . Unlike other armies in developing countries , the Greek military establishment had a limited view of its contribution to modernization . It did not , for example , push for industrialization , even when this would have improved military preparedness or national security . Because of its self-imposed isolation and its dependence on the United States , the military became more and more divorced from the other sectors of Greek society . Association with the Americans and , later with the armed forces of other NATO members , led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than did most Greek institutions . Moreover , as the military became technologically oriented , it became more dependent on the outside world . The new norms of efficiency and incorruptibility increased its hostility to the traditional political world . The military remained the one group with a total institutional life for its I92 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM members . It had an exclusive means of communication through special radio stations and other mass media . Subsidized commissaries , low-cost housing , and other privileges removed the military , at least partially , from the civilian world of scarcity and clientage . Of all the elements in Greek society , the military is , as Janowitz observes in another connection , " more likely than other professional groups to have its members ' kinship ties loosened and their sociometic ties more rooted within the organization . " ' The military can assume modern organizational forms and can decry traditional politics because insecurity derived from scarcity is largely lacking among its members . Although essentially antipolitical , the military has used its resources to gain friends at the micropolitical level of parliament . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for military reassignments or deferments , which are channeled through political leaders ; similarly , there is always pressure for commissions , and for promotions that can be used to placate the politically powerful . The engineering branch of the Greek Army not only has planning responsibilities in the field of public works , but has mechanized units stationed throughout Greece to make plans into reality ; moreover , it has financial resources even greater than those of military units . The military is able to favor its friends and ignore its enemies when planning and executing public works . However , the formal head of the defense establishment , until the 1967 coup , was a civilian , and the military budget had to be formally approved by the parliament . Thus , despite the military 's reluctance to deal with the traditional political level , it could not entirely avoid involvement . The Greek military establishment views itself as a threatened group existing in a society mismanaged by corrupt politicians who are bent only on personal power . From its perspective , the concerns of the parliamentary level seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an officer does not equip him to understand the problems of economic scarcity ; this lack of understanding , combined with his ideological indoctrination , prevents him from realizing the basic reasons for the strength of his major adversary , the EDA . THE MONARCHY It is difficult to assess the place of the monarchy in the Greek political system . At times the monarch has actually held political power ; at other times he has merely been a pawn of others . The actual ruler , rather than the monarchy itself , has always been the focus of loyalty or hostility . On occasion the // monarch , instead of promoting national unity , has caused fundamental cleavage in the society ; and he has often been the victim of conflicts originating elsewhere in the society , beyond his control . Although the monarchies of Western Europe have symbolized continuity in societies undergoing economic , political , and social change , the Greek monarch has seldom been above the political milieu . He has usually been visibly for or against the major changes occurring in the society , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The monarchical form of government was originally selected for Greece because it was the most respectable in nineteenth-century Europe . Beyond this , since the monarch himself was selected from outside the country and was above the warring internal factions , both the institution and the incumbent were considered a force for stability . However , this aloofness also meant that the monarchy as an institution and the monarch as a person did not have strong roots in the country . The efforts of the first king , Otho , to foster widespread support for himself and the monarchy were resisted by the indigenous leaders , and ultimately caused his downfall . In practice , the Greek monarchy has seldom been an apolitical unifying symbol . The king has been forced to descend to the level of mutual obligation and patronage whenever he has sought to inspire loyalty . Consequently , loyalty and commitment to the monarchy or the king himself have been as fragile as loyalty to any ordinary political leader . Although it is not a legitimate symbol of national unity , the Greek monarchy does have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fund , formerly the Queen 's Fund , has approximately $10 million per year to distribute , and it is not under government supervision ? The Fund is financed by surcharges on the import duties of luxury items such as automobiles ; it also contracts for the manufacture of handicrafts and sells them in its own shops . Primarily a welfare agency , it has the allegiance of those who administer it , as well as those who benefit from its charitable activities . In the Greek political culture , this allegiance can be translated into vigorous political support . Apart form this , at least some Greeks do admire the monarchy as an institution and the monarch as a person . For some , this is a clientage relationship ; for others it is a sort of traditional deference . Finally , socialization through the school and the church and political education in the armed forces ? although of questionable effectiveness , considering the strength of primary group loyalties ? have equated loyalty to the monarchy with national loyalty . The precarious position of the Greek state gave the monarch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He could use his dynastic connections to lobby for Greek interests , particularly territorial acquisitions and financial assistance , among his cousins and uncles on the other thrones of Europe . " The conception of the crown as a court of last appeal in the conduct of foreign policy had come to be recognized as one of the conventions of the constitution " ; ' and it remained unchallenged until World War I. Foreign policy , because it included problems of foreign debt , franchises for foreign investment in internal development , and trade agreements , could affect almost every facet of domestic policy . Most Greeks expected the monarch to use foreign policy to strengthen his own position by manipulations in the domestic sector . Because of this , he was almost invariably drawn into domestic political questions . It was , in fact , customary that there could be no change of government without some formal complaint against the conduct of the crown . The first king , Otho , was a compromise selection , but he did have satisfactory dynastic credentials . He was finally overthrown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to undermine the position of the indigenous leadership . Instead , he had identified himself with virulent Greek nationalism and alienated the Great Powers , from whom future benefit had to come . He was jettisoned because he had failed to advance Greek territorial ambitions and had become a national liability in the process . The British contribution of the Ionian Islands at George I 's accession enhanced the new king 's political stature ; the eventual acquisition of Thessaly and part of the Epirus was also helpful . However , the recurring problem of Crete and the disastrous war with Turkey in 1897 put a cloud over the monarchy . The revolution of 1909 , though mainly directed against the established political elite , was also a protest against alleged royal failures in military matters . Credit for the great successes of Greece in the Balkan wars was given to Premier Venizelos as much as to the king or royal princes . In nineteenth-century Europe it was usual for the crown to be a major force in the conduct of foreign policy ; it was not so usual for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After the struggle between Venizelos and King Constantine before World War I , the Greek monarchy had little to do with foreign policy , which formally became a matter for the political level . Since that time , the Greek monarchs have been more the pawns of domestic political figures than the actual manipulators of power . Republican military officers and outraged radicals easily forced George II to sign the death warrants for the leading // politicians of the right after the Anatolian debacle in 1922 . When the crown returned in 1935 after a republican interregnum , it was controlled by rightist politicians . King George may have facilitated Metaxas 's takeover in 1936 , but he was in large measure unable to do more than acquiesce . A plebiscite restored the monarchy in 1946 , probably because estimations of the kind of regime the Greeks needed at home were modified by estimations of the kind she needed in order to get on with the Allies . Since the royal role in foreign affairs has diminished , many voices have been ready to question the wisdom of an annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is constant criticism of specific special expenditures on royalty , such as the dowry voted to Princess Sofia and the expenses for the wedding of the king himself . The character of Greek political groups gives the monarchy a natural place in the traditional political system , and the king has always been involved in parliamentary politics . A recent premier argued that the monarch was necessary because he was the one stable element in a nation given to political volatility 10 Presumably , he was implying that the selection of a head of state by normal electoral processes would be more than the political system could bear , and that parliamentary politics needed a " nonpartisan " referee . Moreover , the king does have some formal power , in that he appoints the premier . During the first decades of the Gluecksburg dynasty there was no actual limit on the king 's power to appoint or dismiss ministers and to dissolve the parliament , and George I frequently worked with minority or extraparliamentary governments 11 This practice later receded , but not because of any constitutional prohibitions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : for example , Venizelos was both the beneficiary and the victim of royal authority to remove ministers and premiers , even those enjoying the confidence of the parliament . The provisions of the 1952 constitution were relatively vague concerning the relationship of the king to his ministers . The king could not issue any order unsigned by a responsible minister ; however , there was no collective cabinet responsibility , and a single minister could cooperate with the king without the premier 's permission . Likewise , if one government refused to cosign a royal order for its own dissolution , the next government could . The main reason for the king 's role at the parliamentary level is the factional political structure itself , which gives him great freedom in issuing invitations to form governments . This was obvious during the immediate postwar period , when no party had a majority , and in 1955 , when Karaman196 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM lis was selected as premier after the death of Papagos . The system began to break down in 1965-66 , when George Papandreau protested that his dismissal by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the streets nearly blocked the king 's appointment of a new premier . The vagueness of the constitution and the factional character of Papandreou 's Center Union party allowed Constantine to have his way iz The coup of April 1967 and the later flight of the king to Italy revealed the precarious position of the monarch as an actor in the consociational Greek system . The involvement of the king at the parliamentary level had conflicted with his position toward the military at the extraparliamentary one . THE LEFT The National Liberation Movement ( EAM ) and its military arm ( ELAS ) had functioned as the virtual government for much of Greece during the later years of the Nazi occupation . Since the occupying forces were stationed only in the few large cities , the EAM was almost completely in control of the country . It had an operating government that held elections and congresses , and even a functioning school system using specially printed texts 13 The prime movers of the resistance were the Communists , though other leftist groups and some Center politicians were involved . Dimitrios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist takeover . The party was legitimate ; it had cadres and influence because of its role in the resistance . " The older generation of political leaders was occupied with personal quarrels or the question of the monarchy . The disorganized economy , the breakdown of administration , and the fact that most of the country was occupied by Communist-led resistance groups seemed to give the Communist Party of Greece ( KKE ) an undisputed advantage . But the advantage was dissipated by Communist brutality toward domestic opponents , and ultimately lost when the party could not retain the loyalty of the population under its control . The visible Left was smashed by the civil war . The KKE and its associated parties were eventually proscribed , and the climate of opinion made it difficult for left-wing public sentiment to reassert itself for some time . The Greek resistance movement and its later transformation to Communist insurgence closely resembled resistance movements and rebellions elsewhere , particularly in former colonial areas ; however , the ultimate collapse of the Greek movement prevented the social revolution that tended to accompany other liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with various trade-union // elements , formed the Democratic Front ( Demokratiki Parataksis , DP ) in order to compete in the elections . The following year these same groups founded the United Democratic Left ( Eniaia Demokratiki Aristera , EDA ) . The announced aims of the new organization were " peace , democracy , and amnesty . " The EDA , unlike other groups operating under party labels in Greece , does meet the requirements of a political party as suggested by LaPalombara and Weiner : continuity of organization ; permanent organization at the local level , with firm ties between local and national units ; determination of leaders at every level to capture and hold decision-making power in the society ; and a concern with seeking popular support . Beyond this , the EDA in many ways conforms to Riggs 's description of a " combative " party , and to Giovanni Sartori 's model of an " anti-system " party . The EDA represents those with no ties or access to the government through the traditional parties , and its supporters are largely those who oppose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invariably been manipulated to discriminate against it . The EDA parliamentary group has little influence in politics at that level , and is not viewed as a possible coalition partner or a potential government . It is not recognized as the equal of the other parties by either the crown or the state apparatus . The demands formulated by the EDA can not be met through the existing state machinery , since even the minimal social changes that the party promotes drastically alter the society and the status quo . Organization The other major parties in Greece are highly organized in theory , but not in reality . The theory and practice of EDA organization tend to coincide . In fact , the EDA 's success has stimulated the development of formal organization in the traditional parties . The current organizational structure of the EDA is based on party statutes adopted in 1955 , and resembles that of other left-wing parties in Western Europe 15 The family loyalties and clientage ties normal in other Greek parties are discouraged . The involvement of a man 's family in politics , though useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the initiation of a parliamentary career under EDA auspices . The party is most successful in urban settings , where family ties are tenuous or lacking , even among candidates from the major political constellations . The EDA discourages the formation of personal or clientage ties between its deputies and their constituents , and deputies appear to be rotated // from one area to another . The deputies do not handle requests for patronage or favors , and the party asks its members not to make them . The requests that do arise , whatever their source , are handled directly by the party secretariat . Requests for government assistance ? and especially complaints of bureaucratic intimidation ? are forwarded to the EDA deputy from the province nearest to their origin . Ordinary complaints will rate separate telegrams to the ministry concerned , the president of parliament , and the press . A more serious complaint might call for a question in parliament . The EDA has functioning organizations in most parts of the country . During much of the Karamanlis administration , however , the activities of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The circulation of the party press was virtually restricted to Athens and Thessaloniki and their environs . Only in areas with great concentrations of EDA strength such as Mytilini , could the local committees operate openly . The lowest EDA units are in individual villages , and at the neighborhood level in the larger cities ; occasionally , they are based on place of employment . These primary party organs must have at least three members . Depending upon size , they are directed by a single secretary or by a committee of three to seven members . The EK or ERE units at this level , when there is any organization whatsoever , are composed of local men who " own " a certain number of votes , but even here the EDA has a more or less professional staff . The next level of organization is in eparchies and cities of over I00 , 000 population . Finally , there are organizations at the nomoi ( departmental ) level , and regional organizations for Macedonia and the Peloponnesus . The departmental and city organizations send representatives to the Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The entire EDA parliamentary delegation also attends . The congress sets the general party line and elects the governing committee of the party , which is responsible for affairs between congresses . In 1965 , the governing committee had 95 members ; it met about five times , although it is specifically charged with meeting only twice during a calendar year . The presiding officer elected by the governing committee becomes the president of the party . The governing committee determines the size of the executive committee , and selects the membership from its own ranks . This smaller committee ( it had 15 members in 1965 ) generally meets weekly and handles dayto-day policy . Its members include the president of the party , a number of parliamentary deputies , and some officials drawn from the party secretariat . // The Secretariat consists of special commissions set up by the governing committee ; in general , these are assigned to party organization , trade unions , women , and cooperatives . A separate supervisory committee to handle problems of discipline and party finance is elected by the party congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party organizations are permitted by the party constitution . The governing committee can convene a " panhellenic " congress between sessions of the party congress to modify the party lines ; a similar conference , with more limited powers , can be called more easily for the same purpose . There is also provision for a national council to study newly raised issues and advise the other party organizations . The EDA in the period under study was committed to a parliamentary role , and the parliamentary delegation seemed to take the lead in the formulation of day-to-day party policy . The chairman of the party himself was a member of parliament ; in 1965 , the executive committee included six deputies . In case of a controversy between the deputies and the rest of the executive committee , the dispute would be taken to the governing committee . There is no evidence that this ever occurred . Although EDA literature emphasizes the democratic nature of party organization , democratic centralism is the operative principle of the party , operating in Greece much as it does elsewhere . Discussions are held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the hierarchy ; but real direction and initiative come mainly from the summit of the organizational network . Even in formal terms , the powers of the governing committee and the executive committee seem to limit the real authority of the supposedly supreme party congress . The governing committee determines the agenda of the congress and provides the chairman . The executive committee can replace old members of any party organization or appoint additional members ; any action along these lines by the lesser party organs must be ratified by the executive committee . Nevertheless , the EDA 's lower party agencies do have at least as much influence as those of the other Greek parties . The EDA is relatively unified when compared with its competitors , and does not have major problems of internal conflict between the party leader and the parliamentary deputies . This does not mean , however , that personal conflict reminiscent of that in the traditional political groups is unknown ? in the EDA it is simply obscured by ideological bickering . Like other parties , the EDA includes some people who actively seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means auto200 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM matic defeat in some areas , the party does the recruiting . Formally , the local committees propose candidates , and the governing committee merely ratifies their choices ; but in actuality , most choices are made by the smaller executive committee . There seems to be a conscious effort to select candidates with the proper proletarian background . There is no internal struggle among the candidates because everyone knows who has a chance of getting elected and who has not . Certain party figures are always renominated and reelected , but the majority of the parliamentary delegation changes at each election . Major electoral decisions ? for example , the decision to join Papandreou 's Democratic Union for electoral purposes in 1956 ? are made by the governing committee . The financial aspects of the EDA are actually more visible than those of other Greek parties , although it is difficult to come to any definitive conclusions about them . Other parties look with skepticism on EDA claims of financial self-sufficiency ; however , this may be because of their own dependence on foreign and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does have a formal membership requirement , with minimum dues of ten drachmae per year ( about 33 cents ) ; but apparently there is a sliding scale of payment for members with more ample financial resources . In addition , the party collects the parliamentary salary of each of its deputies , amounting to 13,500 drachmae per month , and remits to the deputy a flat 4,000 per month . A substantial amount of EDA revenue comes from " friends of the party , " both in Greece and abroad , and from certain trade unions . Financial assessments are made upon local party organizations , and these must be raised through dues or special contributions . The party also conducts house-to-house fund-raising drives in some areas in Athens and Piraeus where EDA membership is concentrated , and these can be quite successful : the financial campaign of 1965 , necessary because two national elections and one local election were held in one 12-month period , set a goal of 7 million drachmae and collected over 9 million . ' 6 The EDA also maintains several shops in Athens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the EDA 's ability to meet current expenses out of the limited financial resources of its supporters might be questioned . However , the intense activity in party headquarters , the constant stream of literature , and the endless demonstrations and meetings do not cost the EDA as much as they might cost another party . The commitment and solidarity of EDA members mean that the personnel at party headquarters work for less than do those associated with the other Greek parties . The EK and the ERE must // hire men to hold their placards during election campaigns . The EDA has willing volunteers , and its rallies are far superior to those of the other political groups : artists and craftsmen decorate the platform , and poets and musicians perform prior to the speeches , all without cost . There are EDA members in business who are willing to provide services and supplies at less than the market rate because of party loyalty . The party also uses the special privileges of its deputies , such as free postage and telephone service , for its own purposes ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these exemptions to advance their personal interests . Meynaud suggests that outside assistance , essentially meaning that coming from the Communist nations , is limited to occasional special contributions 1T In any case , the EDA 's strenuous efforts at domestic fund raising would indicate that foreign sources are not a primary source of support . Program The EDA has a coherent program , based on its application of marxist ideology to Greek society i$ Unfortunately the marxist phraseology of its pronouncements is by itself enough to discredit the party in the view of many Greeks . The efforts of the EDA to secure the legalization of the Communist Party also make it suspect . Finally , the stand of the EDA on foreignpolicy issues differs from the general Greek outlook . It is the party stand in these areas rather than its program of social reform , that alarms the military and some elements in the parliament . One of the major items in EDA programs has always been the restoration of " democracy " ? which includes , first and foremost , the legalization of the Communist Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be revised , especially Article Too of the constitution , which states that " ideologies advocating change of the existing constitutional or social regime by force and violence are absolutely unacceptable for those holding public office . " 9 The precise effect of this stand on the EDA 's success is difficult to determine . In a sense , the constancy of the demand alienates some potential supporters , since it makes the EDA appear as the handmaiden of the KKE . The party states publicly that the " KKE never ceased to play a considerable role in Greek public life " ; 20 there is no other place for this role to be played than in the EDA . However , the cohesiveness and solidarity of the EDA may well depend on the harrassment directed at it because of this association . Even though most Greeks regard the EDA as only a stand-in for the Corn202 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM munists , it has received 10-20 per cent of the popular vote in recent elections . The proportion of the vote that is actually Communist is impossible to determine : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of 1936 , in which they received 6 per cent of the vote . Even then , the dedicated Communists and the mere protestors can not be separated . The KKE in exile claims to have accepted evolutionary and parliamentary tactics . Even so , if the party were reinstated , the EDA could no longer be considered the " extreme left . " Once the most militant element in the EDA leadership was removed , the party would not differ significantly from left-wing socialist parties elsewhere in Europe . Moreover , it would still not fall into the persistent-polyarchic mold of other Greek parties . Some Greeks feel that EDA pronouncements on foreign affairs are sufficient evidence of the party 's Communist character ; and the EDA does echo Soviet policies . Occasionally , Russian activities , particularly Russian support of Turkey in the Cyprus controversy , have put the EDA in a difficult political position . The party 's efforts to establish good relations with the other Eastern bloc nations , e.g. , its advocacy of a demilitarized zone in Eastern Europe , also alienate many Greeks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and association with the Common Market as infringements on Greek independence . Both organizations are blamed for the country 's submission to Western views on the Cyprus question under both the Karamanlis and Papandreou governments . Full membership in the Common Market would supposedly bring in more foreign monopoly capital , keeping Greece industrially backward ; and Greek industry would not be able to compete with industry in other member nations . The EDA was the first group to voice these sentiments , but it is certainly not the only one . It is , however , alone in regarding the Soviet Union as an honest broker for the settlement of all outstanding world problems , as well as matters specifically affecting Greece . The EDA 's domestic program and its analysis of the Greek social system are set forth in For a National Democratic Change , a document adopted in 1956 . Greece is described as an almost classic " colonial " country , controlled by foreign imperialists and their local representatives . The ERE is attached to the United States and NATO ; it is the party of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the EDA theoreticians , is largely representative of the petty bourgeoisie ; it is deficient because it has no consistent policy of promoting Greek " independence . " Basically , Greece is " an underdeveloped country , industrially backward , without a heavy industry , with a weak light // industry and certain semi-feudal elements . " 21 An " independent Greece , " that is , independent of the West , must be created before these conditions can be overcome . The EDA charges that the paucity of Greek heavy industry is caused by foreign capitalists , who manipulate national financial markets to keep Greece a consumer of foreign industrial goods and a source of raw material . American aid policy is blamed for the lack of agricultural improvement . The enormous proportion of the budget devoted to military expenditure precludes adequate state assistance to industry or agriculture . The description of objective economic conditions is not dissimilar from that offered by respected non-marxist economists ; 22 however , the EDA analysis places the blame on dubious causes and suggests uncertain remedies . Regardless , the EDA program does , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national identity and a new basis for political integration in Greece . The EDA , besides advocating a new national independence , has tried to assume the role of successor to the revolutionaries of 1821 . The literature of the EDA maintains that the German occupation and the resistance constituted a second revolution , which temporarily eliminated foreign interference and changed the Greek social structure . These advances were swept away by the Truman Doctrine and American intervention , which reestablished a non-democratic foreign-serving ( and by implication illegitimate ) regime . The EDA is the contemporary extension of the wartime resistance , and a continuing symbol of legitimacy . Unfortunately , this position is tenuous because the linking of the national resistance movement and the EDA is not as complete as the literature implies . The analysis concludes that all patriotic forces must unite before true national independence can be secured . The working class must join with the peasantry as the nucleus for a wider movement that will finally include the middle strata of the towns , and even the national bourgeoisie . The specific goals mentioned in National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program is certainly not socialist ; in many respects it does not differ from that proposed by the Center Union . The EDA goals envision a Greece that is " free , well-fed , gay , and civilized , " and worthy of its great traditions 2 ' Revolution and the class struggle are not mentioned . The EDA , like the other Greek parties , hopes to gain support by appealing to specific sectors of Greek society , and its program seems designed for electoral purposes . The party assumes that parliament will be the major arena for political and social change . The EDA appeal for a return to // the simple proportional representation system is one part of this parliamentary orientation . The EDA program vows to raise the standard of living in Greece . Although it is assumed that economic development will eventually do this , the specifics of the program seem to depend on immediate public financing . It does not seem likely that the EDA would be as successful as the EK in balancing these two requirements . Industrialization is to be financed through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , imports restricted , and exports , especially to eastern bloc nations , increased . These proposals rest , of course , on the assumption of a Greek withdrawal from NATO and the Common Market . Even if this occurred , the reliance upon the eastern bloc and the complexities of the Greek economic picture make the task easier to suggest than to accomplish . Revenues are to be increased by promoting tourism and expanding the merchant marine . Additional funds for industrialization , however , are supposed to come from abroad without any terms or political strings . Moreover , the EDA program seems quite unrealistic in its estimate of energy resources and mineral deposits . A significant heavy industry may actually be an impossibility , given Greek resources . All in all , the concrete proposals of the EDA are much like those of the EK . The rest of the EDA 's program seems less attuned to internal economic development than to providing benefits for the entire range of EDA supporters and penalizing those who benefit from the existing regime . The only social class scheduled for complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign monopolies . These families monopolize the two major banking groups , large-scale industry , trade , and the merchant marine . Banking is to be nationalized , but joint state-private ventures are to be encouraged in other fields , particularly in chemicals , agricultural processing , and the metals industries . Land reform is to be applied to the estates of the few remaining large landowners , such as the church and the royal family . New subsidies to agriculture and relief from existing debts to the Agricultural Bank are part of the platform , which also suggests a renewal of agricultural cooperatives in order to encourage technical improvements and the raising of more profitable crops . The worker is promised higher wages and pensions , together with improved social insurance schemes . The tradeunion movement is to be reformed , and labor legislation improved . Even the lower clergy is to receive greater financial benefits . The small businessmen and craftsmen will obtain easier credit and improved social insurance benefits . The national bourgeoisie , unlike those Greeks with international // connections , would be assisted by protective legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation and an increased use of direct taxation ; in this case , the personal exemption would be raised , and increased tax rates would be applied to those with greater income . The noneconomic sectors of society are not forgotten . Women , as a group , are to benefit by the lifting of all legal , social , and economic distinctions between the sexes . The educational program of the state would be completely reworked with the EDA in power . First , educational opportunity would be expanded by extending the compulsory educational system and opening university places to all Greeks , regardless of their political beliefs . The EDA also makes an explicit demand for a better quality of education . The existing system is viewed as anachronistic ; it is devoted to foreign cultures rather than to the promotion of patriotism and democracy at home . One major reform would be the introduction of demotic as the official language of the state and higher education . All these proposals , according to the EDA , will be feasible only when Greek ties to the West have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , emigration , deficit financing , and the poverty of the countryside ? all come from the absence of industrialization , and this lack is perpetuated by Greece 's " colonial " status . The party never considers the realities of the international world , the cultural impediments to industry in Greece itself , and the paucity of Greek resources . It does recognize one major obstacle , the traditional distrust of government authority . However , it is argued that once authority is not in the hands of the local oligarchs and subject to foreign influence , this distrust will disappear . Moreover , the party would make every effort to increase the people 's active participation in government at every level . Traditional favoritism by the legal and administrative systems would be eliminated ; but how this would be done is not clear . This analysis fails to consider all of the cultural and environmental factors that have promoted the negative attitude toward authority . Since the EDA does not seem to envisage a total revolution , it is difficult to see how these influences would disappear . Membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EDA as nothing more than a manifestation of the illegal KKE . Some Center elements , however , look upon the EDA as merely the left wing of the Greek republican tradi-206 tion . For its part , the EDA explicitly claims to have Communists , socialists , and all other progressive democrats among its members . It is obvious that some Communists are attracted to the party because they have no other legal avenue for political action . Several EDA deputies had prewar affiliations with the KKE ; other party figures had roles in the resistance or the civil war . Moreover , the party prefers to select its officers and candidates from men who were imprisoned for political activities or ostensible criminal activity during the civil war . One non-EDA deputy suggested that perhaps a third of the EDA parliamentary membership was Communist . In any case , the party has few elements that are not drawn from the Left ( see Table 8 . I ) . Dissension in the EDA tends to concern policy , not party organization or ministerial positions . However , personality clashes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security is the chief difference of opinion between the Right and Center parties as groups , but in the EDA it causes internal friction . Even worse is the problem of whether to pursue a moderate course or to press for unlimited change , which is reflected in internal compromises over program and tactics . Certainly , the KKE would not settle for the social and economic program of the EDA as a final goal ; at most , it would be a tactical maneuver . Although the EDA claims to have accepted the evolutionary and parliamentary course , it still mobilizes the population for extraparliamentary activities that challenge the legitimacy of traditional politics and of the consociational system itself . Any distrust or dissatisfaction with government on the part of labor , agriculture , the professions , or the students , is exploited for party purposes . Street demonstrations have been a part of the Greek scene for much longer than the EDA has existed , and those in Athens have been responsible for the fall of several regimes and many governments . // However , EDA militants now take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party claims to organize or support , morally and materially , all such activities , even when its role has been minimal . It attempts to turn them not only against the government in power but against the basic political system . The major cities ? particularly the Athens-Piraeus complex , since it is the seat of government and has the largest concentration of EDA supporters ? are under almost constant siege by one organization or another . Electoral Analysis R. V. Burks argues that Communism in Eastern Europe attracts two broad categories of supporters : those who originate in a " badly disturbed social order , " and those who reflect the impact of Western civilization on the more backward East European provinces 24 In the first category he places refugees and farmers with cash crops ; in the second , he puts youth and women . Surprisingly , he finds little relationship between Left affiliation and class position , and suggests that personal insecurity , whatever its cause , provides the most common motive . This hypothesis also fits the Greek situation . Between the world wars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal insecurity . Since that time , the Left has appealed to the lower classes in the urban areas , who are similarly unable to utilize traditional clientage ties . The most obvious change in the position of the Left over the last several decades has been the increase in the vote given to it ( see Table 8.2 ) . " The groups who supported the KKE in 1936 still support the Left under the EDA label . However , the EDA has extended its appeal to other elements in // the Greek population , despite the constant harassment of those who persist in left-wing political beliefs . Nineteen scattered eparchies in Greece can be classed as generally competitive. * In these areas any one of the three major political groups might receive a plurality of votes ; in other words , the Left has enough electoral strength to compete . Votes for the Left are relatively sparse in the great majority of rural constituencies ; however , rural support increases in the provinces added to the Greek state in the twentieth century . These are districts with a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties to bureaucrats and politicians in Athens . There are some exceptions to the general pattern of EDA rural weakness . The island of Lefkas supports the EDA because a local notable , a doctor , runs on the EDA electoral list . The eparchy of Palis on the island of Kefallinis is harder to explain ; the high percentage of men from the island employed in the merchant marine may have some relationship to EDA strength there . The island of Thasos off the Thracian coast and Ikaria , the small island adjacent to Samos , are also included in the competitive category ; the reasons for left-wing strength in these areas seem obscure . The only competitive rural district in continental Greece is the eparchy of Tirnavos in Thessaly . The long tradition of agrarian discontent in this region could possibly account for this radicalism ; if so , one can not explain the relative quiescence of adjacent eparchies with a similar past . EDA strength in rural Greece does not seem to be related to agricultural difficulties . Correlation analysis using rural population per square kilometer and EDA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of .266 . Analysis using particular cash crops did not produce anything better.26 The strength of the Left in Greece today is directly related to the status of the refugees who arrived in the early 1920 's . They comprised about a quarter of the population at that time , and had a great impact upon the political , social , and economic aspects of Greek life . The refugees themselves were of diverse backgrounds : those from central Anatolia , the Anatolian littoral , Constantinople , the Caucasus , and eastern Thrace , as well as the smaller groups from other Balkan states , all differed in dialect and culture 24 Regardless of their background , most refugees were not immediately accepted by the native Greeks . There had long been a minority in Greece who expressed resentment against Greeks from abroad , and the large infusion of refugees introduced a discordant note into the political system . // The settlement of many agricultural refugees meant that there was less land for the indigenous Greeks to divide . In the towns , the refugee businessmen , entrepreneurs , and craftsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provincial Greeks of the kingdom . The entrepreneur from outside the kingdom was more likely to have a Western education , experience with Western techniques and knowledge of Western tastes . A 1961 survey showed that one out of five Greek industrialists had been born in Turkey 28 Native Greeks often disguised their awareness of these economic considerations by a hostility based on the premise that people with such different customs and such peculiar dialects could not be truly Greek . Although the origins and cultural levels of the refugees varied , it was not difficult for the native Greek to assume that the cultural level of all refugees was equal to that of the least cultured . Politically , the refugees supported Venizelos almost to a man . King Constantine and the politicians of the Populist Party were viewed as responsible for the defeat in Asia Minor . Venizelos , they thought , would have piloted the Greeks to victory , and the native Greeks had removed him from the helm of state at the most critical juncture . In any event , the loyalty of the refugees went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state or the king . They continued to support him and the Liberal Party until his death . Urban refugees , resettled in the new communities near Athens , were levers available for Liberal and republican politicians to use against their Populist and monarchist opponents . Very shortly , the refugee vote became crucial for political control . Both General Pangalos and General Kondylis achieved power in the twenties with refugee assistance29 The Communists were more successful in recruiting voters and sympathy among the refugees than among the indigenous Greeks from the very beginning , but it was not until the romance with Venizelos began to fade that they made great strides . The Liberal 's support began to shift to the Left after the abandonment of refugee claims against Turkey in the 1930 's , when Venizelos sacrificed domestic support to get a rapprochement with Turkey . A substantial shift from the Liberal Party occurred in 1936 ; the political loyalty of many refugees has been to the parties of the Left since that time $ ? The government 's promises of housing and land for all refugees remained unfulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those refugees who were resettled in rural areas often had grievances also . To some extent , the national aim of hellenizing Macedonia was given priority over the economic well-being of the refugees . Many were settled in the in2I0 THE POLITICAL SYSTEM hospitable borderland , rather than on more desirable land in less strategic places . Under the system of land distribution , the native Greek tenant farmer was given a larger and better landholding than the incoming refugee . Many refugees , who had never known land scarcity , were annoyed at the small size of their farms and the different technical requirements for cultivation . The most nontraditional of the Greek parties , the Communists , were able to capitalize on refugee dissatisfactions . Burks found high coefficients of correlation between refugee settlement and Communist vote : the coefficient was .62111 1926 , .57 in 1933 , and .67 in 1936.31 Communist ideology was sharpened to appeal to those frustrated with a new and often more difficult life . Perhaps the fact that many of the refugees came from the Soviet Union made them more susceptible to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , built on personal political relationships running from the small community to the national level , simply did not admit the refugee to membership . The refugee was an outsider in most communities , and there were very few places in which refugees were the majority of the voting population . The refugee groups created a refugee press and began to organize for political purposes very early , although their diversity and their dispersion throughout the nation tended to hinder these efforts . This organization was built on the one thing that all refugees had in common : their separateness from the rest of the Greek people . The attempt to build a bond of " refugeeness " that would equal the tie of the ordinary Greek to his political patron was not completely successful . Electoral districts were gerrymandered to minimize the possibility of refugee majorities ; and many of the refugees were women and children , who could not vote . After 1926 , the independent refugee parties began to die out . All political groupings eventually put refugees on their political lists , but they were most successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , refugees provided a larger percentage of the vote for the KKE than they did for any other party S2 Refugee deputies sometimes received cabinet posts , although only the lesser positions usually came their way . One of the vicepresidencies of parliament was also reserved for a refugee deputy . Leading refugee politicians could be assured of at least a minimal political career in the older political groupings . But the very fact that certain positions were considered " refugee posts " tended to perpetuate the refugee 's separation from other Greeks . In addition , the refugees never had a parliamentary rep-                     