@@774385

txt  | A strait separated Great Britain from continental Europe at the end of the Jurassic and the beginning of the Cretaceous . From then until the beginning of the Tertiary , the islands were connected partly with northern Atlantis and partly with Europe . During the Eocene and Oligocene , there was no land connection between Great Britain and northwestern Europe , although there was a land bridge to Normandy . In the beginning of the Miocene , there was a connection , but it was disrupted later in that epoch . During the Pliocene , contacts and disruptions occurred again . During the Upper Pleistocene , the Scandinavian ice shield reached the British Isles . Ice covered almost all of Great Britain except the southern parts of Ireland and England . During the Ice Age also , there were intermittent land connections between England and the continent . The present English Channel was formed after the Ice Age . There is a reference to the presence in the early Cretaceous ( Walden ) Flora of fossil remains of pine " with clusters of long needles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seward , 1941 ) , i.e. , P. griffithii No. 91 . Couper ( 1958 ) described pollen grains of Abietieneaepollenites from the Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous of England . The morphology of pollen was similar to that of Pinus ( P. cembra No. 70 and P. peuce No. 71 ) . The Lower Cretaceous specimens were judged to belong to plants closely related to Pinus . They appeared to be distinct from pollen grains of other genera of the Abietaceae : Abies , Picea , and Cedrus . Couper commented on the close similarity of pine pollen grains of the Lower Cretaceous and the Jurassic . The early Tertiary flora of southern England was of a tropical character . Reid and Chandler ( 1933 ) , describing the Middle Eocene London Flora , mentioned that it came from southeastern Asia along the north shores of the ancient Tethys Sea . During the Tertiary , pines were growing in the British Isles . Chandler ( 1961 ) included two pines in her London Clay Eocene Flora : P. macrocephalus ( Lindley and Hutton ) Gardner ( formerly described by Gardner as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Commenting oil the former , Chandler said , . . . the occurrence of Pinus in a flora as tropical as that of London Clay is curious , for the genus is essentially temperate . Very few species extend into the tropical latitudes even at considerable altitudes , and none lives at the present day at low altitudes strictly within the tropics . Perhaps the cones were transported a considerable distance from some upland area . But it seems more probable that this is a tropical species and that the range of the genus has contracted since early Eocene times . Moreover , as stated previously ) pine forests now occur behind the mangroves in Florida .  | Chandler was in error when she said that very few species extend into tropical latitudes ( see Chapter 3 ) , but she was right in saying that the genus Pinus is historically a genus of temperate climates and that few pines are found in low altitudes in the tropics . Some pines adapted themselves to the tropical lowlands , but this was a rare and local phenomenon . Compare Chandler 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and see the discussion of P. strobus var. chiapensis No. 34 in Chapter 3 . The cold climate of the late Tertiary and the subsequent glaciation that covered most of the British Isles exterminated all pines except one , as these phenomena exterminated all pines in northern Europe . The only pine species that survived the Ice Age in the non-glaciated areas of southern England , and possibly also in refugia within the glaciated parts of the islands , was P. sylvestris . As a result of his studies based on pollen analysis of forest-tree succession in North Yorkshire and west of Manchester , Erdtman ( 1926 , 1929 ) concluded that , after the retreat of the ice , birch and pine ( P. sylvestris No. 69 ) were the first trees to reach middle England from the south . Hazel and other hardwoods came later . Generally , the postglacial history of pines in England ? represented by only one species , P. sylvestris ? was the same as on the continent . Godwin ( 1940 ) arrived at essentially the same conclusions . In a later paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found in every British interglacial deposit examined by pollen analysts . It was exclusively P. sylvestris pollen . Pinus sylvestris was dominant ( luring the period of increasing warmth in the middle of the Holocene ( Godwin , 1940 ) . The almost complete extermination of P. sylvestris in the British Isles happened recently , after man arrived there . Pine stumps have been found in peat bogs of Ireland and southern England . At present , P. sylvestris is found only in Scotland , from where it has acquired its " common " English name , " Scots Pine . " Strictly speaking , only one pine ( P. sylvestris No. 69 ) grows in the region of western Europe . Pinus cembra No. 70 and P. montana No. 76 are found in the mountains separating western Europe from the Mediterranean pine region . In rare instances , P. montana penetrates rather deeply into western Europe . The oldest European fossil pines appear to be from the Jurassic . Reports on occurrence of Cretaceous pines are frequent . During the Tertiary , many different species of pines were growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally was  | similar to the living floras of North America and eastern Asia ( Reid , 1920 ) . The pines were both haploxylon and diploxylon , and they were similar to the North American and eastern Asiatic pines . After the Miocene , the climate became colder and pines began to disappear . In the Pliocene , all but two of the remaining western European pine species suffered extinction . While in North America and eastern Asia the way to the south was open to the pines retreating before the advancing ice , in western Europe escape south during the Pliocene was blocked by the high ranges of the already formed Alps and their eastern extensions . After the end of glaciation , P. sylvestris No. 69 ( and rarely P. montana No. 76 ) returned north from the unglaciated refugia . The pine region of eastern Europe and northern Asia occupies an enormous expanse of land located between western Europe and the North Pacific Ocean . In the north , it borders the Arctic region and in the south the dry grasslands of eastern Europe and of central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the pine region of eastern Asia . Eastern Europe is generally either gently rolling or a flat plain . Only on the Kola Peninsula of the northwest are there plateau-like mountains , elevated to 1200 m and higher above the plain . In the midst of eastern Europe , the elevations are slightly higher than the surrounding plains , not exceeding 350 m . This is the so-called Central Russian Upland . Two tectonic depressions are located in the south of eastern Europe corresponding to the Caspian and Black Sea lowlands . Considerable readjustments of the earth 's crust took place in this part of eastern Europe during the Cenozoic era . These were accompanied by sea transgressions and regressions . The Caspian tectonic depression was formed between Miocene and Pliocene times , or perhaps in the Upper Pliocene . The Black Sea Lowland is smaller than the Caspian Lowland . It is formed with strata of Miocene and Pliocene age , deposited by the shallow seas that repeatedly covered the area . During the Quaternary glaciations of the north , most of the Caspian Lowland was covered with water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below sea level . As to the Black Sea , its Quaternary history was rather complicated ; the Sea advanced and retreated , now connected with the Mediterranean , now separated from it . Apparent iv the Black ? I'hvsiot ; rtl ) hic &s; rilition of this rogion is tukrn Wens ' flora tlu ? , tiitliut ' Geography of Russia ( tiiuv. 1951 ) ,  | Sea assumed its present shape and established its present contact with the Mediterranean only about 50,000 years ago ( Dobrynin , 1948 ) . Farther east , in Asia , are the stretches of the Turan Lowland with its deserts . The country between the Aral Sea and western Siberia is known as the " Turgai Tableland . " The central part of the Tableland ( so-called Turgai Gate ) is depressed to absolute elevations of about 100 to 125 m . During the Tertiary this depression was under water , connecting the western Siberian Lower Tertiary sea with the Turan Sea . The whole area of the Turgai Tableland is composed of Oligocene marine sediments and Miocene continental deposits . Its name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Turgaian Floristic Province ( see page 111 ) . Western Siberia is an enormous lowland where thick layers of Tertiary and , especially , Quaternary sediments lie upon the Hercynian folds . East of the Yenisei , the Western Siberian Lowland changes abruptly to the Central Siberian Plateau formed on the Pre-Cambrian platform . It is the primeval continent of Asia known as " Angara Land , " or " Angaride . " The country there is rather flat , crossed by broad and deep river valleys . Mountains are flat topped and not too high . Northeastern Siberia , except the stretches of arctic , low-lying tundra near the ocean , is a mountainous country . The Cherski Range reaches from about 2000 to 2500 m in height . During the Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras , this region was a huge geosynclinal basin extending from the mouth of the Lena to the Bering Sea . It was covered with an ancient sea in which marine sediments accumulated to a depth of about 9000 to 15,000 m . The geomorphology of northeastern Siberia is chiefly a product of Mesozoic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the Maritime Province of Russia , mountains are also of Mesozoic origin . The extreme northeast of Siberia near the Bering and Okhotsk seas is the region of Tertiary foldings . Eastern Europe is separated from Siberia by the low , much worked out Upper Paleozoic ( Hercynian ) Ural Mountains . Their continuation in the north is evident in the islands of Novaia Zemlia ; in the south , the Ural Mountains merge into a plateau-like arid range of the Mugodjars . The Altai Mountains in the south of western Siberia lying partly in Mongolia-Dzhungaria , and the mountains of central Asia ( except older , northern ranges of the Tien Shan ) , were also formed by the Hercynian foldings . Northern arcs of the Tien Shan system were formed in the Lower Paleozoic , and the Kopet-Dagh system is of Tertiary origin . The Sayan Mountains are located east of the Altai ; both the Altai and the Sayans are essentially an ancient peneplain uplifted during the Tertiary . The ancient mountain ranges of the southern part of northern Asia ( along the north shore of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | importance for the present study , for they apparently formed a route of migration of pines from eastern Asia to the Mediterranean region . During the Ice Age , the Scandinavian glacier moved south on both sides of the Central Russian Upland . Eastern Europe bears unmistakable evidence of the Riss and Wiirm glaciations . The southern limits of glaciation extended from Lvov ( Lwow , Lemberg ) in the western Ukraine ( about 50 ? north latitude ) to the northern Urals and beyond . The ice mantle was over 2000 m thick . In Belorussia , i.e. , in the area located between Poland and the Ukraine , the history of the Ice Age was about the same as in western Europe . However , the glaciation of its southern part was not as extensive as farther north . There was no Wiirm glaciation in southern Belorussia . ( See map , Fig. 2-5 . ) Western Siberia apparently has had only one glaciation ; it was contemporary with the Riss glaciation of Europe . Because of the drier climate of western Siberia , glaciation did not extend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thickness of the ice mantle as great as in Europe . It measured only about 700 m . The western Siberian glaciers centered in the northern Urals and on the Taimyr Peninsula . The Wiirm glaciation in western Siberia was of a local character , having been restricted to the Ural Mountains and to the Altai system . In eastern Siberia , because of insufficient moisture , there was no extensive glaciation ; it occurred only locally and for the most part was restricted to mountains such as the Sayans . The climate of eastern Siberia during the Ice Age was even more severe than it is now . Extensive areas of the land were cooled to temperatures much below freezing even before the advent of the Ice Age , and they have remained frozen until the present time . Some late Tertiary remains of pines have been well preserved in the frozen soils of northeastern Siberia ( Sukachev , 1910 ) . In the mountains of central Asia , glaciation was confined to the high mountains , and extensive glaciers exist even at present in the Tien Shan system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land from the borders of western Europe to the Pacific Coast of northern Asia . Pinus sylvestris No. 69 almost reaches the coast of the Okhotsk Sea in the far east of Asia . Pints sibirica No. 67 forms extensive forests in northeastern Europe and western and eastern Siberia . Although previously ( Shaw , 1914 ) this pine was considered identical to P. cernbra No. 70 , there are sufficient grounds to describe it as an independent species . Pinus hunaila No. 68 , a timber-line species often forming dense thickets ,  | is found from Lake Baikal to Korea , the Japanese island of Honshu , the coast of the Bering Sea , nearby islands , Kamchatka , and the Kurile archipelago . Thus , its area extends to the region of eastern Asia ( Tikhomirov , 1949 ) . On the Central Russian Upland , P. sylvestris grows either in low-lying sandy places or , rarely , on limestone hills or exposed chalk cliffs . It is generally assumed ( Wulff , 1944 ) that P. sylvestris of the limestone hills , which were not covered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the lowland pine is a secondary , postglacial invader . Usually the pine growing on limestone is accompanied by other Tertiary relics such as Daphne sophia , D. juliae , or Androsace villosa . Therefore , P. sylvestris was growing in central eastern Europe during the Tertiary . Possibly it had migrated there from eastern Asia by way of the northern shores of the Tethys Sea . The Mesozoic Era . Many fossil pines are listed for eastern Europe and Siberia by Krishtofovich in his Prodromus Florae Fossilis ( 1941 ) . These , mostly early , findings are assembled in Table 2-9 . Heer 's findings from eastern Siberia , also listed in Table 2-9 , were critically reviewed and verified by Krishtofovich . Zauer , Kara-Murza , and Sedova ( 1954 ) , all three well-known palynologists , published a brief review based on pollen studies on the main stages of development of vegetation in the U.S.S.R. during the Mesozoic time . During the Lower Triassic , when Cordaitales began to disappear and Bennettitales just began to appear , Ginkgoales , cycads , and conifers also became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable importance . Pollen analyses of Middle Triassic sediments showed still a great deal of the Paleozoic relics , but the gradual change in composition of forest was already evident , as , for instance , more and more prominence was gained by the gymnosperms . The genus Pinus appeared in the Upper Triassic , already represented by both subgenera , Haploxylon and Diploxylon . At the same time , in northern Siberia , Bennettitales , Ginkgoales , and cycads had reached their maximum development . This rather casual mention of the presence of pine pollen in the Upper Triassic is quite startling . No reference was made in the review to the original source . Neishtadt ( 1960 ) , in his historical sketch of palynology in the U.S.S.R. , was more cautious . He remarked that " the spore-pollen complexes of the Triassic are not yet sufficiently known , in comparison to other periods of the Mesozoic era . " However , as pollen of the genus Pinus can he easily distinguished from the pollen of other conifer genera , and also remembering other supporting evidence ( see  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that the genus Pinus appeared during the Triassic . Neiburg ( 1959 ) listed many gymnosperms of Triassic Age in the Pechora Basin of northeastern Europe , but the genus Pinus was not among them ; if pines originated during the Triassic , they may not have reached northeastern Europe during that period . Jurassic pines listed by Krishtofovich ( 1941 ) were all from eastern Siberia . Baikovskaia ( 1956 ) published an excellent and scholarly review of the Upper Cretaceous flora of northern Asia . The Upper Cretaceous flora of Asia is the foundation for establishing the two large floristic provinces of Krishtofovich ? the Turgaian ( see pages 111-112 ) , with its deciduous forests , and the Poltavian ( after the city of Poltava , Ukraine ) , characterized by tropical and subtropical evergreen trees . In the Chulym-Yenisei region of the southern part of eastern Siberia , in the Upper Cretaceous strata ( Cenomanian-Turonian ) , Baikovskaia found abundant pine material . Wisely , she made no attempts to run the material down to the species level . Another location , which has been well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were found in 1878 by Lopatin in western Siberia , is at the village Simonova near the town of Achinsk . From there , Heer ( 1878 ) described P. ( Cedrus ) Lopatini and also another pine ( P. sp . ) . Baikovskaia believes that the Simonova Flora was of the Turonian stage of the Cretaceous . She commented that conifers were poorly represented in that flora and this means that pines also comprised not too prominent components of the forest ; rather , they were sparsely admixed . Scarcity of pines during the Cretaceous in Siberia was made obvious by the review . In the southern Urals , from Cenomanian-Turonian deposits , Palibin described P. uralensis . Some pines of the same age have been described from other parts of the southern Urals . Farther south , in western Kazakhstan ( River Temir ) , south of the town of Aktubinsk , Krishtofovich found P. quenstedti Heer ( but with a question mark after its specific name ) . On the River Lemva in the western Urals ( i.e. , in the European part of Russia ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summarized many reports on occurrence of pine pollen in Cretaceous deposits of western Siberia , Kazakhstan , and the southern half of eastern Europe . She mentioned difficulties of differentiation between pollen grains of different species of the genus . Partly , these difficulties exist because some pine species have been extinct for a long time and thus could not be compared with any living pines , and , partly , they exist because pollen grains were compressed and distorted . Nevertheless , these were pine pollen grains of both of the subgenera ? Haploxylon and I ) iploxylon . Her findings are presented in Table 2-10.  | In the Russian manual Fundamentals of Paleontology of the U.S.S.R. , recent volumes of which are devoted to paleobotany and have been edited by A. L. Takhtajan , the following information on pines is given : In the fossil state are known pine cones , foliage , seeds , pollen . The genus Pinus is known since the Jurassic from Transbaikal region , Irkutsk province , Amur area . Cretaceous pines are known from Caucasus , the Kuban Area ( north of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Moscow , Kirov and Kuibyshev provinces ( i.e. , central and northeastern parts of European Russia ) , western Kazakhstan , western Siberia , New Siberian Islands . Pollen in Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits has been found in many localities of U.S.S.R.* All these findings apparently have been carefully checked and edited . Reports on occurrence of pines older than those of Jurassic times were not included in the manual . The Tertiary Period . The records of Tertiary pines from eastern Europe and northern Asia are abundant . The early findings have been listed in Table 2-9 . More recent information is available from all parts of the region . Forests of the Ukraine during the Tertiary period were of tropical or subtropical character . The paleobotanical record shows that pines were admixed in these forests . They were not too numerous , apparently being located on the fringes of the more elevated places . In the southern part of eastern Europe ? on the territory of the Ukraine ? during the Eocene , pines occurred only occasionally , whereas tropical and subtropical plants predominated ( Schekina , 1953 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the west bank of the Don ( Chiguriaeva , 1952 ) , in the southeastern part of eastern Europe . Tertiary fossil pines have been reported also from Belorussia . An Eocene pine resembling P. sabiniana No. 10 was described from near Kiev ; judging from the drawing of the cone scale , it did not belong necessarily to a pine close to living P. sabiniana , but it was a diploxylon pine , and that is sufficiently important . A Tertiary P. sylvestris was reported also from the vicinity of Kiev . Pinus sarmatica Palib. from the Miocene of the Crimean Lowland was a " pre-brutia " pine , indicating that the Tertiary flora of the south of eastern Europe also contained some Mediterranean species . Dorofeev ( 1955 ) described P. palibini from the Sarmatian ( Lower Miocene ) sediments of the Taman Peninsula , of the Azov Sea , i.e. , between the Ukraine and the Caucasus . Gradually , when the climate became colder ? and the Tertiary flora of the Ukraine became much impoverished ? almost all pines perished . Pines nigra , P. sylvestris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranges of Crimea , i.e. , in the Mediterranean region adjacent to the Ukraine . In the Asiatic part of Russia , Gorbunov ( 1958 ) described several Tertiary pines from Middle Oligocene , or possibly Miocene , times , from near Tomsk , western Siberia ( 56 ? 30 ' north , 85 ? east ) . These pines were P. paleostrobus ( Ett . ) Heer ; P. spinosa Herbst , which possibly was related to P. taeda ; P. Petri-nikitinii sp. n. ( " like P. rigida " ) ; P. thomasiana ( Goep . ) P. Reich , represented by three varieties : kasparanica , kompassica , and tomskiana . The report is accompanied by excellent photographs of well-preserved cones . Dorofeev ( 1957 ) reported on a Tertiary flora near Tara , in the southern part of western Siberia , which can be broadly determined as dating from a period from the Upper Oligocene to the Sarmatian ( i.e. Lower Miocene ) . There he found well-preserved cones of a pine that he identified as P. spinosa Herbst , formerly reported from the Tertiary of Silesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Poland . There were some discrepancies in the description of this pine , but suffice it to say that the pine looked like P. taeda or perhaps like P. rigida . Besides finding this pine , Dorofeev found some remains of two more diploxylon pines , but he could not identify them more precisely . Abuziarova ( 1953 ) , as did many others , found pine pollen from the middle of the Oligocene in the Turgai country ( Kazakhstan ) . Pines were also growing near Pavlodar in northern Kazakhstan ( Zaklinskaia , 1953 ) . An Eocene P. nikitinii was described from the same locality ( Budantsev , 1957 ) . Kornilova ( 1960 ) found both haploxylon and diploxylon pines in the Lower Miocene deposits of Kustanai Province , northwestern Kazakhstan . Climate during the Lower Miocene was drier than in the northern parts of Asia . Karavaev ( 1960 ) described a diploxylon pine from Miocene-Pliocene strata in central Yakut country ( the Middle Lena River ) . He commented on the unusual shape of the cone scales of this pine ; the scales were elongated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crosswise direction as was common with most other diploxylon pines of that period . He named this pine " Pinus sukaczewi . " During the Pleistocene , P. sylvestris was growing in northern Kazakhstan ; there it still occurs occasionally . Apparently there were no reports of fossil pines from the countries lying farther south , i.e. , from the deserts and mountains of central Asia . The area of the present Altai Mountains in the Tertiary period was a plain bordered with sea basins . Higher mountains of an alpine character were formed in the Altai system only at the end of the Tertiary . The climate there was humid and warm . Temperate-climate forests developed   on the shores of these Tertiary basins . Suslov ( 1947 ) mentions Taxodium , Sequoia , Ginkgo , Pterocarya , and Liriodendron ; no doubt , pines also were admixed there , perhaps on more elevated places . Farther east , in the region of the present Sayan Mountains , Tertiary forests of the swampy lowlands were of a mixed type similar to that in the Altai ; Carpinus , Ulmus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tsuga , Taxodium , and Picea ( resembling Picea sitchensis of western North America ) ? and there was an admixture of pines " similar to the pines of the United States " ( Suslov , 1947 ) . In the discussion of the Arctic region on page 55 , a reference was made to a discovery of P. monticola No. 4 in preglacial deposits of the Lower Lena region , northeastern Siberia . This was an outstanding discovery . The material ( cones and branches ) was , no doubt , of the Tertiary age , preserved so well in frozen strata that it was identified without any difficulty as P. monticola . Occurrence of this western American haploxylon pine , or its immediate ancestor , in northeastern Siberia shows not only that a great similarity existed between pines of northeastern Asia and northwestern America but also that a North American pine had grown in the late Tertiary period on the continent of Asia . Krishtofovich outlined in numerous publications the general development of the flora of northern Eurasia . During the Eocene and Oligocene , the vegetation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which now divide Siberia from Europe , was about the same as that of Greenland . It was of a warm-temperate character , and it included Magnolia , Ficus , Populus , Ilex , Macclintockia trinervis Heer , and Sequoia langsdorfii Brong . Pines also were growing at that time both in Greenland and in the middle Urals . As a whole , this flora was similar to that of the present eastern United States . On the other hand , it had no similarity to the subtropical and tropical Paleogene floras of the Ukraine ( i.e. , the south of eastern Europe ) and of western Europe . At the same time , in the whole of Siberia , from the Ural Mountains to Kamchatka , in the Pacific northeast , the vegetation was strikingly monotonous . It was composed of Alnus , Castanea , Platanus , Fagus , Carpinus , Populus , Macclintockia , and Liquidambar . It was a temperate-climate flora that contained conifers including pines . A similar monotonous flora existed on the other side of the Pacific ; it did not contain any southern ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a result of his researches , Krishtofovich divided Eurasia into two large Tertiary floristic regions : ( 1 ) the evergreen tropical or subtropical flora of the south of east Europe including the Ukraine , Belorussia , and the southern part of Russia proper and ( 2 ) the temperate Arcto-Tertiary flora of northeastern Europe and northern Asia . He called the former the " Poltavian Flora . " In the latter , he distinguished three provinces :   ( 1 ) The Greenland province occupied the northern Urals and adjacent parts of northeastern Europe . It was limited in the east by the Turgai Sea ( i.e. , the body of water that cut longitudinally across western Siberia ) . ( 2 ) The enormous area of the middle zone of Siberia , northern Turkestan , Manchuria , Korea , and northern parts of Japan , as well as Alaska , was occupied by extensive deciduous forests at least until the lower Miocene . Krishtofovich considered these forests as belonging to the Turgaian Flora ( after the Turgai region of central Kazakhstan ) , where Abich , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this flora ( with several species of Comptonia ) . Although the terms Poltavian Flora and Turgaian Flora apparently are seldom used outside of Russia , the Soviet paleobotanists always refer to these floristic regions . Possibly , among the early Tertiary pines of the Ukraine there were some tropical species similar to a pine described by Shilkina ( 1958 ) for Transcaucasia . ( 3 ) The third Tertiary floristic province of Eurasia was designated by Krishtofovich as the " North Siberian " province , which , being perhaps older than the Turgaian province , was characterized by the large-size leaves of Populus richardsonii Heer ( Cercidiphyllum. arcticum Heer Brown ) , described from the New Siberian Islands and from Anadyr ( Krishtofovich , 1941 ) . Possibly this flora was the most ancient Tertiary flora . It was still very close to Upper Cretaceous floras , and it was related to the ancient floras of Greenland and those of North America , such as the Fort Union Flora . Postglacial Northern Eurasia . Toward the end of the Tertiary , and especially during the Ice Age , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pinus sylvestris No. 69 survived in the refugia of western Europe , in the south of western Siberia , and even possibly in the nonglaciated areas of the Central Russian Upland . Pinus sibirica No. 67 survived in the refugia of the Altai Mountains , and P. pumila No. 68 in the eastern and southern parts of its present range , probably somewhere in Japan ( see page 59 ) . The pattern of postglacial migration was different for each of these three pines . Pinus sylvestris was the pioneer invader of areas available after the retreat of ice . The postglaciation history of this pine in Belorussia was similar to that in western Europe . At present , it is the only pine naturally growing in Belorussia . Its path of migration has been from southwest to northeast ( Bertsch , 1951 ) . According to Neishtadt ( 1957 ) , at the advent of the Ice Age , P. sylvestris was widely distributed in eastern Europe . Apparently , at the time of glaciation , this pine , together with birch and ; a.spien , formed groves that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flora . Near Moscow , Sukacliev et al . ( 1960 ) found in the interglacial  | Pleistocene deposits an abundance of P. sylvestris pollen . At the beginning of the Holocene ( i.e. , postglacial ) , not more than half of the present area of P. sylvestris was occupied by this species . It was absent from the northern part of eastern Europe . It was also absent from the northern and middle Ural Mountains . The center of its distribution in eastern Europe was in the basin of the Middle and Upper Dnieper and along the coast of the Gulf of Finland . Another center of distribution of P. sylvestris was on the Ob-Irtysh low watershed divide in western Siberia . During the Ancient Holocene , P. sylvestris was expanding eastward , but it did not reach farther than Lake Baikal and the River Angara . The northern boundary of P. sylvestris was determined in the Ancient Holocene by the southern limit of permanently frozen ground . In the next period , the Early Holocene , when the climate became warmer and northern limits of frozen ground retreated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limits of its present distribution . In the north of eastern Europe , it reached the Kola Peninsula and the coast of the Barents Sea . It occupied the whole Ural range , and in eastern Siberia it reached the meridian of the Zeia ( on the Amur ) . In the south of eastern Europe , P. sylvestris grew near the mouths of the Dnieper and other rivers , thus reaching the Black Sea coast . In the Middle Holocene , the northern boundary of P. sylvestris in eastern Europe was somewhat farther north than it is now . In western Siberia , it reached its present limits both in the north and in the south . In eastern Siberia , it still was expanding eastward . During the Late Holocene , P. sylvestris became more abundant within its area . At present , it is still expanding in the east . Pinus sibirica No. 67 was widely distributed in the Pleistocene in Siberia . Analyses of pollen from the Altai Mountains support the general contention of existence of the southwestern center of postglacial distribution of this pine in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sibirica has grown in the Altai Mountains since the Pleistocene and " perhaps even earlier . " During glaciation , it found a refugium in the foothills of the Altai Mountains . In the postglacial , it spread from these mountains to the east and to the west , reaching the Ob-Irtysh mesopotamic area during the Ancient Holocene . Apparently , this pine also grew in the Early Holocene in the lower reaches of the Yenisei . In the Middle Holocene , P. sibirica expanded across the Urals to the northeastern part of European Russia . Pollen of P. sibirica was found north of the Arctic Circle , on the River Oh , in deposits of the Middle and Upper Pleistocene ; less in the latter deposits . Pings sylvestris was more abundant and more uniformly distributed throughout the Middle and Upper Pleistocene than P. sibirica  | ( Golubeva , 1958 ) . During the Late Holocene , P. sibirica reached the western limits of its distribution . At present , it is continuing to expand westward . After the warm postglacial period was over , general deterioration of climate ensued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of western Europe , had its effect on pine forests of northwestern Siberia ; the northern limit of distribution was pushed south . Kats and Kats ( 1958 ) presented the following account of succession of forests in that part of Siberia : Forests of Northern Western Siberia as Corresponding Glacial Indicated by Pollen and Postglacial Zones Periods Duration , Years Present Contemporary 1st spruce minimum Sub-Atlantic 0-2500 1st spruce maximum J 2nd spruce minimum l Sub-Boreal 2500-4500 2nd spruce maximum 3rd spruce minimum Atlantic 4500-7500 3rd spruce maximum f Spruce and P. cembra Boreal 7500-8000 P. cembra Pre-Boreal , Sub-Arctic 8000-13,000 No pollen found Ice Age - P. cembra Last Interglacial - The pine in question was , of course , not P. cembra No. 70 but P. sibirica No. 67 . The two have been considered as one species ( Shaw , 1914 ) , but they are significantly different . It is questionable if the western European P. cembra area was ever in contact with the eastern European area of P. sibirica , essentially an Asiatic pine . The above tabulation shows that P. sibirica was growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south during the glaciation , and was the first to occupy the area during interglacial stages and also after the Ice Age . When the glacier had retreated , P. sibirica was a pioneer invader of the ice-free area much as P. contorta No. 16 was the pioneer invader in western North America . Tikhomirov ( 1941 ) found pollen of P. sylvestris and P. sibirica in a peat bog on the arctic Lesser Yamal peninsula ( located between the estuaries of the Ob and the Taz rivers , western Siberia ) . The sediments were of " the thermal maximum period of Postglacial time . " Present occurrence of P. sylvestris is 300 to 350 km south of the location of the peat bog ; living P. sibirica is found also about 3(X) km south of the Yamal peat bog .  | Pinus pumila No. 68 was growing on the Kamchatka peninsula ( i.e. , in the region of eastern Asia ) during the beginning of the Holocene . In the Early Holocene , this pine already had about reached the limits of its present area . While in eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it occupied lower elevations . The enormous region of northern Eurasia has only three pines : P. sibirica No. 67 , P. pumila No. 68 , and P. sylvestris No. 69 ' . Of these three , pine No. 69 occurs also in the regions of western Europe and of the Mediterranean , pine No. 68 also is found in the region of eastern Asia , and P. sibirica alone is found solely in the region of northern Eurasia . There are unconfirmed reports of finding pine pollen in deposits of the Triassic period . In the Jurassic and the Cretaceous , pines grew in many places in the northern part of the continent . During the Tertiary , pines were widespread in the region . The Pleistocene glaciation and intense cold in the non-glaciated parts destroyed most pines in the north ; some such as P. sylvestris , however , survived in the more southerly parts of the continent . During the Ancient Holocene , the northern parts of western Siberia and the whole of eastern Siberia including the present Far Eastern region of Russia ( except perhaps the southernmost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been one of expansion of pines ? since the Early Holocene , P. sylvestris to the north and to the east , and P. pumila to the west and northwest ; the postglacial expansion of P. sibirica has been to the northwest . The paleobotanical records show that conifers originated in the Permian period of the Paleozoic era ( Seward , 1941 ) . The place of origin of the family Pinaceae was in the Northern Hemisphere , possibly Asia . Fossil Pinaceae have never been found south of the Equator ( Florin , 1940 ) . Fossils The fossil record of the genus Pinus is abundant but spotty . Reports of occurrence of pine pollen in the Upper Triassic sediments ( Zauer et al. , 1954 ) are yet to be verified . Jurassic remains of pines have been found in several places : eastern Siberia , the Maritime Province of Asiatic Russia , Spitzbcrgen , and possibly Oregon ( Fontaine , 1905 ) . There are no   reports on occurrence of Jurassic pines in the eastern United States . Jurassic pine remains have been reported from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that country . During the Cretaceous , the genus Pinus was already differentiated into the two subgenera , Haploxylon and Diploxylon , and pines were widely distributed throughout the Northern Hemisphere . They apparently were growing near Point Barrow , in the northwestern Arctic part of North America ( Langenheim et al. , 1960 ) , and they were reported from Greenland , Spitzbergen , and the New Siberian Islands . In more southerly latitudes , Cretaceous pines have been found in Minnesota , Kansas , New Jersey , South Carolina , Alabama , England , Belgium , southern France , southern Sweden , the Ukraine , eastern Siberia , and Korea . On the whole , no Mesozoic pines have been found in Asia south of approximately 35 ? north latitude ; in Europe , none south of approximately 40 ? north latitude . In America , the most southerly occurrence of fossil Mesozoic pines was apparently at Glen Rose , Texas , at 32 ? north latitude . The Mesozoic fossil record indicates that the genus Pinus developed in the north . The Tertiary period was a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered in many places both in the Old World and the New World , but , again , all findings were from the northern part of the Northern Hemisphere . No remains of Tertiary pine have been reported south of Japan in Asia ( i.e. , south of approximately 32 ? north latitude ) . In America , the southernmost location of Tertiary pines is Claiborne , Alabama ( about 32 ? north ) . Pines , however , did grow farther south during the Tertiary period than the fossil findings indicate , but they apparently did not form forests . The Quaternary glaciation destroyed all pine species in the northern part of the Hemisphere . Quaternary remains , especially pollen , of pines found in peat bogs , or in lake sediments , present an interesting picture of the return of pines to the areas where they had been killed by the advancing ice . Migration During the Mesozoic era and well into the Tertiary , pines occurred only sparsely , as a minor component of the dominant floras ; they were growing on uplands and mountain slopes and chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Cretaceous periods , pines were already migrating from the North American ? northern Asian area southward on both sides of ' the Pacific , and also eastward fn North America and westward  | ( and to the north ) in Siberia . Expansion also took place to the northwest and northeast from the above-mentioned area . In North America , pines reached the eastern United States and migrated , during the Jurassic , to western Europe via Greenland and Spitzbergen . In northern Asia , pines reached the Arctic Coast of Siberia and the New Siberian Islands , apparently from the southeast . The Tertiary period was a period of accelerated advance of pines . The general southward trend of migration on both sides of the Pacific continued . Berry ( 1930 ) recorded a reversed migration in the eastern United States in which the pines that had been established there during the Cretaceous moved northward very early in the Tertiary . Some reversed migration ( i.e. , northward from the South ) also took place in southeastern Asia , probably at the end of the Tertiary or even later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pines in western Europe where climate during the first half of the period was mild and the vegetation was subtropical in the north and tropical in the south . In the northern part of western Europe , pines perished in the second half of the Tertiary because the climate became colder ; in southern France , disappearance of pines toward the end of the Tertiary was caused by the increasing aridity of the Mediterranean region . Pines migrated from the north to Mexico and Central America and to some Caribbean islands during the Tertiary period . Adaptation of pines to humid tropical climate , as in the southern part of western Europe in the first half of the Tertiary , was a local phenomenon . Similar adaptations to humid tropical climate also occurred in several other places in the Northern Hemisphere . These tropical pines did not possess drought-resistance . Generally , however , the genus Pinus has retained its original tolerance to drought and sunshine throughout the geological ages . There are reports that P. halepensis and P. brutia grew in the Tertiary in northwestern Europe , but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Balkans during the Tertiary and never returned to their home ; those that remained in the Mediterranean region are still there . Mediterranean Tertiary pines were not refugees from the north ; they originated in situ during the Tertiary period from the ancestral stock that apparently migrated along the mountain ranges that once extended from eastern Asia to the Caucasus and farther west . By this route , for instance , P. roxburghii , which was reported by Schenk ( 1888 ) as a Tertiary fossil from the island of Sakhalin , migrated to the Himalaya , and closely related P. canariensis reached the Canary Islands . At the same time , P. pence , which is closely related to the Himalayan P. griffithii , migrated to the Balkans from eastern Asia .  | Development of pines in eastern Asia from the Cretaceous through the Tertiary was gradual . Climate there has been uniform ? temperate in the north and gradually merging into tropical in the south . There was some cooling after the Miocene , especially at the time of the Quaternary glaciation of the north , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in western Europe . Habitat of the pines in eastern and southeastern Asia did not change much from the end of the Cretaceous through the Tertiary . Pines do not form extensive forests there , but generally are rather scattered in small groups throughout the eastern Asiatic broadleafconifer forests ? a strange mixture of tropical- and temperate-climate species . Where pines do occasionally form more or less extensive forests , as in northern Luzon or the Himalaya , they are of recent , Quaternary origin . When , after the Quaternary glaciation , the ice shield retreated and vast areas of mineral ground were exposed , pines were among the first trees to invade the available area . In America , the pioneers were almost always P. banksiana No. 32 ( and to a lesser degree P. strobus No. 20 and P. resinosa No. 21 ) in the east and P. contorta No. 16 in the west . In the Old World , the postglacial pioneer invader was P. sylvestris No. 69 ( and occasionally P. sibirica No. 67 ) . After the Ice Age , the pines reoccupied the available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they reached the latitudes where they grew during the Tertiary period . This tendency of pines to occupy newly exposed ground can be observed even now in abandoned fields ( " old field pine " is the common name for P. taeda No. 25 ) , on banks and fills of newly constructed roads , and on burned-over areas ( see Chapter 6 ) . In the Mediterranean area and southeastern Asia , Tertiary pines survived the general deterioration of climate of the second half of the period . Moreover , during the Ice Age , the climate in these two regions was benign enough to permit continuation of pines there . In their Quaternary advance south , pines of most of Eurasia and North Africa , from Gibraltar to Afghanistan , were blocked by the aridity of the climate ; farther east , the obstacle was the excessive humidity of India . Two routes have been open to the southward advance of pines , in southeastern Asia and in America . While in Central America they have reached 12 ? north latitude , in Asia they advanced farther south . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , occurs somewhat south of the Equator ( on Sumatra ) , but , during the Pleistocene , when the Ice Age occurred in the north , apparently at least two pine species crossed the Equator , and in a reversed migration they both reached the Philippines . One of them , P. merkusii No. 101 , is local and scanty in Mindoro and in  | Information on general distribution of pines may be found in a series of maps assembled by Theodor Schmucker ( 1942 ) . His maps are useful but they are small and sometimes not too accurate . For North America we have good , but somewhat obsolete , maps by Sudworth ( 1913 ) . Sudworth 's atlas is accurate enough for general purposes , but it was published about fifty years ago , and during this period some additional information became available . In 1938 , Munns published The Distribution of Important Forest Trees of the United States . This is an important contribution based on many years of collecting data . It has been used by workers in different branches of forestry throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " The records of distribution of American forest trees are still incomplete . " Twenty-six maps show distribution of that many North American pines . Distribution of some pines such as P. clausa No. 28 or P. torreyana No. 11 is not shown ; P. engelmannii No. 53 and other pines are apparently included under P. ponderosa No. 14 . This lumping together of several species gives an erroneous impression that P. ponderosa penetrates deeply into Mexico . In reality , except for its variety arizonica , which is considered in this book as an independent , essentially Mexican , species , P. ponderosa barely crosses the Mexican border in a few spots . Sudworth 's and Munns 's maps are used here as a basis for determining areas of North American pines ; more recent information is added in many cases . In this hook , the distribution maps of Mexican pines are based chiefly on Martinez ' Los Pinos Mexicanos ( Martinez , 1948 ) and on Loock 's The Pines of Mexico and British Honduras ( Loock , 1950 ) . Martinez ' book contains many maps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ localities carefully indicated . Besides these two books , many other sources were used . These are indicated in the text . Information on distribution of Mexican pines is far from being complete . For instance , there is the discovery of a white pine of southern Mexico that was designated as " Pinus strobus var. chiapensis No. 34 . " It was originally described by Martinez from Chiapas but later collected in several widely separated places both north and south of the type locality . New localities are being reported continually . Information regarding areas of Eurasian and Mediterranean pines has been obtained from many different sources . Generally , distribution of pines in these two regions is well known . In regard to Japan , Hayashi published a series of maps showing distribution of forest trees in that country . Among them are excellent and very detailed maps of Japanese pines ( Hayashi , 1952 , 1954 ) . No doubt , these are the best maps of distribution of Japanese pines that have ever been prepared . Our knowledge of Chinese pines is rather meager ; fortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this subject ( Wu , 1947 ) . Wang ( 1961 ) also supplied very useful information . Some data on pines of China have been obtained from recent Russian sources . These are mentioned in the proper place . Available maps of southeastern Asiatic pines are also very general . The author collected much information on that region during his trip there in 1961 and prepared detailed maps of some pines of that region . There are some excellent maps showing distribution of pines in particular localities . Such are Ceballos and Ortuiio 's map of occurrence of P. canariensis on the Canary Islands ( Ceballos y Ortufio , 1951 ) and the distribution map of P. sylvestri.s in Steven and Carlisle 's monograph on The Native Pine Woods of Scotland ( Steven and Carlisle , 1959 ) . Very accurate maps are found in not too numerous monographs on individual pines such as P. radiata ( Forde , 1962 ) and P. sabiniana No. 10 ( Griffin , 1962 ) . In 1965 , Critchfield and Little published a set of maps showing distribution of all species of pines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in this field ; nomenclature of the species has also been carefully checked and brought up to date ( Critchfield and Little , 1965 ) . In his Genus Pius , Shaw ( 1914 ) recognized 66 species ; this book lists 105 species and several pines whose botanical status is uncertain . The discrepancy is caused by several circumstances . Since Shaw 's monograph was published in 1914 , many of his varieties , or mere synonyms , have been elevated to the status of independent species such as 1 ' . feffreyi No. 13 , P. engclnean.nii No. 53 , and several others .   Several pines had not yet been described when Shaw prepared his Genus Pinus . These newly discovered pines include P. kwangtungensis No. 90 , P. dalatensis No. 88 , P. strobes var. chiapensis No. 34 , P. durangensis No. 48 , P. cooperi No. 51 , and others . As the taxonomy of the genus Pinus has not been settled yet ( see Chapter 9 ) , it is to be expected that in future revision of the genus ? long overdue ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be invalidated . Accordingly , some of the maps presented here illustrating geographical distribution of pines are subject to revision . It should be noted here that regional terms are often used in a geographical rather than political sense . For instance , geographically California extends to Oregon , to Nevada , and to Baja California . Therefore , typical California endemics are growing also in the above-mentioned places . Some Mexican pines cross the border and occur in California , Arizona , and New Mexico . The purpose of this chapter is to show general areas occupied by the species of the genus Pinus rather than to present a detailed inventory of pine forests of the world . Accordingly , in this publication , the area of each species is shown in broad outline . In some instances , however , as in that of P. merkusii No. 101 , within the general outline each authentic locality is shown . Where possible , locations of varieties are also indicated . As regards selection of the types of projections , generally Goode 's equal-area projections are used by permission ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed a distribution map should be depends , of course , on the purpose for which it was prepared . If a study is of an ecological type , to show , for instance , recent decrease or increase of an area caused by activities of man ( either destructive or beneficial ) , ' ' the detailed maps are of utmost importance ( see Chapter 6 ) . As such maps have not been prepared in the past , we can not say definitely , for instance , where P. piney No. 73 is native and where it was planted in the Mediterranean region . Records of historians are often helpful . Such are Strabo 's remarks made circa 60 B.C. on occurrence of pines in the Caucasus or the Balearics ( see Chapter 2 ) . But place names of the past always should be considered critically . How many places located amidst firs or spruces have been named " Whispering Pines " ! To understand the occurrence of a pine in a given part of the world , it is not enough to indicate its geographical coordinates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sometimes insufficient information is available to show the exact limits of altitudinal range . ? Compare the complete destruction of P. sylvestris No. 69 in Denmark by primitive man with the expansion of P. radinta No. 19 from a small area in California into millions of acres in the Southern hemisphere ? also caused by man .  | A pine species often is at its best only in the middle of its altitudinal range . In the lower and higher elevations , the species loses its prominence ; the trees do not form a forest but , rather , are found as scattered groves , then as solitary trees , and eventually they disappear completely . Some pines may form good forests at the lower part of their altitudinal range . A poorer appearance of the trees is noticeable when the genus reaches the northern limits of its distribution , but not necessarily so in its southern limits , because pines have been ( and still are ) advancing south , and , unless their advance is checked by man ( through burning and grazing ) , they appear there numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits in Nicaragua and in eastern Asia ( see Chapter 6 page 431 ) . To describe what is inside a broadly outlined area is difficult . Pines may form there vigorous , continuous forests of one or several species , as in the American Southeast , or they may be scattered in a parklike fashion as is P. sabiniana No. 10 , or they may form discontinuous groves ( P. merkusii No. 101 ) . Often , several pines occur in the same region , and each may grow in its particular ecological niche . For instance , in the Sierra Nevada of California , P. sabiniana is found at lower elevations ; above it is a belt of P. ponderosa No. 14 with admixture of P. lambertiana No. 3 . At 1800 to 2100 or more meters , the former is replaced by P. jeffreyi No. 13 and the latter by P. monticola No. 4 . Still higher , chiefly in level places , there are pure groves of P. contorta No. 16 , and , at the timberline , one finds P. albicaulis No. 1 . On separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as occupying parts of the same general geographical area ? the western slope of the Sierra Nevada . Superimposed , their irregular areas fit each other more or less neatly in a jigsaw manner , so that the whole western slope appears on the map as covered with pines . When one looks at a distribution map of a pine , it is always profitable to inquire in what manner the species is distributed within its outlined limits . Such information is not always available . In any pine forest , however continuous , there are treeless areas : swamps , rocky slopes , grasslands , burned or cultivated areas . It is convenient for our purpose to divide the world ( or rather its northern half ) into several regions . The division is somewhat different from that used in Chapter 2 of this book . In the present chapter , Mexico and Central America are thus considered apart from northern America , but it was expedient , from the geographical point of view , to combine eastern and southeastern Asia . The geographical regions thus are as follows : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " extends from British Columbia to the southern Sierra Nevada in California . It also occurs in the Rocky Mountains : in Idaho , Montana , and northern Wyoming . It is an alpine species , often of shrublike form . Its altitudinal range is between 1350 and 3650 m . No varieties have been reported . ( See map , Fig. 3-3 . ) Pinus flexilis , limber pine , grows in the Rocky Mountains from Alberta and southern British Columbia to its southern limits , which are formed by the canyons of the rivers Colorado , Arkansas , and Rio Grande ( Dr. John W. Andresen , personal communication ) . Longitudinally , it grows from California to southwestern Nebraska and North and South Dakota . It grows most abundantly in the Rocky Mountains of western Wyoming and Colorado . This is a most remarkable species in its wide geographical distribution and in its altitudinal range , which varies from about 1000 m in North Dakota to about 3700 m in Colorado . It is a variable species . Possibly , it crosses in the Northwest with P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it may merge into P. strobi f ormis No. 35 . ( See map , Fig. 3-4 . ) Pinus lambertiana , or sugar pine , is the most majestic of all pines . It derives its name from a sugary exudate ? monomethyl ether of d-inositol ( see Chapter 7 , pages 468-69 ) . It reaches a height of about 70.0 m and a diameter of about 3.3 m . It may reach an age of 500 years . Fowells and Schubert ( 1956 ) described its habitat in the following words : At its northern limits , about latitude 44 ? 47 ' N sugar pine grows between elevations of 1700 520 m and 3700 feet 1100 m ; farther south in Oregon from about 1100 feet 340 m to 5400 feet 1650 m . East of the Cascade summit it occurs up to 6500 feet 2900 m in Klamath County . In northern California it grows as high as 7500 feet 2230 m ( latitude 41 ? 23 ' N. ) and as low as 2000 feet 610 m in the Sacramento canyon . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7800 feet 2400 m , as in Yosemite National Park ( latitude 37 ? 44 ' N. ) . In southern California it occurs at from 4000 1200m to 10,500 feet 4400 m in the San Bernardino Mountains ( latitude 34 ? 15 ' N. ) , and in Lower California it is common at elevations of 8000 2400 m to 10,000 feet 3100 m in the San Pedro Marti . Plateau ( latitude 30 ? 30 ' N. ) . The best stands of sugar pine occur in an elevational belt between 4500 1400 m and ( 300 ( feet 1800 m in the central Sierra , from the San Joaquin River north to the American River ( latitudes 37 ? and 39 ? N. ) .  | At the lower and middle elevations in the Sierra Nevada , sugar pine is most common on north and east facing slopes . In southern Oregon it grows on all aspects in equal abundance at lower elevations , but mostly on the warmer aspects at high ones . Its altitudinal range , then , can be taken as 330 to 3200 m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mendocino coast of California , this pine grows at much lower elevations . Cones of this pine are the largest of all haploxylon-pine cones . They may reach 63 or more centimeters in length . There is indication ( G. L. Hayes , personal communication ) that a variety of sugar pine is found on Ashland Peak ( 2100 m ) , in Oregon .  | This small colony is situated 610 m above general and typical stands of the species . Whether this is a variety of P. lambertiana , or of P. flexilis , or a hybrid between the two species is not yet known . Except in this doubtful instance , P. lambertiana is rather stable morphologically , and no varieties of this species have yet been described . Once I received a large cone of P. lambertiana whose scales were strikingly like those of P. ayacahuite of Mexico ( Plate 9-2 ) . Generally , however , P. lambertiana has no close resemblance to any other haploxylon pine , and it does not cross with any other American haploxylon pine . ( See map , Fig. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " western white pine . " It grows chiefly in western Montana and northern Idaho . In Idaho it reaches its best development ; hence it is often called " Idaho white pine . " It extends to Washington and to southern British Columbia and southward to Oregon , central California , and adjacent parts of Nevada . Its altitudinal range is from sea level in Washington to 3350 m in the Sierra Nevada of California . Apparently no varieties of P. monticola have been described . Chemical investigations , however , revealed a considerable variability throughout its extensive range ( map , Fig. 3 ? 6 ) . Pinus balfouriana is a rare alpine haploxylon pine that , with P. aristata , forms Shaw 's group Bal f ourianae . Its American name is " foxtail pine . " It occurs in two disjunct localities . One is in the northern California ranges ( Marble Mountains , Salmon Mountains , Scott Mountains , Trinity Alps , Yolla Bolly Mountains ) at elevations between 2130 and 2440 m . In the other locality , about 500 km south , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kings and Kern rivers at altitudes from about 2900 to 3650 m , either scattered , as in the north , or forming weird forests . Apparently it once occupied a more extensive area , but , since the end of the Tertiary , it has become separated into two localities . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 7 . ) There is evidence that P. half ouriana crosses with P. aristata ( as suggested by Professor H. L. Mason , University of California , in a personal communication ) . Pinus aristata is commonly known as as " bristlecone pine . " It is closely related to P. balfouriana , but its range is wider . It is scattered iu the high  | mountains of Colorado , Utah , Nevada , and northern New Mexico ; it is found in one locality ( San Francisco Peak ) near Flagstaff , Arizona , and in two places in southeastern California ( White Mountains and Panamint Mountains ) ; it is not certain that this species occurs on the Grapevine Mountains , which are located east of the Panamint Range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 2600 m admixed with P. ponderosa and other conifers . In the higher elevations , of about 2450 to 3300 m , of the Rocky Mountains , it grows in isolated places ; rarely , it forms forests or even groves , usually being scattered over rocky or gravelly ground ( Sudworth , 1917 ) . In the White Mountains on the California-Nevada border , where I studied this pine in 1948 , it grows at elevations between 3100 and 3700 in as solitary old trees , or forming parklike , scattered groves on dolomite rocks . At lower elevations , just above P. monophylla No. 7 , bristlecone pine grows together with not too numerous P. flexilis No. 2 . It endures a great deal of drought . Apparently a semblance of annual rings is formed after every rather infrequent cloudburst . Little is known about the  | To complete our consideration of haploxylon pines of western America , we should discuss the group Cembroides ? the pinons , or nut pines , whose area is partly in the United States and partly in Mexico . There are seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . These are P. monophylla No. 7 , P. edulis No. 8 , and P. quadrifolia No. 9 . A fourth one , P. cembroides No. 36 , although it occurs chiefly in Mexico , is also found sporadically in Arizona , southern New Mexico , and southwestern Texas . Its geography will be described later with that of other Mexican pinon pines : P. pinceana No. 37 , P. nelsonii No. 38 , and P. culminicola No. 39 . Pinons form a well-defined group , and their home is mainly in the Basin-and-Range Province of North America . Their habitat extends to the southwestern Pacific Coastal Ranges , the Colorado Plateau , and the Mexican Volcanic Plateau . They are small , scraggy trees of desert or semidesert environment . ( See map , Fig. 3-8 . ) P. cembroides occurs only rarely in the United States . Pinus monophylla is a pine that has only one needle to a bundle ; its common name is " singleleaf pine . " It grows chiefly in Nevada , Utah , and the northern , somewhat larger , half of Arizona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , in California , it is found chiefly east of the Sierra Nevada ; from the southern-California ranges , it crosses the border into Baja California . It grows in desert ranges from 1200 to 2300 m in California ; and , farther east , from 600 to 2100 m and up . It frequently forms pure , open stands that hardly can be called forests . Often it is intermixed with Juniperus , Cercocarpus , and other desert scrub . Its area in part overlaps with that of P. edulis , but whether or not they cross is uncertain . When the two grow together , each apparently maintains its own specificity . ( See map , Fig. 3-8 . ) Pinus edulis is called " Colorado pinon . " It is the only haploxylon pine that commonly has predominantly two needles to a fascicle ( but see the discussion of P. krempfi on page 540 of Chapter 9 ) . It grows in the Rocky Mountains region from Colorado and Utah , and extreme southern Wyoming , through Arizona and New Mexico to Trans-Pecos , Texas , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California , Sonora , and Chihuahua . It occurs in a few spots in western Oklahoma and very rarely in southeastern California . In the Navajo country of Arizona , it grows on the arid mesas , forming rather scraggy , open forests either pure or with juniper . Its elevational range is between somewhat below 15(X)  | has four needles per bundle , but clusters of three and sometimes five are also found on the same tree . Its elevational range is between 1150 and 1800 m . Diploxylon pines of western North America are almost exclusively the pines of the geographical region of California , which includes adjacent parts of Oregon , Nevada , Baja California , and the nearby islands . Only two species grow also over an extensive area of the West beyond the geographical boundaries of California : P. ponderosa No. 14 and P. contorta No. 16 . ( See map , Fig. 3-8 . ) Pinus sabiniana is Digger pine ? strictly a California species . Its home is in the dry foothills of the mountains surrounding the Central Valley . When young it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old trees are scraggy and forked , 15 to 23 m high . Figures 3 ? 9 and 3 ? 10 are two maps of distribution of P. sabiniana . One ( 3 ? 9 ) is from Sudworth ( 1913 ) ; the other ( 3 ? 10 ) was taken from Griffin ( 1962 ) . The first map shows general area of the species , sufficient for general geographical purposes . The second one , prepared about fifty years later , is more detailed . The much reduced range of P. sabiniana on  | Griffin 's map , no doubt , can be explained partly by much destruction of this pine by man during this century . Partly , the discrepancy is caused by much careful field work by Griffin . Maps of this type are extremely important for studying changes in the areas of pine during recent times . In some instances , the area may be expanding , as in occupation of abandoned cultivated land by pines in southeastern United States . Frequently , however , the area is reduced , as with P. sabiniana . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map with one made , say , fifty years from now . This phenomenon of changing extent and shape of area will be mentioned repeatedly throughout this discourse on geography of pines . It should be recalled that the Tertiary area of P. sabiniana extended farther south than the present area does ( Axelrod , 1937 ) . This pine 's  | altitudinal range lies between 150 and 1500 m . It is a rather stable pine , and its subspecific variability is chiefly of a physiological nature . Pinus torreyana ( Torrey pine ) is another Tertiary relic now found in two spots in southern California : near San Diego ( about Del Mar ) and on Santa Rosa Island . In its present natural habitat , P. torreyana is a low , crooked tree , 4.6 to 10.7 m , occasionally 15.0 m , high . Its altitudinal range is from sea level to 150 m . In cultivation , it reaches much larger  | size both in height and in diameter , displaying a peculiar candelabralike form of several heavy stems and branches . During the Tertiary period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1927 ) found it in the Oligocene Bridge Creek Flora of Oregon . Possibly , the Oligocene and Miocene range of Torrey pine ( or rather its predecessor , P. trunculus Dawson ) extended to British Columbia . ( See map , Fig. 3-9. )  | Pinus coulteri is closely related to the two preceding pines , and its area is restricted to the coastal ranges of California from San Francisco to the Mexican border ; farther south , in Baja California , it occurs on the western slope of the San Pedro Martir Mountains , from San Vicente to Point San Quintin , i.e. , about 303x ' ? north . It grows at elevations of from 170 to about 2300 m . Martinez ( 1948 ) mentions its occurrence in Baja California in the Sierra del Pinal at an altitude of 1660 m . It is a tree of spreading crown , coarse needles , heavy , long lower branches , and the heaviest cones of all pines ( see Chapter 5 , page 381 ) . Pinus coulteri crosses naturally with P. jeffreyi . ( See map , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as " Jeffrey pine , " has been considered by some botanists ( Jepson , 1923 ? 25 ) as a variety of P. ponderosa , while other specialists ( Sudworth , 1908 ) maintain it to be an independent species . This latter opinion has prevailed , and no botanists familiar with Jeffrey pine in its natural habitat call it a variety of P. ponderosa any more . Pinus jeffreyi is essentially a California pine , extending beyond the administrative boundaries of the state to southern Oregon , western Nevada , and the San Pedro Martir Mountains of Baja California ( see map , Fig. 3-11 ) . Its Tertiary range was larger ; Axelrod and Ting ( 1960 ) found it in Pliocene deposits of western Nevada , where it does not grow now . Its altitudinal range is from about 1000 to 3100 m . Jeffrey pine crosses naturally with P. ponderosa ( Mirov , 1929 ) and also with P. coulteri No. 12 , as reported in 1939 from southern California by Carl Meyer , then a student at the University of California . Pinus ponderosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide distribution . Its area extends from British Columbia to near the Mexican border . Possibly , it crosses the international boundary to a few places in Chihuahua and Sonora . Duffield and Cumming ( 1949 ) , who surveyed the area of San Pedro Martir in Baja California , came to the conclusion that P. ponderosa does not occur there . Longitudinally , its area extends from the Pacific Coast eastward to elevations of about 2750 m in the Sierra Nevada . Farther east , it is found occasionally in higher elevations of desert ranges of the Great Basin . It crosses the Rocky Mountains , reaches the Black Hills and beyond in South Dakota , and goes surprisingly far east in central and northern Nebraska ( at elevations of about 1000 m ) . In the Rocky Mountains ,  | forests of this pine are generally between 1500 and abut 2600 m , but , in the southern Rockies , it may go as high as 3140 m . In the Laramie Mountains ( Esterbrook ) , it forms forests at about 2000m . In central Montana , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. ponderosa as a whole is from sea level to 3350 m.  | Pinus ponderosa just crosses the border of Oklahoma . The Oklahoma colony consists of not more than 4000 trees . Pinus ponderosa , thus , is the most widely distributed species of the genus in North America . The species is composed of several varieties , still little known . Generally , it is divided into the Pacific Coast variety ( typical ) and the Rocky Mountain form ( var. scopulorum ) . Pinus ponderosa crosses rarely with P. jeffreyi . Within the general boundaries of its area , the species has a rather spotty occurrence , generally on the middle slopes of the mountains , where it may form extensive forests . ( See map , Fig. 3-12 . ) Pinus washoensis is such a new discovery that the species has not acquired a common name yet . The official U.S. Forest Service check list ( Little , 1953 ) suggests it be called " Washoe pine . " It occurs in the upper reaches of Galena Creek , Nevada , east of Lake Tahoe , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Stockwell , 1945 ) . Before exploration of the West , this pine had apparently been rather abundant , but , toward the end of the nineteenth century , it was almost completely exterminated , having been logged to supply lumber for the development of Nevada silver mines . It resembles very closely P. ponderosa in all morphological characters , but its small cones look like miniature P. jeff reyi cones . Its history and genealogy are not yet known . It appears that its present range in western Nevada is more extensive than was postulated by its discoverers . Moreover , it is not confined to the Pleistocene moraine and is not represented by " second growth " ( young ) trees only . Old trees intermingle with P. jeff reyi No. 13 ( see Plate 3-15 ) , " but the two species do not appear to hybridize at present " ( Haller , 1959 ) . Haller ( 1961 ) reported it also in the southern Warner Mountains of northwestern California . ( See map , Fig. 3-13 . ) Pinus contorta has a well-established common name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tamarack pine . " It occurs at elevations ranging from sea level along the Pacific Coast to over 3350 m in the Sierra Nevada and the Rocky Mountains . It extends from 64 ? in the Yukon Territory to the San Pedro Martir Mountains of Baja California , latitude approximately 31 ? . Longitudinally , it extends from the Pacific Coast to the Black Hills of South Dakota . It is found in southwestern Saskatchewan . A littleknown , isolated location is at the headwaters of Leidy Creek , White Mountains , southwestern Nevada , at elevations of 3100 to 3200 m ( sec  | Yellowstone Park ( see Chapter 2 , page 33 ) , was , no doubt , an ancient P. contorta or its immediate predecessor . ( See map , Fig. 3-14 . ) Pinus attenuata is known as " knobcone pine . " Its area is chiefly in California , although , like several other California pines , it extends northward to the mountains of southwestern Oregon and in the south goes as far as the San Pedro Martir Mountains of the Mexican state of Baja @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 300 to over 600 m . In California , it may go as high as 1700 m . In Oregon , it frequently forms " extensive pure forests " ( Sudworth , 1908 ) , and the trees are straight and well formed , reaching 18 to 24 or 25 m in height . In low elevations of California , it is scrubby , forked , and small ; it is drought-resistant . ( See map , Fig. 3-13 . ) Pinus muricata is known under the name of " bishop pine . " Its range is on the coast of northern and central California , and it also occurs near San Vicente , Baja California , and on Santa Cruz and Santa Rosa islands , off the coast of southern California . A variety of this pine was found on Cedros Island , lying off the coast of Mexico just under the thirtieth parallel ( Durham , 1955 ) . Possibly , the Cedros Island pine is P. radiata ( Fielding , 1961 ) . Although this pine does not have a very extensive range , it shows a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a new species from Santa Cruz Island ( Mason , 1930 ) , was reduced to a variety of P. muricata by Howell ( 1941 ) . Duffield ( 1951 ) , who studied variability of P. muricata , proposed that this species be divided into four varieties : muricata , borealis , remorata , and cedrosensis . The elevational range of P. muricata is from sea level to about 300 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-15 . ) Pinus radiata , or Monterey pine , is unique and renowned among pines because , although its natural area is extremely small , its present expansion in the Southern Hemisphere by planting amounts to about a million hectares . It is a California endemic of relatively recent origin ( Mason , 1932 ; Cain , 1944 ) . It grows naturally in three localities on the coast : ( 1 ) on Point Pinos , south of Monterey Bay , from the sea over Huckleberry Hill to an elevation of about 370 m , extending about three miles inland ; ( 2 ) on the coast of Santa Cruz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and ( 3 ) near Cambria , on the coast of San Luis Obispo County . It occurs also at 600 to 1200 m on Mexican Guadalupe Island off the coast of Baja California . In New Zealand , where it became the most important timber tree , it is known as " Pinus insignis Dougl . " Its variability has been recently studied by Dr. Margot Forde , at the University of California ( Forde , 1963 ) . Pinus radiata crosses naturally with P. attenuata . ( See map , Fig. 3-13 . ) The eastern pine region of North America differs from the western region in that it has only one haploxylon pine , as compared with nine in the west . The number of diploxylon pines in the east is only slightly higher ( twelve versus ten ) than in the west . There is one pine ? P. banksiana ? that may hardly be called an entirely eastern species , since it extends from the Atlantic Coast west to the Mackenzie River in the Northwest Territories of Canada . In the West , especially in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas ; in the East , there are none , except perhaps P. clausa No. 28.  | In the southern part of the region , there are found the extensive pine forests so aptly commented upon by Sargent when he contrasted these forests with scattered pine groves of eastern Asia ( Sargent , in Preface to Wilson , 1913 ) . Pinus strobus is called " eastern white pine . " In Europe , where it is planted extensively , it is known as " Weymuth pine . " Its area is larger than that of any other haploxylon pine of the New World . It extends from NewfoundlandT , and Quebec west to central Ontario and southeastern Manitoba , south to Minnesota , northeastern Iowa , northern Illinois , northwestern Indiana , Ohio , Pennsylvania , and New Jersey , and south in the mountains to western North Carolina , northern Georgia , and Tennessee . It occurs locally in western Kentucky and western Tennessee ( Little , 1953 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-16 . ) As P. strobus extends from north to south for at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the seacoast , one can expect some variability within the species . And , indeed , such variability does exist . Heimburger and Holst ( 1955 ) noted during their trip to the southern United States that P. strobus near Asheville , North Carolina , differs markedly in appearance from Canadian white pine ; its needles are long and slender and of a more grayish color than in Canada . But generally P. strobus is not as variable as some other white pines such as P. flexilis No. 2 or P. ayacahuite No. 33 . No varieties of P. strobus have been de- scribed by botanists from its vast range in the United States and Canada . Pinus strobus L. var. chiapensis Mart . No. 34 , of Mexico , will be considered in the description of Mexican pines . Possibly , it will be elevated to the rank of an independent species . The altitudinal range of P. strobus is from about 150 m and even lower to 1500 m ; above 450 m in altitude , it is of limited occurrence . Pinus resinosa is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lariciones . The other is P. tropicalis No. 66 of the Caribbean area . Pinus resinosa is known in America as " red pine " or " Norway pine . " It is a native of the northeastern part of the continent . Its area extends from Newfoundland and Quebec west to Ontario and southeastern Manitoba , and south to northeastern Minnesota , Wisconsin , Michigan , Illinois ( Brenneman , 1956 ) , northern Pennsylvania , New York , Connecticut , and Maine . Its latitudinal range is , thus , about 2400 km ; longitudinally it extends for about 800 km . It occurs locally also in northeastern West Virginia . Its present main range ( except West Virginia ) from southeastern Wisconsin eastward lies within , or closely adjacent to , the area glaciated during the late Pleistocene ( Rudolf , 1957 , wherein is given a further bibliography on this pine ) . The altitudinal range of P. resinosa is between sea level and a little over 800 m ( Rudolf , 1957 ) . In West  | 36 ? 31 ' ) to Cape Kennedy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short distance from Tampa Bay and westward along the Gulf Coast to the uplands that border upon the alluvial deposits of the Mississippi . West of that river , longleaf pine forests continue to the Trinity River in eastern Texas . Essentially , this pine grows at sea level . In Alabama , however , it ascends the extreme southern spurs of the Appalachian Mountains to altitudes of about 450 to 600 m . The geographical area of P. palustris extends from 76 ? to 96 ? west longitude and from 20 ? 30 ' to 36 ? north latitude . Its range is chiefly confined to the sandy and gravelly deposits of the Coastal Plain ( Mohr , 1897 ) . Since Mohr 's time , the area of P. palustris and the continuity and density of its forests have been greatly reduced . As no varieties of this pine have been described , it might be taken that it is relatively stable . It hybridizes naturally with P. taeda No. 24 , the hybrid having been described under the name of P. sondereggeri II . II . Chapman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or slash pine , was known for some time as " Pinus caribaea Morelet . " Originally it was named " Pinus elliottii , " and at one time it was known as " Pinus heterophylla Sudw . " In 1952 , it again became known as " Pinus elliottii " ( Little and Dorman , 1952 ) . This species now is subdivided into P. elliottii var. elliottii and P. elliottii var. densa No. 63 , of southern Florida . The ' name " Pinus caribaca No. 62 " has been retained  | only for the slash pine growing in the West Indies and Central America . There are ample morphological justifications for segregating slash pine into the above three entities . The chemical characters of these three pines also are different . The following account concerns only P. elliottii var. elliottii . Mohr ( 1897 ) described P. elliottii as a tree of the Coastal Plain of the subtropical region of North America east of the Mississippi River . Its area is from 33 ? north latitude in South Carolina along the coast to central Florida and southeastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gulf Coast to the Pearl River Valley in southeastern Louisiana . ( See map , Fig. 3-19 . ) Its altitudinal range is from sea level to about 150 m . Pinus elliottii itself is not a variable pine . No varieties of this pine have been described , besides the recently established variety densa ( Little and Dorman , 1952 ) . Perhaps variety densa deserves the rank of an independent species . Variety densa will be described as a Caribbean pine ( No. 63 ) , together with the other pines that are found in that region ( see page 230 ) .  | Pinus taeda is the lobolly pine of the southeastern Coastal Plain and Piedmont from southern New Jersey south to central Florida ( Cape Malabar ) , west to eastern Texas , and north in the Mississippi Valley to southeastern Oklahoma , Arkansas , and southern Tennessee . The Texas locations are separated from the main area , and trees there are more drought-resistant than those on the Coastal Plain . The altitudinal range of P. taeda is from sea level up to a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reported by botanists . It crosses naturally with P. palus- tris , the hybrid being known as " Pinus sondereggeri H. H. Chapman . " ( See map , Fig. 3-20 . ) Pinus echinata is the last of the " big four " southeastern American pines . It is known as " shortleaf pine . " Its geographical area extends from southeastern New York and New Jersey to Pennsylvania , southern Ohio ,  | Kentucky , southern Illinois , and southern Missouri , south to eastern Oklahoma and eastern Texas , and east to Georgia . It barely crosses the Florida state line . In comparison with those of the other three pines , its area extends farther north , but its southern boundary does not go as far south . According to the map in Mohr 's monograph on southern pines ( Mohr , 1897 ) , P. echinata does not occur along the main range of the Appalachian Mountains , and its distribution in the southern part and also in Kentucky and Tennessee is rather spotty . Its altitudinal range is from sea level to about 760 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No natural varieties of this pine have been reported . Pinus glabra ( spruce pine ) is the least common pine of the southeastern United States . It grows either singly or in groups on the low terraces , mixed with hardwoods and with loblolly and shortleaf pines ( Mohr , 1897 ) . The general area of this pine is in the Coastal Plain between 31 ? and 33 ? north latitude , from South Carolina to northern Florida and west to southeastern Louisiana . Pinus glabra grows at sea level or slightly above it . ( See map , Fig. 3-22. )  | Pinus virginiana is so-called Virginia pine , also known locally as " New Jersey pine , " " North Carolina pine , " and " scrub pine . " Virginia pine is generally a small tree . It is common on the Atlantic Coastal Plain ; it is rare from Virginia south along the Appalachian Mountains and in the Ohio Valley . Its area extends from southeastern New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Ohio , southern Indiana , and Kentucky south to northeastern Mississippi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of P. virginiana is between sea level and a little over 300 m . In Alabama , this pine was found at 325 m above sea level ( Sargent , 1947 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-23 . ) No varieties of P. virginiana have been described by botanists . No natural hybrids of this pine are known . Pinus clausa is known as " sand pine . " Its range is almost entirely within Florida , where it occurs in two areas separated by about 200 km.  | The larger area is in central Florida , and the smaller one is in the western part of the state . On the Atlantic Coast , it reaches Fort Lauderdale , and , on the Gulf Coast , it extends to Tampa . It grows from sea level to about 60 m above it . The western area of P. clausa is on the Gulf Coast between 85 ? and 87 ? west longitude ; i.e. , it extends westward into Alabama . Pinus clausa shows an interesting variability . The western race is characterized by  | cones that open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the group Australes , to which the five previously described pines belong . The race of central Florida has cones like pines of the group Insignes . They open and release seed only after a severe fire sweeps through the forest . ( See map , Fig. 3-24 . ) Pinus rigida is known as " pitch pine . " Its range is from central Maine , New York , and southeastern Ontario south to Pennsylvania , southern Ohio , West Virginia , Virginia , and the mountains of eastern Kentucky , eastern Tennessee , western North Carolina , and northern Georgia . The most northerly location of this pine is isolated in southern Quebec ( Rouleau , 1955 ) . ( See Map , Fig. 3-25 . ) Pinus rigida is a relatively variable species ? small and scrubby in the north ; in Pennsylvania reaching its best development , up to 30 m in height and 90 cm in diameter . It grows from sea level to an altitude of a little over 900 m , occasionally even higher ( Harlow and Ilarrar , 1937 ) . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serotina , or pond pine , grows in the Coastal Plain from southeastern Virginia south to central and southeastern Alabama , and on Cape May , New Jersey ( Wenger , 1958 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-26 . ) Pintas serotina is a pine of low elevations ? not higher than 60 m above sea level .  | Apparently it crosses naturally with P. taeda ( Wenger , 1958 ) . Artificially , it was crossed with P. taeda No. 24 ( Harkin , 1957 ) and with P. rigida No. 29 ( Liddicoet and Righter , 1960 ) . Once it was considered as a variety of P. rigida . Pinus pungens , or Table Mountain pine , grows in the mountains from New Jersey , Pennsylvania , and West Virginia south to South Carolina , northern Georgia , and eastern Tennessee . This pine is most abundant in the southern part of its range , on the tablelands of the Alleghenies ( Harlow and Harrar , 1937 ) . Its altitudinal range is from sea level to a little over 900 m . It has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Pinus banksiana , or Jack pine , has an immense range , extending from Nova Scotia and central Quebec westward across Canada to northern Saskatchewan and the Northwest Territories , south to northern British  | Columbia , central Alberta , southern Manitoba , and , in the northeastern United States , Minnesota , Wisconsin , Michigan , and Maine . It is local in northern Illinois , northwestern Indiana , northern New York , Vermont , and New Hampshire . According to Raup ( 1947 ) , P. banksiana is common in the central and southern parts of the Mackenzie Basin , but records for the country below Great Slave Lake are based only on casual observation . It grows in Canada to latitude 64 ? , and even beyond that , on the sandy banks of the Mackenzie River . It occurs commonly on the Simpson Islands and about the Northern Arm of Great Slave Lake . On Preble 's route to the northward of Fort Rae it was seen in many places on the Grandin River , reaching a diameter of 18 inches , but not growing very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare , but Preble saw many trees on a portage a few miles north of the outlet of Lake Hardisty . On the Mackenzie it is common north to about latitude 64 ? 30 ' . . . . On the north slope of the Nahanni Mountains , 75 miles 121 km below Fort Simpson , the species ascends to about 1,000 feet 300 m and then becomes a dwarfed shrub and disappears . On the southern slopes of the same mountains it occurs as a fairly well-grown tree to about 2,000 feet 610 m near the summit .  | It occurs farther north than any other American pine . It is scrubby in the north but straight and tall in the southern parts of its range . It grows in areas characterized by warm to cool summers , very cold winters , rather low rainfall , light sandy soils , and level to rolling topography . It occurs on burned areas ( Rudolf , 1958 ) . Its altitudinal range is between sea level and a little over 600 m . Pinus banksiana possesses a considerable intraspecific variability , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupying such a geographical range . No varieties of this pine have been described by botanists . In Alberta , Canada , where P. banksiana meets the P. contorta No. 16 range , the two pines hybridize naturally ( Moss , 1949 , 1953 ; Mirov , 1956 ) . Apparent overlap also takes place in the Mackenzie River area ( Dr. Hugh M. Raup , personal communication ) . Generally , it is considered that , in these two places , the areas of P. banksiana and P. contorta overlap , but it might be that the overlap is formed by the hybrid swarm between the two areas of the species in the woodland , which previously had been within neither the P. banksiana nor the P. contorta area . ( See map , Fig. 3-14 , page 169. )  | Information on geographical distribution of pines in Mexico is taken chiefly from Los Pinos Mexicanos by Martinez ( 1948 ) , by far the most authoritative work on Mexican pines . In addition , various other sources have been used . These are indicated in the text .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States in many ways . In fact , a vast area on both sides of the Mexican-American border is within the same geomorphological Basinand-Range Province of North America ( see map , Fig. 2 ? 1 , page 28 ) . Accordingly , there is a certain overlap of geographical areas between the western North American pine region and that of Mexico . The group of seven pinon pines , for instance , belongs essentially to the Basin-andRange Province . Only three of them are exclusively Mexican . Several western American pines ? P. jeffreyi No. 13 , P. ponderosa No. 14 , P. contorta No. 16 , P. attenuata No. 17 , P. muricata No. 18 , and P. radiata No. 19 ? penetrate into Mexico . At the same time , four species whose main areas lie in northern Mexico extend northward across the border ; these are P. strobiformis No. 35 , P. arizonica No. 43 , P. engelmannii No. 53 , and P. chihuahuana , No. 40 . In Table 3 ? 3 are listed all effectively published pines of the region . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and twenty-two are diploxylon species . There are still some pines in Mexico and Central America that are not sufficiently known to be properly published . These are mentioned at the end of the description of the region . Pinus ayacahuite is called by various names in Mexico : " Pino de azucar " ( i.e. , sugar pine ) , " Acalocote , " " Pinabete " ( a name generally used for the genus Abies ) . Its area extends from the northern Mexican states of Sonora , Chihuahua , Coahuila , and Nuevo Leon to Guatemala . It occurs locally in Honduras ( Santa Barbara Mountains ) , at an elevation of about 2700 m , and in one spot near the Honduran border at La Palma , Department of Chalatenango , San Salvador ( Allen , 1962 ) , at an elevation of about 2300 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-28 . ) Pinus ayacahuite is subdivided into three varieties : brachyptera Shaw , of the north , which apparently is the same as P. strobiformis Engelm . No. 35 ; veitchii Shaw of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accordance with the rules of nomenclature , should be designated as Pinus ayacahuite var. ayacahuite Ehren . It is essentially a pine of southern Mexico and Central America .  | In Chihuahua , P. ayacahuite has been collected at 2300 to 2600 m ; in Durango , it goes above 2800 m . Loock ( 1950 ) gave its range in the north as between 2400 and 2700 m . In Guatemala , it occurs between 2300 and 3200 m ( Aguilar , 1961 ) . In Chiapas , I collected it at about 2500 m . Pinus strobus var. chiapensis was described by Martinez in 1940 ( Martinez , 1948 ) . It has some resemblance to P. strobus L. , of the eastern United States , but there are also differences in morphological characters such as fineness of the needles and heaviness of the cones ( the average var. chiapensis cone is twice as heavy as that of P. strobus of the same length from the southern Appalachian Mountains ) . The general appearances of the two are also different . The geographical area of this pine is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 2000 m . At Cascada de la Tamata , near Tlapa- coyan , Veracruz , it is found at altitudes of 500 to 600 m in a tropical environment , near coffee and banana plantations and orange groves . Apparently , it descends in many places down the escarpment of the Central Mexican Plateau to tropical surroundings . New localities are being reported continually . Recently , it was found also in the Pacific-drainage mountains of the Sierra Madre del Sur in the state of Guerrero . Schultes ( Martinez , 1948 ) observed pure stands of this pine of considerable size between Teutila and Zautla , Cuicatlan District , Oaxaca , at 900 m above sea level . Boone Hallberg ( personal communication ) said that this pine occurs quite abundantly in the eastern part of Oaxaca as scattered individuals . One locality he mentioned is near Villa Alta , at an elevation of 1200 m . In Guatemala , it forms forests in the state of Huehuetenango  | ( near the Mexican border ) up to 1900 m above sea level , but its lower limit there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1961 ) mentions that it is especially abundant in the Departamento del Quiche . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 28 ) . Pinus strobiformis is a pine of northern Mexico , where it occurs in the mountains of Durango , Coahuila , and , especially , Chihuahua and Tamaulipas . It also grows in adjacent parts of the United States ( Arizona , New Mexico , extreme southern Utah , and southwestern Colorado ) . Geographically , it is located between the areas of P. flexilis No. 2 and P. ayacahuite No. 32 . Its altitudinal range is approximately 1650 to 3000 m . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 4 , page 140 . ) Seven species known as " pifion pines " form a well-defined group , Gembroidcs ( Shaw , 1914 ) . They are essentially pines of the arid environment  | of the Basin-and-Range geomorphological province of North America . The areas of three species of this group ? P. monophylla No. 7 , P. edulis No. 8 , and P. quadrifolia No. 9 ? have already been described under western American pines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remaining three piiions considered here are strictly Mexican species , and they are of extremely limited distribution . The areas of all seven piiions are shown on the map in Fig. 3 ? 8 ( page 151 ) . Pinus cembroides occupies a large area in Mexico from Coahuila , Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cech , 1957 ) , Chihuahua , and Sonora as far south as the states of Tlaxcala and Puebla . It is also found in the extreme north and the extreme south of Baja California . In the United States , it occurs in southwestern New Mexico and southeastern Arizona . Its altitudinal range in the United States is from 1450 to 2300 m ; in Mexico it is between 1800 and 2650 m ( Loock , 1950 ; Martinez , 1948 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 8 , page 151. )  | tical range apparently is between 3350 and 3700 m . It differs from all other pinons by growing at extraordinarily high altitudes . No other pinon grows above 3000 m . Pinus culminicola grows in the same vicinity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cerro Potosi at about 2600 to 2700 m , but there is no evidence of hybridization between  | the two pines ( Andresen and Beaman , 1961 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-8 , page 151 . ) The three rare Mexican piiions P. pinceana , P. nelsonii , and P. culminicola are geographically isolated from each other , and apparently there is no natural crossing between them . Pinus pinceana and P. nelsonii occasionally share their respective environments with P. cembroides , but there are no reports of their hybridization . These pines have no named varieties . Pinus chihuahuana Engelm. , P. leiophylla Schiede and Deppe , and P. lumholtzii Rob . and Fern. , form a small , well-defined group , Leiophyllae , of Shaw . These are the only diploxylon pines with deciduous bundlesheaths , which are a general character of all haploxylon pines except P. nelsonii . Pinus chihuahuana is essentially a three-needle Mexican pine . It grows chiefly in the states of Chihuahua , Sonora , and Durango . Southward , it  | extends to Nayarit , Zacatecas , and the northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States , where it occurs in the desert mountains of southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico . It grows at between 2100 and 2700 m of altitude . In the United States , it has been recorded at approximate elevations of between 1670 and 2500 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-29 . ) Pines leiophylla is an entirely Mexican pine found in the states of Chihuahua and Durango and as far south as Veracruz and Oaxaca . Generally it grows in dry localities at high elevations , but occasionally it occurs at lower altitudes . It is closely related to P. chihuahuana , but it differs by having five needles to a bundle . Martinez ( 1948 ) recorded 2000 to 3660 m as its altitudinal range . On the slopes of Iztaccihuatl , state of Mexico , it occurs between 2165 and 2800 m . Loock ( 1950 ) gives 1500 m as the lowest limit of this pine . ( See map , Fig. 3-29. )  | Pinus lumholtzii is a picturesque Mexican pine with bright green drooping foliage and cinnamon-red sheaths of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ( sad pine ) or " pino barba caida " ( droopingbeard pine ) . In Nayarit , it is known under the name " ocote dormido " ( sleeping pine ) . It grows in the western part of Mexico , from southern Chihuahua through Zacatecas to Jalisco . According to Martinez ( 1948 ) , its altitudinal range is from 1600 to over 2300 m . I saw it at El Salto , Durango , at an altitude of about 2600 m above sea level . ( See map , Fig. 3-29 . ) Pinus arizonica , or Arizona pine , was discovered in Arizona , but its main range is in the Mexican states of Sonora , Chihuahua , and Durango . Its form stormiae Martinez occurs in the desert mountains of Coahuila and adjacent parts of Nuevo Leon . Shaw ( 1914 ) considered P. arizonica a variety of P. ponderosa . Martinez considered Arizona pine a valid species . Little ( 1953 ) designated this pine as a variety of P. ponderosa No  | 14 . No doubt it is very closely related to P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its altitudinal range in Mexico is 2000 to 2700 m . In the United States , it is found between 1900 and 2560 m above sea level . ( See map , Fig. 3-30 . ) Pinus lawsonii grows in the Mexican states of Jalisco , Michoacan , Morelos , Puebla , Guerrero , and Oaxaca . It is often confused with P. teocote No. 45 and P. pringlei No. 58 . It is associated with P. oocarpa No. 59 , P. pringlei No. 58 , and P. montezumae No. 47 . This pine grows rather sporadically in a subtropical environment at elevations ranging from 1200 to 3000 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-31. )  | Pinus teocote is a pine of wide distribution . Its area extends from Tamaulipas , Nuevo Leon , Coahuila , and possibly southern Chihuahua to Chiapas . In the north , near Galena , Nuevo Leon , it occurs at 2500 to 2700 m . At Pinal de Amoles , Queretaro , it grows at 2000 to over 3000 m ; at Yalagag , Oaxaca , at about 1700 to 3000 m . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m . Occupying such a large area , P. teocote displays some variability . Shaw ( 1914 ) distinguished within it a variety , macrocarpa . In the north P. teocote sometimes looks like P. arizonica ; in the south some trees look like P. lawsonii . From Guatemala , Aguilar ( 1961 ) described P. teocote var. guatemalensis . ( See map , Fig. 3-31 . ) Pinus herrerai was first collected in 1939 in the state of Jalisco , and its foliage was sent without cones to Dr. Maximino Martinez , who studied it . He first thought that the pine was related to P. patula , but later , receiving the cones , he decided that the pine in question was related to P. teocote but deserved the rank of an independent species . It is a threeneedle pine . The needles are very flexible , soft , and delicate , and the cones are generally 2 to 3 cm long .  | Pinus herrerai occurs in Jalisco , Durango , Sinaloa , and Michoacan . Its altitudinal range is between 1200 and 2400 m . ( See @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex species ; Shaw ( 1914 ) was well aware of this when he wrote that " a monograph of this species . . . would be a valuable contribution to science . " Since Shaw 's time , a great deal of work has been done in studying the P. montezumae complex , chiefly by the late Dr. Maximino Martinez , who died in 1964 . Several pines that were classified as P. montezumae in Shaw 's Genus Pinus ( 1914 ) have been elevated to the rank of species . These are P. hartwegii No. 49 , P. rudis No. 50 , and P. michoacana No. 52 . Pinus montezumae ( sensu stricto ) occupies a large area ; in the north , it expands through Jalisco and Michoacan to Chiapas . It also occurs in Guatemala ( Schwerdtfeger , 1953 ) . Its altitudinal range is probably between 900 and 3350 m . It reaches its best development at 2400 to 2800 m . In Guatemala , it is found between 1500 and 2500 m ( Aguilar , 1961 ) . This pine has not been found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1948 ) a variety that he called " Pinus montezumae var. lindleyi Loudon " ; it is found in Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cecil , 1957 ) and Coahuila  | and in central Mexico from Jalisco and Oaxaca to Veracruz . Forma macrocarpa Martinez occurs also in central Mexico from Michoacan to Veracruz . It also was reported from Chiapas . Apparently , P. montezumae crosses with P. hartwegii ( and possibly with other pines of the montezumae group ) and also with P. pseudostrobus . It was crossed with P. ponderosa at the Institute of Forest Genetics , Placerville , California ( Liddicoet and Righter , 1960 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-32 . ) Pinus durangensis is a majestic pine , " el pino real , " growing in the state of Durango and possessing six , seven , or even eight needles in a fascicle . It was first described in 1938 by Cenobio E. Blanco and named by Martinez in 1942 . Shaw was aware of the existence of this pine . In The Pines of Mexico ( 1909 ) , he included this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genus Pinta ( 1914 ) , he designated it as P. ponderosa.  | Pinus durangensis resembles P. montezumae , but its cones are comparatively small , and its needles are more delicate . It also resembles P. ponderosa , but it lacks sharp prickles on the cone scales . Its area extends along the Sierra Madre Occidental at elevations between 1800 and 2700 m from southwestern Chihuahua to the southern end of Durango . Zobel and Cech ( 1957 ) indicated its occurrence in Nuevo Leon . ( See map , Fig. 3-33 . ) Pinus hartwegii was placed by Shaw ( 1914 ) under the name of P. montezumae . Standley ( 1920 ) and Martinez ( 1948 ) , however , considered it an independent species . It grows from Coahuila to the state of Mexico and adjacent states , and it has also been reported from Veracruz , Oaxaca , and Chiapas , and , in the north , from Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cech , 1957 ) . It occurs at high elevations , being found near the line of permanent snow at its upper limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2500 m . On  | the slopes of the two famous Mexican volcanoes ? Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl ? P. hartwegii forms pure stands at elevations ranging from about 2550 to 3500 m . Heilprin ( 1892 ) said that P. hartwegii exceeded 4300 m on the Sierra Negra near Orizaba . However , Martinez ( 1948 ) stated that the pine goes up to 3800 m . Possibly Heilprin 's estimate was erroneous . ( See map , Fig. 3-34 . ) Pinus rudis , in the classification of Shaw ( 1914 ) , was called P. montezumae . Martinez ( 1948 ) , however , considered it to be a separate species . Pinus rudis and P. montezumae are closely related , and apparently they hybridize naturally ; both species and many intermediate forms are often found in the same locality . Pinus rudis grows over a large territory from Coahuila , Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cech , 1957 ) , and Tamaulipas to Michoacan , and farther east to Puebla , Oaxaca , and apparently Chiapas . It extends even farther south and was reported ( Schwerdtfeger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjacent to the Mexican state of Chiapas . Pinus rudis most commonly grows at elevations between 2400 and 2750 m ( Loock , 1950 ) , but occasionally it ascends to extremely high alti- tudes . Martinez ( 1948 ) mentioned herbarium specimens from Tancitaro , Michoacan , collected at altitudes between 2833 and 3786 m , and Schwerdtfeger ( 1953 ) found this pine on the volcanoes of Guatemala , between 2800 and 4000 m , but a later publication ( Aguilar , 1961 ) placed it between 2300 and 4000 m above sea level . Din ( 1950 ) gave its vertical range as 2400 to 3600 m . Its altitudinal range is , then , between 2300 and 4000 m . Pinus rudis possibly hybridizes naturally with P. hartwegii . Allen , in 1958 , found a " handsome pine " growing at about 2300 m near La Palma , department of Chalatenango , San Salvador . He was not sure whether it was P. rudis or P. hartwegii ( personal communication , 1962 ) ; probably it was P. rudis . ( See map , Fig. 3-34 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was originally described by Blanco in 1940 as P. lutea , probably because it is known locally as " pino amarillo , " i.e. , yellow pine . As the name " Pinus lutea " had been given in 1788 to P. taeda No. 24 , Blanco decided in 1949 , on the suggestion of Dr. Elbert L. Little , Jr. , to change its name from " Pinus lutea " to " Pinus cooperi " ( Blanco , 1949 ) . Martinez placed this pine near P. rudis No. 50.  | Pinus cooperi grows in the mountain ranges of Durango , Mexico . At El Salto , Durango , it occurs at elevations of approximately 1800 to 2700 m . In the same locality also occurs a variety of this pine , P. cooperi var. ornelasi Martinez , characterized by coarser bark , longer needles , larger cones , and whiter wood than P. cooperi proper . Local people also distinguish these two pines and call variety ornelasi not " pino amarillo " but " albacarrote . " " The range of P. cooperi extends from southern Durango north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Fig. 3-34 . ) Pinus michoacana ( see Plate 6-9 , page 445 ) is a part of the complex that Shaw ( 1914 ) designated as " Pinus montezumae " ( see Fig. 9-4 , page 559 ) . This species includes two varieties and two forms . Pinus michoacana typica occurs in Michoacan , Jalisco , and Oaxaca . In Michoacan , it may be found growing together with P. montezumae ; possibly these two pines intercross . Forma procera Martinez has been reported from Urua- pan , Michoacan ; Poncitlan and Tuxpan , Jalisco ; and San Andreas , Ixtlahuaca , Etla , in the state of Oaxaca . Forma tumida Martinez has been found in a few spots in Oaxaca , Guerrero , and Chiapas . Pinus michoacana var. cornuta Martinez , which includes forma nayaritana Martinez , grows in the states of Nuevo Leon , Michoacan , Jalisco , Zacatecas , Durango , Mexico , Guerrero , Hidalgo , Morelos , Puebla , Oaxaca , Veracruz , and Chiapas . Its forma nayaritana Martinez is found in the southernmost part of Nayarit . Pinus michoacana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern part of San Luis Potosi . The approximate vertical range of P. michoacana , according to Loock ( 1950 ) , is between 1800 and 2400 m ; judging by the herbarium data listed by Martinez ( 1948 ) , it is from 1300 to 3000 m . Din 's ( 1950 ) figures were 1200 to 3000 m . I have seen a magnificent old specimen of planted P. michoacana var. cornuta in the Tjibodas Botanical Garden , in central Java , at an altitude of 1425 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-35 . ) . Pinus engelmannii is also known as Pinus mayriana Sudw. , " Pinus latifolia Sarg. , " " Pinus macrophylla Engelm. , " and " Pinus apacheca I.cmm . " All these names indicate that this pine is believed by some botanists to  | be a valid species . Others , like Shaw ( 1914 ) , consider that all these names are mere synonyms of " Pinus ponderosa " No. 14 . Its area is chiefly in the Sierra Madre Occidental of northwestern Mexico . In the north , its range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated mountain ranges of southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico . In Mexico , it grows at about 1600 to 2400 m above sea level . In the southwestern United States , it occurs at altitudes between 1900 and 2500 m . Thus , its general vertical range is between 1600 and 2500 m . Martinez ( 1948 ) described P. engelmannii var . Blancoi . It grows throughout the range of typical P. engelmannii ; it also occurs near Nochistlan , Zacatecas , and in the Sierra del Ladrillal , near the town of Gral . Cepeda , Coahuila . ( See map , Fig. 3-30 , p. 209 . ) Pinus pseudostrobus is a pine of subtropical environment of Mexico and Central America . In Mexico , it was reported from Nuevo Leon ( Zohel and Cech , 1957 ) ; it occurs in Tamaulipas , but its main range is from Jalisco to Chiapas . In Central America , it occurs in Guatemala and I lunduras . In San Salvador , it is native only in one place near the Honduran border cast of La Palma , department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m . In all other places in that republic , such as at  | 1200 m on the volcano San Salvador , it was planted ( Allen , personal communication , 1962 ) . The altitudinal range of typical P. pseudostrobus , according to Martinez ( 1948 ) , is from 2300 to 3250 m . Loock ( 1950 ) gave the figures  | 2100 to 3100 m . In Guatemala , it occurs from about 1500 up to about 2780 m ( Allen , 1955 ) . Din 's ( 1950 ) lowest figure for the level of this pine was 1000 m . Martinez described one form and four varieties of P. pseudostrobus : ( 1 ) Forma protuberans Martinez is found chiefly in Michoacan but also occurs in the states of Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cech , 1957 ) and Mexico , in the Distrito Federal , and in Oaxaca. ( 2 ) Variety coatepecensis Martinez was collected near Xico , Veracruz , and near Teotitlan del Valle , Oaxaca. ( 3 ) Variety estevezi Martinez grows in isolated locations of northeastern Mexico , near Monterrey , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Artega ) , far away from the main concentration of the species and its other varieties . It occurs at elevations of about 1500 to 1800 m , in association with P. greggii and P. rudis. ( 4 ) Variety apulcensis ( Lindley ) Martinez is fairly common at 2100 to 2400 m in the mountains and cations near Apulco , Hidalgo , and it has also been recorded from the states of Puebla , Tlaxcala , Mexico , and Veracruz ( Loock , 1950 ) . ( 5 ) Variety oaxacana Martinez has been elevated to the rank of species ( No. 57 ) ( Mirov , 1958 ) . Forma megacarpa , a rare form , was described later by Loock ( 1950 ) , from near the town of Hidalgo , Michoacan . " It is closely related to P. pseudostrobus forma protuberans , but the cones are bigger and the umbos not so prominent . " The above list of P. pseudostrobus varieties shows the complex nature of this species . To complicate the situation even more , Martinez , in describing varieties , often noticed further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only that different varieties of P. pseudostrobus intercross but also that the species itself hybridizes with other species such as P. montezumae . Some taxonomic complications of this pine are discussed in my paper on P. oaxacana ( Mirov , 1958 ) . ( See also Larsen 1964 reference in Literature Cited section of Chapter 9 . ) The geography of this species and its varieties is shown on the map in Fig. 3-36 . Pinus tenuifolia is closely related to P. pseudostrobus , of which Shaw considered it to be a variety . Pinus tenuifolia is a pine of the subtropical regions of Mexico . It grows primarily in the states of Jalisco , Michoacan , Sinaloa , and Guerrero . It is also found in Puebla , Veracruz , Oaxaca , and Chiapas and in the adjacent parts of Guatemala . It grows in association with P. montezumae No. 47 , P. pseudostrobus No. 54 , P. leiophylla No. 41 , and P. lawsonii No. 44 at elevations of 1500 to 2400 m . In Oaxaca , it is found at about 2400 m ( Loock , 1950 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 2400 in ( Aguilar , 1961 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-37. )  | Pinus douglasiana , like P. tenuifolia , is closely related to P. pseudostrobus . Its needles are coarse and thick , 25 to 33 cm long , while those of P. tenuifolia are very soft and delicate . Pinus douglasiana grows in the states of Nayarit , Sinaloa , Jalisco , Michoacan , Mexico , and Oaxaca . Martinez named it after Margaret Douglas , who was , to quote Martinez , " dama norteamericana entusiasta admiradora de la flora Mexicana y protectora de los estudios de la misma . " It grows together with P. tenuifolia No. 55 , P. montezumae No. 47 , P. leiophylla No. 41 , P. lawsonii No. 44 , P. oocarpa No. 50 , and P. pseudostrobus No. 54 . Its best development is at an altitude of 1700 to 2400 m ( Loock , 1950 ) . Its vertical range is probably between 1500 and 2400 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-37 . ) Pinus oaxacana is a pine of the tropical highlands of southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mountains of Oaxaca . It grows also in the states of Mexico , Puebla , Guerrero , Veracruz , and Chiapas . It also occurs in the highlands of Guatemala adjacent to Chiapas , and in Honduras . This pine is considered by Martinez as a variety of  | P. pseudostrobus , but it differs so much from P. pseudostrobus in its morphological characters ( especially in the shape and structure of the cone see Plate 9 ? 3 ) and in composition of its turpentine that it deserves the rank of an independent species ( Mirov , 1958 ) . Apparently it crosses , on the one hand , with P. pseudostrobus and , on the other , with P. montezumae . It grows in association with P. tenuifolia No. 55 , P. pseudostrobus No. 54 , and P. patula var. longepedunculata No. 61 . Apparently , its vertical range lies between 1500 and 2400 m above sea level . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 37 . ) Pinus pringlei is a subtropical Mexican pine growing in the states of Michoacan , Mexico , Guerrero , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea level ( Martinez , 1948 ) . Loock ( 1950 ) stated that it usually occurs at 1700 to 1800 m . According to Martinez , it is closely related to P. oocarpa No. 59 . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 33 , page 214 . ) Pinus oocarpa is a very variable and widely distributed , generally fiveneedle ( except in the tri f oliata ) pine , growing from Sonora and Chihua- hua to Central America . Its altitudinal range is from 900 to 2400 m . Besides its typical form , there are recorded four varieties of P. oocarpa : ( 1 ) forma microphylla Martinez , possessing very short fine foliage ( Sinaloa , Zacatecas , Nayarit , and Jalisco ) ; ( 2 ) var. manzanoi Martinez , which has asymmetrical cones and very short peduncles ( found near Huasca , Hi- dalgo ) ; ( 3 ) forma ochoterenai Martinez , distinguished by its slender cones that are not as heavy as those of the typical form , growing in the mountains of Chiapas and crossing the border of Guatemala ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needles in a fascicle ( found in Durango at 1600 to 2000 m ) . In Central America , P. oocarpa extends through Guatemala and Honduras to Nicaragua . It is found in the mountains of inner British Honduras ( Standley and Record , 1936 ) at 900 m . Hunt ( 1962 ) wrote that Standley and Record were in error in reporting P. oocarpa from Baker Pine Ridge . According to Hunt , the only locality in which this pine occurs in British Honduras is on the high eastern part of Mountain Pine Ridge ; there , it is variety ochoterenai . In northern San Salvador , near the Honduran border , it is found between 650 and 1500 m . In the vicinity of San Ignacio and La Palma , department of Chalatenango , San Salvador , it  | occurs at elevations between 1000 and 1200 m . Variety manzanoi also occurs there occasionally at 1200 m ( Allen , 1962 ) . Pinus tecumumani , described by Schwerdtfeger ( 1953 ) , possibly is a variety of P. oocarpa . Aguilar ( 1961 ) called it Pinus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Its area is in the departments of Baja Verapaz , Totonicapan , and Huehuetenango , Guatemala , where it occurs in small groves between 1900 and 2700 m above sea level . It grows either in pure stands or mixed with P. pseudostrobus No. 54 and P. ayacahuite No. 33 . ( See Chapter 9 , page 563 . ) Pinus oocarpa has the distinction of being the most southerly pine of the New World . The trees of this species begin to disappear on the south slope of the Cordillera Dariense , Nicaragua , at an altitude of about 1200 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-38 . ) Pinus greggii has a limited range ; it occurs in the northeastern part of Mexico , namely , in southeastern Coahuila , in adjacent parts of Nuevo Leon , and , farther south , in San Luis Potosi and in Hidalgo . Its altitudinal range is between 1500 and 2700 m ( Din , 1958 ) . Near Saltillo , Coahuila , it grows at about 2500 m above sea level ( Martinez , 1948 ) , It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1960 ) .  | Morphologically , it is closely related to P. patula , but it can be distinguished by its shorter , coarser , and erect rather than drooping needles . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 33 . ) Pinus patula ( see Plate 3-43 , page 223 ) is a pine of a rather limited distribution . This pine occurs in the states of Queretaro , Hidalgo , Mexico , Puebla , and Veracruz . It has been reported to grow in one locality in the state of Tamaulipas . It grows in the subtropical parts of the country , at elevations ranging from 1500 to 3000 m above sea level , where the climate is cool and humid . Loock ( 1950 ) gave its altitudinal range as from 1800 to 2700 m . Variety longepedunculata , which Loock characterized by long cone stalks , was found in 1947 by Loock in the cool temperate zone of Oaxaca , at elevations of 1900 to 2000 m ( Martinez , 1948 ) . Its zone of distribution has not as yet been defined ( Loock , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 33 . ) In addition to those mentioned above , there are also several pines in Mexico and Central America that are difficult to identify . Zobel and Cech reported four such pines from the state of Nuevo Leon ( Zobel and Cech , 1957 ) ( see Fig. 9-6 , page 564 ) . Egon Larsen , of the New Zealand Forest Research Institute , who collected pine material in Mexico in 1961 , wrote ( personal communication , 1961 ) that , in the state of Guerrero , he encountered a pine that looked like P. montezumae and at the same time resembled P. pseudostrobus ( see Fig. 9 ? 6 , page 564 ) . In the state of Michoacan , Larsen ( 1964 , reference in Literature Cited section of Chapter 9 ) found a pine that he named " Pinus martinezii " ( see Chapter 9 , page 559 ) . In Guatemala , Aguilar found a pine whose characteristics are intermediate between P. montezumae and P. rudis . He named it " Pinus quichensis " ( Aguilar , 1961 ) ( see Fig. 9 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and P. ) effreyi No. 13 , whose ranges are essentially in California , cross the Mexican border into Baja California , where they are found in the San Pedro Martir Mountains ( see maps , Figs. 3 ? 9 and 3 ? 11 , pages 155 and 162 ) . In the Caribbean area are included not only the islands of the Caribbean Sea ? the Bahamas , Cuba , Hispaniola ? but also the southern part of Florida and the Gulf Coast of Central America . The pines of this area  | ( Table 3 ? 4 ) are P. caribaea , P. elliottii var. densa , P. occidentalis , P. cubensis , and P. tropicalis . For the taxonomy and relationships of Caribbean pines , see Chapter 9 , pages 554 ? 56 . Pinus caribaea grows in the Bahama Islands , western Cuba , Isla de Pinos , Honduras , Guatemala , Nicaragua , and British Honduras . Until recently , our southeastern slash pine , whose official name now is " Pinus elliottii " No. 23 , was also known under this name . A pine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 900 m and often described as P. caribaea , possibly is an independent species ( Williams , 1955 ) . I saw it in the Choluteca River Valley ( see Plate 9 ? 3 , page 556 ) . Another locality of supposed P. caribaea is in British Honduras , on the " Mountain Pine Ridge " located at an altitude of about 1000 m in the southeastern part of that country ( approximate position : 89 ? west and 17 ? north ) . It is difficult to say if the pine of the " Mountain Pine Ridge " ( Romney , 1959 ) is the same species as the coastal P. caribaea . In Guatemala , P. caribaea occurs near Poptun , Peten , at altitudes between 400 and 1000 m , and in three or four spots at Izabal and near Zacapa ( Aguilar , 1961 ) . In Nicaragua , it extends south to the vicinity of Bluefields . Of interest is the occurrence of P. caribaea on Pine Cay ( island ) in the Caicos . Often referred to as " dwarf pine , " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. caribaea is taken as being from sea level to 300 m.  | There are suggestions that P. oocarpa may cross with P. caribaea ( Williams , 1955 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-39 . ) Pinus elliottii var. densa grows in the southern part of Florida at about sea level . For a long time it was considered as " slash pine , " i.e. , P. caribaea , but recently ( Little and Dorman , 1952 , 1954 ) it was given the rank of a variety of P. elliottii No. 23 . It is possible that it is not a southern extension of P. elliottii var. elliottii ( the " true " slash pine of Georgia and northern Florida ) but is , rather , of Caribbean origin ( Mirov , Frank , and Zavarin , 1965 ) . There is evidence of its relationship to the pines of the Caribbean area . ( See map , Fig. 3-39 . ) Pinus occidentalis is found almost entirely on the island of Hispaniola , i.e. , in the Dominican Republic and Haiti . It also occurs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is considered by Shaw ( 1914 ) as a synonym of " Pinus occidentalis . " Pinus occidentalis occupies a large area in the north-central Dominican Republic . In the southwestern part , it occupies a lesser , but still considerable , area . Both areas extend west to Haiti . Holdridge ( 1942 ) described the distribution of P. occidentalis in Haiti in the following words : In Haiti , the range of the species includes most of the country , although in most sections it occurs only as scattered specimens . In the southern ranges of mountains , good stands of pine are found in large blocks . At the eastern end of the Morne la Selle range , in the section called Mornes des Commissaires is located a stand estimated to cover approximately 10,000 acres a little over 4000 ha . This is contiguous with the pine forest across the border in the Bahoruco Mountains of the Dominican Republic . The Haitian tract is located on a plateau at an elevation of about 5000 feet 1500 m above sea-level , although scattered patches of pine to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m . This is the only forest in Haiti which is traversed by a public road and when " le foret de pins " is mentioned in the capital , it is almost invariably with reference to this unit . Only a few miles to the west of this area La Selle Peak , the highest point of land in the Republic , attains an elevation of over 9000 feet over 2700 m . It is covered to the very peak with a pine forest which has an area probably greater than 25,000 acres about 10,000 had . West of La Selle on the main plateau and on the various ridges extending therefrom scattered individuals and patches are encountered to slightly beyond Furey and Kenscoff . Travelling still farther westward on the southwestern peninsula various , at present inaccessible , scattered patches in the Morse la Iiotte range are found , hut only near Pio Macayo are solid stands of pine found to be of any appreciable extent . Here , they ascend to 7000 feet about 2I00 in on the peak and  | occupy the sides and crests of precipitous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervening valleys make up a region which is very difficult to traverse and hence little known . North of the Cul de Sac plain , which runs eastward from Port-au-Prince , many different mountain ranges occur and on all of these so far observed scattered trees of this pine have been seen . Only in the Montagnes du Nord , which come across the border between Monte Organise and Banica and extend northwestward , are there extensive areas of pine . Although this area has been invaded to a considerable extent by agriculturists so that the forest is very broken , there is nevertheless an area of about 40,000 ha . on which pine is the dominant feature of the landscape and thus it comprises an important forest section . In addition to this , the extensive central plateau should be mentioned since its so is very unproductive for agriculture and there remain a great many scattered pines , making it possible to develop this in the future as a solid block of pine which would probably be more profitable to the country than the present farming and grazing uses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to over 2700 m . In Cuba , P. occidentalis occurs at from 300 to 1500 m ( Smith , 1954 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 39 . ) Pinus cubensis is closely related to P. occidentalis . It grows in the eastern part of Cuba ( Oriente ) , in the mountains , forming extensive stands in la Sierra de Nipe , Sierra de Cristal , Sierra de Moa , and Cuchillas de Toa . The altitudinal range of P. cubensis is from sea level to over 820 m ( Smith , 1954 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 39 . ) Pinus tropicalis grows at sea level at Pinar del Rio , western Cuba , and on the Isla de Pinos , where it is associated with P. caribaea . It occurs on sandy savannas and in gravelly places on more or less rolling terrain below 150 m . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 39 . ) The enormous pine region of northern Eurasia extends from Scotland through Scandinavia and across the northern part of the whole continent of Eurasia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In that entire expanse of land , there are found only three species of the genus Pinus : two haploxylon ? P. sibirica and P. pumila , in the east ? and one diploxylon ? P. sylvestris , throughout the region ( Table 3 ? 5 ) . As P. sylvestris occurs also in the Mediterranean region and P. pumila extends to the eastern Asiatic pine region , P. sibirica is the only pine species found exclusively in the pine region of northern Eurasia .  | " Pinus sibirica " was considered by Shaw ( 1914 ) a synonym of " Pinus cembra " No. 70 . It occupies an area entirely different from that of P. cembra . It grows in plains , in river valleys , and in the mountains of both the northern part of European Russia and Siberia . One isolated location is on the Kola Peninsula , but it is not certain if this pine is native there . In northeastern Siberia , it is replaced by P. pumila No. 68 , and , in the east , it is replaced by P. koraiensis No. 82 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes a great deal of confusion among geographers . In western Siberia , near Salegard , just west of the River Ob , P. sibirica crosses the Arctic Circle , but at the sixtieth meridian its northern boundary turns abruptly southwest . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 , page 324 . ) In the Transbaikal region and in the Sayan Mountains of eastern Siberia , as well as in the Altai Mountains of western Siberia , there grows a variety of P. sibirica that has been called " Pinus coronans Litv . " Apparently , this pine is a mountain variety of P. sibirica . In the Lake Baikal region of eastern Siberia , areas of P. sibirica and P. pumila No. 68 overlap . There the two pines intercross . The dwarf alpine form of P. sibirica is sometimes confused with P. pumila ( Malyshev , 1960 ) . The altitudinal range of P. sibirica in the lowlands of western Siberia is from 100 to 200 m . It grows there on low watershed divides , in the river valleys , and in swampy plains where it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abies . Thus its " common " English name , " Siberian stone pine , " is rather inappropriate . In the Altai Mountains , P. sibirica grows at low elevations , up to ' 1000 in , mixed with Abies . Higher up , it forms pure , dense forests and  | goes up to the timberline , which is at altitudes of from 1900 to 2400 m . The highest recorded altitude for P. sibirica there was 2580 m ( Suslov , 1947 ) . In the Transbaikal , P. sibirica occurs at from 900 to 1900 m of altitude ( Litvinov , 1913 ) . In the Altai , the Sayans , and the mountains of northern Mongolia , a scrubby , trailing form of P. sibirica ( forma depressa ) occurs above the timberline , at 2100 m ( Komarov , 1934 ) . P. sibirica also extends to northern Mongolia , where it occurs in Kentai Shan at 2200 to 2300 m ( Wang , 1961 ) . Pinus pumila is a very small tree , more often a creeping shrub , growing in the northeastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea , and Manchuria . Its northern limit is in the region of the Lower Lena , at 70 ? 31 ' north . It is related to P. sibirica . Some botanists say that it is merely a dwarf variety of P. sibirica ; others maintain that it deserves the rank of an independent species . Gaussen ( 1960 ) considers P. pumila to be closely related to P. parviflora ( i.e. , to P. pentaphylla No. 83 ) , of Japan . Its area extends to the region of eastern Asia ( see page 263 ) . On the peninsula of Kamchatka , it is abundant at 300 to 1000 m . In northern Hokkaido , it grows at altitudes between 50 and 1720 m ; in central Honshu , between 1400 and 3180 m ( Hayashi , 1954 ) ; and in Korea , between 900 and 2540 m ( K. B. Yim , personal communication , Oct. 15 , 1962 ) . In northeastern Asia , P. pumila forms thickets above the forests of larch and ( in the south ) above P. sylvestris , and just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Verkhoyansk Mountains , the P. pumila belt lies at about 900 to 1000 m . In the upper reaches of the Omolon , it is found at 800 to 900 m above sea level . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 , page 265 . ) Pinus sylvestris ( Plate 3 ? 47 ) is called , in English , " Scots " or " Scotch " pine . On the continent , it is known under many different names , but its most usual name is " common pine . " It occupies an area larger than that of any other pine ; longitudinally it grows from Scotland to the Pacific Coast of Siberia ; latitudinally , from Norway ( 70 ? 29 ' north ) to Spain ( 37 ? north ) and from Arctic Siberia to Mongolia ; it also occurs in the Mediterranean region ( see page 257 ) . It is natural to expect that this species has many varieties because it grows over such a large area and under such different environmental conditions . In fact , P. sylvestris is a complex composed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species " ; others designate them as " varieties " ; still others designate the whole complex as a single species , P. sylvestris . ( For details , see Steven and Carlisle , 1959 ; Pravdin , 1964 . ) From a geographical point of view , P. sylvestris , unlike Picea excelsa or P. obovata , is an interzonal tree . In eastern Russia and in Siberia , the main area of its distribution , this species may be found in the taiga zone , in the woodland belt , in grasslands of the south , and in the mountains . In the mesophytic environment , it behaves as a xerophyte does , preferring dry sandy areas . In arid areas such as steppes of western Siberia , it behaves as a mesophyte does , preferring places along the river courses . ( See map , Fig. 3-50 , page 277 . ) Pinus sylvestris grows in Mongolia , near Hailar , on stabilized sand dunes ( see Plate 6-4 , page 428 ) . In other places in Mongolia , it occurs near lakes and saline swamps in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to - 50 ? C. In Mongolia also it occurs along river courses , on terraces , and on sand banks , and it is occasionally found in Mongolian taiga ( Wang , 1961 ) . In northern Eurasia , P. sylvestris is generally a pine of low elevations ; it rarely goes higher than 800 m and very seldom attains elevations above 1000 m . According to Suslov ( 1947 ) , altitudinal distribution of P. sylvestris in different parts of Siberia is as follows : Western Siberia 100 to 350 m Altai 350 to 700 m Eastern Siberia 300 to 650 m Western Sayans 400 to 850 m Eastern Sayans 650 to 1000 m Transbaikal 1000 to 2000 m Tuva region 500 to 1100 m In the Baltic region , it grows at sea level . In northern Norway , it goes up to 1050 m , while , in Austria , it may ' be found at elevations as high as 1200 m . Pinus sylvestris grew in Ireland , England , and Denmark until relatively recently , but it was exterminated completely by primitive man . Stumps of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ireland . Schiitt ( 1959 ) mentioned natural hybrids between P. sylvestris and different varieties of P. montana No. 76 . Pinus sylvestris in the Mediterranean region will be discussed later ( page 257 ) . In studying the natural distribution of pines in the Mediterranean region ( Table 3-6 ) , one encounters difficulty in determining where a given species is natural and where it has been planted by former inhabit- ants such as Etruscans , Romans , ancient Greeks , or Arabs . No doubt , the region was previously more heavily forested ; there is ample evidence that pines were more abundant in certain parts of the region , but it is doubtful if they ever formed dense , extensive forests similar , say , to pine forests of the American Southeast . The Mediterranean pine region , as described in this book , is not restricted to the pines of coastal areas and islands ; it includes also those of the Alps , the Carpathians , and the Canary Islands ; the pines growing in those places are Mediterranean pines . Pinus cembra is known in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is called " Arve " ; its German name is " Zirbe , " or " Zirbekiefer " ; in Poland it is , known as " limba " ; and Russians call it " kedr " ( from the Greek " kedros " , i.e. , " cedar " ) . It is a pine of high mountains of southern Europe from the Alps to the Carpathians . In Switzerland , P. cembra is found at from 1200 to 2585 m of altitude . In the middle altitudes between these limits , P. cembra sometimes forms Fine forests . Rikli , in an excellent biological monograph on P. cembra ( 1909 ) gave for a locality near San Moritz , southeastern Switzerland , the tabulation shown at the top of the next page . In Tyrol , this pine forms forests at an altitude of about 1600 m . Single trees occur at higher elevations . In Poland and Czechoslovakia , it is found in a few places in the High Tatra mountain area of the Car- pathians , between the eastern and western Beskids , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 40. ) - Pinus peuce is a rare pine of southeastern Europe , morphologically similar to P. gri f ithii No. 91 ( P. excelsa ) , of the Himalaya . Pinus peuce grows in a few places in the mountains of southern Yugoslavia and in the adjacent parts of Albania , Bulgaria , and Greece . Its northern limit is at 43 ? 10 ' north . The southern limit is at about 41 ? north . The lower altitudinal limit of P. peuce lies between 800 m and 1400 m , and the upper  | Pinus canariensis is a subtropical pine native to the Canary Islands . It grows on Grand Canary Island and Tenerife and occupies rather large areas at elevations from 1200 to 2200 m . The central part of Hierro Island is also occupied by forest of this pine . Some P. canariensis is found on Gomera Island ( Ceballos y Ortuno , 1951 ) . The area of P. canariensis is rather remote from the Mediterranean Sea . Although the distance from Gibraltar to the Canary Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same origin as the other Mediterranean pines . A fossil pine similar to P. canariensis was found near Malaga , Spain ( Wulff , 1944 ) . The mountain ranges of northeastern Africa afforded it a route of migration to the Canary Islands . Its nearest relative , very similar in appearance , is P. roxburghii No. 93 ( P. ion gi f olia ) , of the Himalaya . ( See map , Fig. 3-42. )  | Pinus pinea is sometimes called " P. sativa , " i.e. , " planted pine . " Its Italian name is " pino domestico , " i.e. , " cultivated pine , " in opposition to " pino silvestre " ( Pinus sylvestris ) , which means a " wild pine . " ( Compare with the Spanish " flores silvestres " for " wild flowers " ; also see Chapter 1 . ) It is a difficult task to establish the natural area of P. pinea . This pine has been planted for its edible seeds ( pinoli ) since ancient times , and at present it is often impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place is natural or whether the pine was planted there . Francini ( 1958 ) reviewed rather thoroughly the literature on its distribution . If we would follow Zangheri as quoted by Francini , we should accept that P. pinea was brought to Italy from the eastern Mediterranean , perhaps in the Etruscan period . Francini further mentioned that Parlatore , in 1867 , following Endlicher , considered it to have originated on the island of Crete . It is doubtful if P. pinea is indigenous in the great coastal pine region of Pisa-Villaregia , on the coast of the Tyrrhenian Sea . The same is true of the coastal P. pinea forest at Fregeni , near Rome . According to Francini , this forest was planted in 1666 on the initiative of Pope Clement IX and called " Pineta Clementina . " Having been protected because of its decorative value and its edible nuts , P. pinea spread naturally from this original plantation . Even on the larger islands of the Tyrrhenian Sea , this pine apparently is not native , although , according to Francini , Briquet , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indigenous to Corsica . Pavari ( 1955 ) was of the opinion that P. pinea was native near Mount Peloritani , in Sicily . His contention is supported by findings of fossil P. pinea ( Zodda , 1903 ) near Messina . After reviewing this problem thoroughly , Rikli , in his Pflanzenkleid der Mittelmeerldnder ( 1943 ) , wrote that it was impossible to distinguish between the original localities and the secondary places in the area occupied at the present time by P. pinea . He proposed that its origin was in the western Mediterranean region and particularly on the Iberian Peninsula , where this pine is found in larger groves and at higher altitudes than anywhere else . Extensive P. pinea forests are found in the warmer parts of Andalusia and Algarve and in western Portugal , and also in the interior plain of the Castillas . The Bay of Cadiz is surrounded with P. pinea forests , which extend to the mouth of the Guadalquivir . Some time ago , large stands of P. pinea were found in the valleys of the Tejo and Sodotal in middle Portugal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for making of railroad ties that no more P. pinea is found there .  | According to Rikli , the eastern Mediterranean can not be considered as the place of origin of P. pinea ; it has been cultivated there , and its introduction by Fakhr-ed-din was relatively recent . Recently , Feinbrun ( 1959 ) reviewed the problem of distribution of P. pinea in Lebanon . She went there and found , southwest of Hemmana , near the village of Bmariam , P. pinea trees ( locally called " snobar " ) over 400 years old ; i.e. , they were there before Fakhr  --  ed-din 's time . Hers was an excellent piece of research work . She thinks that P. pinea is native to Portugal , Spain , Corsica , the Tyrrhenian Coast of Italy , the Peloponnesus of Greece , and the coast of Asia Minor ; it is not indigenous in Crete . The easternmost locality of P. pinea is in northeastern Turkey on the west side of the Chorokh River Valley . This river , in its low reaches , is in the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or " Cora . " Pinus pinea is found there near the Russian border , at an elevation of 150 to 600 m . Possibly it is native there , although Rikli doubts it . Pints pinea is not native to northern Africa . To sum up , it is unknown exactly where P. pinea is native and where it is introduced . From paleobotanical records and from the excellent and most recent inquiry of Feinbrun , it appears that , before man came to the Mediterranean region , this pine had been growing , perhaps not too abundantly , from the Iberian Peninsula to the Levant . It is uncertain if it ever grew in Africa . Possibly it did during the Tertiary period , but there is no positive evidence of this . Pinus pinea is a very stable species . The only known variety , fragilis Duhamel , is characterized by a soft and thin seedcoat . This variety is possibly a result of selection in cultivated plantations rather than a wild variety . Pinus pinea has never been crossed with any other species of pine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1000 m on the south slope of the Sierra de Almijara near the Mediterranean Coast of Spain , between Malaga and Motril . On the eastern Mediterranean islands , it grows at altitudes between 150 and 600 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-40 . ) Pinus nigra , often called " Pinus laricio Poiret , " is commonly known in Europe as " black pine . " Local names are many ; for example , Serbs call it " tsrnog bor , " i.e. , " black pine . " Its area extends from Spanish Morocco to Asia Minor , southern France , northern Italy , Austria , the Balkan Peninsula , and Crimea , and it is found in one place on the Caucasian coast of the Black Sea , as well as on  | some islands of the Mediterranean , including Cyprus ( see map , Fig. 3-43 ) . In the Dinaric Alps , the altitudinal range of P. nigra is from 550 to 600 m . In Corsica , P. nigra forests are found between 900 and 1200 m . Single trees may reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , southeastern Spain , this pine reaches an altitude of about 1200 m . Several varieties are recognized within the species : pallasiana Lamb. , native to Crimea ; austriaca Endlich. , of Austria ; calabrica Loud. , of Italy ; corsicana Loud. , of Corsica ; and some others ( Delevoy , 1949 ) . In Austria , P. nigra grows on poor dolomite and limestone soil at altitudes between 260 and 500 m and on better soils at 300 to 700 m . It may reach altitudes of 700 to 1200 m where it is intermixed with P. sylvestris . Single trees of this pine may be found as high as 1400 m above sea level . Thus , the altitudinal distribution of P. nigra is between 250 and 1800 m . Pinus heldreichii was described in 1863 as an independent species . In 1914 , Shaw placed it with P. nigra . In this publication , P. heldreichii is considered as a valid species . Pinus heldreichii grows in northeastern Greece , in Albania , and in adjacent parts of Yugoslavia and Italy . Pinus leucodermis Antoine is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species hybridizes naturally with P. montana ( Fukarek , 1960 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-43 . ) The basic altitudinal range of P. heldreichii is from 1000 to 1800 m in Yugoslavia , the highest occurrence being at 2300 m ; in Greece , it ascends to 2500 m ( Rikli , 1943 ) . Pinus montana ranges from the Pyrenees through the Alps and Apennines to the Carpathians ( see map , Fig. 3-44 ) . In the Jura Mountains of France , it is found in several localities at altitudes between 1300 and 1600 m and always in peat bogs . In the Vosges , the most known locality is Beliard , near Gerardmer . In the Massif Central , it occurs occasionally , also in peat bogs . In all of these places , P. montana is a botanical rarity . It occurs also in Austria , in the border mountains of Czechoslovakia , in the Tatra of Poland , in the Carpathian part of the Ukraine , and in Romania . This pine is rather variable . Its three major varieties are mughus ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haenke ) Zenari ; there are many horticultural forms . At the lower altitudes of its range , it intermingles and possibly crosses naturally with P. sylvestris.  | In the Tatra , P. montana grows at elevations as high as 1950 m above sea level ( Rubner and Reinhold , 1953 ) . Rikli ( 1943 ) reported its habitat in the Mediterranean area at altitudes between 400 and 1500 m . There are reports that in Bosnia it crosses naturally with P. heldreichii var. leucodermis ( Fukarek , 1960 ) . A natural cross between P. montana and P. nigra No. 74 was mentioned by Schutt ( 1959 ) . Pinus halepensis is the most widely distributed pine of the Mediterranean region ( see map , Fig. 3-45 ) . It occurs sparingly , sometimes forming more or less pure groves but more often mixed with Mediterranean scrub forest and maquis brush . On the Iberian Peninsula , it is restricted to the Mediterranean Coast from Gibraltar to the northeast , continuing through the coastal parts of France and Italy . In two localities in Spain , it penetrates rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city , and another north of Barcelona , along the foothills of the Pyrenees . It grows in the Balearic Islands , which in Strabo 's time were known as " Pityusae " ( i.e. , " pine " ) islands ( Strabo ; reference in Literature Citations section of Chapter 2 ) . In Italy , P. halepensis is very scarce , occurring along the coast of the  | Ligurian Sea and also in a few spots on the Adriatic Coast and in one locality of Calabria . It occurs on the French island of Corsica , where it forms a fine forest on the Cape Corse peninsula . In the area of Sardinia , it is found only on the small island of San Pietro . It grows on dry hills of southern Sicily , and on nearby small islands such as Pantelleria ( between Sicily and Tunisia ) , Lampeduza , and Marettimo ( west of Sicily ) . In the eastern Mediterranean , P. halepensis occurs along the Adriatic Coast of the Balkan Peninsula ( Yugoslavia ) and also in the southern part of Greece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in . Asia Minor it is surprisingly rare , being found only in one locality , above Adana , in the northeastern corner of the Mediterranean Sea . Pinus hale pensis is native to the coastal regions of Syria but is not found in Aleppo , from which the species name is derived . In Jordan , it covers a small area , being associated with Quercus , Cistus , Arbutus , and Pistacea . In Israel , it is found only rarely , in places such as Mount Carmel , Hebron , and east of Tel Aviv ( Zohary , 1947 ) . On the African coast of the Mediterranean , P. halepensis grows in Cyrenaica ( Libya ) , in the maquis scrub of the Barce Peninsula , together with other Mediterranean trees such as Ceratonia , Quercus ilex , and Cupressus sempervirens ; occasionally , it forms rather extensive , open forests . In Tunisia and Algeria , it grows also in the maquis brushfields ; it penetrates rather deeply inland in Morocco , southwest along the Atlas Mountains to about the latitude of Marrakech . Pinus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Rikli ( 1943 ) its upper limits are as follows : in Dalmatia , 200 m ; in southern Spain , 1000 m ; in Cyprus , 1400 m ; in Israel , 1000 m ; and in Morocco , 1700 m . A former variety , brutia , of P. hale pensis ( Shaw , 1914 ) is considered at present as a well-established independent species ( Mirov , 1955 ) . The two pines hybridize in nature ( Papajoannou , 1936 ) . Apparently , during the Tertiary period , the P. halepensis area extended much farther north ( Czeczott , 1954 ) . A natural hybrid with P. pinaster No. 80 was mentioned by Schutt ( 1959 ) . Pinus brutia has a more restricted range than P. halepensis . It grows in the Italian province Calabria ( ancient Brutium ) , but it is not certain whether P. brutia is native there or was introduced . In its natural habitat , in the eastern Mediterranean region , P. brutia grows in Iraq , Syria , Turkey , Greece , and Lebanon and on the islands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( See map , Fig. 3-45. )  | The altitudinal range of P. brutia is approximately from 100 to 1500 m . In Turkey , it goes up to 750 m ; occasionally , it reaches 1550 m altitude ( Rikli , 1943 ) . Papajoannou ( 1936 ) described a variety of P. brutia from the island of Lesbos and named it " Pinus brutia var. agrophiotii Pap . " Pinus brutia crosses with P. halepensis . About 100 years ago , Tajiks brought home a handful of seeds of P. brutia from their pilgrimage to Mecca . In the kishlak ( village ) of Arbobi , in the Ghissar region of Tajikstan , U.S.S.R. , there are still standing several specimens of this pine , reaching a height of 27 m ( Gursky , 1957 ) . This is mentioned as one instance of old introduction of Mediterranean pines into different regions that often makes determination of their native habitats extremely difficult . Pinus pityusa was described in 1838 from near Pitsunda ( ancient Pithyum : " pithys " in Greek means " pine " ) , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also has been reported from the island of Prinkipo ( near Istanbul ) , from Thrace , from Anatolia , from Syria , and also from the island of Thasos , near the coast of eastern Thrace ( Papajoannou , 1936 ) , but this last information appears to be questionable . Shaw considered this pine to be P. halepensis ; some , more recent , investigators believe that it is the same as P. brutia . Pinus stankewiczii ( Suk . ) Fom. , which grows in two localities on the south coast of Crimea on dry marl soil of the slopes facing the sea , may be considered as P. pityusa Steven var. stankewiczii Suk . The vertical range of P. pityusa is from sea level up to 300 m . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 45 and Plate 1 ? 1 . ) Pinus pinaster , or P. maritima , is called " French maritime pine . " Its area extends from southwestern France , near the mouth of the Loire River , up to Brittany , then to Portugal , through Spain and Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It grows in a few spots in Morocco and Algeria , and along the Mediterranean Coast of France . It is also found on the islands of Corsica and Sardinia . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 43 , page 250 . ) Unlike P. nigra , P. pinaster is a stable species . See , however , the discussion of P. mesogeensis Fiesehi and Gaussen ( page 553 ) , which again is subdivided into several subspecies and varieties ( Gaussen , 1960 ) . Duff ( 1928 ) said that there are several races or geographical forms of this pine ( the Corsican race , pin de corte , and var. hanriltoni of Corsica ; the Atlantic race in the area from north of Bordeaux down to Portugal ; and  | the Esterel race in the Esterel Mountains , in the Provence Alps , and occasionally along the Riviera on low hills and shallow , dry soil ) . " Pin de Corte " has been described by Fieschi and Gaussen as P. mesogeensis ( see Fig. 9-6 , page 564 ) . According to these authors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean , from Greece to Morocco . Its limits on the Iberian Peninsula have not yet been determined . These races , or strains ( not necessarily botanical varieties ) , " differ principally in habitat , which at any time is a difficult thing to describe " ( Duff , 1928 ) . Varieties aberdoniae Loudon , lemoniana Loudon , and minor Loiseleur ( Dallimore and Jackson , 1948 ) also do not appear to be very different from the typical P. pinaster . Pinus pinaster crosses naturally with typical P. halepensis ( Schiitt , 1959 ) . The altitudinal range of P. pinaster extends from sea level to about 400 m . In Corsica , fine forests of this pine are found between 400 and 900 m . In the Atlas Mountains of Morocco , it reaches the highest point of its vertical distribution , about 2000 m . Pines eldarica is a rare pine found in one locality only , in a semidesert environment southeast of Tbilisi , Georgia , Transcaucasia . This pine grows on the eastern extremity of the Choban-Dagh Range , along  | the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupies only about 550 ha . It is located at altitudes of 200 to 600 m . A more or less pure pine stand occupies an area of 110 ha . This pine is considered to be an Oligocene relic . Previously , it occupied a larger area ( Tutayuk , 1959 ) . " Pinus eldarica " is considered by some authors as a synonym of " Pinus brutia " ( Malejeff , 1929 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-45 , page 251 . ) Pinus sylvestris is essentially a pine of northern Eurasia ( see No. 69 , page 235 ) , and its geographical distribution there took place chiefly during postglacial times ( Bertsch , 1951 ) when this pine , advanced from the southern refugia to western Europe , to the eastern European plain , and farther east . Dissimilarly , in the Mediterranean region , P. sylvestris is always a relic of the Tertiary period . In Portugal , it is found only in the extreme north , in the Sierra do Gerez . In Spain , it forms forests in the Cordillera Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It also occurs in the north of the peninsula , in the Cordillera Cantabrica , and in the south of Spain between 2 ? 30 ' and 3 ? west longitude and between 37 ? and 37 ? 30 ' north latitude , thus reaching the southernmost point of its distribution in the Mediterranean region . In the Mediterranean part of France , P. sylvestris is found in the Pyrenees , at Cevennes , and in the Maritime Alps . In Italy , it occurs in the foothills of the Alps and in the northern Apennines . On the Balkan Peninsula , it is rather abundant in central Yugoslavia and to a lesser extent in Bulgaria and Greece ( northeastern Macedonia ) . In Romania , its distribution along the Transylvanian Alps is rather sporadic . It extends north to the Carpathians . Farther east , the distribution of P. sylvestris is complicated by its taxonomy . There , several pines have been lumped together by some botanists ( Shaw , 1914 ) under the name " Pinus sylvestris . " Russian taxonomists consider several pines of the Caucasian region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1934 ) . What is generally considered P. sylvestris is represented in the Caucasus by variety hamata Sosn. ( or P. sosnowskyi Nakai ) . This pine extends from the Black Sea coast , near Novorossisk , across the main ; Caucasian range to the Kakhetian range and to southwestern Transcaucasia ( AdzharImeretian range ) . It crosses the border of Turkey and continues through northern Anatolia as far west as 38% ? north latitude , somewhat south of Afton . ( See map , Fig. 3-46 . ) Variety hamata also occurs on the south slopes of the Crimean Mountains , at altitudes from 11(X) to 1300 m above sea level . The area occupied by variety hamata in the Caucasus corresponds exactly to the area  | that was glaciated during the Ice Age ( except , of course , upper portions of high mountains , which are still covered with ice ) . It appears that variety hamata was the pioneer invader of places newly liberated from ice after the end of glaciation . It is of interest to mention that , while P. sylvestris of northern Eurasia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polarized light to the left ( Lipsky , 1899 ) . Pinus sylvestris turpentine I received from Greece was also laevorotatory ; turpentine samples obtained from Spain and from Italy were dextrorotatory . This problem of differences in properties of turpentine of the northern and of the eastern Mediterranean P. sylvestris should be studied further ; it might shed some light on the relationship of variety hamata to P. sylvestris of the western Mediterranean countries . A pine growing in the southwestern part of Transcaucasia and extending to Turkey , where it occurs from Ardahan to Kars and near Olty and Artvin , was listed by Shaw ( 1914 ) as P. sylvestris var. armena . It is a scrubby pine of high mountains reaching the subalpine zone . Pinus kochiana Klotzsch , also considered by Shaw as P. sylvestris , grows chiefly along the river Coruh ( Chorokh ) and sporadically near Ardahan , Turkey , and across the border in the Soviet Union . In many respects , it resembles P. montana No. 78 , and its taxo- nomic status is still uncertain . In Flora SSSR ( Flora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this pine is described as P. kochiana ( see Chapter 9 , page 552 ) . As for the altitudinal range of P. sylvestris , there are magnificent P. sylvestris forests in the Guadarrama Mountains at about 2100 to 2200 m , between Madrid and Segovia . On the northern slopes of the Sierra Nevada , southeast of Granada , it grows at 1600 to 2000 m of altitude . In southern France , it descends almost to the coast near Mentone . It forms forests in the southern Alps to an altitude of 1900 m and ascends mountains as high as 2000 to 2300 m ( Rubner and Reinhold , 1953 ) . In the Massif Central , it is found between 700 and 1200 m . The lower vertical limit of distribution of P. sylvestris var. hamata in the Caucasus is at 500 m , and , on the Black Sea coast near the Turkish border , it is at 200 m . Its upper limit is , in the main range of the Caucasus , at timberline , at about 2500 to 2600 m . In Transcaucasia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1943 ) at 1280 m . In adjacent parts of Turkey ( Rize province ) , where it occasionally reaches the Black Sea coast , its inland vertical range seldom starts lower than 1100 m ; it grows up to 1700 m of altitude ( Rikli , 1943 ) . Pinus sylvestris and its variety hamata come in contact in Bulgaria ( Cherniayski , 1954 ) . During the Tertiary period , the pine region of eastern Asia extended farther north than it does now . At the present time in the south , it merges so gradually and imperceptibly into the pine region of southeastern Asia that it is better to consider the geography of pines of these two regions as one . In the north , the pine region of eastern Asia is separated by the deserts from the Siberian pine forests ; only in its northeastern part is there contact between the two forest regions . Pinus pumila No. 68 has its main geographical area in northeastern Siberia , but it also occurs sporadically in eastern Asia as far south as Korea and the central part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a narrow belt along the west slope of the Himalaya to eastern Afghanistan . The total number of pines in the region is twenty-four including eleven haploxylon and thirteen diploxylon species ( Table 3-7 ) . More pine species are found in the northern part of eastern Asia ; southward their number decreases as shown in Table 3-8 . The taxonomy of several pines of this region is not yet settled ; moreover , its southern part ( Indochina ) has not yet been fully explored by  | botanists . New pines recently have been described there , and it may be possible that more will be discovered in the future . One difficulty of describing the geography of eastern-Asia pines is our insufficient knowledge of distribution of some Chinese pines . Some of the difficulties encountered will be mentioned in the description of individual species . Pinus koraiensis is a pine of the Amur and Maritime provinces of Russia , of Manchuria , and of Korea ( see maps , Figs. 3 ? 47 and 3 ? 48 ) ; it occurs also on the island of Honshu , Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latitude . It grows from the middle reaches of the Amur eastward in the river valleys on low , well-drained foothills and on relatively low mountains at altitudes of 600 to 900 m . Unlike the closely related P. sibirica No. 67 , it does not grow in alluvial river valleys that are flooded in spring and during summer rains . In the low Sikhote Alin Range , extending between the Ussuri River and the Sea of Japan , P. koraiensis grows abundantly as a dominant tree together with Abies holophylla in the lush , almost subtropical , broadleaf forests , on rich , moist soil , from almost sea level to 600 m of altitude ( Suslov , 1947 ) . In Manchuria , the habitat of P. koraiensis is similar to that of the above-described adjacent parts of Russia . In the Khingan Mountains , it grows at 600 to 900 m , descending to lower elevations as a component of Manchurian hardwood forests . Because of its valuable wood , it has been disappearing very rapidly . In east-central Korea , P. koraiensis is seldom found below 600 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its southernmost range in Korea is in the Chiri-San Mountains , about 35 ? 15 ' latitude north , where it grows between 1100 and 1500 m above sea level . In Japan , P. koraiensis is local in the central part of Honshu island , occurring in several places , scattered among other conifers at altitudes of 2000 to 2500 m ( Wilson , 1916 ) . According to Hayashi ( 1952 ) , it also occurs on Shikoku , though rarely , and its range there is not exactly known . The range of vertical distribution of P. koraiensis on northern Honshu is between 1200 and 1600 m ; in central Honshu , at 1050 to 2600 m ; and on Shikoku , from 1150 to 1400 m . It is rather unexpected to see it growing at lower elevations in the more southerly ( Shikoku ) location . No varieties of P. koraiensis have been reported in the literature . Pinus fnnnifa Hegel No. 68 already has been described as a pine of northern 1 , : uratiia . Originally , however , it was a species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. 67 , of northern Eurasia , and also to P. pentaphylla No. 83 , of Japan . It expanded to northeastern Siberia relatively recently , after the glacial period . In eastern Asia , it is found in the mountains of Sihota Alin , Maritime Province of Russia , on the peninsula of Kamchatka , on the island of Sakhalin , on the Kurile Islands , in the high mountains of Manchuria and Korea , and on the Japanese islands of Hokkaido and Honshu . On the last-named island , it reaches its southernmost point of distribution , 35 ? 20 ' north . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 . ) Pinus pentaphylla and P. himekomatsu are generally considered by American botanists , following Shaw ( 1914 ) , as P. parviflora , but the contemporary Japanese botanists ( see Hayashi , 1954 ) who have studied P. parviflora more intensively are inclined to separate it into two species ? P. pentaphylla Mayr , of the north of Japan , and P. himekomatsu Miyabe and Kudo , of the south of the country . In central Honshu , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercross . The dividing line is approximately of an S shape from the intersection of the thirty-sixth parallel and the one hundred and thirty-sixth meridian on the coast of the Sea of Japan to the intersection of the thirty-eighth parallel and the one hundred and forty-first meridian ( see map , Fig. 3-49 ) . Pinus pentaphylla is the northernmost pine of the complex of species that extends to Hainan and to Viet Nam and that I designate tentatively , for convenience , as " Pinus parviflora complex " ( see Chapter 9 ) . Pinus pentaphylla is found on the Korean island of Utsurio-To ( approximately 130 ' 2 ? east longitude and 37 ' 2 ? north latitude . ( See also map , Fig. 3-47 . ) It is difficult to ascertain the altitudinal range of the two pines , because Hayashi ( 1954 ) considers the two pines together . Subject to correction , I tabulated Hayashi 's data as follows : According to the Japanese text of Hayashi , P. pentaphylla elevations are between 60 m and 2500 m , and P. himekomatsu grows between altitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as " Pinus formosana Hayata " and " Pinus formosensis Hayata . " A haploxylon pine of Formosa ( Taiwan ) , it is closely related to P. himekomatsu , of Japan . Its home is throughout the island at altitudes of 300 to 2300 m . It is usually scattered on ridges , associated with hardwoods , seldom forming pure stands . It is possible ( as the chemistry of this pine suggests ) that it hybridizes in nature with P. armandi No. 86 . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 . ) Pinus armandi is a widely distributed haploxylon pine of eastern Asia ( see map , Fig. 3-47 ) . On the continent , it is scattered over a wide but ill-defined area . To quote Wu ( 1947 ) , The main range of this pine forms a zone around the Red Basin . To the east and south , however , the distribution is rather discontinuous and occurrence is less abundant . Three main districts may be recognized . The first district is in  | the Tsingling Range . It extends eastward to the Funiu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tsingling Range . It grows at an elevation of 5,000 feet about 1500 ml in central Tsingling as well as in the western part of the range . It has also been found in central and southwestern Kansu . The next main district is located in southeastern Kansu , with a northern spur in Szechwan province . According to Rock , it is scattered in with Abies forest and sometimes grows on limestone cliffs in the forests of Wan Sang Ku . The third , and most important region of this pine is in northern , northwestern and central Yunnan , and the southern part of former Sikang and southern Szechwan , at an elevation of 1400 to 3600 meters . In upper Burma , P. armandi was found by Captain F. Kingdon Ward at Pawa Pass and at Phimaw Pass at about 26 ? and 25 ? 30 ' , respectively , on the Yunnan border about 145 km northeast of Myitkyina . The pines were growing scattered along ridges in Tsuga-Quercus forest at altitudes of 2100 m and up ; also it was found in the Adung Valley at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Near Kunming , Yunnan , P. armandi disappears below 1100 m ( Fedorov et al. , 1956 ) . On the Shweli-Salween divide , it grows in mixed forest at an elevation of about 3000 m . Natural forests of P. armandi have been found in western Hupei and in the central part of Kweichow . This pine also occurs on Hainan island . ( On Fornuosa , it is found in the central part of the island at 2300 to : 33(X) m , i.e. , generally above P. morrisonicola . As regards occurrence of  | P. armandi in Viet Nam , this apparently is an error ( Ferre , 1960 ) . Its variety occurs in an entirely different environment at an altitude of 180 m on the islands Yaku-Shima and Tanega-Shima , just south of the Kyushu island of Japan . It is known as P. amamiana Koidz . Pinus bungeana is a rare three-needle haploxylon pine of the mountains of central China ( see map , Fig. 3-47 ) . It is found in a few spots in Shansi , Hopeh , Shensi , southeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Szechwan ( Sowerby , 1937 ; Wu , 1947 ) . It is a picturesque tree with chalky white bark scaling off in small patches , resembling the bark of Platanus ( see Plate 5-7 ) . Chinese call it " bark-shedding tree " and plant it near temples and in cemeteries . Once it was more widely distributed than now , but it is doubtful if it was more abundant . In southeastern Shansi and Shensi , it usually grows with P. tabulaeformis No. 102 . Pure open stands occur only on steep southern slopes . On Mount Taihang , it grows at an altitude of about 2750 m ( Wu , 1947 ) . Possibly in some reported localities at low elevations it is not native but planted . Its altitudinal range is rather limited ? probably between 1370 and 2800 m , although in Shantung it is found at an altitude of only 100 m above sea level . Pinus dalatensis is a haploxylon pine of southern Viet Nam . It is related to P. griffithii No. 91 , but its pollen grains look like those of P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) wrote that P. dalatensis appears to be closer to P. strobus than to P. excelsa ( i.e. , P. gri ffithii ) . Its area is not well known . It was collected at two localities ( approximately 1083i ? east and 113 ? north ) , but most likely it is found in other places in the same region ( Ferre , 1960 ) , at altitudes of 1500 to 2400 m . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 . ) Pinus fenzeliana is considered by conservative botanists as P. parviflora var. fenzeliana Wu ( Wu , 1956 ) . But , since the epithet " P. parviflora " is not yet well established , P. fenzeliana will be considered here tentatively as a valid species . Pinus fenzeliana occurs in the mountains of the south-central part of Hainan island , lying close to the coast of China and separated from the Luichow Peninsula of Kwangtung province by the narrow ( 15 to 24 km wide ) Hainan Strait . There it grows scattered singly or in groups among  | other evergreen trees at altitudes varying from 1000 m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 1600 m ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 . ) Pinus kwangtungensis is considered by Wu ( 1956 ) as the same pine as P. f enzeliana , and thus as a variety of P. parviflora . For the reason mentioned in describing P. fenzeliana , I prefer to consider this pine as a species until more information is available . Young P. kwangtungensis pines growing at the Institute of Forest Genetics , Placerville , California , certainly look too distinct ( with much broader needles ) to be called a variety of P. parviflora . Pinus kwangtungensis is found in southern Hunan at elevations between 1000 and 1800 m , where it is admixed with broadleaf forests . In Kwangsi , it is found on the Taiping Shan at an elevation of about 1000 m . In Kwantung , it rarely forms pure stands , occurring as an admixture to hardwood forests above 700 m of altitude . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 . ) The last two haploxylon pines to be considered , P. griffithii No. 91 and P. gerardiana No. 92 , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only pines of the Himalaya . Pinus griffithii is a species of high altitudes . Pinus roxburghii occupies lower elevations . The third one , P. gerardiana , is of limited distribution at the western end of the Himalayan chain . Pinus griffithii is a haploxylon pine also known as " Pinus excelsa " or " Pinus wallichiana . " It grows , with some interruptions , along the Himalaya from southeastern Asia ( western Yunnan and Upper Burma ) to eastern Afghanistan ( Troup , 1921 ; Vavilov , 1959 ) ( see map , Fig. 3 47 ) . It is absent from Sikkim . Ward found P. griffithii in the lower gorge country of Tibet at an altitude of about 2400 m in the temperate evergreen forest in the Zayul River gorge , associated with P. khasya , oak , maple , and Ilex . In northwestern Yunnan , it occurs in montane forest probably up to 3400 m ( Wang , 1961 ) . In the western Himalaya , P. griffithii grows in almost continuous pure or mixed ( with deodar and oak ) stands from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forests occur chiefly between 1800 and 2600 m . In Kulu , pure stands of this pine are found occasionally as low as about 1370 m on northerly aspects . It also grows there in mixed stands with deodar and spruce at elevations between about 1700 and 2300 In . In the Murree Hills , Rawalpindi , P. griffithii begins to appear in moist and cool places at about 1200 ' m ; on the southern exposures , at  | about 1700 m . Up to about 2000 m , it is mixed with P. roxburghii , and , at higher elevations , it grows either in pure stands or mixed with broadleaf trees . In the Takht-i-Sulaiman Range , it is associated with P. gerardiana No. 92 . In northeastern Afghanistan , P. griffithii grows mainly above 2700 m with P. gerardiana and Cedrus deodara . At elevations chiefly between 2300 and 2600 m , it is admixed with oak and other broadleaf trees ( Vavilov , 1959 ) . In Bhutan , P. griffithii grows generally between 2600 and 3000 m and as high as 3400 m of altitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kashmir , it usually occurs between 1800 and 3000 m , sometimes descending below 1800 m ( Troup , 1921 ) . According to Ferre , it does not grow in Viet Nam as was previously supposed ( Ferre , 1960 ) . No varieties of this species have been reported in the literature . In arboretums , P. grifJithii apparently crosses naturally with P. ayacahuite No. 33 ( Jackson , 1933 ) . Pinus gerardiana is a three-needle haploxylou pine growing in northeastern Afghanistan , northern Baluchistan ( in Pakistan ) , and adjacent  | parts of India ( see map , Fig. 3 ? 47 ) . ' In the Hafaib district of the Kurram Valley , it occurs at about 2100 to 3350 m . It is somewhat locally distributed in the inner valleys of the Himalaya from the Niti Pass in Garhwal westward to Chitral and beyond , chiefly between about 1800 and 3100 m . It is found in the upper parts of the Sutlej , Ravi , and Chenab valleys . In trans-Indus and in northeastern Afghanistan , it is sometimes intermixed with P. griffithii @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadleaf trees ) at 2400 to 2700 m . In Pakistan 's Zhob district and in Takht-i-Sulaiman , P. gerardiana usually grows between 2200 and 2600 m , but it ascends to slightly over 3100 m . In places , it is associated with P. griffithii . Pinus gerardiana grows here on particularly dry sites , chiefly on limestone , sometimes on solid rocks . Pinus roxburghii ( P. ion gi f olia Roxb. ) , or Chir pine , a diploxylon pine , grows on the slopes and foothills of the Himalaya ( see map , Fig. 3 ? 50 ) , from Afghanistan to Bhutan , at elevations of approximately 450 to 2300 m , often forming extensive pure forests . At higher elevations , it ascends into the region of P. griffithii . In Hazara , P. roxburghii grows at altitudes of from 1000 to 2000 m . In the Rawalpindi district and in Kashmir , it occurs between about 600 and 2000 m . In Garhwal , its upper limit is about 2300 m or even higher for scattered trees , and about 2000 m for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grows between 1300 and about 2000 m . The lowest elevation given by Troup was 550 m ( Troup , 1921 ; personal communications with Forest Research Institute , Dehra Dun , India , 1964 ) . Pinus massoniana is called by Chinese authors " southern red pine . " The following description of its geographical distribution is taken from Wu 's monograph on Chinese pines ( Wu , 1947 ) : The region of this pine covers an area involving more than ten provinces . It includes southern Kiangsu , south Anhwei , southern Hupeh , a large part of Szechwan , except its northern and western border , a narrow belt of the eastern border of the former province of Sikang , all Checkiang , Kiangsi , Hunan , Fukien , Kwangtung , eastern Kwangsi , and southeastern Kweichow . In addition to the vast area on the continent , it crosses the sea to Formosa and Hainan . We find the Hwei Ho , the Hankiang , and the Ta Pa Shan as its northern boundary but  | including two islands : Formosa and Hainan . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contact with the region of Yunnan pine along an irregular but comparatively clearcut boundary . Although P. massoniana covers such a vast area ( see map , Fig. 3-50 ) , its morphology is quite homogeneous throughout the whole range , no  | matter how divergent the climatic conditions are . There is no significant difference by which we may establish definite geographical or ecological varieties . See , however , Wu 's discussion of P. massoniana var. henrii ( Wu , 1956 , pp. 23 ? 28 ) . To quote further from Wu ( 1947 ) : Judging from the geographical distribution of P. massoniana , south Ilunan is the geometrical center of the range of the species .  | In Checkiang it usually occurs below 1,000 feet 310 m either in pure stands or associated with Chinese fir ( Cunninghamia lanceolata Hook . ) , Phyllostachys edulis Houzeau de Lehaie , and Cryptomeria japonica D. Don . In southern Checkiang , as well as in Fukien , it also sometimes associates with Keteleeria . Extensive unmanaged forests of Pinus massoniana associated with Phyllostachys and Chinese fir exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below an altitude of 1,500 feet about 450 m . This pine is one of the common trees in the virgin forest of upper altitudes in northern Kwangsi . Pines over 100 years old were recorded in this province . Above an elevation of 3,300 feet 1000 m in northern Kwangtung , the red pine grows everywhere , particularly on dry , thin soil , attaining diameters over two feet . From Kwangtung it penetrates into Tonkin province of Viet Nam . In Hunan province , Pinus massoniana is the most abundant tree . It forms pure stands of small area here and there or is associated with other trees in mixed forests above 3,300 feet 1000 m in altitude . Around the Red Basin , mountain slopes below 1,000 m are often clad with Pinus massoniana . This pine is either scattered singly or in groups , or associated with other trees if the mountain is not entirely denuded . In northern Szechwan , near Wenchuan Hsien , a clump of old pine has been found around a lamasary . In Kweichow province this pine is also quite common . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixed forest in the lower valley of the Wu Kiang , and is also associated with oaks in the central valley . On the upper Wu Kiang above an altitude of 2,000 meters it decreases as the temperature becomes lower . Along the Yun Kiang the warm and moist climate provides suitable conditions for pine growth . Mixed forest of this pine with cypresses and broadleaved trees becomes common along the course of the Chishe or the Red River , which flows northeastward ? to southern Szechwan . In the eastern part of the province where plantations of Chinese fir are both common and intensive , the red pine is grown only on poor , windy sites . In the mountainous regions of western Hupeh , below the altitude of 1,500 meters this pine has been found mixed with hardwoods . It occurs in the northern part of the island of Formosa , scattered in groups as a second-growth forest , and also on the coastal hills in the Taito prefecture . It is found also in the hills of Hainan island ( Merrill , 1927 ) . The altitudinal range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ m ; the general altitudinal range of P. massoniana is between 0 and 2000 m . Pinus densiflora is known as " Japanese red pine . " Its Japanese name is " akamatsu . " Its area includes three of the main islands of Japan ? IIonshu , Shikoku , and Kyushu . Its northern limit is on the fourth , Hokkaido , at Mount Taramui , about 42 ? 41 ' north . Its southern limit is on the island of Ilakushima , near the southern tip of Kyushu . It also grows on the islands of the Tsushima group and on Oki Retto island .  | On the mainland , P. densiflora is found in Korea and in Kiangsu and Shantung provinces of China . ( See map , Fig. 3-50 . ) Its altitudinal range ( in Japan ) is from sea level to 2300 m ( Hayashi , 1952 ) . It crosses naturally with P. thunbergii No. 97 ( Nakamura , 1955 ) . It has been crossed with P. sylvestris No. 69 , P. taiwanensis , and P. thunbergii ( Wright , 1953 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Righter , 1960 ) . Pinus funebris is closely related to P. densiflora . Its area is in northern Korea and adjacent parts of the Russian Maritime Province from the Korean border to the north shore of Lake Khanka . It was considered by Shaw ( 1914 ) as P. sinensis ( i.e. , P. tabulae f ormis ) ; other investigators ( Komarov , 1934 ) have placed it closer to P. densiflora . It is a pine of low elevations ( perhaps below 600 m ) ; near the Russian-Korean border , it occurs at sea level . ( See map , Fig. 3-50. )  | Pinus thunbergii is Japanese black pine , or karamatsu . It grows predominantly along the coasts of Honshu , Shikoku , and Kyushu . It also occurs on the coast of southern Korea . Its northern limit is at about 41 ? 34 ' north ; its southern limit is on Takara island , south of Kyushu , at 29 ? north . Its range of vertical distribution in northern and middle Honshu is from sea level to 700 m and farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It hybridizes naturally with P. densiflora No. 95 ( Nakamura , 1955 ) . The three pines to be discussed next ? P. luchuensis No. 98 , P. taiwanensis No. 99 , and P. hwangshanensis No. 100 ? are considered by some scholars as one species ? P. luchuensis ? the other two being mere geographical races . Wu ( 1947 ) said that , in herbaria , all three look alike . I did not see living P. hwangshanensis during my visit to eastern Asia in 1961 , but I saw P. luchuensis and P. taiwanensis . Under natural conditions , these two pines look quite different . I am inclined to consider the three pines as valid species : Pinus luchuensis Mayr , P. taiwanensis Hayata , and P. hwangshanensis Hsia . No doubt they are closely related , and possibly P. taiwanensis and P. hwangshanensis are closer to each other than to P. luchuensis . ( See map , Fig , 3-50 . ) Pinus luchuensis is a pine of Okinawa and of adjacent islands of the Ryukyu chain , which is located between Japan and Formosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northernmost of the Ryukyu Islands ? Oshima ? the highest point is at about 700 m . From the sea to the mountain slopes , the land appeared to Wilson ( 1920 ) to be well forested , chiefly with pine . During World War II , most pine forests on Okinawa were destroyed . On the southern islands of the group , the forests were damaged less . In the Ryukyu Islands , P. luchuensis is a tree of low elevation , usually of poor form , with irregular and knotty stems because of winds . In Formosa , where P. luchuensis is planted at low elevations ? from sea level to 1000 m ? it is a much better looking tree than in Okinawa but inferior to P. taiwanensis No. 99 . ( See Chapter 8 , page 515 . ) Pinus taiwanensis is a pine of Formosa ( Taiwan ) . It often forms pure stands over large areas in central ranges of the island , at elevations  | of from 750 to 2800 m . It is a tree with a straight trunk , up to 80 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the crooked and smaller P. luchuensis . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 50 . ) Pinus hwangshanensis is a pine of east-central China . It occurs west of western Hupeh at altitudes of about 1800 to 2400 m and extends south through Hunan , east to Kiangsi and Fukien , and then northeast through Chekiang and westward through Anhwei to Hupeh . It is uniformly confined to the higher elevations ( above 900 m ) and is of spotty distribution , being separated by distances of up to hundreds of miles ( Wu , 1947 ) . ( See map , Fig. 3-50 . ) Pinus merkusii ( see map , Fig. 3 ? 50 ) grows in the Southern Shan States of Burma , at elevations of about 150 to 750 m . Its northern limits there are at about 20 ? north . In the hills between the Sittang and Salween rivers of Burma , and in northern Thailand , it is found in patches , or as single trees , below P. khasya , at elevations of 100 to 1000 m . It occurs  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pitsanlooke , and also near Kanchanaburi , in the Bilauk Taung Range , about 175 m almost due west from Bangkok . In northern Thailand , I encountered P. merkusii in 1961 on the road from Chiang Mai to the Burmese border . I observed scattered mature and young trees intermixed with scrubby forest of oak , Shorea , and Dipterocar pus . It was February , a dry season of the year , and the soil , almost pure silica , was extremely dusty and appeared to be not too fertile . The elevation of the place was about 1000 to 1100 m . The pine groves I saw between Pitsanlooke and Petchabam province , in central Thailand , not far from the Laotian border , were extensive pure stands of overmature trees much abused by man . Patches of P. merkusii are also found in the easternmost part of Thailand , extending along the fifteenth parallel across the Mekong to adjacent parts of Laos . In the central part of Laos , P. merkusii groves occur above Vientiane at 700 m and east of Xieng Khouang at similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region of Muong On Neua , there is a large forest of P. merkusii ? about 10,000 ha . At a locality north of Pakse , it grows between 250 and 300 m above sea level . On the plateau Ta Hoi it is found together with Dipterocarpus at about 600 m ( Vidal , 1934 ? 60 ) . In Cambodia , P. merkusii grows scattered with hardwoods in one spot not far from its occurrence in southeastern central Thailand ( Sisaket ) along the fourteenth parallel . Elevations of P. merkusii there are from 100 to 300 m . Farther south , in Pursat province , not far south of Tonle Sap ( i.e. , Lake Sap ) , at about the same elevation , is a stand of scattered P. merkusii mixed with deciduous hardwoods . The third known locality of P. merkusii in Cambodia is on a high plateau ( 1000 m above sea level ) at Kiri Rom in the southwestern part of the country ( approximate latitude 12 ? 20 ' north ) , where the pine grows in almost pure stands . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but possibly P. khasya might be discovered there . In Viet Nam , P. merkusii is found on the plateau around Dalat , at elevations of about 500 to 1200 m . Generally , it grows on level ground , whereas P. khasya prefers slopes . According to Maurice Schmid , P. merkusii may be found rarely at elevations below 500 m , but the trees there are generally scrubby and malformed . It may descend in places almost to sea level . At elevations of between 800 and 1200 m , it often grows together with P. khasya , but it seems that the two pines prefer different sites . As in many other places of Indochina , Dipterocarpus obt usif olius is a constant companion of P. merkusii . ( See map , Fig. 3 ? 51.  | Farther north , P. merkusii grows sporadically in the mountains of Viet Nam , between the sea and the Laotian border , where some parts of the country have not yet been sufficiently explored . On the parallel of Ho Thuong , there are considerable forests of this pine . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River area at Lao Kai , close to the border of Yunnan . This locality is slightly farther north than the Muong Ou Nua locality of northern Laos and thus apparently is the northernmost known limit of P. merkusii . Possibly it  | crosses the Yunnan border . The northern limit of P. merkusii in the Lao Kai area is probably about 22 ' 2 ? or 23 ? north . Pints merkusii does not grow on the Malay Peninsula , Kanchanburi being its southernmost occurrence in that part of the continent . It reappears in Sumatra . In the northern part of Sumatra , P. merkusii occurs in twelve wellstudied localities , occupying about 130,000 ha . of savanna-like terrain , where pines are scattered over repeatedly burned areas . In some places , there are dense , pure ( young ) pine stands , and , in other localities , mature pines are intermixed with broadleaf trees . The altitudes of places where P. merkusii grows are from 200 to 2000 m , the optimum being from 400 to 1500 m. * The area around Lake Toba , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1000 m above sea level , was once covered to a large extent by natural stands of P. merkusii , as is evidenced by the scattered remaining stands and by the place names . Annual precipitation at Lake Toba is 2100 mm , which gives a general idea of the amount of rainfall in the pine region of northern Sumatra . Specimens of P. merkusii have been collected on Hainan island by McClure and Tsang ( Merrill , 1927 ) . Opinions differ as to whether the Hainan P. merkusii is native or planted . Pinus merkusii and other pines were planted extensively by the Dutch on Sumatra and on other islands of Indonesia . These plantations are sometimes taken by visiting scientists as native stands , which causes much confusion . References in the literature to the occurrence of any native pines in Borneo , Java , and Timor are erroneous . South of the Equator , P. merkusii is found in only one locality ? in the Barisan Range of Sumatra at about 1 ? 40 ' to 2 ? 6 ' south , this being the only place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At 1 ? 55 ' south , Cordes ( 1866 ) found P. merkusii in the Boekit Gedang Mountains of the Barisan Range at altitudes between 1000 and 1500 m above sea level . This discovery was made on the road from Tapan to Soengei Penoeh ( Sungai Penuh ) . Cordes said that Sigi ( local name of P. merkusii ) grows there neither as a solitary tree nor in extensive stands but , rather , in groups among other trees . This locality is rather isolated ; it is about 500 km from the nearest location in northern Sumatra . Cordes was not sure how far south of the road P. merkusii extended , but later collections indicate that it does not extend very far . Cordes ' report of occurrence of P. merkusii has been questioned by several prominent botanists , but the investigations by the Dutch , and most recently by Indonesian explorers , supported by herbarium material , have verified Cordes ' findings.f According to Van Steenis , P. merkusii in the Barisan  | Range , at 2 ? 6 ' south , is found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 2000 m above sea level . Pinus merkusii is also found in two places in the Philippines ? one on the island of Mindoro and the other in western Luzon . On Mindoro , P. merkusii grows in the northwestern part of the island . There , southwest of the high mountain chain extending north and south from Mount Halcon , P. merkusii is found in scattered groves along the ridges and slopes at about 300 m . The location is well drained and often extremely dry . In the vicinity of Santa Cruz , which is in the southern part of the pine 's range , it descends to as low as 60 m ( possibly even lower ) above sea level . At the northern limit , it does not go lower than 900 m . Annual burning of the area destroys not only herbaceous vegetation but also the pine seedlings , so there is very little reproduction and no young pines ? only overmature , widely scattered trees . A few other tree species occupy the bottom of " moist runs and stream valleys " ( Merritt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower altitudes of the Zambales Mountains , which extend along the South China Sea coast from north of Manila to 1. ingayen Cull . 1 visited this location in 1961 . In the Zambales Moun- tains , P. merkusii is found in three separate places , each occupying perhaps several square miles . These three places are approximately at the latitudes of ( 1 ) Candellaria , ( 2 ) Masinloc , and ( 3 ) Palauig ( settlements along the coastal highway north from Iba ) . The pines are found along the crest and the knolls of the foothills of the mountains . ( See map , Fig.  | 3-52 . ) Annual precipitation in these foothills is about 95 to 125 cm a year , but , perhaps because I visited this area during the dry season , the gravelly red ground looked extremely dry to me . The main Zambales range is no higher than 1200 m and is covered with tropical broadleaf forest . The pine groves are at elevations of between 150 and 300 m , and some trees even are found at , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foothills are not more than 16 or 18 km from the coast of the South China Sea , and I could discern pines on the crests from the coastal highway between Palauig and Candellaria . The hills looked relatively bare ; mature pines , with the crowns of some scorched by fire , were scattered in a parklike manner . Because of repeated burning , the ground was ashy with tufts of newly sprouted grasses ( Themeda triandra and Imperata sp . ) . There were no pine seedlings and no young pines ? only in the dry gulches were there some scrubby broadleaf trees . The altitudinal range of P. merkusii , in round figures , is between 50 and 2000 m . Pinus merkusii is not a very variable pine . It is easily recognizable throughout its discontinuous range by its two-needle clusters and by its narrow , cylindrical cones . Only in northern Viet Nam ( northeast of the Red River ) does it begin to look sufficiently different to be called " Pinus tonkinensis " ( Chevalier , 1944 ) . In Sumatra , P. merkusii of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schutt , 1958 ) . It is doubtful if these different populations are distinct races . In Shaw 's monograph ( 1914 ) , P. tabulaeformis is called " Pinus sinensis . " In the light of more recent investigations ( Wu , 1947 ) , it is preferable to use the name " Pinus tabulaeformis . " The following account of its distribution ( see map , Fig. 3-50 , page 276 ) is based on information from Wu ( 1947 ) : Pinus tabulaeformis Carr . grows over a vast area in northern and northcentral China . On the northern border of the western portion it is bounded by the dry climate . In central China the Han River is the demarcation between the region of P. tabulaeformis and that of P. massoniana . P. tabulaeformis extends , however , further south along the southwestern highland to northern Szechwan and northern Yunnan , and contacts with Yunnan pine P. yunnanensis No. 103 forming an overlapping zone where the natural hybrid pine , Pinus densata Masters , grows . On the east side P. tabulaeformis extends to southern Manchuria limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northwestern China , on the border of steppe and desert , P. tabulaeformis is found on the Ala Shan Range at 1950 to 2500 m . This mountain is now entirely separated from the main southern region of ' the pine by the arid desert  | or semiarid steppe . The mountains on which this pine grows are the Shinlun Shan and Lien Cheng . They are adjacent to Ala Shan and are separated from one another by a distance of over 500 kilometers . The distribution of Pinus tabulaeformis becomes more continuous as it extends eastward and southward . Comparatively extensive pine forests of this species , associated with Pinus armandi were found among the Tsingling Range , in southeastern Kansu from 1000 to 2700 m altitude . It has been reported that this pine grows among the Ta Pa Shan , and Chungnan Shan in Shensi . In Honan province , native forests of P. tabulaeformis have been badly destroyed . P. tabulaeformis is also found in Sun Shan along the middle altitudinal belt . It grows on Taihang Shan within an altitude of 7,000 ? 8,000 feet from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found in the Mien Shan district and in Wu Tai Shan of Shansi province ' growing in some places together with P. bungeana No. 87 . In Hopeh the distribution of Pinus tabulaeformis has a greater altitude range , beginning from level land which is about 50 m above sea level , near Peking up to 1400 m . Natural forests are found at Yang-Chia-Ping and Nan-Tai Shan on rocky dry sites . On northern slopes they form dense stands ; on southern slopes they exist as scattered open stands . This pine extends eastward and northward to Jehol and Liaoning . Pinus tabulaeformis is found in Maengsan county , Pyong Nam province , Korea , but , according to Korean foresters ( K : B. Yim , personal communication October 15 , 1962 ) , this pine was introduced to Korea from northern China some 200 years ago . Pinus tabulaeformis is an extremely variable species for which several varieties are recognized ( Wu , 1947 ) : The variety pseudosylvestris possibly is a hybrid between P. tabulaeformis and P. sylvestris No. 69 . The discontinuous distribution of P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Wu ( 1947 ) to the change of climate following the Ice Age . On the other hand , discontinuous distribution in the eastern part of its area may have been caused by human activities . Wu suggested that varieties of P. tabulaeformis are the result of climatic change in past geological time . The altitudinal range of P. tabulaeformis appears to lie between 50 m and 3000 m . The reported hybrid between P. tabulaeformis and P. bungeana No. 87 ( Tang , 1941 ) found in Honan is questionable . Probably it is a variety , taihanshanensis Yao , of P. tabulaeformis , described by Yao ( 1938 ) .  | Next to be considered are three diploxylon pines of southeastern Asia whose areas are difficult to ascertain and whose taxonomic relationship is still unsettled . These pines are P. yunnanensis No. 103 , P. khasya No. 104 , and P. insularis No. 105 . In herbaria , the three pines are indistinguishable ( Wu , 1956 ) ; on the basis of their geographical distribution , they perhaps deserve to be considered separate species . The difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pine merges into P. khasya , and there is an opinion ( Wu , 1947 ) that P. yunnanensis and P. khasya of Khasi Hills , Assam , Naga Hills , Upper Burma , the Shan States , and adjacent parts of Thailand , and even perhaps , east-central Laos , are one species . On the other hand , Troup ( 1921 ) mentioned that turpentine of this pine from Assam contains a higher proportion of high-boilingpoint terpenes than that of the pine from Burma , which indicates that P. khasya of Assam might be biologically different from the pine of Burma and thus from the pine of Yunnan . ( See Chapter 9 , page 554 . ) Pinus yunnanensis is a pine of the Yunnan-Kweichow Plateau of southwestern China . It occurs throughout the province of Yunnan , except the alpine region of the extreme northwestern corner , which is occupied by a putative hybrid between P. yunnanensis and P. tabulaeformis known as P. densata Masters , which , according to Wang , grows at an approximate altitude of 3900 m ( Wang , 1961 ) . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along deep mountain gorges at the southern and southwestern borders of Yunnan . It extends to the adjacent ( southwestern ) part of Kweichow , the southeastern part of Sikang , and a small part of southern Szechwan ( Wu , 1947 ) . In the west , its area merges into that of P. khasya , and Wu ( 1947 ) has held the opinion that the two pines are actually the same species . However , this opinion is not shared by all botanists . In the vicinity of Kunming , Fedorov and his co-authors ( 1956 ) observed P. yunnanensis growing together with P. armandi , Keteleeria , and some broadleaf trees . They wrote that , to the southwest , toward Puerh , P. yunnanensis merges into P. khasya . Southwest of Kunming , toward the town of Yuankiang , which is on the Red River where the Yunnan Plateau is much dissected and the mountains are low , elevations run from 1500 to 3000 m , descending in the river valleys to 1000 m and , closer to the Red River itself , even to 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns , which runs at elevations of 1000 to 2000 m , there are parklike pine forests of P. yunnanensis ? in places dense and extensive , but near habitations poor and badly culled ( Lavrenko , 1960 ) . The attitudinal range of P. yunnanensis lies between 2750 and 34(X)  | m ( Wu , 1947 ; Wang , 1961 ) . Wang mentioned that , on the tableland of central Yunnan , it attains its best development at 1600 to 2600 m either in pure stands or with Keteleeria davidiana . Forrest ( as reported by Wu , 1947 ) found this pine on the eastern slopes of the Tali Range , in central Yunnan , at altitudes of 1700 to 3350 m . In Sikang , pure forests of this pine are found between 2200 and 3500 m . We must assume that the altitudinal range of P. yunnanensis is between 1500 and 3500 m . As has been mentioned above , P. yunnanensis possibly hybridizes naturally with P. tabulae f orinis No. 102 ( see map , Fig. 3-50 , page 276 ) . Pinus khasya is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and southern Viet Nam . In Burma , it is always called " Pinus insularis " ( No. 105 ) . Pinus khasya extends from the mountains of the Indian Khasi states just east and south of the big bend of the Brahmaputra River ( approximately 91 ? east ; approximately 25 ? to 26 ? north ) northeastward through the Naga Hills of Assam and farther , toward southeastern Sikang and Yunnan , merging gradually into the P. yunnanensis area . To the southeast of Khasi country , it extends to Manipur , to the mountains of Upper Burma , the Chin Hills , the Shan States , and the mountains between the Sittang and Salween rivers . It continues through Karenni country ( still in Burma ) to adjacent parts of Thailand and to Laos ( in the vicinity of Luang Prabang and east of Xieng Khouang ) . Then , it reappears in the mountains of southern Viet Nam , not less than 800 km southeast of Xieng Khouang , approximately between 12 ? 30 ' and 13 ? 45 ' north and between 108 ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page 287 ) . In northern Thailand , across the Burmese border , P. khasya occurs in small patches , mostly in admixture with Shorea , oak , and Dipterocarpus . I visited that part of its general area during the dry ( winter ) season of 1961 . The countryside looked extremely dry ; the road , dusty ; a bench mark on a summit amidst pines indicated 1347 m . Khasya pines appeared tall and stately , scattered among other drought-enduring trees , never forming pure stands . Only on the north slopes did the pines appear to be more prominent . At lower altitudes in some localities , there was P. merkusii No. 101 . Generally , in northern Thailand and in Laos , P. khasya grows only in patches in a few localities at elevations of , in the former , 1200 to 1400  | m ( my personal observation ) and , in the latter , about 1000 to 1500 m near Xieng Khouang and somewhat lower ( 800 m ) northwest of Luang Prabang . In the Khasi Hills , P. khasya occurs at elevations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1200 to about 1500 m . It forms pure forests on plateaus and mountain slopes , but in damp places and along the banks of streams it is represented by scattered trees among broadleaf species ( Troup , 1921 ) . In the Chin Hills , P. khasya forms forests from approximately 1300 to over 2400 m . There it usually grows with oak , alder , and other broadleaf trees . Between the Sittang and Salween rivers , it occurs between about 760 and 900 m , sometimes in pure stands but more often mixed with oaks ' and ' other hardwoods . In the Northern Shan States , it is generally of scattered distribution , but , in the Southern Shan States , it forms rather large pure stands such as those in the former Lai Hka and Mong Kung states , at elevations of 1200 to 1800 m.  | In central Viet Nam , P. khasya is scattered in the mountains at altitudes between 600 and 1800 m . At elevations of from 600 up to 1200 m , it is often associated with P. merkusii . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is between 600 and 2450 m . Pinus khasya penetrates to Yunnan , where it forms groves resembling those of Laos , Thailand , Upper Burma , and Viet Nam ( Fedorov et al. , 1956 ) . Fedorov wrote that these pine groves of Yunnan reminded him of the pine woods of northern countries . This rather lengthy description of P. khasya was necessitated by its importance for understanding of the evolution of pines in southeastern Asia . Apparently , this pine 's spotty distribution and disjunct area are not necessarily results of human activity alone , but , rather , they reflect the part played by pines in the flora of the Tertiary period . This is clearly evident in southeastern Asia . ( See maps , Figs. 3 ? 50 and 3 ? 51 . ) Pinus insularis is known in the literature as " benguet pine . " It forms pure , well-stocked , and extensive forests in the highlands of northern Luzon ( i.e. , the mountain provinces : Ilocos Sur , Abra , Nueva Viscaya , Nueva Ecija , Pangasinan , La Union , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Timor by Pilger is " a most aberrant and doubtless wrong record , " according to Van Steenis ( 1950 ) . Merrill found this pine in the Zambales Mountains ( Foxworthy , 1911 ) . Pinus insularis is considered by many to be the same species as P. khasya . Wu ( 1947 ) has held that P. yunnanensis should also be called " Pinus insularis . " This problem is discussed further in Chapter 9 , pages 553 ? 554 . The altitudinal range of P. insularis is from about 1000 to 2700 m , occasionally as high as 3000 m . It reproduces well and appears to be aggressive and expanding . It came to Luzon from the mainland of Asia ( Merrill , 1926 ) either at the end of the Tertiary or , most likely , much later , during the cool periods at the time of the Ice Age in the north ( cf. Vidal , 1934 ? 60 ) . ( See maps , Figs. 3 ? 50 , 3-52 , 3-53 . ) There are , in southeastern Asia , several more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more fully discussed in Chapter 9 . " Pin du moyen Annam " ( Ferre , 1960 ) , a pine collected by Chevalier ( foliage only ) between Hue and'Bolovens , in Viet Nam , latitude 15 ? 30 ' north ( and in other localities ) and reported by him to be P. armandi No. 86 , is , in the opinion of Ike Ferre , not P. armandi but a pine more closely related to P. hentahh ylla No. 83 . It was found at an altitude of  | 1500 m . In the absence of cones from Chevalier 's collection , it is impossible to describe this pine completely . It should be mentioned that the country north of Dalat , say , above the fourteenth parallel , has not been explored well by botanists . ( See map , Fig. 3-47 , page 264 . ) Pines kremp fii Lecomte , discovered by Krempf in 1921 in southern Viet Nam , is a conifer growing in mixed broadleaf forests , occasionally together with P. nierkusii and P. khasya , north and northeast of Dalat . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newly p 300 created genus Ducampopinus Chevalier . It is a pinelike tree with two flat needles but no fascicle sheath . It occurs in several places in central Viet Nam at elevations of 1200 to 1800 m . It has many characteristics of pines . It appears to be a link between the genus Pinus and other genera of the family Pinaceae . Tertiary fossils resembling P. krempfii have been reported in the literature ( Jeffrey , 1908 ) . This conifer is more fully discussed in Chapter 9 , page 540 . Pinus densata Masters occurs in northwestern Szechwan along the Upper Ming Valley from Wanchwan Hsien upward through Lif en Hsien to Sunpan Hsien at altitudes of 1550 to 3000 m . In the mountains between Szechwan and Yunnan , P. densata grows mixed with oak at 3200 to 3800 m . Along the valley of Kingshakiang , in the Snow Range , it is scattered between 2700 and 3500 m . The taxonomic staus of this pine is not well known . It is extremely variable . Some trees are similar to certain varieties of P. tabulae f @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No. 103 . It is possible that P. densata is a hybrid of the two species . Wang ( 1961 ) mentioned that , in eastern Sikang , P. densata forms pure forests at elevations of up to 3900 m . Wu ( 1947 ) gave its range as 2500 to 4000 m . Altitudinal ranges of 105 species of the genus Pinus are given in diagrams ( Figs. 3-54 , 3-55 , and 3 ? 56 * ) . In study of these diagrams , it is evident that each of the seven pine regions has its own pattern , which is determined by orography . In eastern North America , pines are found almost entirely at low altitudes . In the Caribbean region , all pines have their lower limit at sea level , and only one , P. occidentalis No. 64 , ascends to high mountains . In the Mediterranean region , most pines grow at low and medium elevations , but in the adjacent mountains some species grow at rather high altitudes ( P. cembra No. 70 : 2585 m ) . In the whole of northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sibirica No. 67 , P. pumila No. 68 , and P. sylvestris No. 69 , all having a wide altitudinal range . Vertical distribution of pines in eastern Asia is rather diverse ; there are some pines of low elevations descending to , or almost to , sea level . These are pines growing in areas that appeared above the sea relatively recently : shores of the Sea of Japan , Ryukyus , coastal parts of southern China , and north to the Maritime Province of Russia . At the same time , some pines occur in the very high altitudes of the relatively recently " Very few pines grow exactly at sea level . In the diagrams , all species descending below 150 in are considered to have their lower limit at sea level .  | elevated Himalaya and its continuation in Yunnan . Pinus armandi No. 86 reaches , in that region , altitudes of about 3500 m ; P. densata ( Wang , 1961 ) probably goes even higher . There are several pines in eastern Asia with very broad altitudinaldistribution limits , such as P. tabulaeformis No. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern Asia are trees of moderately high mountain slopes and plateaus . The altitudinal ranges of western American ( i.e. , chiefly Californian ) and Mexican pines have one thing in common . In both regions pines reach very high altitudes ; two species of Mexican pines ( P. hartwegii No. 49 and P. rudis No. 50 ) may reach 4000 m . In western America , four pines ( P. albicaulis No. 1 , P. flexilis No. 2 , P. balfouriana No. 5 , and P. aristata No. 6 ) also reach about 4000 m . There are , however , some important differences between these two regions . While five western American pines descend to sea level , all Mexican species are found in the mountains . A few species , and strangely enough not in the northern but in the southern part of Mexico , descend as low as 1200 m and even lower , and P. strobus var. chiapensis occasionally is found amidst tropical vegetation at an altitude of 500 m . But there are no pines in Mexico that go down to lower altitudes . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other environmental factors , resulted in rejuvenation of the genus that manifested itself in frequent intercrossing among different species , in extensive variability within the species , and in formation of an important secondary center of evolution of the genus Pinus ( see Chapter 4 , pages 341 ? 44 ) . It is perhaps more revealing to compare not the entire altitudinal ranges of pine species but the zones of their optimal development . Middle points of vertical distribution of 107 species are given in Table 3 ? 9 and are plotted in a chart , Fig. 3 ? 57 . In this chart , to the 105 pines accepted by the author as valid species are added 2 more pines : The first is P. densata , which usually is considered as a hybrid between P. tabulaeformis and P. yunnanensis , but whose altitudinal range surpasses that of both " parent " species ( see page 300 ) . The other pine added , the " pin du moyen Annam " ( see page 545 ) , has not yet been fully described as a valid species , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the middle point of altitudinal ranges of the species is rather arbitrary . Our own experience with the Pacific Coast P. ponderosa No. 14 ( i.e. , excluding its Rocky Mountain variety scopulorum ) ( Mirov , Duffield , and Liddicoet , 1952 ) shows that the optimal habitat for this pine is in the middle of its altitudinal range . It may be possible , however , that for at least some other pines the optimal habitat lies in somewhat lower altitudes than the midway point . Very little information is available on this subject . Figure 3 ? 57 shows that , out of 107 species ( including  | P. densata and De Ferre 's " pin du moyen Annam " ) , only 20 ( i.e. , about 19 per cent ) have their middle points of altitudinal ranges above 2250 m . Thirty-eight species ( i.e. , about 35 per cent ) have their middle points between sea level and 1250 m ; these pines may be classified as growing at low elevations . The remaining 49 species , comprising about 46 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle points of vertical distribution between 1250 m and 2250 m . Thus , about half of all pine species can be considered as having their optimal habitats in the moderately high mountains . If we segregate all pines into haploxylon and diploxylon groups and consider Orion pines separately from haploxylon pines , we note that altitudinal distribution of the three groups follows somewhat different courses. * The 74 diploxylon pines ( D , Fig. 3 ? 57 ) follow , generally , the same pattern of vertical distribution as all pines ( A ) , except that there are only three species having their middle points of vertical distribution  | between 1250 and 1500 m . In contrast , the maximum distribution of haploxylon pines ( H ) is between these limits . There are eleven diploxylon pines whose home is at sea level ( 0 to 250 m ) . There are no haploxylon pines whose middle point of vertical distribution is below 875 m ; they decidedly avoid lower altitudes . The upper limits of both haploxylon and diploxylon pines , however , are about the same : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one haploxylon and two diploxylon at 3125 m . It is surprising to discover that many haploxylon pines , among which there are so many alpine species , have the middle points of their altitudinal distribution in the mountains at much lower elevations than the diploxylon pines . The pinon pines , which originated in the southwestern ( arid ) parts of North America , and much later than the two other groups ( see Chapter 2 ) , have the middle points of their vertical distribution , as do most of the pines of the other two groups , between 1250 and 2250 m , except one newly described species ? P. culminicola No. 39 ( Andresen and Beaman , 1961 ) , found in northeastern Mexico at an elevation of about 3600 m . Occurrence of a pinon pine at such a high altitude offers a possibility of studying migration of pines during the Tertiary period , when some of the haploxylon pines ascended the high mountains , while others ( the pinons ) adjusted to conditions of lower altitudes . Three California pines ? the haploxylon P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and P. contorta No. 16 ? have the largest altitudinal spread , all three being found from sea level to 3500 m . As a whole , the chart ( Fig. 3 ? 57 ) indicates that the most suitable environment for pines is the zone of middle elevations , and paleontological considerations ( see Chapter 2 ) suggest that ( barring local exceptions ) such has been the condition throughout the history of the genus . From these altitudes , the genus has expanded downward to sea level and upward to formidable heights , reaching 4000 m . The genus Pinus occupies an enormous area , expanding in the Old World from Scotland , Spain ( P. sylvestris No. 69 ) , and the Canary Islands ( P. canariensis No. 72 , longitude 18 ? west ) to approximately 141 ? east longitude , almost to the shores of the Okhotsk Sea ( P. sylvestris No. 69 ) , i.e. , an expanse of 159 degrees from the Atlantic to the Pacific . The latitudinal range is from 72 ? north ( P. sylvestris in Norway ) to 2 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , i.e. , a span of over 74 degrees . In the New World , the dimensions of the area of the genus Pinus are smaller . The longitudinal range is from about the sixty-second meridian west ( I ' . banksiana No. : 32 ) in Nova Scotia to the one hundred and  | thirty-seventh meridian west ( P. contorta No. 16 ) in the Yukon territory , a span of 75 degrees ? from coast to coast . Latitudinally , pines extend in the New World from the sixty-fifth parallel ( P. banksiana No. 32 ) in the Mackenzie River area of the Northwest Territories , Canada , to 11 ? 45 ' north in Nicaragua , Central America , where P. oocarpa No. 59 descends from the mountains north of the Lake Nicaragua lowland and where P. caribaea No. 62 extends along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico , to just south of Bluefields . No pines in the New World are found north of the Arctic Circle or south of the Equator . Within this enormous expanse of land , pine forests occur only intermittently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are areas completely devoid of pines , such as the Great Plains , stretching between the western and eastern portions of the United States , and the expanse of grasslands in the southern Russian Ukraine and , farther east , the deserts of central Asia and Mongolia and the barren high country of Tibet . Some species spread over considerable areas ; others are very local . Latitudinal and longitudinal limits of the genus Pinus are shown below : With the exception of P. merkusii , which barely crosses the Equator in Sumatra , pines are not found in the Southern Hemisphere . Reports of their natural occurrence on Java , Borneo , and Timor are erroneous ( see , for instance , Din , 1958 , or Scharfetter , 1954 ) . Some other conifers of the Southern Hemisphere ( e.g. , Araucaria ) are sometimes called " pines , " which causes confusion . Pines are , however , often planted south of the Equator . A cursory glance at the area occupied by the genus Pinus ( see map , Fig. 1 ? 1 , page 16 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Northern Hemisphere . There are only a few species in the north . As one moves south , the number of pine species increases , reaches a maximum , and then decreases . In the five charts in Figs. 3 ? 58 and 3 ? 59 , the latitudinal distributions of ( 1 ) all pines , ( 2 ) diploxylon pines , and ( 3 ) haploxylon pines are shown separately , as well as those of the pines in the New World and the Old World . Graph A shows the latitudinal distribution of all 105 species of the genus Pinus listed in Tables 1 ? 1 ( pages 18 ? 20 ) and 1 ? 2 ( pages 20 ? 22 ) . Pinus pumila No. 68 and P. sylvestris No. 69 occur north of the  | Arctic Circle . Pinus sibirica No. 67 barely crosses the Arctic Circle between the Ob River and the Urals and then retreats south . There are only five species growing above the fifty-fourth parallel . Then the number of pines begins to increase rapidly when it reaches a maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in America , extends from central California ( between San Francisco and Los Angeles ) to northern North Carolina , and , in the Old World , from Gibraltar to central Japan . Farther south , the number of species decreases in a rather irregular manner , and , from the latitude somewhat north of Mexico City and the Burma-Thailand border ( 200 ) , it drops rapidly . At the twentieth parallel , there are no pines from Hispaniola in the Caribbean area eastward to the Southern Shan States , of Burma . At the twelfth degree of latitude north , in the vicinity of Bluefields , Nicaragua , and of Dalat , Viet Nam , all pines reach their southernmost limit except P. merkusii , which reappears at 5 ? north in Sumatra and continues intermittently on that island to 2 ? 6 ' south , thus being the only species of the genus Pinus to cross the Equator . When we consider the two subgenera separately , we notice that , in the north , both haploxylon and diploxylon pines reach the same latitude ? about 72 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. pumila No. 68 ? and one diploxylon pine ? P. sylvestris No. 69 ? cross the Arctic Circle . The southern limit for haploxylon pines and for all diploxylon species , except one , is at about 12 ? latitude . One species ? P. merkusii No. 101 ? occurs farther south . There are twenty-four diploxylon pines in the Old World , and more than twice as many ( forty-nine species ) in the New World . On the other hand , haploxylon pines are evenly distributed between Eurasia ( seventeen species ? ) and America ( fifteen species ) . Most of them are found between 30 ? and 45 ? north . Haploxylon pines go south to about the same latitude in both the New World and the Old World , approximately 15 ? in San Salvador and about 12 ? in Viet Nam . In northeastern Asia , one haploxylon pine , P. pumila , reaches a latitude of 70 ? . In America , haploxylon pines do not go that far north . The northernmost haploxylon pine in the New World is P. albicaulis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Old World , we notice that there are not as many species as in the New World ? 37 per cent of the total number of species in the genus Pinus . The maximum number of species of the genus Pinus in the Old World is at 41 ? ? 40 ? ( i.e. , on the parallel of Madrid , Ankara , and northern Korea ) . At these latitudes lie the Mediterranean region and a part of the region of eastern Asia . Along the fortieth parallel , there are no pines between the Caucasus and beyond the river Hwang ( west of Peking ) . There is a lesser peak in the number of pines at the thirty-fifth parallel . Although at this latitude there are only a few pines  | in the Mediterranean region , the number of species is increased by the three Himalayan pines ( Nos. 91 , 92 , and 93 ) and by the pines of eastern Asia . The Old World is where the genus extends above the Arctic Circle and descends below the Equator . Further analysis of distribution data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the rest of the Old World ( twenty-four vs. fifteen species ) . The Mediterranean region presents a very well-defined , compact area of twelve pines ? two haploxylon and ten diploxylon species . All of these pines are Mediterranean endemics , isolated from the rest of the pines of the world . Pinus montana , however , goes north to the Vosges . There is only one species ? P. sylvestris No. 69 ? essentially a pine of northern Eurasia , that also occurs in the Mediterranean region . In Spain , France , and Italy , it is considered as typical P. sylvestris , but , in the eastern Mediterranean ( Caucasus and Asia Minor ) , it is represented by variety hamata , distinct enough to be considered by some botanists ( Komarov , 1934 ) as an independent species , P. hamata Sosn . Apparently , it is only on the Balkan Peninsula that P. sylvestris and P. sylvestris var. hamata meet ( Cherniayski , 1954 ) . It is possible that P. sylvestris came to the Mediterranean region , as did the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from eastern Asia , reached the western Mediterranean , and then spread north . Postglacial migration of P. sylvestris to the northeast is discussed in Chapter 2 . There are reports that , while northern P. sylvestris turpentine rotates polarized light to the right , P. sylvestris var. hamata of the eastern Mediterranean turns it to the left ( Lipsky , 1899 ) . The relationship of these two varieties of P. sylvestris of the Mediterranean region still awaits a thorough study , and a chemical approach ( see Chapter 7 , page 499 , and Chapter 9 , page 536 ) might help here . Two Mediterranean pines closely resemble pines of eastern Asia . Pinus canariensis No. 72 , an endemic pine of the Canary Islands , is closely related to P. roxburghii No. 93 of the Himalaya . Pinus peuce No. 71 of the Balkans is a close relative of P. griffithii No. 91 , also of the Himalaya . Occurrence of a diterpene ? cembrene ( see Chapter 7 ) ? in P. peuce links this species with the pines of eastern Asia and western America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chapter 8 . Another haploxylon pine occurring sparsely in the alpine habitats of the mountains separating the Mediterranean region from northwestern Europe is P. cembra No. 70 . It is considered by some conservative botanists as the same species as P. sibirica No. 67 . The relationship of these two pines deserves a closer investigation . It is possible that they had entirely different migration histories . On the whole , in the 01 ( 1 World , most pine species occur between 45 ? and 35 ? . Farther south , there are many arid areas .  | In the New World ( see diagram , Fig. 3 ? 59 ) there are more pines than in the Old World , and there are more endemic and relict pines ; such species , since they have limited latitudinal ranges , contribute to the irregular pattern of species distribution as seen in the diagram . About two-thirds ( 63 per cent ) of all pines are found in America ; they occur from the Mackenzie River region and Alaska to San Salvador and Nicaragua . The maximum number of pines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits are located the southern parts of eastern and western United States pine regions and those of Mexico with adjacent parts of Central America . There are also more species in western North America ( nineteen species , growing mostly in California ) than in its eastern part ( thirteen species ) . The greatest number of pines , however , is found in Mexico ( twenty-nine species , five of them extending to the United States ) . Of this number , only seven species are haploxylon ( four pinons and P. ayacahuite No. 33 , P. strobus var. chiapensis No. 34 , and P. strobiformis No. 35 ) . Eastern United States pines possess interesting geographical-genetic features ; they do not vary as much as the western American pines , and they do not cross as readily as Mexican pines . They are conservative pines that are settled in their migration from the northwest ; still vigorous , they , nevertheless , have reached the most advanced stage of evolution of the genus . Western American pines are a strange mixture of relics ( P. sabiniana , P. aristata @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their capacity to expand . At the same time , the West possesses vigorous and variable pines such as P. ponderosa No. 14 that have still been advancing when human activities have not interfered . In California and Mexico combined , there are found forty-four species of pines , or nearly half of all the pines . The two regions somewhat overlap . Northern Mexico and the southwestern United States geographically are very similar . The real Mexican pine region begins farther south of the international border , roughly from Monterrey , in the east , to the middle of the state of Sinaloa , in the west . Although the western United States ( chiefly California ) is also rich in pines , there is a significant difference between the two regions . In California , there are found many endemics and Tertiary relics of extremely limited distribution ; P. sabiniana No. 10 and P. torreyana No. 11 are good examples . In the tropical highlands of Mexico , there are many young and vigorous species with a great capacity for hybridization and for intraspecific variability . The secondary center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there . The origin of this center is relatively recent ; it is of the Tertiary period ; in the more northern parts of the world , pines already were growing in the Mesozoic era . Leaving aside the secondary center of evolution of pines in the high- lands of Mexico , we notice another startling feature of the geography of pines : forty-three species are distributed rather evenly on both sides of the Pacific . If the four or five ( Nos. 35 , 36 , 43 , 49 , 53 ) Mexican pines are considered also as western American species , there are twenty-four pines in western America and twenty-four pines in eastern Asia . This seems to indicate that the area of origin of the genus was located in the north , where America and Asia were connected by a broad stretch of land sometimes called " Beringia . " This conclusion is reached after consideration of the geographical distribution of living pines . Paleobotanical evidence and chemical considerations are given elsewhere in this book ( Chapters 2 and 8 , respectively ) . Pines grow from sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all species , however , occur at the moderate altitudes . Mountain slopes and plateaus are the habitats pines prefer . Indications are ( see Chapter 2 ) that the ancestral home of the genus Pinus was also in the mountains . In discussing distribution of pines , it is well to keep in mind Sargent 's remark , in the Introduction to Wilson 's book on western China ( Wilson , 1913 ) , that extensive pine forests are not found all over the Northern Hemisphere but are more common in the New World . Also we should remember Krishtofovich 's suggestion ( 1959 ) that pines began to form extensive forests rather recently , chiefly during the Quaternary . Previously , pines were merely admixed sparingly with broadleaf or mixed forests . In the places where climate has not changed much since the end of the Cretaceous , pines seldom have formed extensive forests ; more often they occur as relatively small groves or even as single , scattered trees . I have noticed this in southeastern Asia , and apparently such sporadic distribution of pines there has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One difficulty in delineating exactly the limits of areas of some species of the genus Pinus is their widespread capacity to hybridize . In Chapter 4 , the genetic behavior of the genus is discussed more fully ; it is sufficient to state here that , while some pines maintain their specific status well , ( e.g. , P. massoniana No. 94 and P. lambertiana No. 3 ) , others intercross widely and often unexpectedly . Pinus ponderosa No. 14 , an extremely complex and widely distributed species of the western United States , crosses with the complex Mexican species P. montezumae , and P. montezumae crosses with the complex species P. pseudostrobus . Under these circumstances , it is impossible to give the exact area of the thirty-six pines ( forms , varieties , and species ) involved in this hybridization . Pinus ponderosa also crosses with several other pines . Again , two pines of eastern Asia ? P. tabulaeformis No. 102 and P. yunnanensis No. 103 ? overlap and cross , and the apparent result of this cross is known as " Pinus densata . " Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area into P. khasya , and the two are considered by some as a single species . But , even if they are different species , they certainly hybridize in the area of their overlap or contact . There are other examples of natural hybridization in pines ; these are mentioned in the descriptions of the individual species involved . To indicate accurately areas occupied by such pines is a difficult task . Apparently , hybridization between two adjacent pines does not always require an areal overlap . A hybrid swarm may occur in an area located between the areas of two species , in places that might have been disturbed by fire or by grazing of wild cattle or , later , of domestic stock .  | To a non-specialist , genetics of the genus Pinus may appear simple . All pine species so far examined ( and most likely all existing pines ) have the same number of chromosomes ? n = 12 ; 2n = 24 . Sax and Sax ( 1933 ) found that chromosomes of all species of Pinus examined were morphologically similar . " One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have approximately median fiber attachments . " Mehra and Khoshoo ( 1956 ) reported that no pines have chromosomes with terminal or subterminal centromeres . Of a total of thirty-seven species examined ( Plate 4-1 ) , the number of species with median and submedian chromosomes was twelve . Species within the genus differed in the number and nature of secondary constriction and satellites . All species examined had essentially the same karyotype . Santamour ( 1960 ) extended the examination of chromosomes of the genus Pinus and reported that generally their morphology agrees with that reported by Sax and Sax ( 1933 ) and by Mehra and Khoshoo ( 1956 ) . All chromosomes examined belonged to the class in which the shorter arm is one-half , or more than one-half , the length of the longer arm . Only one chromosome , considered by Sax and Sax as heterobrachial , illustrated in their karyotype picture of P. parviflora , would not fall into the median-submedian ( centromere ) category of Mehra and Khoshoo . Sax ( 1960 ) extended the cytological studies of pines to the Fl hybrids of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. strobus No. 20 , P. parviflora ( i.e. , Nos. 83 or 84 ) , and P. hol f ordiana X P. parvi flora . f  | Meiosis was nearly normal ; the hybrids were vigorous and the fertility relatively high . Apparently , changes in chromosome structure were not important as a barrier to crossing between the pine species . Sax remarked that although the species studied have been isolated geographically for very long periods , measured by millions of years , they were found to be similar in chromosome constitution and in genetic compatibility . This chromosomal stability of pines became evident when attempts were made to induce polyploidy in them ( see below ) . In reviewing the literature on karyotypes of pines , Saylor ( 1961 ) remarked that Aass in Norway found no cytological abnormalities in " morphologically atypical " P. sylvestris . Aass , however , observed secondary constriction in the chromosomes and detected two pairs of the chromosomes that appeared smaller than others . Saylor also mentioned studies at Vidakovic of natural hybrids between P. sylvestris No. 69 and P. nigra No. 74 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smallest and the largest somatic chromosomes was found to be greater in P. sylvestris than in P. nigra . In the most recent study of chromosome morphology of P. sylvestris ( Pravdin 1964 ) , karyotypes of P. sylvestris were found to be about the same throughout the range of the species , except for one population of the subspecies kulunclensis from the Tuva country ( 51 degrees North , 96 degrees East ) . The Tuva pine karyotype was compared with the " standard " P. sylvestris karyotype of Sweden . While in the Swedish pine there are five pairs of chromosomes ( I , II , VI , VII , and X ) with secondary constrictions , the Tuva population has only three pairs ( I , II , and VI ) . In the Swedish pine , the chromosomes XI and XII have submedial centromeres ; thus , one arm is shorter than the other . In the Tuva population , all chromosomes have arms of equal length . Difference between the long and the short chromosomes is more pronounced in the Tuva pine than in the Swedish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short chromosomes ( XI and XII ) , while the Tuva pine has four ( IX , X , XI , and XII ) . Saylor ( 1961 ) found that there was not much difference in the number and in the position of secondary constrictions in P. strobus No. 20 , P. taeda No. 24 , P. palustris No. 22 , P. virginiana No. 27 , and P. resinosa No. 21 . No intraspecific difference was detected in any of the pines studied . Four species possessed " remarkably similar karyotypes and only P. resinosa had haploid karyotype somewhat different : there were two heterobrachial chromosomes instead of one . " It appears from the above review that among the pines there is a high degree of uniformity in chromosome morphology . Until recently , the karyotype picture of Mexican pines was totally unknown . In 1962 , Luna  | published some data on a rare pinon pine , P. pinceana No. 37 . In both meiotic divisions , the chromosomes were found to be long and intertwined , extending throughout the cytoplasm . However , in some cases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was difficult ( Luna , 1962 ) . The diploid number of chromosomes was 24 . Zinnai ( 1952 ) reported finding five tetraploid seedlings in transplant beds of P. densiflora No. 95 . They amounted to 0.08 per cent of all transplants . Attempts have been made to induce artificial polyploidy in pines . Mirov and Stockwell ( 1939 ) treated germinating seeds or established seedlings of P. ponderosa No. 14 with colchicine ? and obtained a small percentage of malformed , presumably polyploid seedlings ; some of these died young . The chromosome number varied from 24 , which is normal in somatic tissue , to about 96 . Spindle formation was inhibited in some cells , and formation of the cell wall was lacking or was vestigial . Some other abnormalities were described . Depressed growth of all seedlings was observed . ( See Plate 4-2 . ) Komissarov ( 1947 ) reported that colchicine-induced polyploid pines have invariably been dwarfed , malformed , or slow growing . Machado ( 1943 ) was able to induce polyploidy in P. pinaster No. 80 seedlings both by soaking seeds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or , again , by placing a drop of 1 per cent colchicine in gelatin on the terminal bud . To quote Machado ( in translation ) , " P. pinaster appears to be very sensitive to the action of the alkaloid . " His results , however , were essentially the same as reported by Mirov and Stockwell . Hyun ( 1954 ) repeated the colchicine treatment experiment on a much larger scale . Some polyploids were obtained ; these were of a different nature . Some were perfect tetraploids ; others were mixoploids consisting of 3n and 4n tissues ; still others were mixoploids consisting of 2n and 4n tissues . Some of the treated seedlings reverted to the diploid condition , but others maintained the polyploid condition for one or two years . It is difficult to say what will be the nature of these seedlings in the future . In 1962 , i.e. , ten years after the experiment was discontinued , some transplants looked malformed , while others appeared to be as normal as average diploids . At ten years of age , treated transplants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same age . The above described experiments with artificial induction of polyploidy show that pines are extremely resistant to any attempts to change the orderly behavior of their chromosomes . Pines are equally resistant to ? Colchicine is found in a lily family plant Colchicum autumnale ; it prevents formation of the wall between the dividing cells .  | the action of X rays . ' The absence of polyploids among pines and the difficulties encountered in creation of artificial polyploids probably caused Mehra and Khoshoo ( 1956 ) to remark that polyploidy has played no part in the evolution of pines . Evolution of pines apparently has been caused chiefly by gene mutations . Gustafsson ( 1960 ) , after careful consideration of mutations in forest trees ( including pines ) , arrived at the conclusion that although mutations are the driving force in evolution , very little is known about this phenomenon in forest trees . To a geneticist , uniformity in the number and morphology of chromosomes makes genetic studies of the genus Pinus difficult , for specific , valuable characteristics are missing . Genetic complexity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are many definitions of the term " species . " It is sufficient to quote here Cain 's ( 1944 ) definition to the effect that " species are naturally evolved populations with distinct genetic constellations the members of which interbreed but are not usually crossbred with members of other specific populations . " f He , however , cautions that many species do not conform with this definition . Certainly , in the genus Pinus , the nature of species is quite different from that suggested by many scholars working chiefly with the angiosperms . The most striking genetic feature of the genus Pinus is its irregularity in respect to hybridization . Many species , often belonging to distant generally accepted groups , intercross freely and produce fertile hybrids ; there are also many species , often of the same taxonomic group , that possess strong barriers to intercrossing with other species . Examples of interspecific crossings in diploxylon pines are numerous . Pinus ponderosa No. 14 has been crossed with P. montezumae No. 47 ( Liddicoet and Righter , 1960 ) , which is a complex species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species or varieties of its own complex , such as P. hartwegii No. 49 or P. rudis No. 50 , and also with the species of another complex group known to conservative botanists as P. pseudostrobus . For instance , there is evidence that P. montezumae crosses naturally with P. oaxacana No. 57 ( Mirov , 1958 ) . Pinus ponderosa also crosses naturally with P. /effreyi No. 13 , P. washoensis No. 15 , P. engelmannii No. 53 , and P. arizonica No. 23.  | Another example of wide intercrossing is presented by the diploxylon pines of China . Pinus tabulae f ormis No. 102 of northern China ( an extremely variable species ) crosses in its southwestern limits with P. yunnanensis No. 103 of Yunnan Province , resulting in the hybrid known as P. densata Masters . Pinus yunnanensis imperceptibly merges into P. khasya No. 104 of upper Burma . Some botanists ( Wu , 1947 ) think that these two pines are the same species and that they are identical with P. insularis No. 105 of the Philippines ; in fact , in Burma ( but not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called P. insularis . These pines are closely related , and no doubt P. yunnanensis and P. khasya intercross naturally , and P. insularis probably could be crossed with the two if brought in contact with them . Most haploxylon pines also display this capacity of hybridization . Pinus strobus No. 20 can be crossed with P. monticola ( Righter , 1945 ) . Pinus monticola most likely crosses naturally with P. flexilis . The latter crosses naturally with P. strobi f ormis No. 35 , and P. strobi f ormis merges into the complex species of Mexican P. ayacahuite , whose varieties no doubt intercross . On the other hand , P. flexilis No. 2 can be crossed with P. griffithii No. 91 of the Himalaya . Pinus monticola No. 4 has been crossed with P. peuce No. 71 of the Balkans . In spite of the widespread interspecific hybridization within the genus Pinus , there are some species that are difficult to cross . Pinus lambertiana No. 3 does not cross naturally with any other North American pine , and its hybridization with Mexican P. ayacahuite No. 33 has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely will be crossed sooner or later ) . However , P. lambertiana has been crossed with P. koraiensis No. 82 and P. armandi No. 86 of eastern Asia ( Stone and Duffield , 1950 ) . ( See Plate 4-3 . ) Other western endemics and California relics also are resistant to interspecific crossing . These are P. albicaulis No. 1 , P. balfouriana No. 5 , and P. aristata No. 6 , although the last two little-known pines possibly do cross . Pinus sabiniana No. 10 and P. torreyana No. 11 are difficult to cross . In eastern Asia , P. bungeana No. 87 and P. gerardiana No. 92 ( the two species comprising Shaw 's 1914 group Gerardianae within the subgenus Haploxylon ) have not been crossed with any other pines . Of the Mediterranean region pines , P. piney No. 73 possesses sufficient genetic differences to prevent its hybridization with other pines . As a whole , although a great advance has been made in the field of interspecific hybridization among pines ( chiefly at the Institute of Forest Genetics , U.S. Forest Service , Placerville , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from being complete . This is especially true with the Mexican and southeastern Asiatic species . Ilaploxylon pines appear to intercross more freely than diploxylon species , but even among the  | former , there are found formidable barriers yet unexplainable , though highly suggestive from the evolutionary point of view . Why , for instance , does not P. lambertiana No. 3 cross naturally ? and so far it has not been crossed artificially ? with any American pines , while it has been crossed with two Asiatic pines ? In the subgenus Diploxylon , there are many species that are similar in morphology and purportedly closely related that cross with difficulty or not at all . Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins of the University of California is of the opinion that genetic barriers between species of the subgenus Dip- loxylon are more highly developed than in most genera of woody plants . In many experiments with hybridization of species of the genus Pinus , it was found that the hybrids are fertile and have normal meiosis . Stebbins comments that this is also true of some other woody genera such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests that for some reason the kind of genetic isolation barriers which arise most easily in Pinus are mutations which affect cross compatibility between species , rather than small chromosomal changes which influence chromosomal pairing and fertility of the Fl hybrids . This is in agreement with the observations of similarity in chromosome number and morphology throughout the genus . Barriers to interspecific hybridization of pines , as in any other group of plants , may be classified as follows : A. External barriers 1 . Geographical isolation B. Internal barriers 2 . Difference in time of pollen ripening 3 . Failure of pollen tube to reach the ovule 4 . Failure of seedling to reach maturity Geographical isolation imposes an efficient barrier to the intercrossing of several pines . It is obvious that two pines isolated from each other for many million years and separated by oceans for thousands of miles can not cross ; the surprising fact is that when geographically distant pines are brought together , they often cross easily , either with the assistance of man or even voluntarily . Such is the case of P. strobus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Himalaya , or P. nigra No. 74 of Europe and P. thunbergii No. 97 of Japan . The ease with which geographically separated pines hybridize in cultivation shows that some pines , isolated for an enormously long time , some since the Cretaceous period and perhaps even from the Jurassic , have not developed any differences in their genetic mechanism that would have made them incompatible to their relatives , distant both in space and in time . No doubt geographical barriers can be broken occasionally when , for instance , a hurricane might carry pine pollen ( and even seeds ) over long distances , such as from the Caribbean islands to Florida ; j but , by and large , such contacts , especially trans-Pacific ones , are most unlikely . Difference in the time of pollen ripening occurs occasionally among sympatric pines . A good example was described by Forde ( 1962 ) . Pinus  | attenuata No. 17 and P. radiata No. 19 grow together at Ano Nuevo , a locality not far south of San Francisco . Artificially , these two pines are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its fertility . In spite of previous suggestions ( Bannister , 1958 ) , Forde was unable to find much introgression of P. attenuata to P. radiata . She explained the almost complete absence of hybrids between the two pines at Ano Nuevo by the difference in their pollen-shedding periods . Pinus radiata usually sheds pollen in that locality early in February ; P. attenuata does not begin until approximately one month later . There may be a slight overlap in pollen discharge between individual trees of the two species , but the phenological barrier is sufficient to prevent substantial interspecific pollination . According to Forde , the phenological barrier between P. radiata No. 19 and P. muricata No. 18 is even greater than between P. radiata and P. attenuata No. 17 . Pinus muricata generally sheds its pollen at the beginning of April , i.e. , about two months after P. radiata . Forde 's observations are somewhat at variance with Focke 's suggestion ( as discussed by Stebbins , 1959 , p. 232 ) that an overlap in flowering is more inducive to hybridization ( of angiosperms ) than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time . Of course , what is valid for flowering plants may not be applicable to pines . Another example is perhaps P. khasya No. 104 and P. merkusii No. 101 , which the author observed in Thailand . The former grows at higher elevations than the latter ( see Chapter 3 ) ; their areas often overlap . But oddly enough , P. khasya sheds its pollen from two to three weeks earlier than P. merkusii ; this difference in time of pollen shedding apparently constitutes a sufficient barrier to hybridization of these two pines . Unfortunately , nobody yet has attempted to cross these two pines artificially to prove that the different time of pollen shedding is the only barrier to the crossing of the two pines . Failure of the pollen tube to reach the ovule is one of the most important obstacles to hybridization of some sympatric species of pines ; another obstacle is the failure of the seedlings to reach maturity . McWilliam ( 1959 ) studied interspecific incompatibility in pines using both the anatomical and the biochemical approach . After interspecific pollination of P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fertilization showed no major deviation from the normal course . In the unpollinated ovule , its breakdown occurred about one month after the female conelet became receptive . He ascribed the breakdown of the ovule to the lack of some growth factor that , in the pollinated ovule , probably initiated growth of the pollen tube in the nucellus . In spite of suggestive reports by several investigators of occurrence of parthenocarpy ( i.e. , development of cones but not fertile seeds ) , McWilliam was unable to observe it ( luring his experiments , nor could he induce it artificially . The causes  | of incompatibility in attempted crosses of P. nigra No. 74 with several pines ( P. caribaea No. 62 X P. nigra , P. resinosa No. 21 X P. rigida No. 29 , P. nigra X P. rigida , P. resinosa X P. nigra , and P. nigra X P. resinosa ) were , according to McWilliam , related to inability of the pollen tube to function normally in the nucellar tissue of a foreign pine . Apparently here also , as in the unpollinated ovule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amino acids in the ovules of different pines had something to do with their incompatibility . Although all of the fifteen amino acids investigated were present in the ovules of both species , their concentrations varied ; in P. nigra , there was five times as much arginine as in P. resinosa . It should be noted , however , that these two pines had been crossed at the Institute of Forest Genetics in 1955 , but the published report appeared only after careful checking much later ( Liddicoet and Righter , 1960 ) . Although the mechanism blocking fertilization in pines probably is more complicated than reported , McWilliam 's research was in the right direction , and it opened an avenue for future work . Many internal barriers , no doubt , will be removed when biochemistry of the growing pollen tube and chemical response of the ovule are better understood . It should be kept in mind that failure to cross two species in any investigation may be caused by inadequate technique rather than by the intrinsic incompatibility of the two pines to cross . For instance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only after many previous unsuccessful efforts . Regarding the failure of seedlings to reach maturity as a barrier protecting two species , its presence and its importance was recently discussed by Haller ( 1962 ) in his paper on variation and hybridization in P. ponderosa and P. Jeff reyi . Haller argued that P. ponderosa and P. Jeff reyi are old , stable species that have been subjected to natural selection for a long time and have developed " precise adaptations " to their environment . The hybrid seedlings lack such adaptations and are not able to compete successfully with the parents . According to Haller , most of the hybrid seedlings are eliminated in their youth . He sampled five- to ten-year-old trees in two localities of a P. ponderosa ? P. Jeff f reyi forest . Out of fifty individuals sampled , no hybrids were detected . Haller 's contention that almost all germinated hybrid seeds never reach maturity finds support in the experience of the author . Once he tapped pines in a mixed P. jeffreyi ? P. ponderosa forest to obtain n-heptane for standardization of motor fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As n-heptane is a specific compound present in P. jeffre ! 1i but absent in terpene-hearing P. ponderosa , it was easy to identify " heptane pines . " Out of the total nunber of 12,000 tapped trees , only two or perhaps three were found to be chemical hybrids , contain- ing both n-heptane and terpenes . The morphological characters of these chemically intermediate trees were also intermediate between P. jeffreyi and P. ponderosa . Stebbins ( 1959 ) , who discussed the role of hybridization in evolution , said that it depends not necessarily on the frequency with which hybrids occur in nature , but on the effects that the hybrids may have on genetic variability in natural populations . Following Stebbins ' argument , it can be assumed that since interspecific hybrids of pines are generally fertile , they may take an important part in evolution . Moreover , there is a possibility that progeny of partly sterile hybrids are more fertile than the hybrids themselves , and the fertility is often increased in subsequent generations . Stebbins suggested that " . . . in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the other of their original parents , the progeny of interspecific and interracial hybrids may nevertheless affect profoundly the course of evolution . " To quote further from Stebbins ' article , " . . . the interspecific hybridization is not necessarily a blind alley ' which leads only to worthless sterile offspring or to restoration of the parental types ; some hybrids are fertile , constant , stable , and genetically isolated from one or both of their original parents . " This was well demonstrated by Rollins ( 1954 ) who experimented with two species of Lesquerella ( Cruci f erae ) . In Tennessee , he has observed populations of L. densipila X L. Lescurii hybrids that were completely fertile and capable of survival without backcrossing to either parental species . Rollins concluded that interspecific hybrids are not always only agents of gene transmission through introgression to the parental species , but " . . . they are also important as a pool of recombined genes to be screened by the forces of evolution . " The interspecific hybrid populations , independently of their parental species , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural selection can operate and thus give rise to new species . There are very few studies of genetic behavior of pine hybrids in the field . Interesting is the case of natural hybridization between P. contorta No. 16 , a western American pine descending to the plains from the Canadian Rockies , and P. banksiana No. 32 , a northeastern American species extending to Alberta , Canada , and to the Mackenzie River ( Raup , 1947 ) , where its area overlaps the area of P. contorta and where the two pines cross . The hybrid swarm of Alberta in the vicinity of Edmonton was first described by Moss ( 1949 ) and studied by Mirov ( 19 56 ) . Mirov 's studies were concerned with distribution of two different terpenes in the hybrid swarm . Of the trees examined in the hybrid swarm , 47.9 per cent  | had morphological characters of P. contorta , 23.3 per cent were intermediate , and 28.8 per cent looked like P. banksiana . The chemical nature of the trees in the hybrid swarm followed a different pattern ; this topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to describe the locality of the Alberta hybrid swarm . In early postglacial times what is today the overlap area probably was an extensive grassland , or perhaps a parkland or grove area . The black soils now found frequently in the area could not have developed under postglacial conifer forests . Moss concluded that the forest is gradually encroaching upon the grassland . All investigators agree that the area has been greatly disturbed by fires , which became more frequent with the advent of primitive man . Although Moss 1949 considers the disturbing influence of bison and domestic animals only of local importance , nevertheless , judging by the information available for other grasslands regions Berg , 1950 the influence of once-numerous hoofed wild animals in disturbing the prehistoric grasslands should not be disregarded . We may visualize the Alberta overlap area since the retreat of the ice as having been repeatedly disturbed by fires , by wild cattle , and by possible subsequent surface erosion especially in sandy places . The area offered conditions favorable to the appearance of a lodgepole x jack pine hybrid swarm Anderson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never overlapped , but merely approached each other when hybrids were first formed . The hybrid swarm then might have originated in a disturbed area not previously occupied by either parent . There is no botanical evidence at present of a preglacial hybridization between the two pines . Apparently there had been no preglacial contact between lodgepole pine and jack pine ; at least no fossil records are available that would indicate such contact . No signs of hybridization between these two pines have been reported in any part of their respective ranges other than the Alberta overlap area although perhaps hybridization also occurs in the Mackenzie River area ( Raup , 1947 ) . Pines of an intermediate character are found occasionally west of and beyond the overlap area , as for instance near Seebe , between Calgary and Banff . There are also reports of intermediate forms in Saskatchewan . Both of these localities are not too far from the overlap area of Alberta . " It is difficult to decide at present whether some introgression of the hybrids into one or both species has been in progress at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contorta X P. banksiana hybrid swarm of Alberta still awaits investigation . Genetic affinity of pines in relation to their modern classification will be considered in Chapter 9 . Here we will discuss the genetic relationship of pines without attempting their rearrangement . I f the genus Finns is divided into two subgenera , ( 1 ) the subgenus Haplosxylon , including the seven pinon pines , and ( 2 ) the 