@@774179

txt  | There has also been a proliferation of organizations , clubs and agencies which bring farmers into greater contact with each other and with the non-farming population . Co-operative marketing and retailing spread rapidly between the wars ; they are most highly developed in the North East , Mid-West and on the Pacific coast , and have made least progress in the South . Parent-teacher associations , 4-H clubs ( young farmers ' clubs : the four H 's stand for Hand , Head , Health and Heart ! ) , marketing , farm product improvement and soil conservation groups ; these are officially or semi-officially inspired agencies . Within a widening radius of most large cities , new elements appear in the rural life of the neighbourhood , village or small town . Urban commuters who live in the country but work in the city , and industrial workers whose presence results from a growing tendency to build factories in rural areas expect more and better services of the kind they have been used to in cities ; and when they become numerous and vocal enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , roads and recreation to a degree that would not have been thought necessary before . Other new developments are the increasing tendency for farmers to work in the city in winter , and for farmers to live in the city and drive out to their farms to work them . It should be remembered that most of the generalizations made on the above pages are liable to regional and local variations and exceptions . Few of them , for instance , would apply with equal validity to the state of Texas and the province of Quebec .  | THE GEOGRAPHICAL POSITION OF ANGLO-AMERICA If the geographical position of the continent is considered , its isolation is striking . It is connected only by a narrow isthmus to South America and separated from the rest of the land masses by wide oceans , except where the Alaskan peninsula approaches north-east Siberia . Yet here the climate is so severe and the ground so rugged that its value as a zone of contact is small . No doubt the first inhabitants entered by this route , but by its very nature it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Russians entered North America this way during the eighteenth century , but in small numbers only . Had this approach been easier , North America might well have been peopled from Asia long before Europeans spread beyond the Appalachian barrier . Instead , the geographical unattractiveness of Alaska and the historical accident that , soon after the Russians had discovered North America , their tsars and tsarinas embroiled themselves in Europe , sending westwards into the battlefields the surplus population that otherwise might have pioneered eastwards through Siberia to the Bering strait and beyond , caused Russian North America to atrophy . When Alaska was purchased by the United States in 1867 , Russia lost her feeble foothold on the continent . North America being thus isolated , its rediscovery was delayed until the peoples of western Europe were able to navigate the great oceans and had the incentive to do so . Isolation also meant that , when they arrived , they found aboriginals less advanced than themselves , for the natives had not been able to benefit from a constant coming and going and passing through of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put together to beget further ideas , and in which there is constant struggle and striving , and the race is to the swift . It meant too that once established , the European colonies remained free of close control and that some were able successfully to challenge their nominal rulers across the wide ocean and deny them their allegiance . Above all , it meant that they were able to expand and prosper throughout the nineteenth century without foreign entanglements , and therefore without the necessity of diverting any great  | proportion of their resources to defence . Furthermore , it enabled the Anglo-American countries , being immune from German attack , to become great arsenals for the supply of arms to belligerent European powers in the two great wars of the twentieth century . By this means the capital debt owed by Anglo-America was wiped out and European nations instead found themselves heavily indebted ; Anglo-American industry was greatly expanded during these two conflicts . The isolation of Anglo-America is no longer what it was , having been considerably broken down by telecommunications , aircraft and rockets . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the geographical position in Canada and the United States . Compare the situation of the Soviet Union , whose borders touch or come very close to the Scandinavian countries , the countries of eastern Europe , Turkey , Persia , Afghanistan , Pakistan , India , China and Korea and are separated only by a narrow sea from Japan . POLITICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS The four large countries of North America ( Greenland , Canada , the United States and Mexico ) may be contrasted with the twenty-four states into which the much smaller area of Europe ( west of the U.S.S.R. ) is divided . This difference is sometimes attributed to the opposite geographical features of the two continents , but actually the political map of North America might well have developed along similar lines to that of Europe and the U.S.S.R. The eastern coastal regions of North America have features not so dissimilar from those of Europe ? islands and peninsulas separated by inlets and bays and with the old worn Appalachian system comparable in some respects with Hercynian Europe . The contrast between Mediterranean and transalpine Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction between the northern and southern colonies . Be that as it may , before the Revolution ( and later in Canada ) , the territorial map of eastern North America had a European look . There were the different colonies with their populations of different origin , and each with its own economy , its own government , its own interests and ambitions . Left to themselves they might well have quarrelled and fought as did the political states of Europe . Even long after the formation of the United States , the Civil War of 1861 ? 65 pointed to the probability of this . It was the struggle for complete freedom from Britain that produced a union of the states , just as in turn it was fear of the United States that encouraged  | the Canadian colonies to unite . It was because European world supremacy was so firmly established that the European states could maintain their internecine divisions for so long with impunity . Again , but for the extraneous fact that the two most important powers in North America were at war in Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prairies and plains of the interior , behind the small English states looking to the Atlantic . Thus the potential resemblance between Europe and North America is even greater : in each case , an oceanic borderland fragmented into small states is backed by a large continental empire stretching away into the arid or mountainous distance ( Fig. ra ) . It was not the geography of the continent but the historical relationship between England and France , between Britain and the Atlantic colonies that in the end determined the political divisions of AngloAmerica . Even so , the great countries of Anglo-America are not unitary states . They are federations of states or provinces which retain for themselves several of the powers and functions of government , and their mutual jealousies and antagonisms often obtrude . TWO LAND EMPIRES Empires may be of the overseas or continental type . The British and French empires were of the overseas type , the Russian empire of the continental type . In the former case , the subject territories usually lay in coastal regions or were islands ; they were linked to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slowness of sea communications , and because the scattered overseas territories had heterogeneous interests and easier contact with other lands in the same region than with the home country , such possessions were difficult if not impossible to mould into a single unified homogeneous territory . In a land empire , on the other hand , the subject territories lie compactly in the hinterland of the imperial power , and are more easily subjugated , penetrated and unified . Overseastype empires , with littoral and island dependencies linked with the home country by sea and defended by navies , were , however , almost the only feasible kind before the railway facilitated the penetration and crossing of large land masses . It was the Trans-Siberian railway that made the Russian land empire a reality . It is not often realized that both the United States and Canada were imperialist powers in origin , especially the United States . Geography and history conspired to place power in central parts of the eastern zone of the  | Figure continent . The United States grew westward as the power centre in the north-east of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired territory after territory by conquest , diplomacy , purchase and colonization ( Fig. 28 ) . The native peoples , never numerous , were exterminated or subjugated . But as soon as railways , and later roads and airways , made movement within the empire easy , homogeneity and unification followed . Even to-day , the industrial , financial , political , administrative and cultural centres are the great cities of the north-eastern part of the country . The South fought and lost the Civil War in an attempt to resist this imperialism , but Canada to the north survived because of the then great strength of Britain . In Canada , the power centre developed in the eastcentral part of the continent , in the Lower Lakes ? St Lawrence area , and it was from here that the driving force to unite the whole of British North America into one political unity came . In both Canada and the United States , the federal constitution places limitations upon the political supremacy of the eastern power centres . On the other hand , the agricultural revolution , by sapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural depopulation , has weakened the outlying territory to the relative advantage of the power centres . It remains , therefore , a general principle of political geography , that whereas overseas empires tend to disintegrate as centrifugal forces  | prove too strong , continental empires have centripetal forces which aid the power centre in welding the territory into a unified national state . BOUNDARIES Boundary lines in Anglo-America are of three main kinds : rivers and lakes , divides and astronomical lines . Examples of river/lake boundaries are the Rio Grande , forming part of the American frontier with Mexico ; Lakes Superior , Huron , St Clair , Erie and Ontario , with a stretch of the St Lawrence , forming part of the American frontier with Canada ; and the St John and St Croix rivers which also in part contribute to the U.S. ? Canada boundary . Within the United States most of the great rivers ? Mississippi , Ohio , Missouri , Colorado , Columbia and some others ? play some part in the delineation of inter-state boundaries . A river may not generally make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or watershed . But no dogmatic assertion can be made on this point , as much depends on the economic and human geography of the area . In a closely-settled land with a well developed economy , a river frontier may be undesirable , because it divides what should naturally be an economic and social unit . But in territory where settlement was sparse , where such little commerce as there was followed the rivers rather than crossed them , where maps were few and inaccurate and precise geographical information lacking , the river was a clear and indisputable fact . Minor questions there might be , as to the ownership of islands or the choice of varying channels , but there was little room for serious controversy . This latter was the situation when most of the river boundaries detailed above were chosen . Since , many of the areas they divide have become highly developed regions , and the water boundaries a great nuisance . One inconvenience is that many conurbations sited on rivers find themselves in two states : e.g. New York , Cincinnati , Chicago , St @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountains forming the boundary are found along part of the border between Maine ( U.S.A. ) and Quebec ( Canada ) , between Virginia and West Virginia , Virginia and Kentucky , North Carolina and Tennessee , and between Alberta and British Columbia . Although generally such a boundary was not likely to cause any kind of economic or social disruption , troubles might follow from lack of definition , as mountain ranges are often complex zones difficult to explore and to map . Thus the simple directive in the Treaty of Paris , 1783 , that the frontier between Maine and British territory was to be the highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic Ocean from those that fall into the St Lawrence ' led to disturbed international relations for a period of almost sixty years .  | Most of the boundaries of Anglo-America are , however , astronomical lines defined in relation to latitude and longitude . Such a line ? the 49th parallel ? forms about half of the whole length of the American ? Canadian frontier , not to mention the boundaries of most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These lines had three advantages : they could be agreed upon in an office without knowledge of the geography of the area being divided ; they could be quickly and accurately determined upon the ground ; and , once accurately drawn , no dispute could arise as to which boundary was meant . In some cases , however , confusion was caused by inaccurate survey . Once these lines were determined , they might be found in practice to be highly troublesome , and in some cases adjustments have been made . But the rectilinear pattern they impose is the dominant one on the Anglo-American map . Furthermore , it has been carried over into county boundaries which , west of the Mississippi , are almost all rectangular . The same type of rectangular survey was applied to land survey , and consequently farms , fields and roads follow a similar pattern , while street plans of Anglo-American towns are usually rectangular grids . An interesting problem boundary is that between Newfoundland and Quebec province in Canada . Traditionally , the coast of Labrador was considered as belonging to Newfoundland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploited its coastal waters , and often went to live on the Labrador shore , usually temporarily but sometimes permanently . How far inland the Newfoundland territory went was a question that admitted no clear answer . As was often done to settle such problems , the height of land ' between rivers flowing to the open ocean on the one hand , and north or south to Ungava Bay or the St Lawrence gulf on the other , was suggested . When exploration made it clear that such an interpretation would bring the coast of Labrador ' 300 miles inland , it was resisted by Canada but claimed by Newfoundland , then a separate colony . The dispute was referred to the British Privy Council and the Newfoundland claim upheld ( 1926 ) , so that the present boundary follows the divide southwards to approximately 570 W. , where it turns south to the strait of Belle Isle . This remarkable boundary , part height of land ' and part astronomical , has never been accepted by the province of Quebec . CAPITAL CITIES In most European countries , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , with important industrial , commercial and cultural functions as well as the political and administrative one . Often it is the only large town in the country . In Anglo-America , however , the capitals  | Washington and Ottawa ? have only one main function , and until recently were relatively small towns . Now they are swollen by the growth of bureaucracy and by the increase in scope of the administrative function consequent upon war and the growing complexity of modern life . They are still not among the very largest towns in their respective countries , but they are moving upwards . Washington , fourteenth among American cities in 1900 , was ninth in 1950 . Greater Ottawa is the fifth largest urban area in Canada , after Montreal , Toronto , Vancouver and Winnipeg . Interstate and interprovincial jealousy as well as rivalry between leading cities had something to do with the selection of new sites for capitals . In the U.S. , the great Atlantic seaport cities ? Boston , New York , Philadelphia and Baltimore ? could scarcely brook the distinction falling to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital , this arrangement was temporary only . The new capital was even placed in a special district ' , that of Columbia , withdrawn from the jurisdiction of any one state . In Canada , rivalry between Ontario and Quebec , Anglo-Canadian and French Canadian , Toronto and Montreal , was too great to allow either city to be selected as a permanent capital of the united provinces of Canada . After both Kingston and Montreal had discharged this function , the choice fell finally upon the obscure lumbering town of Ottawa , which had the advantage of lying on the boundary between the two provinces . To-day the Canadian capital is truly interprovincial , as many of the civil servants who work in Ottawa ( Ont. ) live in Hull ( Que. ) across the river . Also , as the administration is bilingual and French-Canadian knowledge of English is much superior and more widespread than Anglo-Canadian knowledge of French , most civil servants tend to be French Canadian . Neither place is well situated geographically to be the administrative and political centre of the larger transcontinental country of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map , especially in relation to communications , shows that Chicago has a better situation than Washington , and Winnipeg a superior position to Ottawa . On the other hand , the eastern location of these cities reflects the fact that power in each country resides in the region in which the capital city is located . AMERICAN ? CANADIAN RELATIONS Generally , the remarkable thing about American ? Canadian relations is their scale and scope . The international boundary counts for little in the economic , social and cultural life of districts on either side of it . People move to and fro across the line in large numbers with little formality and ,  | provided they are natives of U.S.A. or Canada , without passports . Roads and railways cross and recross the boundary . Canadians moving from one part of Canada often find a road through the United States more convenient and take it accordingly . Americans en route to Europe often leave the continent by way of Canadian St Lawrence ports . Although tariffs on both sides impede the flow of goods to some extent , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trade across the border is even greater than Anglo ? American trade overseas . Canadian dependence on the United States , both for supplies of manufactured goods and as a market for its primary products other than wheat , is especially striking ( see below , page 366 ) . In private industry , as so many Canadian firms are merely subsidiaries of their parent corporations in the United States , much manufacturing is planned on a continental scale irrespective of the boundary . Important lines of communication ? railways , roads , pipelines , and most recently , the St Lawrence Seaway ? cross , and to some extent nullify , the political frontier . Joint international commissions govern such matters as fishery regulations , water-power allocation , etc. , on both sides of the line . The military organization is now on a continental rather than a national basis , beginning with the Joint Defence Board ( 1940 ) and the Civil Defence Pact ( 1951 ) . Inevitably there is some friction in this close relationship , but if it occurs at a governmental level it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a little too subservient to Washington and that in many matters they merely echo American policy . Some believe this feeling was an important factor in the defeat of the Liberal administration of Mr Saint-Laurent in 1958 . But the new Conservative government was soon being criticized for its failure to defend Canadian interests , especially in defence . Canadians sometimes fear or resent the extreme dependence of Canada upon the United States for capital investment and for a market in which to sell its surplus goods ; they are also worried that industrial firms and labour unions should be directed from headquarters outside the country . Ignorance of Canada in the United States is irksome to Canadian visitors . Thus the grievances would seem to be almost wholly on one side , which is not surprising in view of the preponderance of the larger country which has 90% of the population and 93% of the gross national product of the continent . None the less , between 30,000 and 40,000 people emigrate from Canada to the United States each year ; some 1o,000 move annually in the reverse direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Canada which resents American influence and control , regarding them as threats to true  | independence , there is also a minority in both countries which believes the political dividing line should go . In Canada , advocates of absorption may merely be great admirers of the United States , or they may be disillusioned ex-nationalists who believe it pointless and extravagant to pay for political separation without economic and military independence . If this were to happen , however , removal of the tariff barriers would almost certainly result in the southward migration of industry and urban population from those Canadian centres which owe their existence to the boundary . Vancouver , Winnipeg , Fort William , Port Arthur , Hamilton , Toronto , Windsor , Ottawa , Saint John , are all towns which duplicate facilities available more economically farther south , because of the political boundary , the tariff barrier , and the east ? west railway system . The main Canadian railways were built across the continent east and west partly for a political reason ? to bind the scattered communities across the continent to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to prevent them from being detached and absorbed by the United States . But as rail transport declines and the importance of road traffic increases , this effect of the railways in reinforcing the political boundary is lessened . Roads have been built rather in a north ? south direction in response to the pull of economic reality and although Canada was bound together by iron rails , it is now being tied more effectively to the U.S. by bonds of concrete . A COMMON CULTURE The political boundary is still , despite the comments made above , an economic barrier to some degree . Culturally , it has much less significance . A common culture extends across the continent , and if there is a cultural boundary it is that between the Anglo-Americans on the one side and the French-Canadians on the other . As has been seen , this culture is based on a materialistic way of life in which individuals strive to acquire , use and display an ever-widening range of tangible manufactured goods , under the stimulus of high-pressure advertising and under the impetus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resources , coupled with the fact that much capital that might be invested in industrial equipment is instead squandered on frivolities . Countries like Russia and China , with a more austere culture , are expanding their industrial and military potential at a much faster rate than those of AngloAmerica . Yet there are political advantages in the Anglo-American culture . The Russians are able to invest in industrial expansion at a higher rate because consumers forgo many of the material possessions that AngloAmericans regard as necessities . As awareness of the western culture  | penetrates Communist countries it may arouse discontent amongst their masses with adverse effects upon their economic and political strength . ANGLO-AMERICAN POWER : PAST , PRESENT AND FUTURE Before the beginning of the seventeenth century the continental area we now know as Anglo-America was sparsely peopled by the aboriginals whom the white explorers regarded as savages ' . Three hundred and fifty years later , the preponderance of world power , expressed in terms of industrial capacity and military might , lay in this continent . Its leading position was to be almost immediately challenged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hitherto more remote and less developed parts of Eurasia . The rapid transformation of North America in such a short time resulted from the impact of ambitious , resourceful and intelligent people from the Old World , possessing a wide variety of skills and qualities , upon a land which presented some challenges but also offered many opportunities in the form of potential resources . Large areas of level land were open grassy prairie beneath which lay some exceedingly rich soils ; elsewhere mountain sides and valley bottoms alike were clothed in magnificent forests of tall straight trees . Rivers and lakes were so arranged as to make possible not only a remarkable system of inland waterways , but also hydro-electric development on a large scale . Many types of climate in combination with varied and fertile soils enabled a very wide range of crops to be grown , while the cyclonic climate , with its constantly changing weather , often considered to be stimulating both to mental and physical activity , prevailed over a large region . In places , including principally those not so well endowed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was well stored with mineral wealth : gold and silver to draw the adventurous into remote and hitherto uninhabited corners ; metals of all kinds for the machine civilization ; coal , oil , gas and uranium for fuel and power ; salts and other raw materials from which to manufacture fertilizers for the poorer soils . Forests , favourable climates , waterways , water-power and minerals were on a large scale compared with their occurrence in Europe , and as techniques making their exploitation possible evolved , so the wealth and strength of the new continent advanced . Not only was the human resource imported from Europe but also techniques , many of which , though invented or evolved in Europe , could only be practised efficiently in American conditions . The capital investment required for their installation and application likewise came from overseas . The result to-day is an Anglo-America with 200 million people possessing a very high average material level of  | living , and great political , economic and cultural influence . Whereas fifty years ago the dominant political , economic and cultural impulses came from Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European masses are becoming increasingly susceptible to them . No sooner had Anglo-America wrested supremacy from western Europe , than it was challenged by the Soviet Union with China in the background . Geography can also contribute towards the understanding of this development . Much of the natural wealth of Anglo-America can not be replaced and its use during the past three centuries has been extravagant and unrestrained . Forests , soils and minerals have been seriously depleted . But the Soviet Union and China have even greater resources which they have only begun to exploit , and exploitation is planned in such a way as to conserve them for as long as possible . The new countries ' of the Old World are inhabited by peoples who are indigenous to them and their governments are strong enough to place national power not only above individual freedom , comfort and convenience but above group interest and private greed . North America naturally attracted from Europe many immigrants who were ambitious and aggressive , materialistic and acquisitive , selfreliant and individualistic . These qualities aided in the conquest of the continent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also make difficult the assertion of governmental control over the private and corporate use of natural resources , or of the application of wise principles of conservation . It is a maxim of North American political and economic life that restraints upon corporate and private enterprise are evil of themselves and a threat both to national prosperity and individual freedom . There is no socialist party in the United States and only a weak and ill-supported one in Canada . In both countries it requires courage for a man above the lower ranks of society to proclaim himself a socialist . Transportation is a field in which Anglo-American extravagance and wasteful use of resources is exemplified . On a strictly comparable cost basis , rail transport is more economic than road transport in the movement of freight over distances in excess of 25 miles . But because almost everyone in Anglo-America has a car , social pressure for a dense roads network is irresistible and road transport is thus provided with roads to which it contributes a mere fraction of the cost . The railways , representing an enormous investment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of transport . In 1958 the traffic density on Soviet railways was four times that on American lines ( U.S.A. : 6,900 ton-miles per mile of railway a day ; U.S.S.R. : 28,840 ton-miles ) . Similar extravagance is shown in the daily use of vast numbers of very large cars , most of them only carrying  | one person . Apart from needless waste of steel , oil , etc. , all irreplaceable commodities , there must be added the economic and social loss through traffic congestion , traffic injuries and fatalities , smog , etc . CLIMATE AND ANGLO ? AMERICAN STRENGTH Opinions differ as to the importance of climate as a factor in the rise and fall of nations , but it is widely believed that a warm uniform climate tends to cause a falling-off in physical and mental endeavour , while a cool invigorating and changeable one encourages it . However that may be , there is no doubt but that Anglo-Americans love warmth and ease . The regional chapters in this book dealing with California , Florida and the southwestern deserts will show the strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Canadian Arctic agencies have in recruiting North American staff points to the repugnance they feel for low ones . The heating of homes , offices , factories , schools and cars to high temperatures ( usually 75 ? or over ) throughout the cooler seasons means that urbanized Anglo-Americans live in a uniformly warm climate sheltered from low or even medium temperatures . They experience naturally or produce artificially a climate of well above the optimum warmth which Huntington postulated for maximum human efficiency . One may perhaps wonder whether this will affect the future progress of the continent .  | IN this book Anglo-America has been divided into regions , the boundaries of which are shown on the map inside the front cover . These regions and their limits are not , like political and administrative divisions and boundaries , indisputable facts . In some instances they resemble , and in others they differ from , those used by other writers on the subject . In fact , geographers seldom agree about how an area should be divided into regions . The raw material of geography consists of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weather phenomena above and the soils and minerals below . These details or phenomena are usually arranged in assymetrical patterns and related together in various ways . They may be static or dynamic . It is the geographer 's task to recognize the patterns and interpret the relationships , a task in which he has to generalize , since many details stand outside the patterns and there are exceptions to the relationships . Both patterns and relationships constantly change from place to place . Therefore , generalizations that apply in one area may not do so in the next . Hence the need for regions ? areas chosen by the geographer within which he finds he can generalize usefully and truthfully about patterns , relationships and movement . But there are numerous patterns superimposed and different kinds of intricate relationships . Sometimes these coincide , but often they differ areally . Hence the regional division will vary according to those patterns and relationships which are of concern or significance to the individual geographer . Usually there will be more agreement about the heart or core ' of a region than about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more intense in some areas than in others . There is no finer exercise for a student of geography than to attempt to divide an area into regions and he should always examine critically any such arrangement that is presented to him . Regions are also a matter of scale . If one were writing a world geography , one might have the whole Interior zone of North America as a region because of the general horizontal sedimentary structure , absence of mountainous relief , continental climate , importance of agriculture , etc . But this will not do if one is writing a geography of North America only . There will be subdivision , and no doubt the Great Plains would form one of the regions of the Interior . But one could write the geography of the Great  | Plains only , in which case the greater scale would allow further division into , say , the Northern , Central and Southern Plains . The region ' of the geographer is thus comparable to the period ' of the historian . Historians disagree over the beginnings and endings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In each case such argument is stimulating and to be welcomed ; it emphasizes the importance of pattern , movement and relationship as against the mere study of detail . It should be noted that , sometimes , political units and administrative divisions are selected as regions or joined together to form them . Such divisions seldom accord with geographical regions , but where the treatment is statistical , they may be more convenient because statistics are published for administrative units and not for geographical regions .  | THIS may be described as a broad peninsular region , tending to break away from the continent between the deeply-penetrating St Lawrence estuary to the west and the gulf of Maine to the south . From the main trunk peninsula sprout lesser peninsulas ? those of Gaspe , Caraquet , Cobequid and , of course , Nova Scotia . Then , more completely detached , are the islands , isles and islets ? notably Anticosti , clothed in forest and almost uninhabited ; Prince Edward , a gentle well-farmed lowland ; those of Magdalen with their fisher folk ; Cape Breton almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half ; and remote Sable , barren and sandy . At a distance , across Cabot Strait , Newfoundland is in some ways closer to the Northern Forest . In recognition of its rather different character , it has been separately described . This region is made up politically of the island of Newfoundland , most of Quebec province east of the St Lawrence ( the Eastern Townships , South Shore and Gaspe ) , the three maritime provinces of Canada ( Nova Scotia , New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island ) and northern New England ? the states of Vermont , New Hampshire and Maine , shorn of their industrialized and urbanized southernmost portions . For although it might at first sight seem an academic sin to split the traditional entity of New England , the fact remains that southern New England is rather part of that almost continuous belt of Mid-Atlantic industry , commerce and urbanized Figure  | THE NORTH EAST AND NEWFOUNDLAND population that extends from southern Maine to Virginia , and that it sorts ill with the forested and scantily-peopled lands to the north . Much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cloudy , but forestry and fishing , mining and farming , and holiday resorts bring activity to scattered places , usually close to river or sea . The drowned coastline with its deep sheltered harbours and many coves still supports a valuable fishing industry and a few commercial ports , but the intense lumbering , shipping and boat-building activity with which they once abounded have now largely departed . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF After ages of erosion had reduced the rocks of this region to a low and roughly level peneplain ' , it was re-elevated and attacked by rivers which excavated valleys in the softer rocks . The uplands were left as rolling plateaus of resistant rock above which rose summits of yet harder rock which had successfully resisted the first levelling . Then the region was smothered by the great Quaternary ice sheets which left behind a mantle of morainic material , although in the north many areas appear to have escaped this glaciation . Where the ice passed , it levelled off or rounded the outstanding surface irregularities . Before the advance of the ice sheet and immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summits into peaks and plucked out their sides to form corries , and the valleys leading downwards were deepened . In early Palaeozoic times , upfolded mountain ranges crossed this region from southern New England to distant Newfoundland , running first northwards , then trending north-westwards . These are represented to-day by worn rounded uplands of crystalline metamorphic and igneous rocks of great age : hard schists , gneisses , granites , crystalline limestone and quartzites . The monadnocks ' , or mountain masses that escaped erosion , are usually composed of hard granite . The term monadnock ' is taken from the Indian name of Mt Monadnock , which is such a residual survival and towers awe-inspiringly 1,500 feet above the New Hampshire hills . These roughly parallel ranges and their monadnock ' summits vary greatly in height , having been elevated to different levels and some subjected more to erosion than others . The Taconic , Hoosac and Green Mts of western Massachusetts and Vermont are continued in Canada and become the Shickshock and Notre Dame Mts in the Gaspe peninsula , where Mt Jacques Cartier reaches 4,16o feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Mt Washington ) continue into Maine and are resumed in northern New Brunswick . Other , though lower , uplands run from  | southern Maine through southern New Brunswick , and yet others through Nova Scotia . These latter are low plateaus that seldom reach I , 000 feet . Between these mountains down-folded troughs filled up with sediments in the Lower Palaeozoic eras . Here , softer and more recent clays , shales , sandstones , limestones , conglomerates , and some coal beds , were preserved in depressions . The rivers have excavated their valleys in these softer rocks . In the west , the depressions are deep north ? south troughs holding the river Hudson and Lake Champlain , and then the Connecticut river . In the east , the rivers have broken across the parallel structural lines , aided by transverse tectonic depressions . Such a transverse depression runs across the region from the St Lawrence estuary opposite the Saguenay river to Passamaquoddy Bay at the entrance to the Bay of Fundy . This depression is followed by the St John and St Croix rivers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands from the mainland and ? in this instance a much wider and deeper feature ? Newfoundland from the rest of the region . The largest of the lowland basins is the triangular-shaped central part of New Brunswick which contains Pennsylvanian sediments ; these also compose the floor of Prince Edward Island beneath the superficial drift . A geologically recent submergence of the land has caused the coast to be invaded and drowned by the sea . Invasion of the longitudinal depressions has created Chaleur Bay , the bay of Fundy and St Mary 's Bay , as well as the bays of Newfoundland . It has almost succeeded in cutting Cape Breton Island in two parts . Northumberland Strait and Cabot Strait are examples of drowned transverse depressions . The Bay of Fundy is remarkable for its tidal range of 30 feet and more . The Atlantic coasts of Maine and Nova Scotia are deeply penetrated by ria-like inlets ? they were not sufficiently affected by ice to become fiords . The south shore of the St Lawrence estuary has parallel rocky ridges which betray the Appalachian trend in following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the northern side of Gaspe continues the structural alignment , and similarly aligned coasts are found on the Fundy shore of Nova Scotia , and the west side of Cape Breton Island . At the eastern end of the Gaspe peninsula , however , the alternating Appalachian highlands and valleys meet the sea with a coastline of promontories and bays . Anticosti Island , with its white limestone cliffs , is an outlying part of the region structurally . In many places , both on the crystalline uplands and on the sedimentary lowlands , the drainage has been impeded by glacial deposits giving rise to numerous lakes and to falls and rapids on the rivers . Lake-bespattered areas are especially noteworthy in Maine , Nova Scotia and Newfoundland .  | The Adirondack Mts . The northern part of the Hudson ? Champlain trough is floored with marine clays laid down in a post-glacial sea . Across this trough to the west is a mass of ancient Pre-Cambrian crystalline rocks related structurally more to the Canadian Shield than to the Appalachians . In its highest north-eastern part , the hard intrusive igneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet in Mt Marcy . From the elevated glaciated summits , deep forested valleys , usually containing morainedammed lakes , radiate in all directions . CLIMATE There is a considerable contrast between the rather mild winters of the coastal areas of New England and Nova Scotia , where average January means are from 22 ? to 25 ? ( Portland 23 ? , Bangor 23 ? , Halifax 24 ? ) , and the northern part of the region , along and inland from the south shore of the St Lawrence estuary . Here winters are almost as severe as in the centre of the continent at similar latitudes and average January means are often less than Iz ? ( Lake Megantic z ? , Father Point 9 ? , Presque Isle II ' , Dalhousie o ? ) . The intermediate area has January means higher than those to the north and north-west but lower than those to the south and east ( Saint John 19 ? , Charlottetown 18 ? ) . The warmer winters are due to the proximity of the Atlantic and to winds blowing in off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St Lawrence estuary is choked with ice and prevailing westerly winds bring icy cold from northern Quebec and Labrador . The mountains of the interior are even colder . Summers are generally rather cool , with average July means ranging from 58 ? on the north shore of the Gaspe peninsula to over 70 ? in southern New England . Inland situations are generally warmer than coastal ones : Presque Isle ( Me ) though farther north than Saint John ( N.B. ) , is 5 ? warmer in July ( July means , 66 ? and 61 ? ) . Summers are surprisingly warm in the Northumberland Strait area with July means at Chatham ( N.B. ) and Charlottetown ( P.E.I. ) averaging several degrees above places farther south ( 67 ? and 66 ? ) . Spring is delayed and early summer cooled in the maritime and estuarine northern parts of the region by cold water chilled by melting ice and by the cold Labrador current . Fogs occur when warm moist air blows on to these cold waters . Precipitation increases from 30 inches in the west and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interior highlands receiving 5 or 10 inches more than adjacent lowlands . The Atlantic coast of New England has about 40 inches , but the east coast of Nova Scotia over 50 inches . All over the region , the fall is well distributed throughout the year . A summer  | maximum , sometimes with a subsidiary winter maximum , is found in the west and north-west , but in the north-east no seasonal maximum is recognizable . In the east and south-east , somewhat more rain normally falls in winter . Snowfall , which amounts to 30 ? 50 inches a year in southern New England , increases rapidly northwards and most of the northern part of the region receives over too inches a year ( Father Pt 107 ins , Gaspe 113 ins , Charlottetown 113 ins ) . The interior highlands get even more snow ( e.g. Lake Megantic , 126 ins ) . Snow remains on the ground through the winter , especially in the north . The plentiful and well-distributed rainfall and snowfall are due to the constant passage of cyclonic disturbances , for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account for the great changeability of the weather , particularly in winter , when in rapid succession there may occur a severe cold spell with sub-zero temperatures , then a heavy fall of snow , followed by thawing warm winds . VEGETATION AND SOILS At the coming of the Europeans , this region was almost wholly forested . It is still predominantly so , as forests are estimated to cover 90% of New Brunswick , 8o% of Maine and New Hampshire , 70% of Nova Scotia and nearly 6o% of Vermont . Prince Edward Island has been almost entirely cleared , however . Very little of the forest is now virgin , especially in New England , where the proportion is put at only 5% . The rest has at some time been cut over , cleared for farming or burned , and the present forest is inferior second growth . In the lowland areas and on better soils , it is of the mixed Laurentian type ( see p. 32 ) . This forest extends into Canada where it is found all round the Bay of Fundy . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tree that grew upwards of 200 feet , have long ago been cleared , and the better sorts of tree have suffered a similar fate . In the more northerly and more elevated areas , the forest is almost wholly coniferous , with spruce and balsam fir predominating . Swampy lands carry cedar , black spruce , black ash and tamarack . White birch , spruce , jack pine and balsam fir are found in the second growth of burned over areas . The Atlantic side of Nova Scotia has heavy precipitation and many bogs , some of which are treeless while others grow black spruce , black and red maple . There are many barren rocky areas where the crystalline granites and quartzites stand naked to the sky ; but where forest grows , it is coniferous . The soils are pedalfers throughout and having been formed beneath forest , podzols . In the coniferous areas , i.e. predominantly in the north , they are grey podzols ? thin highly leached and very acidic soils , lacking  | humus and of little agricultural value . Under the deciduous woodlands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acidic , are less so than the grey podzols . They have more humus and respond well to fertilizers , and many need drainage . The highland areas either have poor thin soils or lack soil altogether . Because the region is covered mostly by glacial drift which varies greatly in its composition from place to place , there is also much variety of soil type . The presence or absence of limestone in the parent material has much to do with the fertility of the soil . AGRICULTURE Large areas of crystalline upland are quite without agriculture , while others have only small and scattered farms . Large non-agricultural areas coincide with the Adirondacks , the Green and White Mts , the highland area of north-western Maine , the central part of the Gaspe peninsula , the great forests of New Brunswick , the interior parts of Nova Scotia and the northern limb of Cape Breton Island . Agriculture has been on the retreat in the marginal areas since about 188o ; abandoned farms are reverting to forests . These cool cloudy lands with their poor soils and boulder-strewn fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands of the West ; nor with their broken topography were they adaptable to mechanized cultivation . Many farmers can only support themselves by working part time in forest , fishery or mine . Others prefer to abandon the hard struggle and migrate . In New Brunswick , French Canadians or Acadiansl will often take over a farm abandoned by an Anglo-Canadian . Dairy farming is the only form of agriculture that can be profitably pursued on many farms . The cool cloudy rainy summers , the short growing season and the poor soils do not encourage arable , but the climate favours pasture . Even so , cattle have to be kept and fed indoors for up to six months . In New England , the barns are often connected to the farmhouse to facilitate communication when heavy falls of snow in winter make all movement difficult . Despite the general difficulties of farming in the region as a whole , there are several areas which , because of some peculiarity of soil , slope or climate , are able to specialize in some particular crop and cultivate it intensively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following : The Lake Champlain lowland . Here winters are severe , but summers are warm and the average frost-free season lasts more than five months . The lake is some protection against unseasonable frosts . The rich marine-clay1 Descendants of the original French settlers of Acadie or Nova Scotia .  | floored bottom lands are used for dairy farming and the growing of oats and other fodder crops ; the hillsides have apple orchards . The C'onnecticut valley . The southern part of this valley , which is devoted to tobacco , belongs to the Mid-Atlantic region . Farther north , some fertile soils are still developed but the growing season is much shorter . Dairy farming and vegetables predominate . East Coast of Maine . Here blueberries are gathered on the poor acidic podzols . Every few years , the bushes are burnt off , to control weeds , pests and diseases , and replaced by fresh ones . In the south , where the soils are better , sweet corn is grown for canning . There has been a rapid increase in poultry raising , especially young broilers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St John valley , N.B. This district , lying on both sides of the international boundary , is the foremost potato-growing area on the continent . Maine produces about 15% of all the potatoes grown in U.S.A. , and New Brunswick about 22% of Canadian production . The Figure  | deep loamy soils are especially suitable to the crop , but the growing season is dangerously short . The Annapolis valley of Nova Scotia . This long narrow valley is well sheltered from cold winds by the ridges on both sides . Oats , hay and potatoes are grown on the bottom lands , but the district is most famous for its apple crop from the orchards on the lower slopes of the valley . Strawberries are another speciality . ( Plate I. ) Prince Edward Island . This is another potato-growing area , and with only o.06% of the area of Canada produces about 18% of the country 's potatoes . Fur-farming is still carried on , and dairying and poultry are important . Coastal areas are fertilized with lime-rich mussel ( shell fish ) mud as is done in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This upland district lying in southeastern Quebec west of the Maine boundary has some good pastures , and besides dairying , beef cattle and large numbers of sheep are kept . Maple sugar , from the sap of the sugar maple tree , is also produced by the Eastern Townships farmer . FISHING It was the rich fishing grounds , which extend from Newfoundland to Cape Cod , that first brought Europeans to this part of the world early in the sixteenth century , and fishing still remains a valuable resource , particularly in view of the agricultural poverty of many parts of the region . A shallow continental shelf , with banks near enough the surface to be reached by the sunlight , thus encouraging the growth of underwater plants , and the meeting of the cold Labrador current and the warm Gulf Stream , promoting a rich mixture of plankton for fish to feed on , are factors leading to the proliferation of fish in the area . Cod , haddock , halibut , mackerel , herring , pollock and flounder are caught . The fishermen operate with small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and schooners for the deep-sea fishery . The fish are cleaned after landing , and then dried , salted , canned or quick frozen . Some modern vessels have refrigeration facilities on board . Highest in value is the lobster , caught off the Atlantic coasts of Maine , in the Bay of Fundy , and especially along the shores of Chaleur Bay and Northumberland Strait . The value of fish caught by Canadian fishermen in this region , including those from Newfoundland , comes to about half the Canadian total . Maine 's catch comes to about one-third that of the Canadian area by value , and over half this amount is contributed by the lobster fishery , the prosperity of which is threatened by overfishing . The shores of this region are especially suited to the fishing industry by the large numbers of harbours , bays and coves found along its submerged and indented coastline . The present tendency , however , is for the industry to become more concentrated in those ports from which the big trawlers operate and which have the necessary processing equipment to meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ports are Pictou , Canso , North Sydney , Halifax , Lunenburg , Lockeport , Yarmouth , Rockland , Portland ? all in Nova Scotia except the last two , which are in Maine . Pictou is the centre of the lobster industry . The Magdalen islands in the gulf of St Lawrence are inhabited by fishermen , as is also the inhospitable north coast of the Gaspe peninsula , where Gaspe , with a good harbour and a railway terminus , is the chief port .  | Although producing less than z% of the continent 's production by value , this region has some rich mines yielding significant amounts of iron , lead , copper , zinc , asbestos , coal and stone . The leading minerals by value are shown below : Table The asbestos-mining region of the Eastern Townships of Quebec is one of the two major asbestos-producing areas in the world , the other being in the Soviet Union . The mines are situated in mountainous country at Black Lake ( where mining first began in 1878 ) , Thetford Mines , Asbestos and other places . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost no asbestos . Nova Scotia and New Brunswick produce more than half the Canadian coal output , but only a very small fraction of that of the continent as a whole . Good coking coal is mined in the Sydney , Cumberland and Pictou areas of Nova Scotia , the seam being very thick in the latter district , and non-coking bituminous coal is raised in the Inverness area . The mines are near the sea , facilitating water carriage , but the coal is difficult and dangerous to work . Production is small and declining , as there is no large market and the coal can not compete with natural gas in the industrialized areas of southern Ontario and Quebec . New Brunswick coal production , which is less than one million tons , comes from a single thin seam in the Minto area . The Murdochville copper mine is in the Shickshock Mts of the Gaspe peninsula . The low-grade ore was first mined in 1954 and is refined at the company town of Murdochville and exported from Gaspe port , which is 5o miles away . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the mountain mass , but the low-grade magnetite is costly to work and production falls off steeply when demand slackens and prices fall . The Green Mts of Vermont are an important source of granite and marble for monumental work , and of crushed stone for concrete aggregate and road construction . Limestone is quarried at Rockland ( Me ) , and the gypsum quarries round Windsor ( N.S. ) are among the largest in the world . Gypsum is made into wallboard and other building materials .  | There are many possibilities for local hydro-electric power development in this largely highland area with its abundant and well-distributed rainfall , and power production is mostly at small scattered stations . Installed capacity totals less than z million kw , or about 4% of the total for Anglo-America , and of this amount about 500,000 kw are in Maine , 450,000 in New Hampshire , 200,000 in Newfoundland and 200,000 in New Brunswick . INDUSTRY The wood-products industry is important throughout this forested region . Good timber is now scarce , especially in the New England states , and the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the nineteenth century . Sawmills are still kept busy , however , along the south shore of the St Lawrence estuary and on the north coast of the Gaspe peninsula , notably at Rimouski , and also at various places in New Brunswick . But logging for pulpwood is now of greater significance and the spruce and fir forests that now predominate are well suited to this use . There are pulp mills in all parts of the region , but paper mills are more important in Newfoundland and New England . The mills in New England are dotted along the Merrimack , Androscoggin , Kennebec and Penobscot rivers at such points as Berlin , Livermore Falls , Augusta , Skowhegan , Bangor , Old Town and Millinocket , all in Maine . In 1958 a large new pulp mill began working at Lincoln on the Penobscot . In New Brunswick there are large pulp and paper mills at Edmundston on the St John river , and where rivers flow into Chaleur Bay at Dalhousie and Bathurst . There is a mill at Chandler on the south coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Townships . Rivers are important to the industry as well as forests . They not only float the logs but generate the hydro-electricity at falls and rapids to drive the mills . Another industry of great value to the region , and well distributed throughout it , is catering for tourists . Grand scenery , with game-rich forests , magnificent mountains , precipitous cliffs , hidden coves , picturesque offshore rocks , fish-inhabited lakes , and rivers broken by falls and rapids , attract the urban multitudes , tens of millions of whom live within a day 's motoring distance of some part or other of the region . Summer is the main season , and its fresh coolness is in pleasant contrast to the oppressive humid heat of many of the cities in July and August . The old farmhouses and fishing villages , and places with historical associations , add to the attractions . The Adirondacks and the Green and White Mts have  | their resorts , as do the coasts of Maine , the Canadian Maritimes and the Gaspe peninsula . Hunting and fishing lodges are found farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The high tides and the Petitcodiac bore ' amuse visitors to the Bay of Fundy resorts . The Petitcodiac estuary is without water for several hours owing to the great fall of the tide in the Bay . When the tide comes in , an immense mass of water is compressed into the narrowing estuary , which it ascends as a tidal wave up to five feet high and accompanied by a roaring noise . At Saint John are the reversing falls ' . When the tide ebbs , the river rushes down its gorge into the harbour , but with the incoming flood tide , water surges up and over the falls . These and other peculiarities are well publicized in the flood of advertisements and pamphlets put out by tourist promotion agencies . Although most visitors come in summer , winter sports are of importance in the Adirondacks , Vermont and New Hampshire . There is little heavy industry apart from the iron and steel works at Sydney on Cape Breton Island . The site has excellent coking coal and a water-front location , enabling high-grade ore and limestone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a million tons a year . The textile industry is found in the Eastern Townships of Quebec , especially at Sherbrooke , and also at several smaller towns such as Magog and Granby . ( Plate II . ) COMMUNICATIONS The rivers are used for the movement of logs , but are seldom navigable over any great distance . The rugged topography of much of the region has made railway construction difficult ; nevertheless lines cross the Appalachians between Montreal and New Haven , Montreal and Boston , Montreal and Portland . The main C.P.R. line from Montreal to Saint John ( N.B. ) runs through Maine from west to east , after passing through the Eastern Townships of Quebec , but the C.N.R. line to Halifax comes through the Temiscouata gap in the mountain system . One railway follows the south shore of the St Lawrence estuary as far as Matane , and another pursues the Atlantic coast of Maine ? New Hampshire , though often having to bend inland to avoid ria ' inlets . A line follows the coasts of the south-western part of Nova Scotia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the Gaspe peninsula , the Nova Scotia shore east of Halifax and much of Cape Breton Island are without rail service . A single line crosses Newfoundland . There are usually roads in the areas without a railway , except in most of Newfoundland . Elsewhere main roads tend to follow the railways .  | The drowned coasts have many excellent harbours in sheltered rias ' ; but the whole region tends to be a peninsular area neglected by commerce , which passes either to the north into the St Lawrence , or to the south to New York and the Mid-Atlantic ports . The main ports of the region ? Portland , Saint John and Halifax ? are aided by the winter freezing of the St Lawrence . Halifax is also a naval port , an advanced peninsular position being an advantage for this function . The many smaller ports are engaged either in fishing or in shipping wood , pulp and paper . HISTORY OF SETTLEMENT The Norsemen from Scandinavia hit upon these shores about the year moo but they were forgotten until their re-discovery by Cabot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of Newfoundland were resorted to by fishermen from all parts of Europe . Later in the sixteenth century , the St Lawrence estuary was frequented by French fishermen , whalers and fur traders . Shortly before the foundation of Quebec in , 6o8 , another French post had been established in the Annapolis valley of Nova Scotia at Port Royal in 1605 , and subsequently French settlement spread along the Fundy shores of the peninsula . But by the treaty of Utrecht , in 1713 , the French surrendered the Nova Scotia peninsula . It was in reply to the formidable French base of Louisbourg , built on Cape Breton Island , that the British fortified Halifax in 1749 . In 1755 , the Acadians , as the French settlers in Nova Scotia were called , were expelled from British territory because their loyalty was questioned . Some went to Quebec , others to New Brunswick , Prince Edward Island and Cape Breton Island . Soon afterwards New Englanders came and took their places . Then in 1763 all this territory became British . British supremacy was soon challenged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thousands of Empire loyalists left the newly-formed United States after 1783 . Besides the large numbers who went to live in Ontario , others settled on the Gaspe coast , in New Brunswick , Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island . They were soon joined by European immigrants , notably Germans who settled in southern Nova Scotia , and Scottish highlanders who came to northern Nova Scotia , Prince Edward and Cape Breton Islands . The early nineteenth century saw the most flourishing period in the development of these colonies , owing to the prosperity of their fishing , lumbering and shipbuilding industries , soon to be followed by the profitable working of their coal mines . This part of Canada suffers from being almost isolated from the rest of the country by the northward extension of Maine to within twenty-four  | miles of the St. Lawrence . According to the 1783 treaty between Great Britain and the newly independent United States , the frontier was to be the St Croix river to its source , then a line drawn due north to ' the highlands which divide the rivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the St Lawrence ' . It was assumed at the time that there was a central range of highlands from which rivers flowed in each direction . But the river St John had penetrated the central highlands in which the other Atlantic rivers , such as the Kennebec and Penobscot , had their origin , and by process of river capture , seized headwaters that may once have gone to the St Lawrence . In so doing Figure it placed the watershed between that river and the Atlantic within a few miles of the south shore of the St Lawrence estuary . The Americans claimed that this was the boundary on the grounds that the wording of the treaty meant that the frontier should follow the divide . The British could claim that the central range of highlands was meant because , generally speaking , it divided the water flowing north and south ; that because one river was exceptional , this did not justify substituting another and more northerly range ; that , in any case , the St John did not enter the open ocean , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiators at the treaty of Paris could not be supposed to have intended a frontier so harmful as the American claim would make it . At the treaty of Ghent , which concluded the second war between Great Britain and the United States ( 1815 ) , the dispute was to be referred to the King of the Netherlands , who eventually ( 1831 ) proposed a solution much to the advantage of the United States . It formed the basis of the final settlement in 1842 . The British government 's admission of the substantial part  | of the American pretensions , though due in part to geographical ignorance , was a betrayal of the interests of the future Canada , interests for which Great Britain was then the trustee ( Fig. 33 ) . In 1867 Nova Scotia and New Brunswick joined with the two Canadas ( Ontario and Quebec ) to form the Canadian confederation , a decision bitterly contested at the time . It meant that the maritime colonies became mere outlying and neglected provinces in a large dominion dominated by the richer and more populous central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newfoundland stayed out until 1949 . The Maritimes would have suffered some economic decline after the 186os in any case , and it was unfortunate that Confederation coincided with its beginning . The slow progress of the population of these provinces during this century , when the population of Canada as a whole trebled , can be seen from the table below . But the states of northern New England in the U.S. did not advance any faster . A quickening in the rate of growth is perceptible after 1940 : Table Despite this slow growth , the three most densely populated provinces of Canada are still Prince Edward Island , Nova Scotia and New Brunswick . The North East , as defined here , does not , however , coincide exactly with boundaries of states and provinces . Populous southern parts of New Hampshire , Maine and Vermont are excluded , as being in the Mid-Atlantic region , while parts of New York state ( the Adirondacks and the Lake Champlain valley ) and of Quebec province ( the Eastern Townships , the South Shore , the Gaspe peninsula ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to give the region in 196o a population of about 4 million , or z% of the total for Anglo-America . POPULATION is thinly distributed over the whole peninsular zone , there being no large areas totally without population , as in much of Newfoundland . The mountainous areas of central and northern Maine , and the Shickshock mountain area of Gaspe , are , however , very sparsely peopled , while the lands bordering the Bay of Fundy and Northumberland Strait are more densely populated , as are also the Halifax and Sydney districts of Nova Scotia . There are no large urban areas , the leading ones being as follows ( population in thousands ) :  | Table Halifax , the capital of Nova Scotia , has an excellent harbour in one of the drowned rias ' that characterize the Nova Scotian coast . The minimum depth of the approach channel is over 5o feet . The city itself is built on a small peninsula surrounded by deep sheltered waters . It was founded in 1749 as a military and naval base for the defence of British territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful in the two great wars of this century . Although an all-the-year-round port , its business increases in winter when the St Lawrence ports are closed . Its trade amounts to about 7 million tons of cargo a year , placing it third in order of Canadian ports , after Montreal and Vancouver . Imports are made up almost wholly of petroleum and petroleum products . Exports , which roughly balance imports , include Nova Scotian gypsum , oil fuel , grain , newsprint and metallic ores and concentrates . These latter , like the prairie grain , have come through to Halifax by rail in winter . The town is dominated by Citadel Hill , an oval-shaped glacial mound , 270 feet high , which commands the peninsula and surrounding waters . Possessing this obviously defensible site and an incomparable harbour , Halifax was the ideal site for a naval and military base . Besides its naval shipyards and docks , it has food processing , iron-founding , rope and twine-making , and textile industries . Portland is built on peninsulas and islands at the head of Casco Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the nearest United States deep-water harbour to Europe . The present town dates from 1713 . It ranks fourth among American ports as an importer , receiving about 16 million tons a year , but its exports , which formerly included considerable quantities of Canadian grain , are now small . It is an important fishing port , and imports a large tonnage of woodpulp , petroleum products and coal . Manufactures include foodstuffs , paper , wood products including furniture , and clothing ; there is also some light engineering . Saint John is built on a group of rocky hills around the point where the St John river enters the Bay of Fundy . Owing to coastal submergence , the sea has come among these hills , making Saint John a town of peninsulas separated by inlets of the sea . The harbour , which is not as good as that at Halifax , the approach channel being only 30 feet deep , is open all the year round , and the port is especially busy in winter when the St Lawrence is closed . Annual trade is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petroleum and raw sugar , and the exports , grain and newsprint . The town has grown slowly in the present century , during which it has  | fallen from eighth to sixteenth in order of Canadian cities by population . Its chief industries are woodworking , shipbuilding and textiles . Sherbrooke ( Que. ) has a fine situation where the rapid Magog river joins the St Francis . These rivers have been followed by important lines of communication and this , together with water power from the falls on the Magog , has made Sherbrooke the leading industrial town of the Eastern Townships . It was founded in 1794 by Empire loyalists from Vermont , who erected water mills on the site . In 1881 , the population was 7,000 , but rapid growth followed the coming of hydro-electricity , and textile and metal-working industries were developed . NEWFOUNDLAND In 1583 , Newfoundland was claimed for England by Sir Humphrey Gilbert , but early in the seventeenth century both English and French coastal settlements were made and ownership of the island was disputed . At the Treaty of Utrecht ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1854 until 1933 it was a self-governing British colony , but owing to the world economic depression it became unable to support itself financially , and its constitution was suspended . In 1948 a majority of the people voted for confederation with Canada , hoping to share in the Dominion 's prosperity . The people of Newfoundland do not yet regard themselves as Canadians , but maintain a highly independent attitude to the mainland . This bleak and rocky island , with its brief , cool and wet summer , can not support its population , approaching half a million , by agriculture , and until recently fishing was almost the only resource . The first half of the twentieth century has witnessed the growth of the woodpulp ? newsprint industry , mining and manufacturing , and these have overtaken fishing in value of production , although not in number of men employed . For fishermen , woodmen and miners alike , life is hard and the standard of living is below that of other Canadian provinces . From the physiographic point of view , Newfoundland is a detached part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that occupies the eastern part of North America . Its rocks are all old , consisting of Pre-Cambrian crystalline formations and Lower Palaeozoic sedimentaries arranged in plateaus . The central part of the island is a plateau about x , 000 feet above sea-level ; this has been scraped bare in parts by ice , while elsewhere its barren rocky surface is obscured by morainic deposits of boulders and sands . Drainage is poor , with water retained in ice-scoured hollows and dammed up by glacial material , and the longest  | river , the Exploits , finds its way with difficulty from lake to lake . The plateau terminates abruptly , and when it meets the sea , coasts are rocky , steep and inaccessible . The long western limb of the island is more mountainous and has summits rising above 2,000 feet . Attached to the main central part of the island by a narrow isthmus is the Avalon peninsula , rocky and desolate , and varying in height from soo to 1,000 feet . This south-eastern part of Newfoundland has a very broken coastline which is deeply penetrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favourable climate . Temperatures , which drop north-westwards , range from 25 ? F. to 1o ? in winter and from 65 ? to so ? in summer . The interior normally has a period of hot weather with an average July maximum temperature of up to 90 ? . The strait of Belle Isle is frozen in winter and the northerly coasts of the island are chilled in spring and early summer by the ice-laden Labrador current . Precipitation is heavy and well distributed throughout the year ; amounts range from 55 inches in the south to 35 inches in the north . A particularly unpleasant feature of the winter is freezing rain which makes the hilly streets of the towns difficult to negotiate . Snowfall is heavy , averaging over loo inches a year in most places . Cold winds , rain , drizzle and mist often bring dismal weather to the eastern side of the island in summer , when fogs commonly hang over the Grand Banks . Although Newfoundland is often classified within the northern forest or taiga zone , half the island 's surface is barren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more mountainous terrain has tundra-like vegetation . Where forest does occur on the plateaus it is poorly developed , thin and stunted by the wind . ' The better forest lies in the valleys . Berrybearing shrubs are common , and many Newfoundlanders gather blueberries for their own use or for sale . Although less than half the island is forested , the wood products industry is the most important occupation . The woods are mostly too poor for lumber , but are adequate for pulping , and the Anglo-Newfoundland Development Company 's mills at Grand Falls and Bishop 's Falls , together with the Bowater mill at Corner Brook , produce over half a million tons of newsprint a year . The mill at Corner Brook is claimed to be the largest in the world with an output of a thousand tons of newsprint a day . The pulp-mill workers enjoy a higher level of living than most Newfoundlanders have been accustomed to , but for the men working out in the woods , hours are long , pay is low , and there is much hardship . Fishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The main catch consists of cod and halibut . Most men are engaged  | Figure with the in-shore fishery , which is carried on close to the shore from small boats . The fish are split , dried or cured on wooden erections called flakes ' , a characteristic feature of the south coast . On the Grand Banks the fishery is carried on by schooners and trawlers , and is more in the hands of companies than individual fishermen ; the Newfoundlanders share the fishing grounds with the vessels of many nations ? American , British , French , Norwegian , etc. ? as these are open international waters . Owing to a decline in the demand for dried salted cod , the staple product of the industry , more and more fish are now taken to freezing establishments and marketed as frozen fresh fish . The herring fishery is prosecuted from the Bay of Islands on the west coast and here there are canneries and pickling works to process the catch . The seal fishery is carried on from St john 's whence , early in spring , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the  | seal on the still frozen surface of the sea . In 1958 55,000 seals were caught , and 700 whales . Caplin , salmon and lobsters also form part of the Newfoundland catch , and about a hundred factories pack salmon and lobster . The islands of St Pierre and Miquelon , off the south coast of Newfoundland , all that remains of the once great French empire in North America , serve as a base for the French fishing fleets operating on the Grand Banks as well as for local fishermen . The rocky nature of the terrain , the short , cool wet summer , and the poverty of the acidic podzol soils are unfavourable to agriculture , which is mainly limited to small areas in the south-west near St George 's Bay . In the Avalon peninsula , where population is densest , there are some dairy farms and market gardens to supply the town of St John 's , though conditions are far from ideal . Elsewhere a little poor farming is carried on as a part-time occupation by woodsmen and fishermen . Crops grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As incomes rise , better-quality imported products compete successfully with the island crops and the amount of farm land , small though it is , is decreasing . Mining is more important than agriculture , with iron ore from Bell Island , and copper , lead and zinc from Buchans in the interior . Bell Island produces about 8 million tons of ore a year , much of which goes to the ironworks at Sydney , Cape Breton Island ; about 70,000 tons of metallic concentrates from Buchans are shipped from Botwood ( Fig. 34 ) . The development of manufacturing industry is handicapped by lack of power and lack of a large market , although the relative isolation of the island and low labour costs are advantages . There is no coal or oil , but hydro-electric possibilities are good where rivers negotiate the steep scarp face of the plateau ; they have been developed hitherto only in relation to the woodpulp industry by the paper companies . Industrial growth since the war has been due to government assistance and a higher average income which has lifted more Newfoundlanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fishing industry , such as shipbuilding at Port Union and Clarenville , marine engines at St John 's , whale oil and seal oil refining , also at St John 's , there have been some new developments . These include woodworking at Donovans , leather at Harbour Grace , and seal-leather processing at Carbonear . It is hoped to develop a tourist industry . The picturesque coast and the hunting and fishing possibilities of the island 's wild life ( moose , caribou , wild duck , geese , partridge and fish ) would attract American visitors if accommodation and communications were of a higher standard . A narrow-gauge railway crosses the island from Port-aux-Basques in the south-west , by way of Corner Brook  | and Grand Falls , to St John 's ; branches run to Argentia and Harbour Grace in the Avalon peninsula , and to Botwood and Buchans . A transisland road is nearing completion , following much the same course as the railway . Otherwise , roads are confined to the Avalon peninsula . TransAtlantic marine cables are brought ashore at Heart 's Content . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outside world by boat , as the coast is often too rocky and precipitous even to walk along . Steamships connect Port-aux-Basques with Sydney ( N.S. ) , and there are direct air services to Montreal , Halifax and Sydney . St John 's is the chief port . Its harbour is seldom frozen , but the approaches are sometimes impeded by ice . Owing to the strategic position of Newfoundland on the North Atlantic sea route , the U.S. government secured the right to build military bases on the island during the war . These were built at St John 's , Argentia and Stephenville and their maintenance adds to local income and employment in their vicinities . The closing of the base at St John 's in 196o was unwelcome news for local merchants . The estimated population of Newfoundland in 1961 was 472,000 compared with about 350,000 in 1951 . This large increase results from a very high birth rate and to the establishment of Canadian government agencies and businesses in the island after federation with Canada in 1949 . About 85% of the people are British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other European , or Canadian . Settlements , including the towns , are , with few exceptions , coastal , and many isolated fishing cottages are precariously situated between the sea and the rocky cliffs . Nearly half the population lives in the Avalon peninsula , mostly in coastal settlements dependent on fishing . Here at the head of a small land-locked harbour is the capital and largest town , St John 's ( pop . 80,000 ) . The harbour is too small and congested for large ocean-going vessels , but it is the headquarters of the fishing industry . The principal trade consists in the import of coal , petroleum , textiles , machinery and foodstuffs . Except for the business centre , the buildings are wooden and the city has suffered several destructive fires . The second largest town is Corner Brook ( 24,000 ) , a company town in the west , dependent on its great pulp and paper mill . It is built on the south side of the Humber fiord which enables large ships to enter and leave with summer cargoes of newsprint ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the paper goes by rail to Port-aux-Basques . Grand Falls ( 6,000 ) , Bishop 's Falls ( 4,000 ) and Botwood ( 3,000 ) , within 15 miles of each other on the lower course of the Exploits river , are also concerned with the production and shipment of newsprint .  | ALTHOUGH comprising only about one per cent of the total area of AngloAmerica , this region is industrially and commercially the foremost on the continent . It contributes about 27% of the total value added by manufacturing and it possesses the four leading ports . Its population amounts to about 22.5% of that of the whole continent and it contains the great metropolis of New York , as well as the capital city of Washington . An almost continuous urban area extends from one end of the region to the other , permeated by the highest degree of human activity and served by the most advanced methods of communication . Southern New England has been included in this region , despite the strong physical and traditional reasons for treating New England as a whole ; the south forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial zone that extends from Boston to Washington , while the north has close affinities ? physical , economic and human ? with adjacent Canadian territories . Also , southern New England was settled , like Virginia and the middle colonies , in the first half of the seventeenth century and formed from the earliest times part of the English settlements on the MidAtlantic coast . The Middle Atlantic region as here constituted includes the whole of the states of Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New Figure  | Figure Jersey and Delaware , and parts of New Hampshire , New York , Pennsylvania and Virginia . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF ( Fig. 37 ) A series of belts runs from south-west to north-east , except in southern New England where the alignment is north and south . The first of these physiographic belts is formed by the northern end of the Atlantic coastal plain , the surface of which is composed of terraces of sands and clays . The land is generally level and there are extensive swampy areas , but in places relief is more hilly . This section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are tidal far inland ? as far as Troy on the Hudson river . Peninsulas , notably the Delmarva peninsula , ) are isolated by the bays , Footnote  | and the shores of these peninsulas are themselves also embayed . Erosion in soft Cretaceous rocks has resulted in a continuous trough which runs from Long Island Sound , where it is filled by the sea , through to the Potomac valley below Washington . The principal rivers crossing the plain ? the Hudson , Delaware and Schuylkill , Susquehanna and Potomac ? are all diverted into a north-east and south-west direction by the trough . Inland this broken remnant of the Atlantic coastal plain is succeeded by the northernmost and narrowest section of the Appalachian Piedmont , a low plateau made up of metamorphic rocks such as gneiss , schists , crystalline limestones and quartzites , and intruded with granites , gabbros and serpentines . Originally raised in a complex mountain structure , these hard old rocks have been worn down to a peneplain ' which slopes gently towards the south-east and mostly lies between I , 000 and 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully resisted erosion stand up above the general level , while rivers have sunk deep and rather narrow valleys beneath it . Beyond the narrow Piedmont zone comes the Triassic lowland in which Triassic sandstones and clays , noteworthy for their dark red colour , have been preserved in a broad depression . The clays form broad valleys and the sandstones low hills , while intrusions of igneous trap ' stand out as long ridges through which streams struggle with difficulty and to the accompaniment of falls . A narrow belt of Crystalline Highlands , the lower , narrower , and more broken continuation of the Blue Ridge to the south , separates the Triassic lowland from the Ridge and Valley zone farther inland . Here lower Palaeozoic sedimentaries , which once were folded up into high mountains , have been worn down to peneplain level and then re-elevated . Rivers have carved longitudinal valleys in the softer limestones and shales , leaving the more resistant sandstones , grits and conglomerates as steep ridges rising to 2,000 feet and more above sealevel . These river valleys do not necessarily correspond to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? often they are cut in the soft rocks brought to the surface in an upfold , while the harder rocks exposed in a downfold tower above as a ridge . Called coastwards by the Atlantic , these valley streams have breached the ridges to make water gaps ' ; where such gaps have been abandoned for others , they remain as dry or wind gaps ' . On the south-eastern side , a remarkably broad and wide valley , dissolved out of limestone and interrupted by low ridges only , is known as the Great Valley . At the Hudson Valley there is an abrupt change in the structural alignment . The south-west ? north-east trend of the Appalachian zones west  | of this line is replaced by a distinct north ? south orientation , of which the Hudson valley itself is the first example . In New England , mountain ranges and valleys , similar in their rock formations to the Ridge and Valley province , alternate from west to east , while Long Island and Cape Cod are all that remain of the drowned Coastal Plain . CLIMATE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January means about or above 32 ? , except in the higher ridges of the Appalachians , where they drop to 25 ? and below . The influence of the sea , accentuated by the deep bays and estuaries , modifies the cold of winter in the coastal plain , and brings early spring weather . Normal maritime influences are reinforced by the Gulf Stream 's warm waters . The average frost-free season is therefore much longer than inland , and normally exceeds zoo days . Summers are warm throughout , with at least one month with a mean above 70 ? in the north and two or three in the south ; coastal locations are rather cooler than inland , and maximum temperatures of 1oo ? or over are rare . Precipitation is abundant and well distributed throughout the year . Annual falls are over 40 inches in the coastal area and between 35 and 40 inland . Coastal areas show no pronounced seasonal maximum , but inland a slight summer maximum of precipitation develops . VEGETATION AND SOILS In its pre-colonization state , the coastal plain was clothed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marsh vegetation on the swamps , while the Piedmont , Triassic lowland , and Ridge and Valley sections carried deciduous woods of oak , chestnut and yellow poplar . Very little virgin forest remains , but there is much cut-over , burnt-over and re-afforested land in the more swampy or sterile areas of the coastal plain and on the steeper slopes of the Ridge and Valley belt . Soils are pedalfers ' and podzols ' , formed under a forest that was mainly deciduous , with mineral salts leached from the top soil by the abundant rains : brown podzols in the north , and red-yellow podzols in the south . They are poor for the most part . This poverty is partly natural and attributable to sterile parent material , such as the sands and gravels of the coastal plain ; it has been aggravated by erosion and exhaustion due to bad farming . There are some good soils , especially where they have developed from limestones and crystalline limestones , as in the Piedmont of southern Pennsylvania , Maryland and Virginia , and in the Great Valley . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern New England , the soil is often derived from glacial material and is full of stones and boulders . AGRICULTURE This region benefits agriculturally from the dense population which crowds the great cities of the Atlantic seaboard and from excellent road and rail communications . The Coastal Plain section has a triple concentration , according to soil , upon dairy farming , vegetables and fruit and poultryfarming . Dairy farming , to supply the urban market with liquid milk , is found on the less well-drained soils of New Jersey and the eastern side of the Delmarva peninsula ; maize , oats , hay and sometimes soya beans are grown as feed for the livestock . Vegetables are grown on the lighter , warmer , sandier soils and benefit from the long frost-free period of maritime areas . South of Chesapeake Bay this type of farm has often replaced old tidewater tobacco plantations , although tobacco is still grown on the well-drained soils of southern Maryland . The vegetable farms carry a high capital investment ; the soils are heavily fertilized and supplementary irrigation is used ; the crops are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrigation is a safeguard against snap frosts owing to the higher temperature of the water supply at such times . The expansion of urban housing , industry , etc. , in the coastal plain causes constant encroachment upon the market gardens . Fruit is also grown at favoured spots ; apples , peaches and strawberries predominate , although blueberries and cranberries are grown commercially on the muck soils ' of New Jersey and Cape Cod in Massachusetts . Poultry-raising usually takes place on very sandy soils that are not capable of improvement , especially in the Delmarva peninsula ; Long Island specializes in ducklings which are sent not only to the New York market , but exported frozen to most parts of the continent . General farming with an emphasis on dairying predominates on the Piedmont and Triassic lowland . A common rotation is ( i ) maize , ( ii ) oats , ( iii ) wheat and ( iv ) hay ( clover and lucerne ) . The wheat is a cash crop but the oats and hay are used as feed for cows . Locally , some special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this may be a vegetable , fruit , tobacco or even mushrooms , as in south-east Pennsylvania . Poultry raising is locally important in this area also . The Lancaster area of the Pennsylvanian Piedmont is renowned for the high standard of its agriculture . This may be attributed to its fertile soils derived from crystalline limestones ; to its excellent transport and location close to several great cities ; and to the wise and careful farming practices of its farmers who are mostly of German  | stock . There is a distinct difference between the relatively small family farms of the Pennsylvanian German settlers and the manors ' of northern Virginia and Maryland , the latter often being spacious residential farms owned by a large landowner . The Ridge and Valley zone is also one of general farming , with dairying prominent . Here the typical rotation is ( i ) maize , ( ii ) oats , ( iii ) hay , all grown to feed the livestock . The ridges are not normally cultivated . Most farms formerly established on their steep slopes have been abandoned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley , with its fertile limestone soils , has an especially rich agriculture in which wheat plays an important part along with the usual maize , fodder crops and livestock . The Hudson river valley has good soils in which lime is usually present and , under the stimulus of large urban populations , concentrates on dairy farming , poultry farming , fruit and vegetables . Light sandy soils are used  | for vegetables , while fruit trees take the better drained loams and silt loams ; apples are the usual crop , but cherries , grapes , peaches and pears are found as well . The heavier soils are used for fodder crops ? oats , hay and pasture . Southern New England , despite poor stony soils , has developed an efficient intensive agriculture under the stimulus of a large urban market . Dairy farming and broiler chicken are the two specialities . Not only are poultry raised for market , but hatching eggs are produced for the broiler industry of the whole Mid-Atlantic coastal plain . Feed grain is imported from the Mid West . The lower Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tobacco , although much of the valuable land devoted to this crop has been lost to urban development . FISHING The fishing industry of the Mid-Atlantic coast is important historically because it trained American sailors and gave the New Englanders an alternative employment to farming . As increasing population began to press hard upon the limited agricultural resources of their land , the fisheries gave occupation to thousands who otherwise would have had to migrate . The leading fishing ports are Boston ( haddock chiefly , also cod and flounder ) , Gloucester ( ocean perch chiefly , also whiting and haddock ) and New Bedford , which catches mainly trash ' , as fish caught , not for human consumption but for industrial purposes and animal foods , are called . New Bedford fishermen also bring in flounder , scallops and haddock , while those from the little Cape Cod ports catch whiting and flounder . Ocean perch had been discarded as trash ' before 1933 , when it was discovered that it could be successfully frozen and filleted . The fish is popular in the Mid West , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed a taste for freshwater fish , and ocean perch has the mild taste and flavour of fish found in inland waters . The principal haddock banks are off Cape Cod , and Boston is the leading haddock port , partly because of proximity to these banks but mainly because Boston merchants own large trawlers , and the fishermen of other ports can not compete with these . The New England fishery has great local and considerable national importance ; the number of people directly employed was 38,000 in 1950 ( 24,000 fishermen and 14,000 shore workers engaged in processing and transportation ) ; 70% of the population of Gloucester depend directly or indirectly on fishing . New England specializes in packing and processing fish , and has made such progress in this direction since the war that its factories now treat more fish than the rest of the United States , including  | Alaska . Shell fish are very important , not only off the New England shore , but especially in Delaware and Chesapeake Bays . The latter area once had the world 's leading oyster beds , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a reduction . Oyster farms are taking the place of the depleted natural grounds . The coast south of Long Island has little importance in the fishing of edible fish , other than shell fish , but trash fish , especially the menhaden , are caught in large quantities . The menhaden is a bony fish , the oil of which has many valuable industrial uses . This region alone accounts for nearly a third by value of the whole country 's fisheries . MINING AND INDUSTRY Anthracite . Coal measures were involved in the folding of the mountains that preceded the present Ridge and Valley section , and as a result of great pressure the coal underwent metamorphosis or change of structure ; it became hard and shiny , highly carboniferous , and it lost its volatile matter . In consequence , it has a high calorific value and will burn without flame or smoke . Until displaced by fuel oil , it was highly prized for domestic heating in the furnaces of American and Canadian homes . For a century , from 182o to 1920 , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slack heaps , and a dense rail network . But production declined from 32 million tons in 1918 to 16 million tons in 1938 . The shortage of fuel during the war caused production to revive to 28 million tons , but by 1958 it had fallen again to 21 million tons . Increased use in electric power stations has prevented consumption falling much lower . The mines are located in the valleys of the Schuylkill , Lehigh and the north branch of the Susquehanna in the region of Scranton , Pottsville and Lehighton . New England lacks fuel , but a nuclear power station is being built at Rowe ( Mass . ) . Some iron ore is mined near Lebanon ( Pa ) where it is beneficiated ' owing to its low grade . No other region of Anglo-America is so highly industrialized as this , and although it contains under 2% of the area of the United States , it contributes 30% of the value added by manufacture in that country . There are several reasons for this industrial pre-eminence . It was settled early in the seventeenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries . The seaports grew rapidly into large towns , thus providing a great market for manufactured goods . These same ports made possible the easy import of raw materials and facilitated the export of finished products . The forests at first provided fuel , and the Fall Line , where rivers dropped from the hard Piedmont rocks to the coastal plain , furnished power sites . Penn-  | The iron and steel works at Sydney , N.S. Despite Canada 's large resources of coking coal and iron ore , this is the only plant to use only raw materials mined in the country . Coal is mined locally ; the ore comes from Bell I. , Newfoundland . Nat . Film Board of Canada Nat . Film Board of Canada I. The Annapolis valley in Nova Scotia has long been known for its apple orchards . These have suffered in recent years from a tendency of Atlantic coastal hurricanes to penetrate farther north in late summer . Bethlehem Steel Crmapanv Ill . The modern integrated iron and steel plant at Sparrows Point , Md . This Atlantic coastal site has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ores , while being near the great markets of Philadelphia and Baltimore . Scrap metal , a necessary ingredient for steel-making , is also abundantly available . IV . The New York waterfront with its background of Manhattan skyscrapers : the physical expression of the unparalleled concentration of financial , commercial and business activities at this point . The Bowater Organization THE MIDDLE ATLANTIC REGION sylvanian anthracite and coal , with local iron ore and limestone , furthered heavy industry . Capital and skilled labour concentrated in the region and remain two of its chief assets . Southern New England has an industrial tradition going back over 300 years , but it was in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries that most progress took place . The early primacy of this area was due in part to abundant water power sites , important before the use of coal became widespread , and in part to the fact that the poor soils necessitated some additional occupation to agriculture if the population was to prosper . The early New Englanders , being mostly people who believed in hard work , and including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the challenge of an environment unfavourable to farming but offering possibilities for manufacturing . During the past hundred years New England has met with increasing competition from other parts of the continent and has lost its industrial supremacy . The trend continues and old-established factories continue to close , causing local unemployment . Because of its reserves of skilled labour and capital , and by specializing on an increasing variety of high quality goods , this area continues none the less to be very important industrially : it is responsible for nearly a quarter of the value added by manufacture in the Mid-Atlantic region , and for about 7% of the national total . Textiles and engineering predominate . In 187o New England was to the United States in cotton textiles what Lancashire was to Britain , but this industry has mostly gone to the South East where labour costs are lower . The cotton industry had prospered here for similar reasons to Lancashire : water power , skilled labour , pure soft water supply , admirable facilities for importing and exporting , damp atmosphere ; but unlike Lancashire it lacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specializing in high-quality goods , at such towns as Fall River , Lewiston , New Bedford and Pawtucket . The woollen and worsted industry has been more successful in maintaining itself in the region which remains the most important woollen textile area in the United States . Since 1945 , however , there have been ominous signs for the future ; mills have closed down and in some cases migrated elsewhere ; and partly because of lack of demand for woollens , and because of foreign competition , the industry is hardly a prosperous one . The high cost of labour is the usual reason given for closing down or moving elsewhere . The leading woollen towns are Lovell , Passaic , Lawrence , Providence , Woonsocket and Worcester . The boot and shoe industry also survives , although less important than formerly , mainly in the Boston area . The engineering industry produces a  | very wide range of products , including textile machinery , which developed in the first instance to supply the local demand . There is an emphasis on goods of low bulk and high value . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the finished products mostly have to be transported to markets elsewhere , this gives the skills of the region a better chance to compete by lowering transport costs . Machine tools , other tools , brassware , precision instruments , watches , clocks , hardware , electrical equipment , sewing machines , typewriters are examples . Whereas the textile industry is found mainly in eastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island , these light engineering industries are located chiefly in western Massachusetts and Connecticut . In order to meet the unemployment problem , to aid existing industries and encourage new ones , the New England Council has tried hard to persuade the U.S. steel industry to establish a primary iron and steel plant within the area , but so far without success . Immediately to the south-west of the industrial area of Southern New England is that of the New York area . By value added , this is the most important in the country and equals the combined production of the Chicago and Detroit areas . It accounts for about 36% of the industrial production of the Mid-Atlantic region by value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at the same time both the most populous and the wealthiest part of the continent ; and industries located here have the largest local market in the country , as well as the facilities of its leading port , and access to the largest supplies of capital and most varied types of labour . Clothing comes first and employs up to a quarter of a million workers , mostly women , in Manhattan ; New York is the fashion centre of the country and most of the clothing manufactured is for women . Among the wide range of industries in the area , printing and publishing , engineering of many kinds , fertilizers , tobacco and food processing may be mentioned . Heavy industries are located on those parts of the waterfront not needed for port facilities : chemicals , petroleum refining , shipbuilding and repairing . Farther south-west are two other great industrial centres which , with their satellites , almost merge into one . These are Philadelphia and Baltimore . The combined value of the manufactures of these cities and surrounding towns comes to about half that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two areas already discussed in that they possess large modern integrated steelworks and are thus better able to manufacture heavy transport equipment and machinery such as locomotives , engines and ships , although they too have a very wide variety of miscellaneous industries : chemicals , processed foods , soap , leather , textiles ,  | clothing , machinery of all kinds , petroleum refining , aircraft . In the Baltimore area , the nearness of the vegetable-growing belt has led to the establishment of canning and quick-freezing factories as well as the manufacture of boxes and crates , and of fertilizers . Of the great steel works , the largest is at Sparrows Point near Baltimore , with a capacity of 8 million tons and 25,000 workers ( Plate III ) . There are also two large works near Philadelphia , one at Morrisville ( U.S. Steel Corporation ) and the other at Paulsboro ( National Steel Corporation ) . All these works enjoy an abundant water supply from their maritime location , as well as the ability to import Venezuelan and other foreign ores by cheap water transport . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Virginia , but limestone is nearer at hand and the industrial area itself provides the scrap so necessary in the steel-making process . This is the principal shipbuilding area of the United States , important yards being situated on the Delaware at and below Philadelphia , and on Chesapeake Bay at Sparrows Point and Newport News . Many large naval contracts go to the latter place . Inland of the great seaboard industrial areas , there are numerous lesser industrial areas and countless industrial towns . The Great Valley has a whole series of manufacturing centres with varied engineering industries : Allentown , Easton-Phillipsburg , Bethlehem , Harrisburg , Lancaster , Lebanon , Reading , Steelton , etc . Many of them were the scene of ironworking in the eighteenth century , using charcoal from the forests and local ore from Lebanon . Iron and steel are still manufactured , as at Bethlehem and Steelton , but plants are not so large or modern as on the coast . Appalachian coal and coke are now used along with local limestone and iron ore . Machine tools , armaments , hardware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are typical products . North of the Great Valley area , but also in the Ridge and Valley physiographic province , is the anthracite field . Here engineering is again the main industry and produces locomotives , rolling stock , mining machinery , electrical machinery , etc . Among the towns are Hazelton , Nanticoke , Pottsville , Scranton and Wilkes-Barre . Textile and clothing industries are also common here . These industries , employing female labour , became established in the late nineteenth century , when the anthracite miners were so poorly paid that there was a strong incentive for women to work . The declining demand for anthracite has since caused male unemployment . Cheap female labour has therefore been continuously available , and has aided the further growth of the clothing industry . The tourist industry is a noteworthy source of employment and income in certain localities . There are the Atlantic beach resorts , notably Atlantic  | City , which can hold 500,000 visitors at a time , Ocean City and Virginia Beach . Both in Virginia and New England , sites rich in colonial associations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Some New England areas have been saved from economic depression by their ability to develop the resort industry ; for this they have to thank the universal use of the motor-car which has made otherwise isolated , though picturesque , spots accessible . The capital city of Washington is probably the greatest single tourist centre in the United States . Besides tourism , famous old institutions of learning also bring money into the region ; many of the students at the New England universities of Harvard ( 1636 ) and Yale ( 1700 ) come from other parts of the country . COMMUNICATIONS Although the region has a dense rail network and an unrivalled system of roads , many of them specially designed for fast traffic , the problem of moving people and goods in this region of dense population and intense industrial and commercial activity is ever present . Ever since the first colonization of the continent , the ports of this region ? Boston , New York , Philadelphia and Baltimore ? have been the main points at which American Atlantic trade , and much coastwise trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orleans was scotched by the Civil War , and competition from the St Lawrence ports was lessened by navigational difficulties on that river , the idle winter season and the international frontier . At first Boston and Philadelphia took the lead , but New York , because of the incomparable Hudson-Mohawk gap through the Appalachians , was best suited to tap the hinterland of the Great Lakes and Mid West . The Erie Canal , opened in 1825 , made the water route feasible , and from then on New York gained rapidly from its rivals . The Hudson river still carries a great deal of traffic , most of it downstream , bound for New York . Building materials ? sands , gravels , crushed stone and cement ? quarried from or manufactured on the banks of the river , find cheap and convenient transport by this means to satisfy the huge demands of the building industry in the city . THE PORT OF NEW YORK . The submergence of the coast at this point has resulted in the creation of a remarkable harbour . The sea has invaded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbouring valleys and lowlands , so as to create a series of peninsulas and inlets which provide an extensive water-front . The narrow entrance and the offshore islands give complete shelter and there is scarcely any tide .  | There is ample depth and the largest ships afloat encounter no physical difficulty in using the harbour . Congestion and labour problems are two of the port 's chief drawbacks , and from time to time it is paralysed by strikes . New York is one of the world 's greatest ports and trades with all the continents . It is used by all kinds of vessel from the largest and most luxurious ocean liners to the smallest coastal vessel . Among its more important imports are petroleum , rubber , oil seeds , sisal , hemp , copper and foodstuffs such as sugar , coffee , bananas , cocoa . Prominent exports are wheat and flour , textiles , machinery , chemicals and petroleum products . Its hinterland for general cargo is much more extensive than those of Boston , Philadelphia and Baltimore , and covers the whole north-eastern quarter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate hinterland of its rivals and even serves the port of Montreal . For wheat and flour , its hinterland extends much farther west than its general cargo hinterland , reaching well beyond the Mississippi and into the Great Plains . Besides its natural advantages , it gains over its rivals in several other ways . Like London , it possesses great commodity markets in grain , cotton , coffee , sugar , cocoa , rubber and metals ; it is itself the largest consuming and producing centre on the continent ; it has unmatched banking , shipping and insurance facilities ; it has the greatest concentration of railways and roadways ; it is called at twice by many cargo vessels which make it their first port of call on arriving at North America and their last before leaving . New York is easily the first port of the continent by value of trade , and usually has a slight lead over Philadelphia and the other Delaware ports in total tonnage handled . New York also has a large passenger traffic . Figure  | THE PORTS OF PHILADELPHIA AND THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Delaware and the Schuylkill near the confluence of these two rivers . The port is formed by the Delaware which bends at this point in a meander , the outer bank of which has deep water . Although a hundred miles from the sea , the largest cargo vessels can enter the port , which , by virtue of its inland position , is well placed to serve the industrial complex of south-eastern Pennsylvania . Port facilities have been extended down the Delaware south from Philadelphia so that it is the estuary of the river as a whole rather than Philadelphia itself which must be considered . Trade is inferior to New York 's by value , but little less by volume ; and if coastwise traffic is excluded , may exceed New York 's in bulk . This is because exports tend to be the heavy engineering products of the industrial towns of south-east Pennsylvania rather than light manufactured goods , and because coal , grain and refined petroleum rank high . The import trade likewise is largely of bulky commodities such as iron ore and manganese for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the South East , crude petroleum , china clay , as well as heavy steel imports from Europe . Pennsylvania 's export hinterland for general cargo is small and limited to the adjacent manufacturing areas , but its imports range widely over the Middle West . THE PORT OF BALTIMORE . Baltimore is normally third ' . among the ports of the continent in total tonnage , but as its coastwise trade is small , its total trade falls well below that of New York or Philadelphia . The port is formed by an inlet on Chesapeake Bay , 170 miles from the open sea , where the hard rocks of the Piedmont are first met , offering firm foundations for building . It has water deep enough to accommodate the largest vessels . Its hinterland includes the coal mining and heavy industrialized areas of western Pennsylvania and north-eastern Ohio and extends through the corn belt ' . It has a more important export trade than Philadelphia , but falls far short in imports . The exports drawn from the industrial areas mentioned , from Buffalo , from Sparrows Point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mid West , include sheet steel , terne plate , tin plate , steel bars and rods , pipes , heavy machinery and vehicles . Coal , grain and flour constitute bulk exports , and some tobacco is also sent out from Baltimore . Imports include iron ore , manganese , ferro-alloys and nonferrous metals for the metallurgical industries served by the port , and raw materials for the fertilizer industry . Baltimore owes much to being the terminus of the Baltimore and Ohio rail system . Footnote  | THE PORTS OF HAMPTON ROADS . The ports of Norfolk and Newport News , on Hampton Roads at the entrance to Chesapeake Bay , rank very high by tonnage . Norfolk alone has been placed third among the ports of the continent in recent years . These ports specialize in exporting Appalachian coal from West Virginia and western Pennsylvania coastwise to other American ports , and the figures have been swollen since the war by large exports to western Europe and Japan . THE PORT OF BOSTON . Boston , the chief port of New England , is not of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is about eleventh among the ports of the continent by volume of trade , though its position is better when judged by value . There is a wonderful natural harbour , accessible yet sheltered , and with miles of water-front , again a result of coastal submergence . It is essentially the port of the industrial area of southern New England , importing its fuel , raw materials and foodstuffs , and exporting grain and manufactured goods . The imports , which include coal , petroleum , steel , wool , hides and skins , greatly exceed the exports in bulk . As a colonial port , Boston occupied a leading position , but as the United States expanded westwards it was not able to compete with the great ports farther south for a share of the trans-Appalachian trade . Boston has also been handicapped , like New York , by labour troubles . Providence ( R.I. ) is another New England port that enjoys an excellent harbour and fulfills similar functions to Boston , though on a smaller scale . POPULATION AND SETTLEMENT In 1600 there were no white or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 250,000 , in 1750 nearly a million , and by 1800 , 24 million , a figure which included some 250,000 Negroes in Maryland and northern Virginia . To-day , the population of this region is about 45 million or a quarter of the total population of the United States . The first successful and permanent settlement in the region was made in 1607 at Jamestown in North Virginia . The new colony was eventually able to prosper because of its ability to grow tobacco , for which demand in Europe was rapidly increasing and because a supply of cheap Negro slave labour , better able than whites to work in the hot summer , was made available by the slave traders . Soon afterwards , in 1614 , the Dutch established their fur-trading posts at New Amsterdam and farther up the Hudson River at Oranje ( Albany ) . Dutch colonists subsequently settled the lower Hudson and a handful of Swedes entered Delaware Bay . Meanwhile , in  | 16zo , English Puritans , unwilling to endure the supremacy of the Anglican church at home , settled Plymouth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20,000 Puritans and land-hungry men left England to settle in New England towns and villages . Maryland was settled after 1634 , at first by Roman Catholics also seeking religious freedom . In 1664 the Dutch and Swedish settlements were transferred to England and became the colonies of New York and New Jersey respectively . In 1681 settlement began in Pennsylvania on land granted to Sir William Penn , a Quaker . Pennsylvania soon established itself as the favourite colony , especially for immigrants other than English . It was free both from the Puritan bigotry and religious restrictions of New England and from the social and economic systems of Maryland and Virginia , where slave-holding prevailed and the poor landless immigrant had little opportunity . Into the middle colonies there came Welsh Quakers , French Huguenots , Scotch highlanders , Scotch-Irish from Ulster , and Germans in flight from Rhineland and Palatinate lands devastated by the French armies . Settlements were made farther and farther inland at the expense of the forests , not only in the New England colonies but in New York and Pennsylvania . The Hudson valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French to the north ; it held military forts rather than agricultural villages until the French left in 1763 . The pattern of settlement varied . In New England there were agricultural villages in which the farmers lived together as in England , and small industrial towns , with several small fishing settlements on the coast . In the Middle Colonies , the farmers lived individually in isolated homesteads served by small market towns . In the South , the large tobacco plantation worked by slaves was the rule , and other white settlers found it difficult to live as small independent farmers in this environment ; they tended instead to migrate into the newly colonized lands at the back of the established settlements . To-day the city is the most important settlement type throughout the region . Farm population dwindles and the vast majority lives in the urban areas , large and small , or in the semi-urban fringes which skirt them . THE CITIES A mere list of the larger metropolitan areas of the Middle Atlantic region will suffice to show the extreme extent of its urbanization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with population ( in thousands ) according to the 196o census .  | Table The inland cities have not reached the leviathan size of some of the coastal conurbations , but in many areas they are so closely spaced that they have expanded to form continuous urban areas : Table It has even been argued that one vast urban area , containing nearly 40 million people , extends from Boston to Washington , reaching inland for various distances ? for about 150 miles in southern Pennsylvania . The name Megalopolis has been given to this giant conurbation , which results from an immense concentration of industrial , commercial , administrative and financial activity . There has been a tendency , however , to exaggerate its continuity . There are still many interruptions and relatively empty spaces , and statements that it is an almost continuous urban area ' need some qualification . NEW YORK CITY . The largest part of Megalopolis is the New York metropolitan area or conurbation , consisting of New York city ( pop . 8 m1n ) and the swarm of towns and suburbs that surrounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two of these , Manhattan ( 2 m1n ) and Bronx ( 1 min ) , are situated at the southern end of the Manhattan peninsula ( formed by the confluence of the Hudson and East rivers ) ; two more , Brooklyn ( z2-m1n ) and Queens ( 4min ) , lie at the western end of Long Island ; the fifth , Richmond ( zoo , 000 ) , is on Staten Island . Richmond is relatively small because there is at present no bridge to Staten Island . Important inner suburbs are Elizabeth ( 113,000 ) , Newark ( 439,000 ) , jersey City ( 300,000 )  | Figure and Yonkers ( 153,000 ) ; these are surrounded by rapidly-growing outer suburbs ( Fig. 40 ) . New York began with the Dutch fur-trading post of New Amsterdam that was established at the southern tip of Manhattan Island in 1614 . It was located here because Indians brought furs from the interior by way of the Hudson river . In 1664 it fell into English hands and was renamed New York . In the eighteenth century it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opening of the West , its superior position in relation to the interior made itself felt . It had behind it the best gap through the Appalachians , and it grew particularly rapidly after the opening of the Erie Canal in 1825 . Its excellent harbour , with a long waterfront , deep water and little tide , enabled it to keep pace with the growing substitution of large ships of iron and steel for small wooden sailing vessels . Its position midway between New England , with its livestock , lumbering and manufacturing economy , and the southern colonies producing primary commodities , was also advantageous . Well before the end of the nineteenth century it had become the foremost commercial , industrial , financial , cultural and entertainment city on the continent , positions which it still holds without dispute . As the heart of the leading industrial area in Anglo-America , New York city alone has a million industrial workers , almost half of whom are in the textile and clothing industries . The clothing industry is still largely concentrated in Manhattan and exploits cheap female labour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry for which New York is the headquarters . No other town holds so great and varied a number of writers , agents , photographers , artists , librarians , etc . It is also  | the headquarters of the powerful advertising business , which dominates the newspaper , magazine , radio and T.V. industries . Commerce , the original and basic function of the city , is second only to manufacturing as an employer of labour . About 65o,000 people are engaged in wholesaling and retailing , apart from the large numbers of dock workers and others employed in the actual handling and transfer of goods . It is the world 's leading financial city , and this function employs another 250,000 , of whom about 140,000 work in banks , investment houses , brokers ' houses and the Stock Exchange , and a hundred thousand in insurance offices . Business administration is also concentrated in New York to a degree unknown elsewhere in Anglo-America : 135 of the largest American firms , together with some 500 other companies with assets of over a million dollars each , have their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offices . This is because no other place can offer such a combination of essential services : advertising agencies , banks , law offices , management consultants , publications of every kind , public relations firms , research institutions , trade associations , wholesale houses , not to mention such distractions for business executives as bars , clubs , restaurants and theatres . By far the greater part of these functions is discharged on the small crowded island of Manhattan , and this has been made possible by the extreme vertical development in skyscrapers for which the city is famous . Nevertheless , serious problems arise from such intense concentration and vertical building . Of the 61 million people employed in Greater New York , over 21 million work in Manhattan ; but less than half a million of them live there , and nearly 2+ million people enter and leave the island daily . This creates an urgent transport problem . Elevated railways running above street level were introduced in 1871 , the hard Piedmont gneisses discouraging underground tunnelling . In 1900 this obstacle was overcome and the Subway or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underground railway systems , hundreds of thousands of people make daily use of buses , taxis and , above all , private automobiles . Thousands more come in from the outer suburbs by the ordinary railways . Some authorities believe that this congestion will kill the city , and point to firms that have left for the suburbs or who have gone outside the metropolitan area altogether . Others argue that it is the very congestion and concentration that is the essence of the city 's usefulness and appeal . Business executives have to make important decisions which are likely to be better decisions if they are made with access to the city 's immense wealth of brains and expert knowledge , and where eminent specialists and overseas  | visitors , bringing new ideas and insights , meet and congregate . It seems also that what the great city has to offer in the way of entertainment and glamour , shopping and services , holds an attraction , not only for business executives , but for the vast numbers of female office workers who figure so largely in the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the residential population of the central part of the city where , as business buildings expanded , residents moved out to the suburbs . The population of Manhattan , which had been declining since 1910 , has been rising again . Not only does the growing proportion of single females and young married couples prefer to live in central city flats rather than suburban homes , but the ever growing cost and discomfort of commuting lessens the desirability of living far from the centre . Large blocks of fiats , some containing several thousand units , are being built , considerably increasing the density of residential housing in Manhattan . ( Plate IV . ) For all its wealth and glitter , its tall buildings , magnificent churches and well supported cultural activities , the great city has its unpleasant side . Not far from the splendour and magnificence there are appalling slums . Poverty-stricken Puerto Ricans have crowded into the city of recent years , and there are now over half a million , mostly in Manhattan , where many of them work in the clothing industry . Poverty is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " shook-up " adolescents , who seem to rob and murder almost casually ; its highly organized underworld , which thrives on gambling , prostitution , and narcotics ' ( Fortune , Feb. 1960 ) . Philadelphia was founded in 1682 by Sir William Penn and settled by Quakers whose business ability soon made the new town the leading commercial and industrial centre of the English colonies , displacing Boston . As such it became the capital of the United States and it was here that independence was declared in 1776 . The capital was removed to Washington in 1800 . Although it was overtaken in population by New York and Chicago in the nineteenth century and by Los Angeles in the twentieth , it remains one of the most important ports and industrial centres in the United States . ( Fig. 40 . ) Baltimore was founded at the head of Patapsco Bay , near the head of Chesapeake Bay , in 1729 ; like Philadelphia it was built at the junction of the hard rocks of the Piedmont with the sands and clays of the coastal plain . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth century , at which time Baltimore and Philadelphia shared the expanding trade with the westward advancing frontier . After the opening of the Erie Canal in 1825 , both Baltimore and Philadelphia lost much of their importance to New York . The coming of railways somewhat lessened the  | advantage of the Hudson ? Mohawk water route , but by then the supremacy of New York was established . Philadelphia was always more industrialized than Baltimore and therefore a considerably larger city . Comparative population figures are given below which illustrate the growth of these three cities and of Boston and Washington ( in thousands ) : Table Between 1940 and 196o , the Washington urban area grew much more rapidly than the other great conurbations of the Middle Atlantic region . Yet Washington is a city almost without economic function , being essentially the political and administrative capital of the country . It was founded for this purpose by George Washington in 1790 and the seat of government of the United States was transferred thither in 1800 . The site chosen was on the Potomac just below the falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again it is a position at the junction of coastal plain and Piedmont , on the main north-south route , and central for both northern and southern states . From the trend of westward expansion at this time , the Potomac was thought likely to become the main east ? west artery of the nation , so that Washington 's situation seemed ideally central . The city provides accommodation for the elected representatives of the people ; the growing army of civil servants and government experts and scientists ; the influential military leaders of the country with their headquarters at the Pentagon ; numerous lobbyists , office-seekers , press reporters and correspondents ; foreign visitors , official and otherwise ; and an immense swarm of domestic tourists , to whom the national capital with its historic associations and public buildings is a great attraction . It has been one of the fastest growing American cities since 1930 , not only because of the inevitable growth of bureaucracy ( Parkinson 's Law ) , but because of the great increase of government activity that followed the election of President Roosevelt in 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Great Depression of the early thirties of the free-enterprise system based on New York , and resulted in a large increase in federal agencies and government expenditure . The coming of war to the United States in 1941 vastly increased such government activity and expenditure , and not until the 19505  | did a reaction set in . Meanwhile Washington had become one of the greatest cities on the continent . If Washington has made most progress in recent decades , Boston has made least . First settled in 163o , its fine natural harbour and the early settlement and rapid economic progress of the surrounding colonies , led to rapid growth . Although overtaken by New York and Philadelphia in the eighteenth century , it continued to develop as a foremost industrial , commercial and financial centre . Its progress was aided by the business acumen and Puritan traditions of its governing class , later reinforced by a large Jewish element , and by the plentiful cheap labour resulting from successive waves of Irish , Italian and Negro immigrants . Bostonian capital has financed many enterprises outside New England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the economic difficulties of New England , in the form of distance from markets , lack of coal and other raw materials , obsolescent equipment , labour problems and the migration of industry elsewhere , have adversely affected this great city 's recent growth . As a port it now stands eleventh by tonnage , and as a manufacturing centre it has been passed not only by New York , Chicago , Detroit and Philadelphia , but also by Pittsburg , St Louis and Los Angeles . As a financial and banking city it stands sixth , after New York , Chicago , San Francisco , Cleveland and Philadelphia . In summary , we have here one of the most remarkable examples of concentrated human activity and ingenuity on the face of the earth , expressed in the form of varied industries , advanced technology , the most modern and rapid methods of transport , and complex human organizations housed in buildings of fantastic height . This remarkable development is due in part to position on the east side of the Atlantic coast , facing Europe , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region to the south , yet backed by agricultural and mineral wealth , unlike the region to the north . It is also due in part to the junction here of the Piedmont plateau with the coastal plain , a feature productive of water power sites for industry ; combined with this is the fact that deep estuaries and bays extend deep water to this fall line ' , to the advantage of commerce . The actual agricultural and mineral resources of the region have been of little importance in its progress compared with the factors noted above and the historical accidents , if accidents they were , that this was the first part of Anglo-America to be settled and that the first settlers included some of the most able and industrious people of Europe . The present agriculture , with its emphasis on dairying , vegetables and poultry , is dominated  | by the urbanization of the region . The exploitation of minerals , especially since the decline of anthracite mining , is also subordinated to urban growth , and consists very largely in the quarrying of vast quantities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Water , to meet the thirsty needs of Megalopolis , is also of prime importance , and in this respect the abundant precipitation falling on the Appalachians and held up in lakes and reservoirs , facilitates the massing of tens of millions of people within the region .  | PARTLY in Canada ( Ontario and Quebec provinces ) and partly in the United States ( New York , Pennsylvania , Ohio and West Virginia ) , this region derives unity from its central axis which is formed by Lakes Erie and Ontario and the river St Lawrence . Further , it is all underlain by little-disturbed Palaeozoic sedimentary rocks and almost all masked by glacial and alluvial deposits ; it all receives a fairly abundant precipitation well distributed throughout the year and it all suffers the inconvenience and dislocation of winter freezing , snow and ice . Dairy farming or general farming with a stress on livestock are found throughout , with some favoured localities specializing in fruit growing . Mining activity is concentrated on the great coalfield in the extreme south , but industry proliferates at a thousand urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region , and the range of products is of the widest . It is one of the leading steel-producing regions of the world and the foremost in Anglo-America . Although hundreds of miles inland , it throbs with commercial activity . This is stimulated by a position between the West , with its surpluses of wheat , maize and meat , the East with its great seaboard industries and foreign imports , and the Northern Forest , with its minerals and timber . The region supports six millionaire ' conurbations , of which five are great ports and commercial centres as well as industrial cities . A case could be Figure  | V. The St Lawrence Seaway . The deepening of the St Lawrence , undertaken to enable Labrador iron to reach the Great Lakes steel industry , has also resulted in increased cargoes of grain , lumber , pulp and paper . This vessel is carrying Newfoundland newsprint to Cleveland and Detroit . VI . Montreal . The city is the chief port for the St Lawrence gateway to the interior of the continent , a route handicapped by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada 's largest city and main commercial centre . Nat . Film Board of Canada . ' ' . ! . it "  --  k U.S. Ueologirai Surz , G1 VII . The Dismal Swamp in North Carolina . Forested coastal swamps are characteristic of the low-lying creek country of the Atlantic coast of the Carolinas and Georgia . VIII . Harvesting cotton in the Mississippi floodplain . This is an area of intensive cotton growing and uses modern machinery . U.S. Dept. of . I5riculture THE LOWER LAKES ? ST LAWRENCE REGION made for including another ? Detroit ? in this region , but the great automobile centre will be discussed in the chapter on the Middle ' West . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF The structure is relatively simple . Basically it consists of thick beds of sedimentary rocks laid down in Palaeozoic seas . These largely horizontal rock formations differ sharply from the crystalline mass of the PreCambrian Shield to the north , and from the strongly disturbed , folded , faulted and intruded rocks of the Appalachian system to the south-east and east . All but the southernmost part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheet which left the surface covered with varying depths of ground moraine . As the ice melted away northwards it also left large bodies of water ; these , reduced in size , form the Great Lakes ; lacustrine clays and sands , laid down over the glacial ground moraine , testify to their former extent . As the ice retreated , the sea invaded the St Lawrence lowland forming a gulf under whose waters marine sands and clays were deposited . Consequently , over large areas , the Palaeozoic bedrock is concealed by glacial , lacustrine and marine deposits . The region may be subdivided as follows : ( i ) the St Lawrence lowland , ( ii ) the Ontario peninsula , ( iii ) the Rochester ? Mohawk plain , ( iv ) the Appalachian plateau . ( Fig. 43 . ) The St Lawrence lowland . This long narrow subregion extends for 300 miles from Quebec city to Lake Ontario , widening from a few miles in the north-east to Too miles in the south-west . It is a low gently undulating plain mostly between too and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Pre-Cambrian rock break through to give greater height ; and from Montreal eastwards , isolated and conspicuous volcanic hills rise abruptly from the plain , the highest being Mt St Hilaire ( 1,350 ft ) . Through the centre of the lowland runs the St Lawrence . There is a pronounced difference between the nature of the river above and below Montreal . Above that city it falls 220 feet in a series of rapids and its current is swift ; in approximately the same distance below Montreal , to the beginning of the estuary at Quebec , it falls only 25 feet , and the current is much slower . Its more important south-bank tributaries are the Richelieu , the St Francis and the Chaudiere . The river is tidal as far as Trois Rivieres . ( Fig. 46 . ) The Ontario peninsula . This strangely-shaped area lies between Lakes Huron , Ontario and Erie , and except for the clays and sands of former lake bottoms along the margins of these lakes , is covered by glacial material . In the north , where it borders the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lakes , but most of the central area , which lies between 750 and 1,500 feet , is covered with glacial till or boulder clay . This mixed deposit , containing both fine material and large boulders , forms wide expanses of fairly level or gently undulating country , but it is also crossed , usually in a north ? south direction , by morainic ridges made up of similar material . In some locations , the boulder clay is disposed in long low rounded whale-backed features known as drumlins . These oval hills , commonly a mile long , about a third of a mile wide and between 5o and Too ft high , are often found together in groups all with the same axis . There are several thousand drumlins in southern Ontario . Because the sedimentary rocks here slope down somewhat to the south-west , and because limestone alternates with shale , a cuesta-type escarpment has formed , which runs across the subregion from Niagara to Manitoulin Island , and which is responsible for the formation of Georgian Bay . Erosion of the soft red Silurian shale beneath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lying dolomite limestone has led to the undermining of the latter , which has come to present a cliff-like face to the north . This feature , known as the Niagara escarpment , varies in height , but reaches 1,775 feet above sea-level near the southern end of Georgian Bay , whose waters it dominates from a height of over s , 000 feet . The Niagara river has cut back a gorge into the face of the escarpment , so that the famous Falls are now some seven miles behind the line of the escarpment . In the area round Kingston , the Ordovician limestones lack their normal glacial or lacustrine cover and form plains of hard rock . The Rochester ? Mohawk plain . The Niagara peninsula of southern Ontario is continued along the south shore of Lake Ontario by a lowland about 25 miles wide . It extends eastwards from the lake along the Mohawk valley towards the Lake Champlain ? Hudson river depression . The plain is about 250 to 300 feet above lake level ( 500 ft above sea-level ) , and its lower flatter portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief , as does the Niagara escarpment which continues eastwards from Ontario , but dies out near Rochester . Here , as in the Lakes peninsula , there are groups of drumlins and the rivers are impeded by rapids and falls as they make for the lake . The Allegheny plateau . This northern section of the Appalachian plateaus is larger and higher than the other subregions and has more rugged relief . Composed of flat strata of Carboniferous limestones , sandstones and shales , it rises eastwards to overlook the Ridge and Valley zone of the Appalachian system from heights known as the Allegheny front . These heights culminate in the Catskill Mts , where Slide Mt reaches 4,200 feet . The whole plateau has been strongly cut up by rivers flowing to the lower lakes and to the Ohio , and by the headwaters of the Atlantic rivers . Although the result has been to give a rugged or even mountainous relief in places , the relatively uniform skyline is a reminder that the land was once reduced to a common level by erosion . In the higher and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ice ; often morainic material has dammed up the streams to produce lakes , notably the Finger lakes in New York state . In the lower parts , relief is less rugged owing to the blanket covering of glacial boulder clay , although the extreme south escaped this . CLIMATE Long cold winters , warm summers and abundant precipitation throughout the year characterize this region . Average January means are about 32 ? in the extreme south , but drop fairly rapidly northwards : Pittsburgh  | 32 ? , Toronto 230 , Montreal 14 ? , Quebec 1o ? . Winters become longer as well as more severe northwards . Summer temperatures are more uniform : average July means range from 75 ? at Pittsburgh in the south to 67 ? at Quebec in the north , but for most of the region they are about 70 ? . The lakes , which usually remain open water throughout the winter , though with ice-encrusted shores , have little effect on mean temperatures . But they give warmer nights and somewhat cooler days to lakeside situations , especially in summer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this often results in hot oppressive days . Violent thunderstorms are typical of the summer season . Temperature changes are great in spring and autumn : May at Montreal is 30 ? warmer than March , and November at the same place z6 ? colder than September . Precipitation throughout the region averages between 30 and 45 inches annually . It is highest on the Allegheny plateau ( Pittsburgh 35 ins , Jamestown 43 ins ) and in the St Lawrence lowland ( Montreal 41 ins , Quebec 40 ins ) , lowest to the north of Lakes Erie and Ontario ( Windsor 31 ins , Guelph 29 ins , Hamilton 31 ins ) . It is remarkably well distributed throughout the year ; a slight summer maximum is perceptible in some areas , but there is no dry season . Most winter precipitation comes as snow . Over io feet a year fall , on the average , in the St Lawrence lowland , but only half that amount around the lakes and on the Allegheny plateau . The abundant and well-distributed precipitation is associated with cyclonic disturbances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The climate is variable , especially in winter , and subject to frequent , rapid and wide-ranging changes in pressure , temperature , wind direction and humidity . VEGETATION AND SOILS This region was forested when the white man first arrived but lumbering , burning and felling for agriculture have cleared most of the woods from southern Ontario and the St Lawrence lowland , and greatly reduced their extent on the Allegheny plateau . Originally , the southern and lower parts of the plateau were clothed by southern deciduous ( Appalachian ) forest , in which broad-leaved hardwoods such as oak , chestnut , walnut , maple , hickory , elm and ash were found . This deciduous woodland also clothed the shores of Lake Ontario . On the higher northern parts of the plateau , and extending down the St Lawrence lowland , the Laurentian forest , with some coniferous species admixed , predominates . Broad-leaved hardwood deciduous trees , notably maple , beech , birch , ash and elm , are more numerous in the southern part of the St Lawrence lowland , but coniferous species  | increase northwards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands of white pine and red pine , formerly the glory of this forest , have been almost completely depleted , and their places taken by spruce , jack pine , balsam fir and other inferior species . Firs and pines also replace deciduous species on sandy morainic ground , while spruce , hemlock and cedar are characteristic in swamps . The mixed Laurentian forest also covered the north-western half of the Ontario peninsula down to the shores of Lake Huron and Georgian Bay . But all round the southern end of Lake Erie , deciduous woodland again asserted itself . Here , with higher temperatures and less precipitation , the forest was more open and interspersed with natural grassy glades . The original fauna of these forests included black bear , wild deer , wolf and elk , while smaller animals were the cougar , rabbit , hare , squirrel , beaver , otter and marten . The latter three soon became scarce on account of their fur . The rivers and lakes hold fresh-water fish : bass , trout , pike , pickerel , etc . The warm summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unpleasant for man and beast . Soils are generally brown podzols formed under forests wholly or mainly deciduous . For the most part they are of average fertility only , although , owing to accumulated leaf-fall , virgin or newly-worked soils were rich in humus . Because of the heavy rainfall and snowfall relative to temperature , mineral salts have been much leached out of the surface layers , and almost all soils are acidic and benefit from liming . Stones and boulders , scattered by the retreating ice sheet , are numerous all over the region and caused great hardship in clearing the land . On the Allegheny plateau most soils have been derived from glacial material of a sandy nature , and are acidic , deficient in lime and phosphorus , and poor in organic matter . They are particularly infertile and stony in the mountainous east . In the nonglaciated south , the parent material is mostly sandstone and shale , but there is sandy alluvium along streams . The best soils are along the margin of Lake Erie on the old lake bottom , and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Rochester plain in New York state has sandy and silty loam soils , with sands and gravels along old beach lines . The grey-brown podzols are generally good on the till plains and drumlins of the Ontario peninsula , but there are some ill-drained areas . The lake-bottom areas round the western end of Lake Erie are black muck ' or half-bog ' soils , rich in humus and very productive when drained ; elsewhere , the Erie-side soils are sandy . Much land in the St Lawrence lowland suffers from bad drainage . The best soils in this subregion are developed either on river alluvium , on  | glacial or marine clays , or on Palaeozoic limestones . These better soils are most frequent in the Montreal plain , but are also found in places along the St Lawrence and in the valleys of the Richelieu , Ottawa and other tributaries . AGRICULTURE Dairy farming and fruit typify the agriculture of the whole region . Soils of moderate quality and acid in reaction together with the humid climate favour the growing of grass and hay crops ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides markets for milk , butter and cheese . Dairy farms have arable land , as well as pasture , on which maize , small grains and hay crops are grown for fodder . The fruit-growing areas are found near the lakes which reduce the likelihood of frost , and often on slopes which do the same by promoting air drainage . Apples , pears , peaches , cherries and grapes are the more important fruit crops . The Allegheny plateau . Dairying predominates all through this subregion , which has much land too rugged for agriculture and remaining in forest . Better soils are usually intensively cropped with maize and small grains , principally oats , but with wheat on the northern margins . A good Figure  | THE LOWER LAKES ? ST LAWRENCE REGION deal of buckwheat is grown on the poorer uplands , as this crop will mature in the short growing season and tolerates acidic soils . The ridge slopes are usually in pasture . South and west of Pittsburgh , where glacial till is lacking and soils are infertile , farmers are poor and there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the mines and factories to supplement their income . In north-eastern Ohio sheep are kept and there are numerous poultry farms , especially round Cleveland . Many abandoned farms are reverting to forest in the southern section of the plateau . The Rochester ? Mohawk plain . This subregion lies mainly to the south of Lake Ontario in New York state , but also is continued in a narrow strip , only 3 or 4 miles wide along the south shore of Lake Erie . Dairying is prominent here but the chief wealth lies in specialized fruit farms and vegetable farms . Apples , plums , peaches , cherries , pears , grapes and tomatoes of high quality are produced . This fruit and vegetable farming extends southwards up the valleys into the Allegheny plateau , especially along the slopes of the Finger lakes , where air drainage and the moderating effect of water are found together . Much rich orchard land has been lost to urban development along these lake plains . The Ontario peninsula . Almost the whole of the Lakes peninsula of southern Ontario is suitable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas with shallow soil , as in the Bruce peninsula and on the limestone plains behind Kingston . Dairy farming is again very important ; there are general farming areas where livestock are numerous , but winter wheat , oats and other crops are important too . Within these general farming areas are specialized districts devoted to dairying or fruit or vegetables . Along the northern and eastern shores of Lake Ontario , from Kingston to the Niagara , on former lake-bottom soils ( sometimes deep rich loams , but more often , light and sandy ) and benefiting from the relative freedom from frost given by the water , is a zone of fruit and vegetables produced for canning and freezing factories . It has suffered heavily from loss of land to residential and industrial development . Along the north shore of Lake Erie , again on light sandy soils , tobacco is grown , along with fruit and vegetables . Finally , at the extreme western end of the subregion , near Detroit , there is an area of favourable climate and soils where maize , tobacco , sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich black lake-bottom land has been drained and is very productive . Large numbers of Dutch immigrants have settled in this district since 1945 , taking up farms that had been abandoned by Canadians . ( Fig. 45 ) The St Lawrence lowland . Dairy farming and the raising of livestock  | ( cattle , sheep , pigs , poultry ) are dominant throughout this subregion , and the arable land is chiefly employed in growing oats , buckwheat , barley , lucerne and green maize for fodder . The plain of Montreal has the best soils , the more genial climate and the largest market ; it is therefore the most productive part of the lowland . Fruit is grown on the lower slopes of the igneous buttes ' which break the uniformity of the plain . There is concentration on small fruits and vegetables on the Ile d'Orleans near Quebec . MINING The northern Appalachian bituminous coalfield , the largest single field in the world , with a production varying from 130 to 150 million tons a year , was responsible in 1960 for about 33% of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal is mined from the Allegheny plateau in southwestern Pennsylvania , northern West Virginia and eastern Ohio . Owing to the horizontal disposition of the rocks of the plateau , seams are usually fairly flat-lying and vary in thickness from a few inches to ten feet . They can be reached from shafts sloping upwards from the sides of the valleys which dissect the plateau ; such shafts facilitate drainage and removal of the coal . In some areas pits are sunk , in English fashion , but they are not deep , seldom exceeding 500 feet . Recently there has been an increase in strip or opencast mining whereby the overburden is stripped off . Most mining , however , is still of the underground type : 91% in West Virginia , 71% in Pennsylvania and 28% in Ohio . All mining operations are highly mechanized , especially the actual cutting of the coal , but some animals are still used for haulage in the older mines . ( Fig. 44 . ) The best quality coking coal comes from the thick Pittsburgh seam in Pennsylvania . Mining began here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seam in the United States . Since 1940 , yields have dropped very rapidly and all the readily accessible coal has now been worked out . About 8o% of the rich Connellsville coking coals have now been mined or lost beyond recovery through wasteful mining methods . As a result of declining production in south-west Pennsylvania there has been much unemployment . Newer mining districts , both in the old areas and also north of Pittsburgh , around Clearfield , New Bethlehem and Butler , usually employ strip-mining , as do most mines in eastern Ohio . Not only has the production of coal from the field as a whole diminished during the past 30 years or more , but the relative importance of Pennsylvania has declined , while that of West Virginia and Ohio have increased . Thirty years ago Pennsylvania was producing twice as much and Ohio half  | Figure as much as now . The coal moves in four directions : ( i ) to the local steelmills ; ( ii ) to Lake Erie for the mills of Erieside and beyond ; ( iii ) down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( iv ) to the Atlantic coast for use in the seaboard steel industry and for export , both coastwise and overseas . Petroleum was first mined in North America near Petrolia in southern Ontario in 1858 , and that area , although it has never been a major producer , still yields about 1oo,000 tons a year ; it also gives ( 1958 ) 14 ' 4 billion cubic feet of natural gas . One year after production began in Ontario , a well was sunk in the Allegheny plateau at Titusville ( Pa ) , and for almost half a century this was the leading oilfield on the continent . It now has a declining production of less than a million tons a year . The yield of natural gas was 104 billion cubic feet in 1958 or less than 1% of the U.S. output . As this region is made up mainly of sedimentary rocks covered with glacial drift and alluvial deposits , there are few important occurrences of metals . Most of the remaining mineral wealth consists of stone ( especially limestone for the chemical , iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building materials and salts . Important limestone-quarrying areas on the Allegheny plateau are found on its northern borders near Jamesville ( N.Y. ) and around New Castle ( Pa ) . Salt is produced between Syracuse and Tully on the northern margins of the plateau in New York  | state ; it is used in the chemical industry and for keeping roads clear of snow and ice in winter ? Hydro-electric power . There are two major sources of water-power in the region : Niagara Falls and the St Lawrence Seaway dams . These two sources provide about one quarter of the total installed hydro-electric capacity of the continent . When present projects are completed , each will have an installed capacity of about 6 million kw . INDUSTRY The Allegheny plateau and the Rochester ? Mohawk plain The industries of this subregion , lying to the south of the lower lakes in eastern Ohio , northern West Virginia , western Pennsylvania and western New York , fall generally into three categories , as follows : ( i ) the primary iron and steel and associated heavy engineering industries of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass , pottery and fire-brick ; ( iii ) specialized manufactures requiring skilled labour . The heavy iron and steel industry is found on or near the Appalachian coalfield at Pittsburgh , Youngstown , Canton , Weirton , Wheeling , Johnstown , and on Lake Erie at Cleveland , Erie and Buffalo . Pittsburgh became the leading American steel centre owing to its excellent coking coal , good communications by water and rail and an intermediate position between the Atlantic seaboard cities and the growing markets of the west . Its present position is not so favourable . The best and nearest coking coals have been depleted . The advantage of a coalfield location is less than it was , now that the amount of coal needed to produce given amounts of iron and steel has been greatly reduced by new techniques and fuel economies . Much of the equipment is old and it costs more to produce steel here than at many newer centres . As the Pittsburgh area produces much more steel than it consumes , it relies upon exports to other regions ; but high transport costs favour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as those at Chicago and Detroit . Similar considerations affect the other coalfield locations . Although Chicago has now passed Pittsburgh as a steel producer , the northern Appalachian area as a whole still ranks first , with some 40% of the U.S. capacity compared with about 20% at Chicago . The Detroit ? Erieside industry , principally at Buffalo , Cleveland and Detroit , has about 12% of American capacity . Advantages here are those of cheap water transport of iron ore , proximity by rail and road to the Appalachian coalfields , an unlimited water supply and a position on the Great Lakes ? St Lawrence waterway .  | The manufacture of goods requiring large amounts of steel ? heavy engineering ? naturally develops close to the steel centres , and the chemical industry has grown here because it utilizes the tars and gases from the byproduct coke ovens . Coke for Pittsburgh ? Youngstown was formerly made in beehive ovens on the coking coalfield in the Connellsville district , an industry that flourished locally from 185o to 1920 . But with the construction of by-product ovens at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connellsville district has become a largely derelict area with heavy unemployment . Among the many places manufacturing chemicals are Morgantown , New Castle , Lorain and Ashtabula . The presence of coal and suitable clays , and the demand for fire-resistant furnace linings in the metallurgical industry , early led to the manufacture of fire-brick in the region . Associated manufactures include building bricks and tiles , earthenware pipe , china , porcelain and glass . These industries have been helped by the abundance of natural gas , a particularly suitable fuel . They are more widely dispersed than iron and steel , largely according to the availability of suitable clays : in the upper Ohio valley at East Liverpool ; at Clarksburg and Morgantown , both in northern West Virginia ; at Toledo and Binghampton . Note should be taken of the rubber industry of Akron ( Ohio ) , which supplies the automobile industry of Detroit . Scattered across the Allegheny plateau and strung along the line of the old Erie canal are many medium-sized and small towns with specialist industries in which articles of small bulk but high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are produced . Position on routes between the Great Lakes and the Mid West on the one hand and the Mid-Atlantic region on the other , and the availability of hydro-electric power or natural gas are factors in the survival of these centres . Examples are gloves and mittens at Gloversville ( N.Y. ) and Johnstown ( N.Y. ) ; heating and air conditioning apparatus , cutlery and electrical goods at Utica ( N.Y. ) ; copper and brassware at Rome ( N.Y. ) ; typewriters and shoes at Syracuse ; photographic and optical goods at Rochester . The Canadian section On the Canadian side of the region there is a noticeable absence of heavy industry and a widespread development of light manufacturing , particularly of food-processing , wood products , textiles , clothing , rubber goods , and light and miscellaneous engineering of all kinds . This light manufacturing has developed behind the protective Canadian tariff which raises the prices of imports from the United States and Europe , and has been encouraged by the availability of cheap and abundant hydro-electric  | power and the growth of a market in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of Canada lives in this region . The assembly of automobiles , aircraft and machinery from parts made in the U.S.A. is an important part of this light industry . A noteworthy exception to the absence of heavy industry is iron and steel at Hamilton , where a water-front location enables Appalachian coal from Lake Erie ports and Lake Superior ore to be brought by cheap water transport through the Welland canal ; latterly ore has come also from Labrador . Limestone for the industry is quarried in the Niagara escarpment . Hamilton is the foremost steel centre in Canada , but its total capacity of about 4 million tons is small by American standards . Also exceptional is the petro-chemical industry of Sarnia on the St Clair river near Lake Huron . In 1942 , when there was a great demand for synthetic rubber owing to the Japanese occupation of the rubber plantations of south-east Asia , the Canadian government established a plant here , in what was then Canada 's only petroleum producing region , to make rubber from oil . The plant now makes plastics and industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ titanium ore at Sorel ( Que . ) . Figure  | THE LOWER LAKES ? ST LAWRENCE REGION The light manufacturing and miscellaneous industries of the Ontario peninsula and St Lawrence lowland are located : ( i ) in two large urban areas ( Toronto and Montreal ) ; ( ii ) in a few medium-sized centres ( Hamilton , Windsor , London , Ottawa , Quebec ) ; and ( iii ) at many smaller towns . Both the two major areas , Toronto and Montreal , have numerous miscellaneous industries , many of which are subsidiaries of American and British companies . In addition , Montreal , as a port , mills some of the wheat it receives from western Canada , and refines the petroleum imported from Venezuela and sugar from the West Indies . Hamilton , besides its steel industry , manufactures agricultural machinery , electrical apparatus and domestic appliances , textiles , chemicals , foodstuffs and rubber goods . Windsor assembles automobiles from parts made across the water in Detroit . London has brewing and food-processing industries . Ottawa manufactures pulp and paper , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and paper , shipbuilding , clothing and shoes , and meat packing . The smaller centres , with industries such as food-processing , textiles , furniture , paper , electrical and other light engineering , may be grouped as follows : ( a ) along the main lines of communication between Detroit and Toronto , e.g. Chatham , Brantford , Kitchener-Waterloo , Guelph , Galt , Oakville ( automobile assembly ) ; ( b ) the Niagara peninsula , e.g. St Catharine 's , Welland , Port Colborne ; ( c ) along the north shore of Lake Ontario and the St Lawrence east of Toronto , e.g. Whitby-Oshawa ( automobile assembly ) , Peterborough , Trenton , Belleville , Cornwall ; and ( d ) around Montreal and at one or two points between Montreal and Quebec , e.g. St Jean , Sorel , Joliette , Trois Rivieres . Most small towns in the St Lawrence lowland have some textile manufacture . COMMUNICATIONS Lines of communication run in three main directions . The main Lower Lakes ? St Lawrence axis runs through the region in a south-west ? northeast direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many trans-Appalachian routes which cross the Allegheny plateau from southeast to north-west , linking the great Atlantic cities with Lake Erie and the Mid West . Finally , the Ohio flows south-west into the Middle West . The Lower Lakes ? St Lawrence route is part of one of the world 's busiest waterways . Its importance has been enhanced by the completion of the St Lawrence Seaway , enabling large lake steamers and some ocean vessels to use the whole length of the route . The rapids on the St Lawrence have been by-passed by 27-foot deep canals , just as the Niagara Falls were by-  | passed in 1931 by the Welland ship canal with a similar depth . Main roads and railways also follow this axis along the northern side of the two lakes and the St Lawrence . A tributary rail and road route from Owen Sound to Toronto avoids the circuitous water passage via Lake St Clair . Other tributary routes use the Ottawa , Mohawk and Lake Champlain valleys . ( Plate V. ) Of routes between the Atlantic coast and the lower lakes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Appalachians . In 1825 the Mohawk was linked to Lake Erie at Buffalo by the Erie canal , which , successively improved , carried a heavy tonnage throughout the nineteenth century . It was replaced ( 1905 ? 18 ) at great cost by the deeper ( I z ft ) New York State Barge Canal , a branch of which runs to Lake Ontario at Oswego . Traffic on this new waterway did not come up to the zo million tons a year hoped for . It now carries about 44- million tons a year , mostly made up of grain , oil and building materials . Although railways and roads also follow the Mohawk ? Ontario plain route , other main land routes to-day cross the Allegheny plateau . This they are better able to do because of the many valleys cut into the Allegheny front and into the plateau itself by rivers . The railways and roads between the **40;471;TOOLONG area and Lake Erie are busily engaged moving coal , iron ore and iron and steel products . In the southernmost part of the region , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , iron , steel and chemicals to and from Pittsburgh . The Monongahela , flowing northwards to Pittsburgh from West Virginia , is also very busy as it flows through the coalfield , but traffic on the southward-flowing Allegheny is much lighter . This region contains several important lake , river and ocean ports . LAKE ERIE PoRTs. ? Along the south shore of Lake Erie , in Ohio and Pennsylvania , there are several ports of varying size and importance : Toledo , Sandusky , Lorain , Cleveland , Ashtabula , Conneaut , Erie . Cleveland , being a large industrial city , imports raw materials for its factories , especially iron ore for its iron and steel industry . It also imports large quantities of ore for the coalfield area . It is the leading ore-importing port by tonnage , but has only been able to maintain this position by spending large sums on artificial harbour and storage facilities ; it was not naturally endowed with enough level land or a sufficiently large harbour . Toledo , by contrast , has a larger harbour and more level lake-plain land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading coal exporter of this shore . The shift of coalmining south-westwards in the Appalachian fields has aided Toledo in this respect . Sandusky , Ashtabula and Lorain also  | export Appalachian coal , while Conneaut , Ashtabula and Lorain import iron ore . Buffalo , at the eastern end of the lake , imports iron ore and coal for its great iron and steel industry , but wheat for its flour mills figures even larger among its imports . The following table shows the trade of the chief Erie ports ( 1957 ) . The distinction between the coal exporting towns and those which import raw materials for their own manufactures or for those inland , is clearly shown : Table LAKE ONTARIO PORTS. ? The two most important ports on Lake Ontario are Toronto and Hamilton , both on the Canadian side . Both are large industrial cities but Hamilton being a steel centre , its imports are mainly iron ore , coal and coke . Toronto 's trade is more diversified . Lesser ports on the lake are Rochester , Oswego and Kingston . MONTREAL. ? ThiS great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seaports of the continent in tonnage of goods handled . Its inward and outward trade are well balanced at 8 or 9 million tons a year each . The leading imports are grain from western Canada for its elevators , coal for its industries and crude Venezuelan petroleum for its refineries . These three commodities make up well over half of the inward cargoes , but also important are raw sugar , cement and building materials . The principal exports are grain and petroleum products ; these two alone amount to well over half the total . Montreal is an important passenger port . The harbour is tideless and sheltered . Disadvantages are winter ice which closes it from December to April , the necessity to maintain the channel at a depth of 35 feet by dredging , and congestion arising from lack of room in the river . ( Fig. 46 . ) QUEBEC. ? The commerce of Quebec is between a fifth and a quarter that of Montreal . Imports are chiefly petroleum products , grain , coal and cement , while exports , which are much less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ores mined in the Shield . Other river ports are Trois Rivieres ( Que. ) and Cornwall ( Ont. ) .  | Before their settlement by whites , these lands were inhabited principally by the Iroquois Indians along with some Hurons and Algonquins . The St Lawrence lowland . In 1535 Jacques Cartier sailed up the St Lawrence as far as Montreal Island , and in 1608 another Frenchman , Samuel de Champlain , built a fortified post at Quebec which was used by French fur traders . In 1617 , agricultural colonization began , and the long narrow farms , fronting on the river , so typical of French-Canadian settlement , were soon lining its banks wherever good land was available . Emigration from France and a high rate of natural increase had resulted in a population of 65,000 when the territory was ceded to the British Crown in 1763 . Although the population remained overwhelmingly FrenchCanadian , British and Yankee traders and adventurers entered the region in the latter part of the eighteenth century , establishing themselves mainly at Montreal . But the great tide of immigration that ebbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valley merely as a route whereby to reach Upper Canada ( Ontario ) . By 1884 , the population of the lowland had reached 600,000 , mainly from the high rate of natural increase among the French-Canadian population . Southern Ontario came to be settled as a direct result of the American Revolution , white settlement having previously been confined to the French settlements in the neighbourhood of Detroit . In 1784 , some 8o,000 refugees from the newly constituted United States , who had supported the British cause , succeeded in reaching the British territory of Upper Canada , as the Ontario peninsula was then called . There they settled with government help , some in the Niagara peninsula and others around Kingston . Settlements soon spread along the lake shore and westwards into the territory north of Lake Erie . With the help of a large though fluctuating stream of British immigrants , the population of southern Ontario passed that of the St Lawrence lowland before the mid-nineteenth century , and by 1901 , there were about 2 million people in the peninsula compared with less than 1 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the lands in south-west Pennsylvania around Pittsburgh that were settled first ( by 1790 ) , despite their poor soils . They were more easily accessible from the Atlantic colonies , and the market and supply centre , Pittsburgh , was near . By 182o , settlement had crossed the Ohio , and the whole southern part of the plateau was thinly settled down to the shores of Lake Erie . Only the more rugged land to the north-east was without population . Meanwhile the Rochester ? Mohawk  | plain along the south side of Lake Ontario had filled up and towns were developing at sites offering water power for mills . The completion of the Erie canal greatly accelerated industrial and urban development here . In the second half of the nineteenth century the migration of the iron industry from eastern Pennsylvania to the northern Appalachian coalfield lead to the concentration of heavy industry in south-west Pennsylvania and the adjoining parts of Ohio and West Virginia , with a corresponding increase in the population of these areas . POPULATION About 22 million people , or 11% of the population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which contains less than 2% of the land area of Anglo-America . Of this total , some 5 million inhabit the Ontario peninsula , 31 million the St Lawrence lowland , leaving about 13 million in the Allegheny plateau and Mohawk ? Lake Ontario plain . Here the greatest concentration ? amounting to some 8 million people ? is found in the heavily industrialized south-west . This dense population extends along the south shore of Lake Erie to merge into another highly industrialized and densely peopled area , which continues from Buffalo through the Niagara peninsula and round the western end of Lake Ontario to Toronto . A very large and increasing proportion of the population ? probably over 75% ? lives in urban areas ; over 6o% lives in cities of ioo , 000 or more , and nearly 4o% is crowded into the five millionaire ' conurbations of Pittsburgh , Montreal , Cleveland , Toronto and Buffalo . Table  | Pittsburgh . This city occupies a remarkable position where the Allegheny from the north and the Monongahela from the south unite to form the Ohio . Other valleys also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to follow the valleys across the plateau , into which they are deeply sunk , the strategic importance of the position is great . This was recognized in the period of Anglo-French conflict . The French built Fort Duquesne here and it was renamed Fort Pitt in 1758 when it fell into English hands . When the westward colonization movement began , later in the eighteenth century , settlers crossed the Appalachians by various routes , several of which led to Pittsburgh , where they fitted themselves out before descending the Ohio . This led to the early growth of industry : a blast furnace in 1790 , a glassworks in 1797 , rolling mills in 1812 . Boats were built here for the Ohio navigation and , after 1811 , steamboats . In the 186os , the iron and steel industry began to grow rapidly , and the period 1870 to 1910 saw the city 's most rapid growth . Population rose from less than Ioo , 000 in 187o to 534,000 in 1910 when it ranked eighth among American cities . Since then growth has been very slow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a population of 604,000 . With its suburbs and satellites , however , it makes up a great conurbation of 21- million people . But lack of space in the narrow valleys , the growth of better situated steel centres elsewhere , and the migration of coalmining to other parts of the Appalachian field , discourage further growth . Montreal is built on Montreal Island in the St Lawrence river , and is the farthest point to which vessels could ascend the river before encountering impassable rapids . At this point there is a convergence of water routes , all of which were canalized , improved or deepened by dredging . Founded in 1642 , it was first a French fur-trading post , and at this stage in its history , the Ottawa route to the fur-trading country was most important . With the settlement and rapid development of Ontario during the nineteenth century it became the port and supply centre for that province , and the upper St Lawrence route then mattered most . After the settlement of the prairies , at the end of the nineteenth century , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed into a large industrial town needing raw materials . As a result sea-borne commerce now contributes most to the trade of the port , and the lower St Lawrence route has become the most important . The rapid growth of the city began about 184o , between which date and 1900 , the population of its urban area rose from 50,000 to 360,000 . During this century , growth has been even more remarkable . The population of Greater Montreal had risen to 1,145,000 in 1941 , and in 1958 was 1,740,000 . About 70% are French-Canadians ,  | the rest mostly of British origin , although there are also important Jewish , Italian and east European minorities . Montreal is Canada 's largest city , with to% of the population , and its foremost industrial , commercial , cultural and educational centre . ( Plate VI . ) Cleveland . Just as the arrival of the Erie canal in 1825 led to the rapid growth of Buffalo , so the coming to Cleveland in 183z of the Ohio ? Erie canal led to the town 's development . Possessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuyahoga and backed by two valleys leading through the plateau to the Ohio , it was the obvious terminus for such a waterway . In the second half of the nineteenth century railways converged upon the growing port , a process that was aided by the pattern of valleys . Thus the line from Pittsburgh along the Beaver valley was continued naturally to Cleveland , which found itself the transhipment point for Appalachian coal and , after the opening of the Soo ' canals in 1855 , of Lake Superior iron destined for Pittsburgh . A local iron and steel industry developed as a result . Population , only 1,000 in 183o , had risen to 93,000 in 1870 and to 561,000 in 1910 . In 1960 it was 876,000 , but the Cleveland urban area contains about 14 million people . As at Pittsburgh a large proportion are of foreign origin ? Italian , east European and Jewish . The city suffers from its valley situation and from lack of level lakeshore on which to expand . Toronto . The capital of Ontario has grown up on the north shore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbour . In 1792 the site was chosen for the capital of the new colony of Upper Canada . It soon became the leading industrial centre and largest town in Ontario , a position it has retained unrivalled . Population , only 25,000 in 185o , was 2oo,000 in 1901 . In 1941 , greater Toronto had 910,000 people and in 1956 this figure had increased to 1,358,000 . Toronto benefits from immigrant skilled labour , mostly from Britain , and is second only to Montreal as a Canadian industrial producer . It is the leading financial centre of Canada , and Bay Street , where the banks have their head offices , is a skyscraper district . Buffalo . This town enjoys a splendid position where the Hudson ? Mohawk natural route through the Appalachian barrier connects with the Great Lakes waterway . Rapid commercial and industrial development inevitably followed the opening of the Erie canal in 1825 and , later in the century , railways converged on the important port town that had developed here . Railways , however , lessened the relative superiority of Buffalo 's position since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The population , 117,000 in 187o , reached 507,000 in 1920 ; it has  | since grown slowly and was only 533,000 in 1960 , placing it twentieth in order of American cities . The greater urban area , however , counted over 11 million inhabitants . Buffalo has benefited from level lakeshore land on which to expand . On the main waterway route for grain , coal and ore moving east to New York the town was well placed to develop flourmilling and iron and steel industries , and hydro-electric power assisted the establishment of aluminium smelting and light engineering . Only brief mention can be made of the other larger towns of the region . Youngstown 's iron industry began when a furnace was built there in 18o8 ; it developed rapidly in the late nineteenth century , the position midway between Cleveland and Pittsburgh being favourable . It survives because of geographical momentum ; lack of waterway transport and the migration of coalmining to more distant areas are handicaps . Rochester , the leading manufacturing centre of the Lake Ontario plain east of Buffalo , began its career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and benefited greatly from the Erie canal . The river also provided a harbour . Eastman made it the headquarters of the great Kodak photographic firm . Akron also owes much to one man . It was chosen in 187o by Goodrich as the site of a rubber factory , after which the rubber industry concentrated here ; the town grew , like Detroit , with the motor-car , but it benefited also from power from the falls on the Cuyahoga river and from its position on the Ohio-Erie canal . Population rose from 69,000 in 1910 to 208,000 in 1920 , the period of its most rapid growth . Owing to decentralization , it no longer dominates the rubber industry as it did thirty years ago . Ottawa owes its present size and importance to the fact that it was chosen as the capital of Canada in 1855 ; it was then a lumbering town with about Io , 000 inhabitants . Hamilton grew up on the lower plain beneath the Niagara escarpment at the western extremity of Lake Ontario , where roads and railways converge . Founded in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut through the sandbar enclosing its harbour in 1832 . Large lake vessels could now come in . The iron and steel industry , established in the 186os , benefited from the opening of the toll-free Welland ship canal ( 1931 ) . The recent imposition of tolls on the waterway may have an adverse affect . The urban area has expanded along the lake front towards Toronto and towards Niagara . Quebec City , the oldest large Canadian town , founded in 16o8 , was for a long time a military fortress , commanding the narrow entrance to the St Lawrence river . It is placed at the point where the river unhesitatingly ends and the estuary unmistakably begins ; any position below Quebec could serve only one shore effectively and , because of the approach of the  | Laurentian and Appalachian uplands to the water 's edge , would have lacked a supporting hinterland . The narrowing of the river , which according to Champlain was the Indian meaning of the word quebec ' , enables the city to serve and unify the land on both sides of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area , again on each side of the river , provided a well populated matrix in which the town could develop , and added the function of regional administrative centre and market to those of fortress , capital and seaport . The old city consists of a lower town , at the foot of the cliff that here dominates the river , and an upper town , where the military , administrative and ecclesiastical institutions were built . The industrial quarters lie across the St Charles river to the north . This French-speaking town is an important tourist centre , as well as being the capital of the province of Quebec . It is no accident that , out of the fifteen largest towns in the region , all with more than 300,000 inhabitants , seven are on the Great Lakes ? St Lawrence waterway and combine commercial with industrial functions . Another three are on routes tributary to this main artery , while the remaining five are located in the coal-based industrial area of the south-west . These two features ? the great arterial waterway with its feeders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the growth of so much commercial and industrial activity and in the evolution of so many large urban areas .  | THE Old South , characterized before the Civil War of 1861 ? 65 by large cotton and tobacco plantations cultivated by Negro slaves , and by a social stratification headed by a leisured landed aristocracy , consisted of the following states : Virginia , North and South Carolina , Georgia , Florida , Alabama , Mississippi , Louisiana , Texas , Oklahoma , Arkansas , Tennessee and Kentucky . Florida is treated separately , and the region here called the South East comprises the remaining lowland areas of the Atlantic coastal plain , the Gulf coastal plain and the Mississippi valley . The upland parts of the South , and the Piedmont area are described in the next chapter . Low relief and bad drainage , poor or sorely eroded soils , wide areas of southern hardwood or pine forest , warm wet winters and hot humid summers sum up the physical geography of the South East . The human geography is being transformed . No longer are large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rice ; agriculture is becoming more diversified , and more intensified as higher yields for individual crops are raised from smaller acreages . Machines and fertilizers have come into general use and farms are larger and better managed . Pasture is expanding to support a growing livestock trade . Industrialization is spreading , though rather unevenly , based upon the increasing variety of agricultural products , Figure  | the forest wealth , the mineral resources , and the labour supply of the region . Incomes , health , educational standards and the general level of living are all rising , though still below the national average . The birth rate remains high , enabling population to grow despite a loss of young people who seek better opportunities elsewhere . The problem of race relations between Negro and whites remains , however , to cloud the Southern horizon . STRUCTURE AND RELIEF The South East lay beneath the sea throughout the Cretaceous and Tertiary geological periods and accumulated marine deposits which now outcrop as limestones , sandstones , sands and clays . The older rocks occur in the north where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dip beneath successively newer deposits southwards until more recent Quaternary deposits , mostly sands and alluviums , are found bordering the coasts . In some areas , especially along the Atlantic coastal plain , there is a tendency for the land to drop towards the coast in terraces . Elevations seldom exceed 50o feet above sea-level ; they are usually under 300 feet and relief is either flat or moderately hilly ; but a great variety of landscape arises from the effect of river erosion upon the different kinds of rock . West of the Mississippi particularly , the limestones and sandstones often drop sharply in cuestas or escarpments to the softer clays and sands beneath . The South East is divided into two parts by the lower valley of the Mississippi which is an almost level flood plain . The great river has in the past meandered all over this plain and covered it with alluvium . It is terminated on both its eastern and western sides by bluffs which rise steeply zo to 50 feet above the plain and which are often covered with thicknesses of fine wind-blown loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial banks or levees , built to contain the river , have given way ; to-day flood danger has been lessened by reinforcing the levees , and substituting straight cuts for the natural meanders of the river , thus speeding up the current and enabling the water to move away faster . Storms have built bars in the shallow coastal waters along both the Gulf and Atlantic coasts . Lagoons separate these bars from swampy shores . There are particularly large coastal swamps athwart the boundary of Virginia and North Carolina ( the Dismal swamp ) , in North Carolina ( the Mattamuskeet swamp ) and in Georgia ( the Okefenokee swamp ) ; coastal swamps are again general along the Gulf coast . ( Plate VII. )  | Figure Mild winters characterize the South East , with January means in the 4o ? s throughout most of the region ; but minimum temperatures may fall below zero . These mild winters favour the region , since there is not the dislocation of transport experienced farther north nor the costly winter fuel bills , and men can work outdoors almost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July mean temperatures usually between 750 and 85 ? ; they are highest along the Gulf coast of Louisiana and Texas . Annual rainfall is heavy , between 40 and 6o inches over the whole region except on the western margins . Summer is the wettest season with frequent thundery downpours of the convectional type , but the winter months are also wet . Autumn is the driest season , and there is usually a drop in average precipitation in spring , when lighter showers replace the heavier rains of summer and winter . Snow is uncommon . The Atlantic coastal plain suffers from violent hurricanes in late summer or early autumn . SOILS AND VEGETATION The soils of the South East are generally classed as red-yellow podzols ; they derive their colour from the iron and aluminium salts left behind after the more desirable mineral salts have been leached out by heavy rainfall . As a rule , soils lack organic matter . They are often light and sandy and unable to retain moisture , so that despite the humid climate , they suffer  | from drought even in short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deep water-retentive soils of the Black Waxy prairies of Alabama ? Mississippi and of the coastal prairies of Texas , and the better alluvial soils of the Mississippi floodplain . The soils of the South East have suffered heavily from erosion . They are particularly liable to this because of the heavy rainfall , the light nature of much of the soil , the prevalence of sloping land , and the predominance of crops which leave the soil without cover in winter . Winter erosion is severe , especially as the ground is then neither frozen nor snow-covered as it is farther north . The natural vegetation over most of the South East was forest , with southern pines predominating on the sandier lands and with a mixture of pines and southern hardwoods ( oak , hickory , gum , cypress ) elsewhere . Prairie grassland backed the coastal swamps of Louisiana and East Texas . As the western borders of the region were approached , the forest became sparser and gave way to the prairies of the Great Plains . About half of the area of this region is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor for cultivation . Much of the woodland has been previously cut over and now has second or third growth . As it is mostly privately owned , there are few safeguards to protect it from excessive exploitation , and cutting outstrips regrowth ; the hardwoods have suffered the greatest destruction . AGRICULTURE ( Fig. 50 ) Agriculturally , the South East was long considered a one-crop region , the larger part of it coinciding with the cotton belt . Maize was a second crop . Despite the climatic suitability for these crops , a farming economy based on them had serious drawbacks ; they left the land fully exposed to the vigorous erosion of heavy winter rains , and they demanded hard labour during the trying heat of summer , while leaving the farmer idle in winter , a season better suited to effort . The South East is now rather a region of general farming . Many crops besides maize compete with cotton , pasture is improving in quality and increasing in quantity and the farmer is taking a new interest in his woodlots . The South now produces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and much of this comes off farms . Conversion both to pasture and to woodland has enabled lands too damaged by erosion for cultivation to be profitably used . The 1941 ? 45 war brought capital into the region by raising the prices of agricultural produce and at the same time created labour shortages on the  | farms ; thus both the means and the incentive were provided to diversify agriculture by introducing crops that needed more capital but less labour than cotton . Even cotton itself began to be mechanized . Southern soils , though generally poor , are responsive to good management and to the application of fertilizers . As elsewhere in Anglo-America , there are now fewer farmers , but more large farms and more machinery . After the Civil War , large southern plantations were divided up among share-croppers , although ownership , and to some extent management , remained undivided . Now the tendency is for these large holdings to be worked once more as single units which have been named neoplantations ' . The sharecropper or tenant 's small farm , his log house and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wage labour housed in new dwellings built in accessible positions on roads . Thus the old dispersed settlement pattern is being replaced by a new linear form of settlement . The discrepancy between the size and efficiency of Southern farms and the rest is diminishing . The cultivation of cotton spread rapidly in the Southern states of the Atlantic coastal plain after the invention of the cotton gin ( for separating lint from the seeds ) at the end of the eighteenth century . By the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861 , the South East was almost the sole supplier of the rapidly expanding cotton textile industries of Lancashire and other European centres . The interruption of supplies during the war led European importers to develop alternative sources , but after the war the South East again dominated the market . Between 1890 and 1920 , the cotton belt suffered the ravages of the boll weevil , a pest which completely eliminated cotton from some areas . Nevertheless , the region survived this disaster , and in 1926 the record acreage of 47,000,000 was planted with cotton . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of synthetic fibres , continued damage by pests and disease , soil exhaustion and erosion , labour shortages and government restrictions , have brought the present-day acreage down to about io , 000,000 . The outer limits of cotton growing in the region are : the zoo-frost-freedays line to the north ; the zo-inch annual isohyet in the west ( beyond which the crop is grown with irrigation ) ; and in the south the lo-inch isohyet for the autumn months : if more than to inches of rain fall in an average autumn , it is difficult to harvest the crop and to control pests and disease . It used to be grown up to the Atlantic shore in the east and even on the offshore islands ; it was driven from these coastal areas by the boll weevil and has never reoccupied them . Within these outer limits , cotton concentrates on the most suitable soils .  | Despite the steep decline in acreage , yields have risen to such an extent that there has been little decline in total production . These higher yields are mainly due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing , and concentration upon those areas best suited to mechanization and fertilization , and on the better soils within those areas . Better pest control , rotations with other crops , closer spacing of plants and the introduction of new varieties have also helped to improve yields . The most important cotton-growing area to-day is the Mississippi floodplain , which produces zo% of the American output from 17% of the acreage . These high yields are due to deep , fertile , well-drained alluvial soils , ideal climate , and level land suited to mechanized farming . Mechanization of cotton growing has gone further here than elsewhere and there were five times as many tractors in 1955 as in 1940 . In other areas , although the planting is mainly done by machinery , most picking is still by hand . Second in importance is the inner coastal plain area of the southern Atlantic states . Here high yields and Io% of the national production are obtained by concentrating production on the better soils and using large quantities of fertilizers . Third in order are the East Texas prairies with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their black calcareous soils , though very fertile , are not so well suited to cotton ; it makes slow growth on them and yields are low . There has been a sharp decline in acreage and production , with other crops and livestock replacing cotton . ( Plate VIII . ) Areas from which cotton has virtually disappeared as a major crop , but where it was formerly dominant , include the eastern plains of South Carolina , Georgia and Alabama , the middle and upper Red River valley , and the Black Waxy prairies of Alabama . Loss of the rich black top soil through erosion has been the chief cause of decline in the latter area . The crops that have replaced cotton in those areas where its acreage has declined include groundnuts , soya beans and other legumes , wheat , sorghum and vegetables . Groundnuts have replaced it in large areas of South Carolina , Georgia and Alabama , on the black prairies of Texas and in the Red River valley . The soya bean , introduced in the early 19305 to improve the soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion has continued unchecked . In the upper Mississippi valley it is now second only to cotton , and it is becoming increasingly important on the coastal plain of North Carolina and Virginia . Winter wheat is a serious rival to cotton only in the far western parts of the region bordering upon the Great  | Figure Plains ; these drier areas have seen the introduction and rapid expansion of grain sorghum at the expense mainly of maize ; there is a heavy concentration of this crop along the Gulf coast of west Texas . Specialized vegetable growing has gained possession of large acreages in east Texas ( tomatoes , onions ) , southern Alabama ( potatoes ) and in the coastal plain of South Carolina ( water melons ) . Land released by cotton has to an increasing extent been converted to pasture , mainly for raising beef cattle . In fact , it has been said that the swing to beef cattle and improved pastures and hay crops is so pronounced , widespread and rapid that it constitutes the most important new trend in Southern land use ' ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coastal plain areas of the Carolinas , Georgia and Alabama , on the Black Waxy prairies of Alabama ? Mississippi , and in the southern sections of the Mississippi valley . It has been encouraged by high prices for beef , by increased demand now that more people live in towns , and by labour shortages on the farms . Since pasture prevents soil erosion it is probably the best use for much land in this region . Animals can be pastured out-of-doors all the year round , and cotton seed cake is available as a feed . Small grain cultivation for fodder is increasing in the new pastoral areas . Poultry are traditionally raised on most Southern farms , but recently areas of  | commercial production have developed , e.g. the Guadalupe-San Marcos valley region of Texas . The chicks are reared in long low broiler sheds which may hold 15,000 birds at a time ; for two months they are intensively fed and given growth-stimulating drugs and are ready for market . Hogs are concentrated in the groundnut area of the coastal plain in North Carolina and Virginia ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is grown throughout the region , but it too has undergone decrease in acreage and increase in yield , the latter from the introduction of new hybrid ' varieties . In parts of the Atlantic coastal plain , acreage has increased , especially in North Carolina and Virginia . Two other important crops found within the old cotton belt are tobacco and fruit . The tobacco areas lie in the Atlantic coastal plain where most farms grow both cotton and tobacco . The average tobacco-cotton farm in North Carolina is quite small ? a hundred acres , of which only 40 are cultivated . Tobacco occupies some 18% of the cropland , cotton about 13% , with the rest in corn and hay crops grown to feed the farm livestock . Such a farm probably has a tractor , but tobacco cultivation and preparation make heavy demands on labour . The fruits grown are principally peaches , strawberries and pecans . The principal peach areas are in Georgia and the Carolinas . Rice has long been grown in the Arkansas valley in Arkansas . Along the gulf of Mexico coast and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lies a sub-tropical belt in which cotton has never been important and where a different kind of agriculture has developed , with rice and sugar cane the main crops . The coastal swamps westwards of the Mississippi delta in Louisiana and Texas are physically well suited for rice cultivation ; the climate , which is here very wet throughout the year and hot for most of it , is ideal ; full mechanization gives higher yields and lower costs than many Asian regions where the crop is grown by hand . Many years of growing only rice debilitate the soil , and of recent years raising beef cattle has lessened dependence upon rice alone . Sugar cane has been grown in the Mississippi delta area for over two hundred years , and the Gulf coast of Louisiana produces about 400,000 tons of sugar a year . Yields are low because the climate is not hot enough , and some areas which formerly grew sugar now specialize in winter vegetables ( beans , winter cabbage , onions , etc . ) . Oranges too are grown in the Mississippi delta region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harvested throughout the Gulf coast region ; the tree will only produce in a warm climate with high rainfall .  | Shortage of butter during the war stimulated margarine manufacture which has continued to expand , providing a market for the vegetable oils of the region . Agricultural products , such as groundnut oil and husks , soya bean oil , meal and cake , cotton seed , oil and cake , are made into cattle feed , fertilizers , etc. , as at New Orleans , Galveston and Savannah . Tobacco manufacturing is very important in the tobacco-growing areas of the Atlantic coastal plain . Forestry and wood products industries have a long history in the region and the supply of naval stores ' ( turpentine , pitch , resins ) was prominent in colonial times . Turpentine and resin are still valuable products of Southern forests but they are obtained more as a by-product of the pulp and paper industry than from the traditional methods of pine cupping and pine chipping . Savannah is a leading naval stores ' market . This region produces about 40% of the timber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although most pulp is made from pines , increasing use is being made of hardwoods , although their principal value is in the manufacture of furniture , which is concentrated in North Carolina . Many large pulp and paper mills have been erected in the region recently ; at first production was limited to wood pulp , brown paper and cardboard : the giant plant at Savannah ( Ga ) can produce 40 million paper bags a day and 750,000 cartons and boxes . Bleached paper and newsprint were not manufactured because of the high resin content of Southern pulpwood . That difficulty has now been overcome and this region is fast becoming a major newsprint producer . The first Southern newsprint mill was opened at Lufkin ( Tex. ) in 1940 ; other great paper mills are those at Houston ( Tex. ) and Macon ( Ga ) . This industry is likely to expand in the future . Cotton textiles and clothing are also old-established industries which are still growing fast . They are most important in the Carolinas , Georgia and Alabama , at such towns as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at New Orleans and as far west as Dallas ( Tex . ) . Lacking coking coal and good iron ore , and without a large engineering industry to provide a market , iron and steel are not important ; but a beginning has been made during the past twenty years . The wartime plant at Houston has been greatly expanded and small mills have been built at Daingerfield and Longview , both in Texas . Houston uses imported ore , the latter two the low grade brown ores of east Texas . But the combined production of these Texas mills is only about 3% of the U.S. total , and the South East is a net importer of steel for its expanding engineering industries . These are located principally at New Orleans , Houston , Dallas , Fort Worth , Beaumont , Savannah , Jackson , Galveston , Columbus and Mem-  | phis ( Tenn . ) . Owing to the agricultural nature of the region and the importance of its cotton textile industry , agricultural machinery and textile machinery are prominent . Aircraft manufacture was introduced in the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the good all-yearround Texas weather favours tests flights and outdoor maintenance . The region is more prominent in aluminium production , with about 30% of the national total coming from smelters in Texas ( Point Comfort , Rockdale , Corpus Christi ) and Louisiana ( Chalmette ) , and another 7% from Arkansas ( Little Rock ) . The Chalmette smelter is one of the largest in the United States . These Southern smelters use local natural gas fuel ( except for Rockdale , where the electricity is generated by lignite ) and bauxite imported from Jamaica and Surinam as well as local supplies . The Atlantic coastal plain , which possesses phosphate deposits , has a flourishing fertilizer industry whose prosperity reflects the heavy demand consequent upon the region 's impoverished soils . Charleston is the main centre , but Savannah and Montgomery are also noteworthy . A great modern chemical industry , based on petroleum , natural gas , sulphur , salt and other local raw materials , has developed along the Gulf coast . Petroleum refining produces a widening range of fuels , lubricants and by-products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrated in the Beaumont ? Port Arthur ? Houston area , owing to excellent facilities for importing or exporting . The five largest oil refineries in the United States are in this area ; they are ( 196o ) : Table Petro-chemicals ? chemicals derived from petroleum ? are also manufactured on the Gulf field in the same areas as the Texas refineries , and in southern Louisiana at New Orleans , Baton Rouge and Lake Charles . Carbon black and helium are derived from natural gas in the above-mentioned areas and also on the East Texas and Oklahoma fields . Factories producing chlorine , soda ash , caustic soda and other chemicals use local supplies of oyster-shell limestone , salt and sulphur ; they are located at Corpus Christi and elsewhere on the Gulf coast . Long stretches of the Gulf coast have been developed as resorts , especially east of the Mississippi delta .  | There is a good network of railways and roads throughout the region , and the Mississippi has always provided a waterway link with the regions to the north . Petroleum , sulphur , cement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coast northwards on the great river . The Gulf section of the Intracoastal waterway is of the greatest value to the heavy industries of the Gulf coast of Texas and Louisiana . Barges are able to move along coastal canals , whose construction was facilitated by the swamps and lagoons of the Gulf shore , from Brownsville ( Tex. ) to the Mississippi and New Orleans , and also between Mobile ( Ala ) and Tallahassee ( Fla ) . Traffic along the waterway has increased tenfold in the last twenty years to about 30 million tons a year . A similar coastal waterway along the Atlantic coast lacks traffic owing to the absence of heavy industry . It is planned to link the Gulf and Atlantic sections of the Intracoastal Waterway with a canal across North Florida . Neither coast is well endowed with natural harbours , but the industrial development of the Gulf coast has resulted in much artificial port construction . Seven of the 18 leading ports of the continent by tonnage are on the Gulf coast : Houston , Beaumont , Port Arthur , Corpus Christi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of the continent 's foremost ports for general cargoes , and only New York has more trade by value and a larger hinterland . It is especially important as an exporting port , drawing agricultural and industrial products from as far afield as the Great Lakes and the Rockies , especially goods destined for South America . It is also a leading exporter of cotton , flour and wheat . Its imports likewise are distributed over a very wide area and consist mainly of Central and South American produce such as bauxite , sugar , bananas and coffee . The port lies in the Mississippi delta ' To miles from the open sea . Petroleum , petroleum products , salt , sulphur , bauxite , chemicals and cotton are the bulky commodities which give the others their importance . Houston , 50 miles inland by canal from Galveston Bay , has grown rapidly in importance , to some extent at the expense of Galveston , which was formerly the leading port on this section of the Gulf coast . Savannah and Charleston are the principal ports on the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pulp , paper , tobacco goods and fertilizers . POPULATION The population of the South East is about 28 million , one half of which is found on either side of the Mississippi . Fifteen years ago , when it was  | 20 million , 58% lived east of the Mississippi and about 42% to the west . Thus , there has been a westward movement , mainly into Texas . Another movement is from the countryside into the towns . Population is almost all native-born , there being little immigration into the region . It has been said that the South 's principal crop is people . The birth rate is high , but large numbers of young people between the ages of zo and 35 seek a living in other parts of the country . The rate of Negro migration is higher than that of whites , with the result that the Negro proportion has dropped from about a third to less than a quarter since 1900 . Mississippi state has the largest proportion of Negroes , but even here they no longer form a majority as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living of Negroes , hitherto well below that of whites , and the determination of whites to withstand racial admixture and to maintain a degree of segregation , causes social stresses and strains productive of race tension and conflict . Despite the improvement of the economic position of the South , caused by the diversification and modernization of agriculture in the old cotton belt ' , the exploitation of mineral wealth , and the development of industry , the South East still lags behind the economic and social state of the rest of the United States . There are many causes for the relative backwardness of large areas . First was the dislocation caused by the Civil War of 1861 ? 65 and the widespread destruction of property by the Northern armies . This was followed by a policy of high tariffs which favoured the industrialists of the North East , but handicapped the Southern producers of such export staples as cotton and tobacco . Other factors include : the poverty of the soil in much of the region , and an extreme degree of soil exhaustion and soil erosion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neglect and wasteful exploitation of the forests ; ownership of mineral wealth and industrial plant by interests located in the North East causing a drain of funds out of the region ; and the emigration of the more adventurous and better-educated youth . The urban population has grown rapidly since 1940 , particularly in the industrial cities of the Gulf coast and Texas . Austin , Baton Rouge , Beaumont-Port Arthur , Corpus Christi , Dallas , Fort Worth , Houston , Mobile and San Antonio were all among the fastest growing urban areas of the United States in the decade 1940 ? 60 . In most of these cities new construction is continuing at a much higher rate than the national average . Houston , fourteenth in order of U.S. cities in 1950 , was exceeded in new building construction in 1958 only by New York , Los Angeles and Chicago ; Dallas , twenty-second in order of population in 1950 , was seventh in order  | of new construction in 1958 . The leading urban areas , with their population ( in thousands ) in 196o , are given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 miles long and loo wide , reaches farther south than any other part of Anglo-America , and some of the islands known as the Keys are within 8o miles of the tropic of Cancer . This position gives it a humid subtropical climate which is the dominant factor in its economic and social geography . Florida is a low plateau composed basically of porous limestone in which a network of subterranean passages has been dissolved . Generally this bedrock is obscured by surface deposits : sands and clays of marine origin around the coasts , and wind-blown sands and old lake beds in the interior . Several old shorelines , the oldest over 250 feet above sea-level , mark the gradual emergence of the peninsula from beneath the sea . There are a few sluggish streams , but surplus water mostly drains into the underlying limestone or seeps into the numerous lakes ; there are many swamps . Off the coasts are raised limestone reefs and barrier beaches behind which lie lagoons or coastal swamps . The climate is determined by the southerly latitude , the maritime position and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having January means of over 6o ? , although freezing temperatures may occur anywhere except on the Keys . But frost is of very short duration in southern Florida ; it is brought only by continental winds from the northnorth-west ; a slight veering from this direction brings the air over the warm sea . Summers are hot and July means are everywhere above 8o ? ; yet Florida records lower maximum temperatures than most parts of the U.S. ? few places in southern Florida have ever recorded temperatures as high as 100 ? ; this is because of maritime location . Precipitation is heavy , usually over 50 inches a year . There is no dry season , all months receiving  | at least an inch on the average , but well over half the total falls in the four summer months , and winter is the driest season . Hurricanes , violent winds accompanied by heavy rain , are liable to do much damage , but weather forecasting usually enables the inhabitants of threatened areas to take precautions . Originally the peninsula was forested with pines and mixed species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as the Everglades occupy a large area . Much of this forest still remains and is cut for woodpulp to the extent of a million tons and more a year . There is a wide variety of soils , ranging from the well-drained limestone or sandy soils of central Florida to the wet muck ' soils of the swamps . Sandy soils predominate and these are often sterile , while blowing sand damages crops in some districts . The state of Florida , twenty-fourth in order of size , usually comes about eighteenth in order of agricultural production by value , and farming is the leading activity . Agriculture is characterized by specializing on those fruits and vegetables which , owing to the sub-tropical climate , can be more successfully grown or produced earlier than elsewhere ? especially citrus fruits and winter vegetables . By value , the state is second only to California in the production of these crops . The acreage devoted to citrus fruit has increased from about 400,000 to nearly 600,000 acres since 1945 , and of this area about 75% is in oranges , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the central ridges and slightly hilly lands of the interior which rise above the surrounding swamps and lakes . The light well-drained sandy soils , and the fact that sloping land is less liable to frost are factors favouring these lands . Recently there has been an increase in the amount of citrus fruit grown on the coastal flat lands ' , despite the high cost of drainage . Urban developers are willing to pay such high prices for orange-grove land that the farmer can afford to do this . One large orange-growing firm has been able to spend $3l- million in reclaiming an east coast marsh from profits realized in selling former orange-groves for building land . Winter vegetables , of which beans , tomatoes , celery , potatoes and cucumbers are the chief , occupy about 400,000 acres ; they are often located on the muck ' soils of the lower and more swampy coastal areas . Although these are not well drained , irrigation is often resorted to because winter precipitation is inadequate in the high temperatures prevailing . Water melons , strawberries , figs and tung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extracted ) are other valuable products of Florida farms . Sugar cane has become an important crop in Florida which now grows between a  | Recently , however , the west coast resorts also have become well patronized . Florida was almost entirely neglected by the Spaniards . There was slow progress during the nineteenth century , after its cession to the United States in 1819 . Between 1930 and 1950 Florida rose from being the thirty-second state in order of population to twentieth . During that period the rate of increase was 182% compared with 42% for the United States as a whole . Since 1950 the total number of inhabitants has grown from 2,771,000 to about 5 million in 196o , and the state now ranks tenth in order of population . As with California , the magic name of Florida , associated in the American mind with palm trees and warm sunshine , draws new inhabitants from all parts of the continent ? two thirds of the increase since 1950 is accounted for by migrants from other states . Most of this great influx has gone to coastal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased the size of the towns : Miami now has over ten times the population it had in 1920 . Although it was forty-second in population among American cities in 1950 , only seven cities built more houses in 1957.1 Development companies plan new housing estates , and advertise building lots all over the continent ; they are bought by people hoping to settle or retire in the peninsula . The new town of Port Charlotte , on the west coast , has less than 2,000 houses , but there are 72,000 vacant lots which have been sold to intending residents . The mild sunny winters of Florida attract population and industry , but the hot humid summers do not deter them . Although mean summer temperatures are high , maximum temperatures are kept relatively low by winds off the sea ; buildings are air-cooled , and it costs less to cool a house for four months than it does to heat it for eight , as is necessary in those parts of Anglo-America where most of the population lives and works at present . Despite the great attraction which southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long-term effects of residence there may be undesirable , especially in succeeding generations . Physical energy , bodily stamina and resistance to infection seem to decline in such a climate . The most populous urban areas in Florida , with their population according to the 196o census , are Miami ( 935,000 ) , Tampa-St Petersburg ( 772,000 ) , Jacksonville ( 455,000 ) , Orlando ( 318,000 ) , Pensacola ( 203,000 ) , West Palm Beach ( z28,000 ) , Fort Lauderdale ( 334,000 ) , Daytona Beach ( 30,000 ) and Gainesville ( 27,000 ) . Miami , a fast-growing all-season resort 1 These were New York , Chicago , Philadelphia , Los Angeles , Milwaukee , Houston and Dallas .  | and residential town , is also a port and , increasingly , a manufacturing centre . It has an important airways terminal which enjoys a particularly favourable position for Latin American traffic . The Tampa-St Petersburg area is the most heavily industrialized part of Florida , with fruit-canning , and the manufacture of cigars , containers , cement and fertilizers . Jacksonville is a busy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pulp and paper and food-processing ; within the area is a large naval airarm base . Pensacola is a leading fishing port specializing in oysters and shrimp-fishing . Daytona Beach is a popular all-year resort whose long beach of firm white sand has been the scene of several attempts to set up motor-speed records . Key West ( 26,000 ) is a naval base guarding the entrance to the gulf of Mexico .  | THE plains of the South East are separated from the Mid-West by a series of uplands widely differing in relief and structure . In the west these are the Ouachita and associated mountains , separated by the Arkansas river valley from the Ozark plateaus . The upland zone then narrows to the Mississippi , east of which it widens again , first to include an area of low plateaus and basins in western Kentucky and Tennessee , and then to embrace the whole southern section of the Appalachian system of plateaus , valleys and ridges . The climate is characterized by mild winters with January means in the 4o ? s , and very warm summers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low 8o ? s . But upland situations may have temperatures as much as 1o ? lower . Extreme temperatures range far from the means ? recordings well below zero and over I Io ? have occurred at many places . Annual precipitation is abundant everywhere , usually between 40 and 6o inches , and even higher in the Appalachian and Blue Ridge Mts . It is fairly well distributed throughout the year . Summer is usually the wettest season , but the low plateaus have a winter ? spring maximum . Autumn is the driest period , but dry spells may occur at any time . Rainfall comes in heavy showers . A little snow falls in winter in most areas , as much as 40 inches a year at higher altitudes . Snow , when it falls , soon melts . Figure  | Soils in the region have generally had the mineral salts of most value to plants leached out from the top layer by heavy precipitation ; heavy rains combined with predominantly sloping land have also resulted in extensive and severe erosion and enormous quantities of top soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The concentration on such crops as maize , cotton and tobacco , which give little cover to the soil in summer and none at all in winter , has facilitated soil erosion and soil exhaustion . Prolonged winter freezing of the ground does not protect the soil as it does farther north . This region did not have the benefit of glacial deposits . The best soils are where soft limestones have decomposed to form rich loams as in the Bluegrass region of Kentucky and the Shenandoah valley of Virginia . Even the light sandy soils may be suitable for special crops such as tobacco , fruit and vegetables . Most of the soils , though exhausted and deprived of their upper horizon , respond very well to fertilizers . ( Plate X. ) The South Eastern Uplands may be classified agriculturally as a general farming region . Maize almost everywhere occupies the largest acreage , although in certain areas another crop may be more valuable : e.g. tobacco in Kentucky and North Carolina , fruit and vegetables in Virginia , cotton in northern Alabama . The upland or more mountainous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of farming in which impoverished farmers struggle to subsist on sloping fields from which the top soil has been washed by heavy rains . They often have to resort to some additional occupation , such as trapping , mining or logging , or they may conspire to cheat the government by operating illicit whisky stills ; in this way , their main product , which is bulky low-value maize , can be converted to a high-value easily transportable and profitable product . Of the Io , 000 or so stills seized in an average year , about 8o% are in Tennessee , the Carolinas , Georgia and Alabama . In the broader valleys , basins , and the lower and less rugged plateau areas , agriculture is more advanced ; but even here , poor exhausted and eroded soils , small farms , the prevalence of tenancy and sharecropping , indicate that the farmer has a hard struggle to survive in his physical , economic and social environment . The Uplands have considerable mineral wealth , much of which leaves the region for further treatment elsewhere . Abundant coal and hydroelectricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the large families of the upland farms , have stimulated industrial development in the Appalachian area . The leading industries are those which process local raw materials : the cotton textile industry of the southern Piedmont , the cigarette industry of the northern Piedmont , the pulp and paper industry of the Great Valley and the southern Piedmont , the metallurgical  | industries of the Ohio valley and northern Alabama , the chemical industry of the Kanawha valley . The Uplands hold a population of about i8 million . The typical mountain farmer is of old colonial Anglo-Saxon stock , but there are more Negroes in the southernmost parts of the Appalachian regions and in the cities . There are now several large towns . The largest urban centres are Table But of the above , only Knoxville , capital of the Tennessee Valley Authority , which during the past 30 years has done so much to rejuvenate and revitalize the southern Appalachian area , is indubitably part of the region . The others are marginal . THE OUACHITA ? OZARK UPLANDS ( Fig. 55 ) This area , consisting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of physical and cultural features . In the south-east , the Ouachita Mts ( below 3000 ft ) consist of highly folded and faulted Palaeozoic sedimentary rocks , with limestones and sandstones forming ridges , and with valleys excavated in the softer shales . To the north , the Arkansas river flows through a broad structural trough . The Ozark upland is a flattish-topped dome forced up by masses of crystalline igneous rock beneath . The surface is formed by horizontal Palaeozoic limestones , dolomites , sandstones and shales which lie fairly horizontally at between i , 000 and 2,000 feet . They are dissected by deep steep-sided river valleys , notably by that of the White , but the land between is fairly level or gently rolling . The western part of the Ozark upland is known as the Springfield plateau . Carboniferous ( Mississippian ) limestones predominate and give a karstic topography in places , crossed by dry ravines and belts of marl . North-eastwards , in the more rugged Salem plateau , older Silurian and Cambrian rocks are exposed , but limestones still predominate and the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Still farther northeast , between the Salem plateau and the Mississippi , the granite foundation rocks themselves come to the surface and produce a hilly knobbly terrain known as the St Francis Mts . Thus this is a region of ridges , steep-sided narrow valleys , crests , plateaus , ravines and hills , with the spacious valley of the Arkansas forming the only noteworthy exception .  | Figure The heavy rainfall means that soils , even when of calcareous origin , as so many of them are , are highly leached of mineral plant food and need fertilization . It has also meant serious erosion of sloping surfaces . The upland soils of the Ouachitas are stony , and shallow ; they are not very productive , but respond to fertilization . The alluvial soils of the Arkansas and White river valleys are very fertile . The limestone-derived soils so common on the Ozark uplands have the serious disadvantage of being stony and cherty , making them difficult to cultivate . Many farmers still attempt to make a living on the poor thin upland soils of the more rugged parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few cattle or sheep . In the Ouachitas , farming is virtually confined to the valleys where cotton , maize and some fruit and vegetables may be grown  | along with pasture and meadow crops . The Arkansas valley is primarily a cotton , maize and winter wheat area , but does not grow cotton on so much land as formerly . Parts of the Springfield plateau have become the richest agricultural areas of the Ozarks ; chert-free areas have been successfully devoted to fruit and vegetables , with a specialization on apples , grapes , strawberries and tomatoes , and to the rearing of table chicken . Elsewhere on the plateaus , where topography is not too rugged and soils not too poor , the best land use is proving to be the sowing of grasses with red clover and lucerne , and the pasturing of beef cattle . The livestock are moved into the corn belt for fattening . There is considerable mining activity round the periphery of the region , but the mines here seem to be amongst the first to suffer from any slackening in demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed with regard to markets as other sources . In the north-east , in the St Francis Mts area , the lead mines of the Flat River district produce 41% ( 1959 ) of the U.S. production . Barite , used in oil drilling , is also mined in this area , which in 1959 produced almost a third of the American total . On the south-eastern confines of the region , near Little Rock , are bauxite mines . The United States produces 14% of the bauxite it consumes , almost all of it coming from this area ; most of it is smelted in the aluminium refineries of Little Rock . In the south-west , small amounts of coal are mined at McAlester ( Okla ) for transport to the ironworks at Daingerfield ( Tex. ) , 145 miles to the south-east . On the north-west outskirts is the zinc-mining area known as Tri-State because it is partly in Kansas , Oklahoma and Missouri ; its smelting centre is Joplin . Production has fallen recently owing to competition from Tennessee and other areas ; its share of the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1959 . Although there had been some French penetration of this region in the eighteenth century , colonization made little headway until the transfer of the territory beyond the Mississippi to the United States in 1803 . But in the twentieth century , upland settlements have become relatively isolated and backward ; the progress in the surrounding lowlands has passed them by , and subsistence agriculture persists to the present time . Springfield ( Mo. ) , with a population of 126,000 in 196o , is the largest town in the region , unless the aluminium city of Little Rock ( Ark. ) is included here instead of in the South East . Springfield is the market town for the most fertile area of the Ozark upland , a railway centre , and has miscellaneous manufactures . Next in size are Fort Smith ( 64,000 ) , an industrial town in the Arkansas valley and Joplin ( 39,000 ) . Hot Springs ( 29,000 ) is a health resort with thermal waters .                  @ @ @ 