@@773457

txt Methodological Discussion of the Theories He says : Short of assuming precisely what anthropology exists to demonstrate , it seems to me that none of the desiderata mentioned by Miss Inglis reveals the logic which prompts the impassioned Melanesians , acting jointly , to neglect their gardens , forsake their villages , waste their pigs , dissipate their valuables , whore their women , dance themselves to ecstasy , and go out to wait for wealth to come by means which never were on land or sea ( p. 19 ) . Indeed Our insight into the cults will grow in the measure in which we abandon the effort to base interpretations on the primacy and efficacy of belief ... . We have no sure means of knowing if a man believes what he may say he believes . Belief can be simulated from any number of motives which themselves are beyond our sure knowledge , but the external activity need not differ from that of a true believer .... In the Melanesian cults , the natives do not seek cargo because of anything they believe about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that they do so because cargo has value or meaning for them , and that they enhance their belief in consonance with that value or meaning . The fantastic nature of the one is a function of the inordinateness of the other . I am thus not denying that Melanesians have and may hold beliefs ; nor am I saying that we should not record and analyse what they may purport to be their beliefs ; I am contending only that a structure of theory built upon a belief in belief assumes what is neither warrantable nor necessary ( p. 25 ) . This passage needs some comment . First , We have no sure means of knowing if a man believes what he may say he believes ' , says Stanner . Quite true , we have no access to other people 's minds . Does it follow that because we ca n't be sure we are right we should n't bother to answer the questions ? Yes , on the false view that hypotheses are Bad . Second , he says that belief can be simulated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but does anything follow from it except that our answers about belief will be conjectural ? Study ritual not belief ' , all over again , so that our discussion ( of the activity ) will not be conjectural . Finally , Stanner contends that the seeking of the cargo is attributable not to the seeker 's beliefs about where it comes from , but to the high value they place upon it ; our knowledge that they do value it highly may perhaps explain the fantastic stories they give of its source and is certainly enough to explain the cult ; we need not assume their beliefs to be their beliefs in order to explain their activity . I find some difficulty in following all of this . I especially do n't see why Stanner 's theory that the natives value the cargo goods is significantly less conjectural , less sure , than Belshaw 's and Attenborough 's contentions ' about the natives ' beliefs ' . What kind of argument is it to say that we can discount their beliefs because these 150 Methodological Discussion of the Theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Who knows these means never were on land or sea ? Who dares say that he knows the natives know they never were on land or sea ? Or is this a permissible conjecture while a statement about beliefs ' is an impermissible one ? I would suggest we have here a recurrence of Firth and Mair 's attempts to discount the significance of religious beliefs ; the assumption that one 's own beliefs are obvious and true , whereas opposing ones are merely conjectural , nonexistent or dismissible as irrational . It is perhaps necessitarianism which makes Stanner regard situational logic as unsatisfactory . He is right in contending that situational logic seems to say it is hard to see how anything but a cult could result ; explanations of human behaviour in terms of the logic of the situation , however , always fall short of a complete account because they can not eliminate the human factor ; they can only go so far , they can not do more than leave the human element open : if we reconstruct the situational logic of an event we still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick thinking might or might not save the day ; whether it will or not is a prediction beyond our reach . Two people , identically situated , may act differently because : one is a Christian , the other not ; one thinks quickly , the other slowly ; one always does the obvious , the other never does the obvious , and so on . Any theory which eliminated this human element would be explaining human thought and will , and any explanation of human thought would be an explanation of itself , i.e. it would explain too much . However , despite the limitations on it , situational logic is the best explanation of human behaviour we have ; indeed it is virtually the only one we have . But it must be combined with a theory which allows belief and aims to influence action.l True , the two may interact , and it may be difficult in any particular case to say which has primacy . But that in the ultimate analysis belief must have primacy seems an inescapable conclusion . In fact , I would contend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain adamant that belief does not affect action then I do not see how we can explain anything social or human . Of course the cultists want the cargo because they value it . But why do they have a cult and not something else ? Can there be any other answer than that they genuinely believe that the cult will bring them the cargo ? Yes . If they do not believe in the efficacy of the cult then the cult is perhaps performed for some other end or is enjoyed for its own sake : we may say that the cult is futile , or a deception , and has no connection with the desire to get the cargo , yet unless we say it is for Methodological Discussion of the Theories some end , we have no explanation at all . The theory that it is performed although known to be futile is saying the cult is somewhat irrational , but it is not an explanation of it ; the theory that the cult is enjoyed for its own sake and is known to be otherwise futile runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of deviousness to the cultists  --  that they ruin themselves for the sake of ruining themselves and disguise their behaviour as rational  --  that it reduces to the theory that it is a deception to conceal some secret pleasure enjoyed by all , and this is a kind of conspiracy theory . I have discussed conspiracy theories in Chapter 3 . Thus I think these theories which rule out a belief in belief will not do . Although Stanner utilises the theory of Radcliffe-Brown 's that we need n't believe that belief and action are related in the way we normally believe they are , he does not , as we saw in the motto to Chapter 4 , believe that structuralfunctionalism a la Radcliffe-Brown will do to explain the cults either . To discuss this second point we shall have to turn away from Stanner. 6 . The Lack of a Structural-Functional Explanation The final criticism of my theory which I want to deal with would be simply : my theory is not a structural-functional theory . My reply would be that the charge is quite true . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature I have looked at is concerned , no structural-functional explanation of cargo cults has so much as been seriously attempted . I shall discuss this last fact in sections 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 . While there are indeed no strictly structural-functional theories of cargo cults in the literature , there are some functional or protofunctional ones . Haddon , of course , argued that religion sanctions social aspirations and , as the aspirations were changing because of contact the religion had to change too so as to sanction the new social aspirations , Firth in 1951 explained how the cults sanction the moral striving of the cultists ; by working on warehouses and jetties , the participants showed their faith that what they demanded was right and would be forthcoming . His ideas were further developed by Burridge . Stanner presents a slightly different thesis . He believes that the things the cultists want have social values ( their value to the society as a whole ) ; that the natives misvalue , or more precisely overvalue , the cargo by founding a cult ; and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such overvaluation to become established it would lead to social chaos ( 1958 , p. 4 ) . He also believes that contact with western society has shown up certain functional inadequacies in the native society and that the cult is an attempt to get the native society to adjust , and this attempt it magically ( and 152 Methodological Discussion of the Theories post hoc ) sanctions ( p. 24 ) . Worsley holds that cults function as means of uniting diversified societies . Mair holds that religion validates the social structure and is only changed when it disappoints expectations , i.e. can not handle a new situation ( p. 119 ) , so that the cult is a result of the failure of the old religion in the new situation . All these explanations obviously smack of structural-functionalism because they talk of institutions sanctioning ' others , of social values , and of functional adjustment . Yet they are not strictly structural-functionalist theories of the cults because they give no explanation of the shifts in the structure . Thus , Haddon does n't explain structural-functionally why the social aspirations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of why the new moral strivings ; Stanner gives no structural-functional account of the overvaluation ; Mair gives no structural-functional account of why the religion disappoints expectations . Worsley 's remark , to complete the list , is not an explanation of the cults at all , but of their consequences . But I wish to stress , that these are my own comments not the comments of the authors themselves ; according to the authors ' own view they are all , except Worsley ( who is a marxist ) , like most British social anthropologists , orthodox and practising **25;0;TOOLONG . As explained earlier , most British social anthropologists are **25;27;TOOLONG . This doctrine of theirs is both a heuristic and a metaphysical theory . My dissatisfaction with the theories of cargo cults can be explained by the fact that their authors have by and large followed the kind of inductive heuristic embodied in structural-functionalism , but they have not followed it as a theory . That is , they have plunged straight into ethnographic fact about the society in which the cults arose and about the cults themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why we should take an interest in all these facts about them . That is not to criticise structural-functionalism as a body of theory . Yet none of the writers we have discussed has attempted to construct a structural-functional explanation of cargo cults . Even Firth , a very distinguished member of the British structural-functionalist school , does not do so . Also , none of the writers mentions the fact that structural-functional method  --  the method of analysis usually used in social anthropology  --  is not being , or has not been , applied to cargo cults . This silence in itself is interesting . Either the fact was not noticed , orthese strange emanations of religious mania were felt to be nontypical of the problems of social anthropology and therefore were not to be treated in the usual way . Methodological Discussion of the Theories 7 . **26;54;TOOLONG Difficulties with Social Change In this section and the next two I present my account of why there has been no structural-functional theory of why cargo cults occur and proceed in the ( very similar ) way they do . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social change . Firth deals with them in his chapter Social Change in Peasant Communities ' in Elements of Social Organisation ; Stanner covers them in his book The South Seas in Transition ; Hogbin tackles them in his aptly titled Social Change ; Guiart , Bodrogi and Worsley all think that somehow or other they represent the first stirrings of nationalism in a society previously without it . To be more precise , all authors agree that the cults are at the same time parts of the reaction of societies to new and changing situations , and a sign that the societies in question are undergoing some sort of change ( besides being , in a way , agents of change too ) . So in seeking a causal explanation of cargo cults we are seeking a causal explanation of one kind or manifestation of social change . We recall that structural-functionalism is anti-history . ' I have already mentioned the difficulty that structural-functionalism has with time . Inasmuch as the functionalist tries to take a snapshot of society , to explain everything at a frozen instant of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here-andnow , the doctrine can not but exclude time . The doctrine does not exclude the idea of change as such , but since every change leads to quick adjustment or to destruction , according to this theory ( see my remark on Malinowski 's evolutionism , Chapter 1 , section 6 ) , the theory demands that we view society as a series of snapshots , not as a moving picture . How can a doctrine which explains an event or an institution by indicating its place in the fixed social structure and specifying its interdependencies with other parts of the structure account for changes in the structure ? Some anthropologists argue that a change in the structure can be shown to be a consequence of other changes in other parts of it and that there is no special difficulty in 4 explaining social change . I contend that structural-functionalism can indeed provide good accounts of this sort but that it needs to be supplemented if social change is to be explained properly . Indeed , the functionalist and the structural-functionalist tacitly admits this when saying that he only needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adaptation or annihilation . Even if this justification Methodological Discussion of the Theories were true , we may still wish to inquire into the mechanism of the quick adaptation . Suppose we want to explain change in the place where married couples settle  --  from , say , virilocal ( living in the settlement of the groom 's family ) to uxorilocal ( living near the bride 's family ) . Suppose also we are able to show in a structural-functionalist fashion how this change is a consequence of certain changes in religious beliefs brought on by the activities of missionaries and that in turn the changed marriage pattern will cause changes in the political structure . Nonetheless , to explain the change of residence pattern we still have to account for the decisions of certain leaders of opinion to accept the new religion . And this can not be done structurally . For , this kind of change is essentially an individual matter , the best approximation to an explanation of which we can so far hope for is one stated within situational logic . We might show how people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else ( say , to strengthen ties with the white men ) , or how the new religion had changed people 's aims and they had decided that , as the traditional residence pattern was irksome , couples should choose freely and that this free choice led to the changed pattern we wanted to explain . The anthropologist could point out that the social structure is part of a person 's situation . True enough , but it is just this idea of a situation which must be added to structural-functionalism . I think this argument shows us that although structural-functionalism is needed when we are dealing with social change , it must be combined with situational logic . ( I take up the argument again in section 8 . ) An exclusive concentration on structural-functionalism then , has proved in the large and important field of social change to be inadequate . However , this methodological inadequacy can not take all the blame for the difficulties experienced with social change . The leading anthropologists whose influence is strongest today tended to study , and so be preoccupied with , small-scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social structure as a coherent whole very well . Thus a holistic idea of social structure was somewhat uncritically accepted and later anthropologists considered it their job to give a picture of the society they were studying as a coherent , on-going , whole system ( see Chapter 6 , section 3 ) . Thus their first concern was to identify and describe the principal social institutions which constituted the social structure of the society . They even resorted to aged informants in order to get a picture of the social system as it was prior to modification by contact and change . Thus the preoccupations of the holistically-trained anthropologist left him time and interest only for the unchanging , underlying structure ; he did not bother with or bother to notice social change . The limitations of the method thus went uncorrected . Methodological Discussion of the Theories If the functionalist were to adopt situational logic as a theory of adjustment from still picture to still picture , then the next step would be to reject the stills as based on the false idea of either annihilation due to no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both redundant and false . Redundant because situational logic can explain the events without freezing ' the situation , and false because adaptation is neither quick , nor uniform nor necessarily towards equilibrium . 8 . The Failure to Find a Structural-Functional Explanation of Cargo Cults We are now in a position to explain why there has been , as yet , no structural-functional explanation of social change and thus of cargo cults . There has been no attempt at a structural-functional explanation of social change as exemplified in cargo cults for two principal reasons : ( a ) Briefly : functionalism explains institutions by their consequences ; it seems not to have been noticed , though , that this does not causally explain them at all . We would expect change to be explained causally in a science of society . But to narrate the unintended consequences of some happening is not to explain it causally . It would have been absurd if any author had said cargo cults ease the adaptation to western society , therefore they occurred ' . Quite possibly they do ease adaptation . Possibly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But then they happened because that prophet did such and such and those people responded to him , and perhaps the prophet so acted because he wanted adaptation . But this is very different from saying that the prophet 's and people 's actions took place because these actions promote adaptation . Sometimes anthropologists slip from the latter into the former sort of explanation without noticing it ; in the case of cargo cults , perhaps , such confusion would be too obviously noticeable . ' ( b ) The second reason for the lack of a structural-functional Methodological Discussion of the Theories account of cargo cults is this . Authors have been unwilling or unable to give a situational account of the people involved . This has to be added on to a structuralist account . Let us examine a structural explanation of something . Assume that the event e to be explained is a fall in the Financial Times ( FT ) share index of five points . The explanation runs : the index fell means prices fell ; prices fell because people wanted to sell , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends towards the point where the amount offered by those who want to sell will be equal to the amount demanded by those who want to buy . Therefore a sudden increase in selling was followed by a drop in price to tempt more buying . Query : who are these people ? Answer : typical buyers of securities . Why did the typical anonymous individual buyers of securities want to sell rather than buy ? Answer : a balance of payments crisis shook the investor 's confidence and his liquidity preference increased so he decided , for the time being , to increase his cash ratio . This use of an example from economics is deliberate in that it gives a clear model of the kind of explanation a structural explanation is , and it enables us to see clearly the role of structural relationships in the explanation . The explanation presupposes an economic structure of such and such a kind with such and such links between its institutions so that if something happens in one area ( the balance of payments ) you get a ( predictable ) reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FT index and the balance of payments situation  --  are functionally related . Note that the explanation presupposes the structure ; it is necessary to add a situational account of the rationale behind the investors ' decisions to sell , not buy , if the explanation is to be satisfactory . 9 . Can there be a Structural-Functional Explanation of Social Change ? Given that for the various reasons discussed there has been no structural-functional explanation of cargo cults offered , the question we must now attend to is whether it is possible that there can be such an explanation of these phenomena . At this stage , the question amounts to whether I can see how to evade my own arguments and sketch lines along which such an explanation might be effected , at least in principle . Obviously if situational logic is ruled out the answer is no , for the reason that situational logic is an explanation of adaptation to change . As I shall argue in Chapter 6 , section 6 ( ii ) , situational logic is , one way or another , employed by **25;82;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question 157 Methodological Discussion of the Theories now is , allowing a situational interpretation of structural-functionalism , how much can we explain with its help ? What kind of questions can be answered along its lines ? My own view is that more or less can be done structural-functionally , depending upon whether the cults are assumed to be internally or externally caused change . On the assumption that cargo cults are internally caused , structural-functional explanation of many factual details will be possible . Internally caused change is change not due to the impingement of external factors ( either social or natural ) but to spontaneous changes within the society . In Britain the development of a high level capitalist economy was internal ; it was not entirely positive , and thus led to certain attempts to adjust the economy in 1926 ( e.g. keeping wage rates low ) so as to overcome the deficiency resulting from these changes ; the attempts , in their turn , resulted in the upheaval of the General Strike . Thus , one may say the series of events was the process of structural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a primitive society where a collective decision militating against a substantial number of its members might result in a great change , and even a religious upheaval , as attempts at readjustment . ( A case is known of the overpopulation problem being solved by one section of the population driving the other into the sea ) . Once the balance of present living was upset in this way we could use structuralfunctionalist models to explain their consequences . And a situational analysis , presupposing the structure , may be sufficient in turn , to explain why the disruptive decision was taken in the first place . Where the change is the result of some external agency ( be it natural like an earthquake , a crop failure or disease ; or social like colonisation ) then no explanation in terms of the structure and function of the society affected will do . One would either have to resort to some overall theory like the geological theory of earthquakes , or Marx 's account of the reasons for colonisation , to handle all cases ; alternatively , one would have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each particular case . An argument an anthropologist could at once raise against me here would be that I have discussed the question of the causes of the external events whereas the question anthropology has to answer is , why the society in question reacted that way and not this , to these external events . My answer would be that the anthropologist is right , of course . Knowing the structural set-up of the society helps us trace the effects , the repercussions of the initial changing agency throughout the society . But if we explain the reaction of the society to the intrusion ( be it the cult or colonisation ) we do not explain the intrusion 1 Methodological Discussion of the Theories of the change-bringing agency in the first place . It is the earthquake , the disease , the colonisation , which we can not explain structuralfunctionally ; whether it is the job of the anthropologists to explain earthquakes , disease and colonisation is quite a different matter . I would agree that the anthropologist need not try to explain these things but he can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does refer to them their importance is largely in altering the situation of one part of the society which then has to get functionally adjusted to the other parts . This is one reason why situational logic is presupposed by functionalism . Internally caused change , then , is explained by the structuralfunctional anthropologist more easily than externally caused change . Practically every author we have looked at has assumed that the cults are a reaction to culture contact or colonisation , i.e. that they are externally caused . Because cargo cults are externally caused change , no structural-functional explanation of them ( as opposed to their effects or receptions ) can be given . This , in my view , is the most powerful reason why none has been given or , so far as I am aware , attempted ; we need no longer find this lack surprising . 10 . Other Faults of the Theories and of their Presentation One fault common to the cargo cult writers we have already reviewed : the discrepancy between their lip-service to structuralfunctionalism and their understandable failure to use it . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work and to suggest that the literature reveals open problems . The various theories of cargo cults were surveyed ( in Chapter 3 ) more or less in a logical order rather than a chronological order . In the normal course of the publication of learned journals one would have expected articles proposing theories , other articles confuting them and proposing alternatives to have appeared as the quarterly issues succeeded one another . This is the usual way in which progress in deepening and extending knowledge is achieved in academic subjects . Nothing much like this has happened in the case of cargo cults . With the exception of Worsley 's book where he criticises Ralph Linton 's theory and the weberian theory of charisma , there is very little overt intellectual cut-and-thrust.l To some extent it is going on below the surface ; assertions are being made with the purpose of contradicting another piece of work and , if one is well up in the literature , it is possible to detect this . It seems as though a tacit antipolemical convention discourages explicitness about who and what Methodological Discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply because it can retard the growth of knowledge . It is esoteric ; esotericism excludes the vulgar ; but the vulgar can often contribute . Muted controversy prevents their contributing . On a first impression the published material looks as though it is the work of writers each of whom has come to cargo cults afresh , his mind unsullied by the views of other people ( except insofar as the opinions of someone like Williams are paraded so that their absurdity can be pointed out ) . At least , this would appear to be the impression the authors want to give . Each just launches out into his analysis with little or no attempt to state the problems , and discuss the solutions so far put forward . This procedure of posing problems and criticising earlier solutions to them is the heart of the critical tradition . Although vigorous in natural science and , perhaps , in philosophy , the critical tradition is still weak in social anthropology ; r anthropologists are reluctant to stick their necks out . It might be worth offering an anthropological conjecture about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I believe , of the inductivist myth that the scientific ' character of social anthropology ( which I fully accept ) consists in its scientific ' fieldwork . In my opinion the scientific ' character of the excellent fieldwork done by British social anthropologists is a scientistic myth.2 A myth bolstered by the further myth that science proceeds by induction from the facts . These myths encourage the belief in scientific expertise and thus perfect agreement between scientists.3 Since their mythology makes agreement the proper state of affairs it is not surprising that anthropologists are reluctant to take to pieces the conclusions of their colleagues . I have already explained how Popper 's view of the scientific character of a discipline , which I accept , is different from this ( see Chapter 1 , section 9 ) . His view Methodological Discussion of the Theories amounts to saying that a discipline is scientific to the extent that its theories are testable . There is nothing particularly scientific ' about the procedures of the laboratory , or the field , except insofar as they are means of testing particular theories . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cults , why in all cases the writers have left to the reader the task of sorting out what problem is being tackled at any one time . Too frequently authors have tackled more than one problem simultaneously without stressing , or even noticing , that they were distinct , especially when they were closely interrelated . At the end of Chapter 2 I made a somewhat unsystematic attempt to list the principal problems the cults raise for a social anthropologist . On the whole other writers have preferred to analyse ' cargo cults without , apparently , meaning by that the distinguishing and discussing of problems . Not only are problems not strictly separated off from one another ( even in the longer tracts of Worsley and Burridge ) , but an astonishing , almost bewildering , variety of different sorts of explanations is paraded , often mixed up together . There are economic explanations , sociological explanations ( i.e. explanations within situational logic and especially explaining facts as unintended consequences ) , sociocultural explanations , ' historical explanations , psychological explanations , diffusionist explanations and evolutionist ( often enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand outside the official explanatory framework of British social anthropology . Since these authors were often **25;109;TOOLONG tackling a problem which , according to their own claims at least , should have been accessible to their doctrines , and since their explanation by-passed it , they are in a definite sense unsatisfactory . There is no objection to any of these explanations per se ( with the possible exception of historicism ) . No more is it being argued here that these are all separate and separable disciplines which ought not to be mixed up . But I do want to insist that problem and explanation be of the same order . Psychological problems , for example , can not be explained in terms of historicist sociology unless there exists ' bridging laws ' 2 leading us from the one to the other . Economics and history , to take another example , can be brought to bear upon sociological problems insofar as there are links between these three disciplines . If in a problem-situation economics , social history , psychology and theory of culture are all mixed up then our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often than not we Methodological Discussion of the Theories find that an analysis by means of the general method of situational logic suffices to explain it . Why , then , are the writers on cargo cults so methodologically dubious ; why is their often high-calibre work presented so poorly ? My conjecture is that they are insufficiently critical . The writers would all doubtless affirm their adherence to the rational approach , but they fail to carry it out fully in practice . Too few seem to have sat down with a problem , analysed it , then combed the literature for other people 's solutions ; or to have started by criticising the solutions of someone else , proceeding to tackle the problem via criticism of those views . One of the exceptions to these strictures is Firth 's 1955 paper where he seems to pose himself the problem : all right , you have tried to give an explanation of cargo cults ; but what about your special field , Tikopia , is not it , prima facie , a counter-example to your theory  --  for most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred ? ' Here Firth is taking a critical attitude to his own work . This is the most difficult part of criticism : even some of the most critically-minded scientists find it hard to be sufficiently critical of their own ideas , yet Firth has done it . But Firth is very unusual in this : lack of criticism is the rule . A consequence of this normal lack of criticism has been the ever-increasing muddling up of the various problems ( mentioned earlier ) . Authors started out to say what causes cargo cults and ended up holding forth on the necessary preconditions of cults ; or they began with the problem of explaining them sociologically and ended up talking confusedly of the cultists ' mental confusion ; and so on . 11 . How far have the Theories Solved the Problems they were Intended to Solve ? Having gone into the theories proposed by the various anthropologists in some detail it is now time to conclude this discussion of the literature by trying to answer the above question . At the end of Chapter 2 I listed some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find out which of them , on the basis of our literature survey , may still be considered open . ( a ) The straight empirical problem of who joins the cults . There is a cluster of questions to be answered : is it only the deprived who join ( if so , what are they deprived of  --  wealth , status ) ? or is it those who have been abroad ? or those who have never left their village ? or those who have accepted Christianity ( themselves , or their neighbourhoods ) ? or those who have later been neglected ( by the missionaries , white administrators ) ? or disappointed by Christianity ( did not receive expected wealth , status ) ? or those who have never 162 Methodological Discussion of the Theories accepted Christianity ? and so on . Despite the quite extensive descriptive literature which exists on the cults , ' some of which has been reviewed in Chapter 3 , at least for myself I can say I do not know the various authors ' answers to these questions . It is useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the literature , since this may lead someone to filling them , perhaps authors of previous works who think they did but who did not so far answer them . Admittedly , no anthropologist who has written on the cults has had the luck to be on the spot from the very inception of a cult ( with the exception of those who  --  like Williams  --  were administrative officials ; yet this was hardly an ideal role from which to attempt a dispassionate sociological analysis ) . Indeed , many of the anthropologists who have written on the cults have never been to Melanesia at all ( Linton , Bodrogi , Cohn , Inglis , Worsley ) ; some have been there but done no fieldwork on the cults ( Haddon , Firth , Stanner , Mair ) ; and of the rest Hogbin never researched in a cargo area , while Williams and Belshaw were administrators . This leaves Lawrence , Guiart and Burridge the degree of whose actual experience of cult activity firsthand , under their noses , is not public knowledge . But certainly many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would have been in a position to get , by questioning , answers to most of our questions . The general problem underlying the questions asked above is what are the special conditions in their circumstances which have caused these individuals to act in this and this way ? ' Each of the questions is designed to test a particular hypothesis , like people acted this way because they were poor ' . We do not have to bother with the plausibility of the hypothesis if we can show empirically that it is either unsatisfactory or not true ; namely , either that there are cultists who have never been poor or that there are poor people who did not join the cults . The literature mentioned in Chapter 3 yields some fragmentary information about the structural and economic set-ups of particular societies and thus about the situation of the typical individual . It is not so forthcoming about the aims of individuals . Various isolated attempts have been made to give a picture of the structural and economic set-up as the native sees it ; but a really thoroughgoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the appearance of Burridge 's book in 1960 we have nowhere a thorough and detailed rational reconstruction of the native 's actions in terms of the ends he would like to achieve given the situation he faces , as he sees it . With the appearance of that book most of the literature has been superseded . So much for the problem ( a ) , who joins the cult ? Methodological Discussion of the Theories ( b ) Very much the same as what was said under ( a ) goes for the problem , who does not join the cult ? We want to know where nonparticipants stand socially and economically in relation to the people who did join the cult . We also want to find out why they say they did not join . No adequate explanation of a cult can be given unless we have the answers in ( b ) to the parallel set of questions asked in ( a ) and for the following reason . The existence of noncultists refutes every theory using one of their characteristics . If there are poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false . All those negative categories must be listed so that we can write off as many hypotheses as possible . While there is a paucity of problems and theories there are a great many popular ideas floating about and these need to be confuted as systematically as possible . ( c ) Questions concerning the prophet . Whatever Worsley may say against charisma , the problems connected with the prophet are close to the heart of the matter . A great lack of information about the prophets confronts us , which is especially hard to understand as most of them are still alive and there to be interviewed . Margaret Mead 's New Lives , for Old does concentrate on a prophet  --  Paliaubut it is so laudatory of Paliau and his achievements that one has to treat it as an excessively biassed case-history . Our questions about the prophet should be designed to test very similar hypotheses as in ( a ) . Was the prophet relatively rich , or poor , or neither ? was he a deprived person ( if so , in what ways ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Christian , a disillusioned Christian , a pagan , an atheist , or what ? what kind of education had he had ? what was his previous career ? what were his aims  --  what precisely did he think he was trying to do ? was he sincere ? This list is long and obvious so I need not try to make it complete . Another thing which might be mentioned , though , is how far the cult turned out just as the prophet expected ; how far , even in this limited sense , the prophet succeeded in realising his aims , and how far the unintended consequences ( which there surely were ) interfered with both the prophet and his plans . To take an example from our own experience : many western politicians have as a main aim the achievement of power . Their aims when they have got this power interact in a complex way with their desire to get and maintain power . A man may be swept to power on a wave of reformist sentiment . His attempts at reform may then be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programme or losing his power . On one interpretation , Macmillan became Prime Minister to repair the damage created by Suez , in which he was thought to be a devout believer . He did the job , but it is an open problem whether he intended , or was simply forced , to do it by playing down and then quietly burying the whole 164 Methodological Discussion of the Theories affair . There is little doubt that the vacillations in Russia between priority for heavy industry and then priority for consumer goods are examples of leaders trying to be flexible in an effort to stay on top . All this is very obvious but occasionally more complicated events occur . Occasionally some slogan  --  Liberte , egalite , fraternite ' , or Freedom of the press '  --  endowed with an almost magical force , carries its believers into power . It not infrequently happens that its believers try to implement it  --  the French Revolution , the Constitution of the U.S.S.R.  --  and what in fact happens is that the magical force is retained with the slogan , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power politics , but it is fervently asserted as an official myth . It was an official myth that all animals are equal ' long before but some are more equal than others ' was added . Official myths depend on doublethink , the sloganeers must believe the Ministry of War is in fact a Ministry of Peace , that the news in the rewritten Times is true . So not only do leaders manoeuvre to stay on top , they also create official myths and by doublethink believe in them and thus continue to uphold their cause . ( d ) The next problem is connected with detailing the myths and doctrines of the cults . Regarding this fascinating aspect of the cults little or no fault can be found with the literature . The descriptive material available detailing the different legends and ideas underlying most cargo cult movements is , as may have been gathered from the three examples cited in Chapter 2 , both extensive and thorough . Reservations , however , are in order regarding the interpretation and explanation of this material . ( e ) Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so similar in pattern and belief . The following two competing hypotheses more or less crystallise the great conflict which raged in the first quarter of the century between the diffusionist and evolutionist schools of thought ( see Chapter 1 , sections 2 and 3 ) . The diffusionist explanation of similarity is the theory that cultural borrowing goes on across the vast distances of the Pacific . The evolutionist alternative is : similar conditions have led to a similar outcome . It would be difficult to test either theory and more difficult to get a crucial test . For , in order to refute the diffusionist explanation , every possible way in which diffusion could have taken place should be checked , which is barely possible and makes diffusionism : there exists a process of diffusion ' , metaphysical . At the same time , since the evolutionist theory turns on the phrase similar conditions ' it would be testable only in conjunction with a theory which gave us some manageable criteria for interpreting some existing conditions as similar . It is a pity that Worsley discussed neither theory seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend a theory along evolutionist lines , 165 Methodological Discussion of the Theories according to which cargo cults are similar because they were brought about by certain specifiable states of affairs in the socio-economic set-up such as price fluctuations . Marxist theory does give him criteria for interpreting states of affairs as similar ; fortunately , though , the testable variant of marxism has been refuted . Thus , although as they stand the two theories are not testable , by further specification in different ways we can attain a variety of testable hypotheses . ( f ) The problem of why the cults flare up so very rapidly is very different . One explanation I can imagine is that the cults irrupted into some sort of vacuum ; they filled such a yawning gap in the lives of people living in a small face-to-face society where news travels fast that they could not but spread rapidly . I have already aired this view ( in Chapter 3 and I develop it in Chapter 4 ) , when stating that in my opinion this gap was the strong need for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white man . People were deeply troubled by the unanswered questions connected with this phenomenon and the cargo cult myth answered them all in intelligible terms ; it has the additional attraction besides of not only explaining the white man 's position but also of showing how to obtain the more attractive of his advantages . Admittedly this explanation is sketchy but I hope I have said enough to show that an explanation in terms of a purely intellectual craving of this kind makes unnecessary any explanations using abnormal psychology . Indeed the desire to solve an objective intellectual problem amounts to a sociologically objective aim ; thus our explanation sketch is sociological and not psychological . Whether my explanation is worth testing or can be tested are questions for the fieldworkers . It may at least be possible that the explanation is less ad hoc than one using abnormal psychology ; that is , it is conceivable that independent evidence for the existence of the aim of explaining the white man may be found , whereas the cult is the only evidence for psychological abnormality . But there can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual sociological solutions . We know that certain movements have in other places developed rapidly without the enabling condition of an intellectual vacuum , e.g. when two highly alluring and rather popular doctrines are united by some minor prophet . Examples would be Christian Science , or Christian Socialism , or National Socialism , or Freud-Marxism . These may take place where there is intellectual confusion between competing doctrines and their unification resolves the problem ; or they may take place simply because the doubled allure is too strong to resist . There is a sense in which cargo cults could be interpreted as based on the 166 Methodological Discussion of the Theories intellectual unification or supplementation of the previous worldviews ( magic plus religion ) and Christianity . The lure of the priest and witch-doctor suddenly has added to it the allure of the wonderful things the white preacher preaches , giving the new unified doctrines a glamour that sweeps everything before them . ( g ) What information we have relevant to the question why the cults collapse is interesting but rather scrappy . Many possibilities have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; violent repression ; loss of faith for other reasons such as fatigue , or distraction , or inability to sustain the excessively heavy demands the prophet made ; etc . Each of these possible causes needs investigation which they have not had . To succeed in solving this problem only brings one up against a rather more intractable puzzle . We have discussed explaining the speed of the cult 's development , the emotional vigour which they engender in their participants . Now , assuming the cults are not violently repressed , what has happened to all that energy ? Why does the cult dissipate so rapidly ? Assume , as I do , the following theses . ( 1 ) The initial enthusiasm was purely intellectual  --  a craving for a solution to a problem . ( 2 ) Intellectually , the acid test of the solution to the problem was whether the cult fulfilled its promises . ( 3 ) Intellectually , admitting that the cult failed should amount to the admission that the result of the test was negative , to the admission that the cult 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppositions it is possible to explain the rapid dissipation of the cult as a disappointment of a purely intellectual kind ( as a result of critical post mortems , of thinking the whole matter out again in the light of new facts ) . ( h ) Despite the desire , qua sociologists , to avoid psychology , we should consider the question of the importance of abnormal psychological factors in the cults , for most anthropologists seem to think that they are there . In general we demand of any satisfactory explanation that it should not be ad hoc but testable independently of the evidence to be explained . The cargo cult must not be the only evidence of neurosis . But even granted the presence of neurotic elements , what do they explain ? Either the neurosis is a sort of causal force which makes people act ; we would then have to assume it to be typical and construct an account of it in ideal-typical terms ( see the discussion of futurity neuroses ' above ) . Or the neurosis could be regarded as part of the knowledge-situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rational decision . Such as if one thought : were Ito do so then my guilt feelings would torment me ' . This explanation assumes a degree of self-knowledge in the typical individual which just may not be there . Methodological Discussion of the Theories Neurosis seems to be both a causal drive which one can not control and a factor in one 's situation of which one may or may not take account . 12 . Conclusion My purpose in this chapter was simply to sift the literature and seek out lacunae . My reasons for doing this were primarily two only . First I wanted to show that questions concerning cargo cults have not been seriously enough gone into in a search for lacunae , and secondly I wanted to show that searching for lacunae from an armchair on the verandah ( no doubt an uncomfortable position in which to type , but that 's the image we have to abide by ) can be successful and fruitful . It behoves me now , before passing into the rather long recapitulation and coda of this book , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine someone thinking that the concealed purpose of the chapter , if not of the book , is subtly to discredit social anthropologists by making a lot of seemingly obvious but in fact rather complicated points against them . I can but assure them that this is no intention of mine and that I have done all I can to remove anything which suggested that . I have again and again said how much I admired social anthropology and social anthropologists , how much their results excited me , and such things . My criticisms of them are far from attempts to discredit . On the one hand I think I can show the way to deal with problems over which they are at the moment stuck . On the other hand I firmly believe that they can improve and advance their study a great deal by adopting a new tradition of presentation and methodology , one more closely resembling that in natural science . Indeed my belief is that they are closer to natural science than the most enthusiastic of them realise . This is hardly to their discredit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about this discovery ' of lacunae . Someone could with justice say that we all know there are lacunae , and we do n't need your analysis to point them out . In fact we are so aware of lacunae that we certainly do n't need to bother discovering ' them . What do we do about them ? What do you think fieldwork is ? We spend all the time we have on fieldwork because societies are dying out which may fill lacunae we need filled . There is n't time for systematising the lacunae , we must rush to the field . My answer to this is first that it is a gross exaggeration . It does n't take that long to sort out the lacunae , indeed there 's no reason at all why it should n't be done while the social anthropologists are in the 168 Methodological Discussion of the Theories field . Second , I have to remark that this programme of fieldwork seems to be endless . All the societies we know of are undergoing change , so no sooner have they all been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they should have a follow-up study by another , and so ad infinitum . When , I might ask , is this endless fieldwork going to have a stop ? This final question brings me on to a last justification of the foregoing chapter which I have n't stressed very much . I wanted to settle once and for all the quarrel between social anthropologists as to whether we already have enough field material to explain cargo cults or whether the work of several more generations is required before we can start synthesising the material . I have listed a set of fairly straightforward questions , the answers to which simply do not exist in the literature . This shows , in my opinion , pace Judy Inglis ( 1957 ) , that the field material is hardly adequate as yet . Yet I am not for a moment suggesting that all thinking should stop and that we should rush to the field in search of answers to these questions . These questions are those of an amateur . Any social anthropologist could easily improve upon them . My suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be preceded by discussion and formulation of as many specific questions as possibles Fieldwork will then be much more short , sharp and easier to organise and write up when the fieldworker returns . He will go to Melanesia armed with his questions , seek out the answers , and come back . Something of this sort used to exist in that out-of-date volume Notes and Queries in Anthropology which , even in its most recent edition , is hardly a good enough guide for the modern fieldworker . But I believe that every fieldworker should have a problem , not a society to study , and then his list of questions will be pertinent , not endless . Fieldwork should in fact be shorter , thus enabling the same worker to study the same problem in several societies . Any social anthropologist would have an answer to this at once . Contextualism tells us , they could say , that you can not study a specific problem in a society and ignore the rest of the social organisation without distorting the facts and failing to understand the society properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of contextual functionalism and at that , and the reasons why it should be abandoned in such a strong form , I have already glanced , and will now in the last chapter deal with more thoroughly . 169 // SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY But reflection and enquiry should satisfy us that to our predecessors we are indebted for much of what we thought was most our own , and that their errors were not wilful extravagances or the ravings of insanity , but simply hypotheses , justifiable as such at the time when they were propounded , but which a fuller experience has proved inadequate . It is only by the successive testing of hypotheses and rejection of the false that truth is at last elicited . . . . Therefore in reviewing the opinions and practices of ruder ages and races we shall do well to look with leniency on their errors as inevitable slips made in the search for truth , and to give them the benefit of that indulgence which we ourselves may one day stand in need of : cum excusatione itaque veteres audiendi sunt.  --  J. G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Back to Frazer MY main contention in this book on the revolution in anthropology has been that the revolution , however many benefits it brought , went wrong . This was n't noticed at once but began to be only when the initial post-revolutionary enthusiasm and high hopes turned stale and fiat . Social anthropology only came into professional academic life with Frazer 's Liverpool chair in 1908 , and that was honorary . It was established in the universities on a wave of enthusiasm created by Malinowski . But although popular in the ' twenties and ' thirties in the avant-garde way that Freud was popular , as an academic subject for undergraduates , it did not boom until the ' fifties . In the ' twenties and ' thirties , though , the few pioneers and their students had a precious thing : a messianic intellectual enthusiasm . Like marxists and freudians they felt a great truth had been revealed to them , and their job was to carry it forth . Today , there is boundless enthusiasm for departments and journals and teachers and fieldworkers , but there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no intellectual enthusiasm . Perhaps the messianism had to be given up to get 170 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology consolidation under way . The consolidating process has been marked , however , by the most tortuous disputes as to what the aims and methods of social anthropology are . Now it is surely a very curious position that in a period of consolidation , of training students , sending them to the field , building up a substantial literature , there should be widespread doubts and calls for rethinking the subject . Curious from one point of view but not perhaps from another . The revolution in anthropology was in many ways a typical political revolution . First there came the prophet and his messianic call to salvation . Then he was joined by the first followers whose enthusiasm was so great partly because they were an avant-garde , perhaps even a slightly persecuted avant-garde , or at least an avantgarde not sufficiently appreciated in the academic world . Then came the success of the revolution and the accession to power and the excitement and confusion which always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consolidation ; and here the trouble always begins . Messianic activity leaves little time for going into the detail and the consequences of the doctrine . But consolidation amounts precisely to going over the doctrine in detail and working out the consequences . What if , then , the detail should turn out to be shaky and the consequences unpalatable ? One answer would be : rethink . Another would be : pretend to rethink while actually trying not to . My theory is that the second answer is at present tacitly accepted by social anthropologists . It would be easy to challenge my theory and to point to attempts to rethink seriously . The best example probably being a book by Leach called Rethinking Anthropology . But J. D. Freeman , incidentally an anthropologist whose work I greatly admire , has already given , in his review of that volume in Man , the reply I would make . Freeman argues that Leach 's rethinking has been within the structural-functional framework . But in concentrating its energies on this level of analysis social anthropology has ceased to be the science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science of man 's customary social behaviour . This , in my view , is a retreat from the historic task of anthropology . The time has come , I would suggest , when we ought to turn to the rethinking of even more basic issues ; and , for my part , I would hope that during the decades that lie ahead there will emerge a unified science of man . . . . ( 1962 , p. 126 ) . In other words , Freeman wants to see anthropologists go over from rethinking inside the framework to rethinking the framework . This is what I mean when I say the anthropologists have adopted the policy of pretending to rethink while not doing so . What they are trying to do is rectify with a minimum of rethinking . Dr. Marjorie Topley has expressed this in conversation by saying that attitudes to The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology fieldwork among some social anthropologists have come to be rather like attitudes to the belief in the existence of God among some religious people . The belief in both cases has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the tendency is to immerse themselves deeper and deeper into the activity of worshipping God , of fieldwork , simply in order to avoid the disturbing and perhaps catastrophic question does God exist ? ' , is fieldwork worthwhile ? ' It is preferred not to ask such questions precisely because so much turns upon them . A very understandable reaction . But if social anthropologists are afraid of it , why do they constantly play with the fire of pseudo-rethinking or even semi-rethinking ' ? Might n't they accidentally do some and might n't it be catastrophic ? Why do n't they leave well alone and not go near any kind of rethinking ? My answer to this is that honest intellectual curiosity drives them towards the question ; that is to say , they try to rethink but have not carefully distinguished rethinking within the framework from rethinking the framework . But what is their intellectual curiosity about ? About , I would say , the much-lauded revolution in anthropology . In a semi-intuitive way , perhaps , they know the revolution perverted the subject so that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps they fully know it . Why , then , should they bother with post-revolutionary social anthropology ? Why not just get on with building a new and proper science of man ? I suppose they have two good reasons for not giving up post-revolutionary social anthropology entirely , even if they fully know that it has been perverted . First , it is a good rule of method not to debunk a school or a tradition because it is in error . One is only justified in debunking if one considers the error silly . Certainly I , for one , would never think of calling the revolution in anthropology silly . What , then , does this same rule prescribe for traditions in error ? It is very explicit . It says : criticise the error and rescue from the doctrines everything you can . Second , because social anthropology is the only candidate for the job of the science of man , and it is nearer than it seems at first glance to being the genuine science of man . That it is nearer than it seems is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and methods of social anthropology . Fearful that they have betrayed their interest in man some anthropologists repeat the malinowskian catechism of function and fieldwork , to comfort themselves . Others , bolder spirits , know that their subject is on the right lines , play with the fire of rethinking , and constantly berate the others for standing pat . ( E. R. Leach 's function in this respect has almost become institutionalised : he stands for the peace in the feud , as Professor Gluckman might say . His stimulus keeps everyone awake but its more positive function is unclear . ) Yet almost no one dares to face The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology the prospect of a complete revaluation of the post-revolutionary aims and methods of the subject as compared and contrasted with what it is conjectured the aims and methods of the science of man ought to be . They dare not face it because if the inquiry turns out badly their life 's careers are at stake . Such an attitude is very understandable and easy to sympathise with . My view is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , despite its recent stagnation , that any criticism , however severe , is likely in the end to strengthen and invigorate the subject , rather than debilitate and undermine it . The whole drift of my argument in this book is that a purge of some methodological error ( and , e.g. the consequences of such a purge like adopting selective fieldwork , but this is optional ) will enable a new leap forward to take place . All along I have maintained that social anthropology is the Science of Man and that it is its present impasse which is of concern . I believe that what I have argued here is a revaluation of its aims and methods that will reaffirm the status of social anthropology as the science of man and will change almost nothing in the organisation and teaching of the subject ; all changes will be presentational . They will be nonetheless vital for all that , because they may get social anthropology out of the structural-functional rut . I am able to propose this reinterpret but change almost nothing ' line because it is my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the history of the subject ; and in particular the history of the revolution is too much an official myth . What is needed is a new appreciation of what it is that happened in the revolution that has caused the subsequent stagnation and soul-searching confusion over aims and methods . I hope and believe I can provide that account but because it is a confused and difficult question I shall do so in two ways . First I shall present my interpretation straight , with no argument or documentation , then I shall proceed to detail it . My account will thus , I hope , be seen to be coherent , a necessary but by no means a sufficient condition of its being true . After giving my hypothetical historical reconstruction of the revolution in anthropology I shall sketch the subsequent developments we will deal with , also as coherently as I can . Where the story is more straightforward I think one should get down to cases right away ; yet this is not such a case ; when first I wrote this without preliminaries it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twice . Bronislaw Malinoswki plotted and directed the revolution in social anthropology . It was a genuine revolution , aiming to overthrow the establishment of Frazer and Tylor and their ideas ; but mainly it was against Frazer . Frazer committed a number of crimes and thought-crimes , the post-revolutionary literature has sensationally 173 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology revealed . He had a thesis , of an evolutionary and historical character , of the development of magic ( most primitive ) , religion ( next most primitive ) , and science ( least primitive but also liable to be superseded ) . This seemed to offend against the beliefs of those who believed in the unity of mankind . It was reinforced by his refusal to live among , or even to go to see , savages , and by his affection for his armchair . Frazer also enjoyed a great avant-garde extra-academic success  --  when Freud and T. S. Eliot thought about anthropology they thought about Frazer . Moreover Frazer was a classicallytrained amateur scholar , refreshingly unpreoccupied with the methodological status of his studies . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For having the burden of all these crimes , Malinowski declared Frazer 's regime had to be overthrown . One should not be misled by the curiously affectionate personal relations between Malinowski and Frazer . Admittedly Frazer wrote a nice foreword to Argonauts and Malinowski wrote a magnanimous tribute to Frazer after the latter 's death ; but this should not disguise the fact that Malinowski started a war for control and won it . Frazer , no doubt , believed he was doing the science of man , but he was not given to going on about science ' . Malinowski 's revolution took terribly seriously the claim to scientific status and made it the basis of his revolution . No doubt what Malinowski intended was to preserve the science of man and make it really a science . This was why he had to overthrow Frazer and his influence . Frazer , while full of ideas , was like a man who pretended to be a scientist but who had never been inside a laboratory and who had never personally checked the results that were communicated to him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways and new standards for building the science of man . Malinowski 's new ways were fieldwork ( ' come down off the verandah ' ) , and functionalism ( ' study the ritual , not the belief ' ) . They were both very powerful methods ; they made mincemeat of some bothersome problems and they made the intellectual theories of the evolutionists look silly . In all these ways Malinowski had provided what was called for . Unfortunately , however , action is only one category in sociology , there are also the unintended consequences of our actions . It seems as if Malinowski had pioneered a method that was too powerful , it got out of hand . I mean this quite specifically . To begin with , Malinowski intended a revolution in method , the better to achieve the aim of discussing the unity of mankind , and instituted what turned out to be a revolution of aims . But this result was more than was expected . The difference between Frazer 's wart and Malinowski 's is not merely in methodology , as it The Aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malinowski 's hands the science of man was twisted into an inductivist and relativist science , with no clear connections with the basic metaphysical problem of the unity of mankind at all . In all this I think the role of Radcliffe-Brown was that of a consolidator . His contribution was to strengthen the doctrine of functionalism by bringing in the element of structure ; in almost all else connected with the revolution he went along with Malinowski . Although they disagreed , over basic needs , for example , he did not come to dominate the scene until Malinowski left for the States just before the war . So much for my historical reconstruction of the revolution . My thesis is that social anthropologists come to the subject full of interest in people and society . They are entranced by the idea that these interests can be given scientific authority . But in learning how to scientise ' their interest they actually lose or forget what their primary interests are . Something like an unconscious confidence trick is played on them . But they are left suspicious that something is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Man , they ask ? Fieldwork ' , is the answer they get . Yet Levi ; Strauss is the only post-radcliffe-brownian social anthropologist I know of who has written a really magnificent and humane book ( his World on the Wane ) on Man as he is seen by an anthropologist and a fieldworker.l All the rest is cold , dehumanised , structuralist sociology . The early monographs of Malinowski , Firth and Schapera are full of human interest ' but their later works are less so . My plea , then , is for a Back to Frazer ' movement , or for an Over to Levi-Strauss ' one . As I have said , my attack on the revolution is not the only attempt there has been . Self-doubt has possessed the post-revolutionaries for some time . From various sources , including the centre , some criticisms of the revolution have been put forward . ( i ) That the methods it advocates are not those of science ; ( ii ) its methods prevent the explanation of social change ; ( iii ) that functionalism as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( iv ) that functionalism is relativistic ; ( v ) that functionalism is inhumane and positivistic ; ( vi ) that Frazer 's problems have been abandoned or neglected . The task I have set myself in this chapter is the revaluation of the revolution precisely in order to evaluate these criticisms . I want to know which of the criticisms can be avoided and which demand deletions of part of the revolutionary innovations from the science of man . And I want to ask the question whether the criticisms are so severe that the whole of the revolution has to be abandoned . I shall The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology argue that it can not be , that there is much of value in it . Then I shall look at the only alternative I know of , the most radical of the counter-revolutionaries , those who want to reintroduce history into the subject . I shall criticise this programme too and rescue what I can from it . I shall then be in a position to rescue 01 1 can of functionalism , especially those good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticisms in this way I want to suggest what positive steps should be taken in order to build the science of man . ( I shall even attack the idea that building ' is the right image . ) This will be making explicit what I have tried to argue towards throughout this book : that social anthropology can and ought to be the Science of Man . Indeed more : if social anthropology is not the science of man it is nothing worthwhile . But if it is to be a true science of man it must : ( 1 ) never forget its basic problems  --  ( a ) the problem of the unity of man , on the metaphysical level ; ( b ) the explanation of prima facie differences or similarities ( depending on your answer to ( a ) ) on the scientific level ; and ( c ) the problem of what can be done to improve man 's lot , on the practical level  --  and ( 2 ) overthrow the scientistic myth that science is sober , and the myth that it consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From my first encounter with social anthropology , in the works of Frazer and Robertson Smith , I found it exciting and enlightening . The deeper one goes the more enlightening it gets . This success must be trumpeted from the rooftops : here is a social science with genuine results . Social anthropology is interesting and exciting and : that which is interesting and exciting in it is already the embryo science of man waiting to be hailed and boosted , not guiltily concealed like a secret vice . 2 . Remarks on the History of the Revolution in Social Anthropology No adequate critical history of social anthropology has yet been written.l A critical history is an attempt to trace the development of a subject from the emergence of its basic problems , through the various attempts to solve them , the refutation of these attempts , their modification or replacement , the appearance of new problems and so on . The attempts to provide something like this on the revolution in anthropology that I know of are Malinowski 's brief essay Social Anthropology ' ( 1929a ) , Evans-Pritchard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. Hogbin 's Social Change quoted in Chapter 1 , and D. F. Pocock 's Social Anthropology . With all of these works I disagree , but they are in their way excellent , The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology particularly Evans-Pritchard 's , which is a model of clarity and simplicity . As I shall discuss Evans-Pritchard later in this chapter ( section 5 ) , have discussed Hogbin in Chapter 1 , and have reviewed Pocock elsewhere ( 1963 ) , I will now confine myself to Malinowski . Suffice it to say that the stories of all four do not diverge in essentials . All the other writings I have seen on the history of the subject are either inductivist over-simplifications , whose authors are forced to regard people who held previous ( now refuted ) theories as somehow deranged ; l or polemical works like Lowie 's History of Ethnological Theory ( 1937 ) ; or else introductory books trying to expound the subject ' as though it were a system of thought , devoid of history , problems or conflicts . These simply foster an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is mentioned at all , as an inevitable victory of reason over error and not at all problematic . Malinowski 's effort to say what the revolution in anthropology was is not as satisfactory as one might wish . He systematically violates the following methodological rule ( which I accept ) : first present an opposing position in its most plausible and sensible ford mulation and only then criticise that opposing position  --  which is now in its strongest form . His whole account is coloured , besides , by his contentiousness , by his debating-point techniques , and by his conviction that virtue and right are on his side ( so that his opponents and predecessors can hardly be anything but fools and knaves ) ; but at least he makes some attempt to present the history of anthropology in terms of problems and solutions . Like many of his writings his history of the revolution suffers from an exaggerated estimate of the importance and value of his own theory  --  functionalism . In Chapter 1 I presented Hogbin 's synoptic sketch of the development of social anthropology out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more elaborate treatment to see if he throws a little more light on the development of social anthropology , and especially on the problem of whether there is anything to my thesis that the problems of study , as well as the methods , underwent change during the revolution . When , in the last century , people began to do social anthropology ( it was not yet so named ) , the religion of inductivism was still The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology flourishing . On account of this nearly all methodological criticism consisted then , and still consists , of accusations and counter-accusations of a faulty application of the inductive method.l Another reason for the present short rehearsal of the history of the revolution in the science of social anthropology is to show that it can be made perfectly intelligible without using the idea of induction . Malinowski begins with this : Social anthropology really begins with a pre-scientific sic interest in the strange customs and beliefs of distant peoples , and in this form it is as old , at least , as the Father of History @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diversity and unity of mankind is the problem behind interest in social anthropology , that such curiosity started science ; yet he dismisses it as pre-scientific ' . I need hardly say that I strongly disagree ; and I even claim that curiosity is the basic impulse behind much of science , pseudo-science , and prescience ; the desire to know is the continuing motive-force behind them all . It is understandable that Malinowski is suspicious of curiosity since it is indeed behind pre-science and pseudo-science also , yet one might expect him to admit that curiosity may be , in some cases at least , healthy and fruitful . Apparently , as far as Malinowski was concerned , this is not so . For , we have not yet succeeded in eliminating this cruder curiosity in Ye Beastly Devices of Ye Heathen ' from modern anthropology , where the thirst for the romantic , the sensational and the thrilling still plays some havoc with the sober scientific attitude ( p. 862 ) . Understandable as is this attempt to eliminate cruder curiosity '  - -  what one might call the journalistic elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have forgotten the problem of the unity of mankind and is off on an inductivist temperance campaign which has nothing to do with that problem at all . Even were we to accept the inductivist idea of disinterestedness as characteristic of good , sober , science , still , woe betide the The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology science which can not accommodate a certain amount of romance and excitement . Despite its largely sober and scientific attitude , Malinowski admits , modern social anthropology still consists of a large diversity of schools with differing views on the same problems . The primary problem on the solution of which they are divided is the problem of similarities in custom , institution and belief in separate societies . ( ' Pre-scientific . . . crude curiosity ' is at last admitted at the back door . ) The fundamental division of opinion is between ( a ) the evolutionist school and ( b ) the diffusionist school . Malinowski proceeds to discuss both . ( a ) The evolutionist theory states that it is a characteristic of human nature that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar social forms ' ( p. 863 ) . Initially the model of evolution envisaged was unilinear : all human societies go through the same stages during their development . Later this model became unworkable ; it just did not fit the facts . Instead a multilinear model was substituted , which postulated that different societies go through different lines of development , but that at least all societies go through some development . ( b ) Diffusionism , according to Malinowski , turns on the theory that similarities in implements and weapons , in beliefs and legends , in social organisation and decorative art are explained by spread from one or several original centres ' ( p. 863 ) . Cultural borrowing ( or the rubbish-heap view of culture ' , as it was derisively nicknamed ) was scorned when expressed in its more extreme form , i.e. all culture derives from one area by diffusion . This point may merit a comment . In its most extreme form diffusionism is , I suppose , either self-contradictory or questionbegging . The question is , how do cultures develop ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But if so , then there can be no culture to begin with . We see at once why the theory assumes that culture derives from postulated centres ' . This raises a new problem : how did culture get to these centres in the first place ? Either it evolved there or it was borrowed from elsewhere . Were it borrowed then it could not be a centre ' and we would be in an infinite regress ; while to admit that it evolved would be to concede a vital point to the evolutionist enemy ' . We thus easily see why in their weaker forms the diffusionist and evolutionist theories do not conflict with each other ; the evolutionist 's weak version of multilineal progress leaves ample room for diffusion and diffusionism must allow for some evolution . This may be one reason why the post-malinowskian anthropologists of today have resolved the dispute by tacitly combining modified versions of both theories , 179 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology To return to Malinowski 's history . The **25;136;TOOLONG dispute was superseded by the development of social anthropology into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the period 1875-1900 . The way was led by Pitt-Rivers , Tylor , Maclennan and Lubbock . As far as I can see  --  Malinowski is not too explicit here  --  the problems of study underwent some change too . Instead of tackling the problem of similarities of society and custom  --  which had divided the evolutionists and diffusionists  --  anthropologists embarked on the explanation of the working of social or cultural wholes . Interest crystallised around the problem of the nature of cultural processes and the complexities of social organisation . Here Malinowski cites the names of Robertson Smith , Frazer , Westermark , Granley and Hallind , Durkheim and Wundt . More specifically , the great advance in Malinowski 's eyes to direct observation began under Haddon , Rivers , Seligman , Spencer and Gillen ( Mooney is nowhere mentioned and Morgan , curiously , is not in this list ) . Out of this development there grew up two further schools whose divisions cut across those of the evolutionists and diffusionists . These new schools are called by Malinowski the psychologistic school and the sociological school . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentality theorists ; and the psychological process theorists . The former group , which was led by Levy-Bruhl , held that savages had odd quirks in their social organisation because they had odd minds ; they had a primitive mentality , structurally different from ours , sometimes called pre- ' or a-logical ' . This theory was not popular for very long ; perhaps it lent itself too easily to prejudiced distortions . The psychological process group  --  Frazer , Van Gennep , Sumner , Gromby and Westermark  --  had respectable origins in Comte and Mill . They argued that culture is to be explained in terms of human psychological processes . This is a bold and powerful theory which is still influential down to our own day . It is more usually known as psychological reductionism ' or ' psychologism ' . Malinowski makes no secret of the fact that his sympathies , though , are squarely with the sociological school ; indeed , he saw himself as its chief advocate . Curiously , he is concerned to differentiate this sociological approach from the school advocating the method of conjectural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology Unlike sociological theories historical hypotheses . . . suffer from a lifeless and inorganic view of culture and treat it as a thing which can be preserved in cold storage for centuries , transported across oceans and continents , mechanically taken to pieces and recompounded ( p. 863 ) . Whereas genuine history is based on definite records or on archaeological evidence , and gives results which can be empirically verified , and therefore are of scientific value ( p. 863 ) . Malinowski seems to merge , not to say confuse , history and diffusionism ; he seems to assume that historical records ( ' evidence ' ) can be informative even if we do not have hypotheses ; to assume , further , that hypotheses ' are unscientific ( he makes it rather clear that all conjecture , preconceived assumption , and hypothetical schemes , have to be banned from this new science of social anthropology ) . The great fault of conjectural history ' , then , is that it is unscientific because it is conjectural , rather than that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the actual , observable , by means of an hypothetical prior state of affairs . The objection might be raised that all natural science seems to explain the known in terms of the unknown ; i.e. natural objects and phenomena are explained by means of a mysterious world of fields of force , fundamental particles , atoms , etc. , all unobservable and some definitionally invisible . But a stronger objection would be that Malinowski assumes all historical explanations of society to be conjectural and all nonconjectural explanations of society to be sociological . This , for one thing , leaves no room for social history on the lines of Trevelyan . One would have thought that historical explanation of the state of our society would be as well supported by evidence as any sociological explanation and therefore as little conjectural too . Moreover Malinowski 's formulation leaves no room for hypothetical or conjectural sociological explanation like that , for example , of Van Gennep , to who he himself refers . So there is a rather interesting mistake or slip of the pen in Malinowski 's formulation of his view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between conjectural and nonconjectural explanations and he muddled this with his attack on history and The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology primitive . The problem to them was why had n't the present-day primitive moved on to where we were ? One suggestion was that the primitives were inferior ; another was that they got side-tracked from the main stream of evolution . But the most widespread explanation was that the social customs and institutions of present-day primitives which needed explanation were bizarre , irrational phenomena . For example , their curious use of kinship terms was a hang-over from a previous , curious , marriage custom . The malinowskian functionalists flatly denied this ; they held , on the contrary , that customs or institutions were viewed as bizarre only because of the ethnocentric prejudice of the anthropologist . To get rid of this he must get off the verandah . To a functionalist every social system constitutes a reasonable and ordered way of life and nothing need be explained as irrational ' ; in particular if a survival occurred it would be irrational ; hence survivals are impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the functionalist case . It is too easy to write off any problematic custom as a peculiar ' survival . Especially as a heuristic which challenges us to try to go beyond such an easy assumption , to at least see if an institution has a function , the functional theory has great value . But functional theory was not presented as a conjecture to be discussed and criticised , or even as an heuristic ; instead dogmatic acceptance of it became almost an article of faith of what Malinowski called ( only half self-mockingly I should say ) the Functional School of Social Anthropology ' . ' That this school was imbued with the quasi-religious fervour which often gathers round an exciting and fruitful new idea may explain why the reaction against history was so violent . Evolutionism was attacked with such force that for a time all historical study of societies was discredited in its wake ( cp . Chapter 5 ) . Although Malinowski rejected conjectural history because it was uncritical of the implausible assumption that primitive people are in some sense retarded and stuck in a stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social development , he did not go on to develop the opposite view that present-day primitive societies are as different from their own historical antecedents , and ours , as our present-day society is different from them . Instead he put all such speculation aside and concentrated on fostering the idea that the task of the social anthropologist is to record a cross-section or snapshot of the society as it is when he is there . This is the practical The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology formulation of the theory that all social institutions have functional interrelations with all others . To carry out this programme demanded prolonged and intensive fieldwork and thus explains the importance Malinowski attached to the latter as being the result of his insistence that if you only see enough of an institution you can not escape seeing its integration with other institutions . It may seem surprising that Malinowski managed to reconcile in functionalism the conflicting strains of an empiricism ( stressing observation ) with an apriorist metaphysical idea of societies as wholes . A priori his positivism should have allowed that only the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be discussed ; an acute methodological individualism might have been expected . All talk of unobservable , occult social wholes ' , social relations ' , and so on , would have been ruled out ( as it is ruled out by some positivists , e.g. Hempel ) . Malinowski appears not to have noticed this problem of reconciling conflicting philosophies . Yet he did reconcile them , either because he did recognise this problem or because of other reasons , thus not noticing it . His demand that everything be described and functional relationships between the described phenomena be sought combines both induction and positivism with a metaphysical holism . I suggest that he achieved this synthesis by combining the view that science proceeds by induction from the evidence , with the machian idea that there is no distinction between explanation and description because explanation is nothing but complete description ' . Mach 's idea was that causality is metaphysical and hence to be excluded from science ; by a causes b we only relate a mere function  --  a appears before b  --  an observable function , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation will involve complete description of the whole of society . ' Now Malinowski took over , it seems , Mach 's empiricist functionalism and loaded it with a new metaphysical meaning  --  he added the idea of integration instead of the idea of causality which Mach had just expurgated . Moreover , he explained integration causally on evolutionist lines ! The above discussion has been a bit abstract so before making any further objections against Malinowski I want to give a single illustration of functional analysis , of the way a malinowskian deals with The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology a social institution . Let us take magic . Traditionally , evolutionists and particularly Frazer , held that magic is a primitive form of science  --  it embodies causal theories and empirical apparatus . Malinowski ( in 1929a ) denies this similarity between magic and science , claiming that magic is not primitive science , but rather a system whose function is to strengthen belief , to substantiate morals and to enhance tradition . His argument here is ambiguous ; does he mean to say that these two views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view that magical myths are primitive science ? Can not primitive science strengthen belief , substantiate morals , and enhance tradition ? Such effects may , after all , be part of the social functions ( or rather , I would prefer to say , unintended consequences ) of science . I think Malinowski in places virtually asserts that this is impossible , but also virtually admits that this may be so  --  when he points out that magic explains what the native can not control . If so , in view of the fact that science too sometimes explains what we can not control or understand , one has almost no escape from admitting that at least in some respects magic is primitive science . Not only is the intellectual role of magical and scientific theories similar but their social function is similar too ( see Barber , 1952 , p. 67 ) . Here we see an example of ( functional ) discoveries of the unintended consequences of actions  --  magical operations  --  in a social system ; they fill the anthropologist with such excess enthusiasm for the method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not actually contradicting the views of his predecessor ; that his predecessor , namely Frazer , also has something relevant to say . The urge to kill the father gets out of hand , and it is not noticed that the doctrine of studying the ritual not the belief covers up important resemblances between magic and science . True , magic and technology are both present in primitive society and are viewed as two different rituals . Because the ritual of technology superficially resembles the rituals of western science the two are confounded . Thus a completely untenable distinction is drawn between the rituals of magic and of science because the similar intellectual and functional meaning of the two has been neglected on the basis of the dogma , study the ritual , not the belief ' . I want to make two further criticisms of Malinowski , both concerning his use of the organic metaphor for the social or cultural whole . There is much sense in Malinowski 's attack on the lifeless ' view of culture ; it is certainly absurd to think of culture as a preservable and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any particular component or institution ? True , combinations of institutions can not easily be moved around ; but surely single institutions or 186 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology cultural elements quite easily can . It is true that gardens can not easily be moved , but quite a few plants can be transplanted  --  not all , of course . What , then , is behind Malinowski 's view ? Contextualism , I would suggest , is what he is stressing . Just as in a language a certain word will have different uses and thus different meanings , so in social life a custom , like shaking hands , or taking off hats , will have a different social significance in one society than it will have in another . One can not just see New Guineans shaking hands and immediately suppose they are greeting each other in a friendly way . In their social context the gesture of shaking hands might have a completely different meaning . ( Indeed , already in our society it can be a gesture of greeting or the clinching of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be conveyed in any number of ways : think of the number of ways there are to salute an officer in an army , everything from the Nazi raised-arm to the American hand-to-forehead . Clearly Malinowski has a good point here when he points out that both evolutionists and diffusionists tend to ignore this kind of contextual significance . He wants to say that to understand the gesture or custom you must understand the whole social context in which it is embedded . Here , I think , he goes too far . While the significance of a gesture may differ from society to society we can not assume that it must differ . We should begin with our preconceptions from our own society and improve on them by refuting them . A handshake may mean the same thing , so why not assume it does and then test ? Were we to accept Malinowski 's view that every context makes a difference we should have to accept the so-called paradox of democracy that says : democracy can not work without the base of a strong democratic tradition ; but you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had democracy for some time . Confirmed as this is by many events since world war II it is , nevertheless , happily false . There are countries in the world into which Parliamentary democracy has been successfully transplanted . This refutes the paradox and Malinowski 's view that institutions are alive in the sense that they can not be transplanted and stay the same . This shows that understanding of the relevant parts of the context rather than of the total context is all that is required . My second criticism simply takes the metaphor of society as a functioning organism one step further . Man , who stands at the highest point yet known of the evolutionary scale , has in his body , we are told , nonfunctional survivals ( e.g. the appendix ) . There is thus every reason to suppose that society ( which is only metaphorically living ' ) also may contain uneliminated redundant parts which remain on account of a sort of social inertia ( and perhaps on account of their The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology being rather harmless ) . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were no survivals ? My Trobriand kula explanation ( see Chapter 1 , section 5 ) says that he generalised his account of the kula and then realised this ruled out survivals . I now present an alternative explanation . I do not know how to decide between the two . Malinowski 's situation was this . He was out to do fieldwork in Melanesia . As an Austrian subject he was technically an enemy alien , but although an eye was kept on him , he was allowed to continue his studies . His movements seem to have been only somewhat restricted . It is not altogether clear whether he would have stayed quite so long among the Trobrianders if he had been quite free to come back to Britain . Anyway , there he was , in the middle of nowhere . There were a few white men on his island but he deliberately pitched his tent among the native huts so that he would be forced to seek out native companionship . He really put himself in a situation such that he had to find his way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to find his way around English society when he had arrived from Poland . A man in such a situation who manages to succeed in finding his way around in that society , and to enjoy living there and experiencing the special flavour of its social life , is going to be disinclined towards theories which view as bizarre survivals many institutions of that society . Malinowski , in short , trying to find his way around in Trobriand society , was forced to look for the significance of every act . To his surprise , even with the most complicated and bizarre things , he was successful ; he found that everything he had noticed could be given some social significance . My thesis is : he was so impressed by this discovery that he generalised it into the functionalist theory : every element of a culture had a function ; there are no functionless survivals . He may even , in the early stages , have come across what looked like survivals , but he found that , with hard work , they could be functionally understood . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was doing was applying a methodological rule  --  look for the function ' . Since the rule always gave results he mistook it for the theory everything has a function ' . I am not here criticising Malinowski 's taking the Trobrianders as archetypal primitives . Leach ( 1961 ) censures Malinowski on this count that he generalised from the Trobriands ; for my part I think generalising from single cases an excellent method . My criticism would be merely that Malinowski 's Trobriandcentricity ' prevented him from refuting this obviously false no-survival theory . This , however , is criticism , not censure ; though quite possibly his followers ' blind adherence to his error was vicious . We may now leave functionalism and turn to its replacement , ERROR? 188 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology 4 . Structural-Functionalism Radcliffe-Brown , the creator of structural-functionalism , was older than Malinowski . He was doing fieldwork in 1906  --  8 ( in the Andaman Islands of the Bay of Bengal ) when Malinowski was still doing physics and mathematics at Cracow . Yet his first book in social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but published only in 1922 , the same year as Malinoswki 's Argonauts of the Western Pacific . It went quickly out of print for many years . Despite this publication lag and lack of initial success , RadcliffeBrown shares equal responsibility with Malinowski for moulding , through his academic work , British social anthropology into the shape it takes today . In the ' twenties and early ' thirties Malinowski 's influence was the stronger , among both anthropological professionals and the public at large . Unfortunately , perhaps , RadcliffeBrown never achieved the kind of public esteem which Malinowski enjoyed . However , from the mid ' thirties the influence of Radcliffe-Brown 's thinking on social anthropology became increasingly marked . If in fieldwork Malinowski is still the peerless master , then in theoretical social anthropology Radcliffe-Brown still reigns almost unchallenged . Radcliffe-Brown 's contribution to the revolution in anthropology might be summed up by saying that he changed functionalism ' into structural-functionalism ' ( although the latter neologism is , I believe , due to Talcott Parsons ) . I would say that in a way this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one : he seems to have moved every few years from one university to another . In the ' twenties he was in Australia encouraging students to go out into the interior to study the aborigines . It just so happens that one of the most complex problems social anthropologists have ever come across is the kinship system of these very primitive peoples . Details are unnecessary here ; suffice it to say that their system of naming kin and of who was allowed to marry whom was very complicated to a westerner . Both the organising principles of the system and how it could possibly work seemed ununderstandable . It was Radcliffe-Brown 's great achievement ( a ) to demolish , on the general grounds we have gone over above , all the survival ' explanations of such systems ; ( b ) to criticise severely the psychologistic ' explanation of them given by some American scholars ; and ( c ) to take a big step towards providing a rational account of how the system works which , at the same time , represented a considerable advance in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage rules follow the lines along which kinship terms are extended and thus from an examination of the kinship terms we can understand the marriage 189 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology rules . My conjecture is that this success  --  for whether true or falser this theory is a breakthrough from the attitude that the whole system was a bizarre and complicated oddity  --  with a particularly abstract and intractable problem , strongly coloured Radcliffe-Brown 's subsequent view of social institutions . The social relations of kinship constituted a system or structure ' which could be mapped ; RadcliffeBrown came to regard all other institutions likewise as ( perhaps mappable ) structures . He interpreted people 's social relations in such a way that there was , besides the kinship structure , an economic structure , a religious structure , a political structure , a legal structure , an educational structure , and so on . Each of these structures was part , or an aspect of , a total structure made up of all the social relations between people and called the social structure . This notion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the base on which much of present social anthropology rests . The first difference to be remarked between functionalism and structuralism is a slight shift of the metaphor from the organic to the mechanical . Functionalism conceives society as like a human body and the function of the parts is to contribute to the sustenance of the whole , the function of which in turn is to satisfy the needs of the members . In a way , the structural theory is also organic , but with a slightly mechanical twist . The basic structure of the body , for example , is the skeleton . Now the skeleton aids the sustenance of the whole in a specific way : it holds it together or integrates it . In the words of Sol Tax , Radcliffe-Brown believes that the necessity for social integration is the fundamental cause of all social institutions  - -  that they have the function of keeping the society integrated . ' 2 This is not quite coherent , since integration needs a basic prop and this must , I think , be the social structure . One might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any social institution under discussion interlocks with and contributes to this structure of structures the social structure . Its contribution can be either to the maintenance or continuity of the total structure , i.e. to the steady on-going of the whole system ; or to the cohesion , integration , or hanging-together of the whole thing , i.e. its amelioration of conflict with the rest of the structure and with its social and natural surroundings . Social anthropologists vacillate between these two meanings the second of which I do not understand . The purposes , or ends , in terms of which Radcliffe-Brown explained social institutions , were those of the integration , stability , and maintenance of the system . Institutions were ( almost ) explained by their survival-value The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology to the society . Malinowski also operated with survival values . But his were those of human beings , not of societies . ' He argued that the function of a society was to satisfy the basic biological needs of people and that to the extent they did this social institutions had a function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between functionalism and structural-functionalism which this brings out is that biological needs can either be satisfied or not satisfied , they can neither be negatively satisfied ' , nor made more acute . Social structures on the other hand can have elements making for disintegration , instability and destruction of the system . Thus Radcliffe-Brown and his pupils were able to sophisticate their ideas by inventing the idea of dysfunction , a negative value or end with which to explain some institutions . A word might be said here about the relationship of the functional and structural theories to the philosophies of Malinowski and Radcliffe-Brown . Both were positivists . Both believed in inducing theories from the facts ; both rejected conjectural history because it was conjectural , i.e. hypothetical , i.e. not based on induction from facts . Malinowski was more under the influence , I think , 2 of the Mach-Kirchhoff school of phenomenalism ; Radcliffe-Brown was under the influence of Durkheim who was in the tradition of Comte . This positivism explains Malinowski 's aggressive empiricism and also , I suspect , Radcliffe-Brown 's scorn of psychologism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the unseens ' of psychologism mainly because they are unobservable . To the positivist observation is god : thus both the armchair conjectural historian and the unobservable postulates of psychologistic theory are anathema . Malinowski did not come to hold this latter position until he got over his freudian period of the early ' twenties . Yet Radcliffe-Brown , to his credit , had the courage to interest himself in social ties and social structures which were patently ' invisible ' .3 He salved his positivist conscience by insisting that social structure was a real observable thing . I do not know of any arguments he used to back this view . Leach , for example , has argued pretty conclusively that if social 191 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology structure is anything it is a model we make and if models exist anywhere they exist in our heads ( 1954 , Introduction ) . Positivistic talk about social structure being observable is hard to defend . As often seems to happen to positivists , the theory they adopted , that there is a tendency towards the functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their hands ( Jarvie , 1961 , section 3.7 ) . Perhaps without his knowing it , it was Radcliffe-Brown who liberated social anthropology from positivism when he followed up Durkheim 's interest in social relationships , in the abstract . In so doing he cleared the way for those who did not believe that all social phenomena were directly observable . As to what social structure is , a great deal too much ink has already been expended on this . Suggestions have been : the relations of persons to persons ; the relations of persons to institutions ; the relations of institutions to institutions ; or various combinations of these . Detail of the tortuous arguments which have taken place need not concern us here . I prefer to say simply that social structure ' is a metaphor to describe the mechanical relations between entities in the social order . Its reality ' is of importance only to the positivist . Instead I want to turn back to my narration of the revolution in anthropology . Certainly all this talk of functional integration and structure has a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the unity of Man , and the practical problem of what we can do to aid men . My thesis is , in short , that Malinowski , aided and abetted by Radcliffe-Brown , changed the problems their subject set out to study by concentrating on the method of study . As anthropologists they wanted to study Man . As academics they wanted their study to be scientific , i.e. systematic and sound . But the price of doing that was forgetting ( for the time being , at least ) about Man and worrying about method . Although I do not endorse this scientific ' motive , I do not oppose methodological rethinking : as I said at the beginning of the book , I think methodological discussion has a rightful and fruitful place in scientific discussion . But the danger is that wrong-headed methodological discussion , in the absence of a strong tradition in the science , can lead it haywire . I suggest this is what has happened in social anthropology . Earnest young students who want to do the subject because they are interested in people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand fieldwork and structural-functionalism . Worse , though , is yet to come . Next to economics , social anthropology is far and away the most vigorous and interesting of the social sciences . I have already listed a sample of the problems so far solved . Social anthropology is therefore in a strong position to make a take-over bid for its neighbour , sociology . Now this is precisely The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology what has happened . More and more anthropologists believe that sociology is a branch of their subject , and an increasing number of sociologists are flirting with social anthropology . This would be all to the good were it not that social anthropology means , not situational logic , but structural-functionalism . So that soon structuralfunctionalism may take over completely . The strongest formulation of this theme is a recent paper by Prof. Kingsley Davis of Berkeley ( 1959 ) . Davis argues that structuralfunctional explanation is sociological explanation ; that the characteristic problems and explanations of functionalism are those of sociology itself . Thus we have come the complete circle ; Malinowski 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ via the view that social anthropology and sociology are identical , and the position that ( structural- ) functionalism is the method of social science . On the surface Davis ' paper may seem like nothing more than a proposal to legislate away the use of the word functionalism ' ( where this is a contraction of structural-functionalism ) . Instead we should just say sociology ' or sociological explanation ' . He argues first that the meaning of the word functionalism ' has been stretched so far  --  that it now encompasses so much  --  as to be virtually the equivalent of sociological explanation ' or sociological method ' . So why not , he goes on , stop talking of functionalism ' as though it were some sort of special method and instead speak simply of sociological explanation ( or analysis ) ' ? . . . the definitions most commonly agreed upon make functionalism synonymous with either reductionist theories or pure description . . . the issues raised with respect to functionalism , except insofar as they spring from the ambiguities of words like function ' , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . historically the rise of functionalism represented a revolt against reductionist theories , anti-theoretical empiricism , and moralistic or ideological views under the name of sociology or social anthropology . Although functionalism may have been salutary at the time it arose , the ambiguities of its special terminology make the myth that it is a special method a liability now . It seems wise to abandon the myth for the sake of increased clarity and efficiency . ) The only argument Davis adduces in support of his thesis which is not mentioned in the above summary is that he tries to show ( moderately successfully ) that those things which have been said to be the The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology unique distinguishing marks of functionalism are simply the common-or-garden characteristics of scientific analysis in general ' ( p. 760 ) . In fact I prefer to think that Davis is saying that functionalism in practice is the same as sociological analysis , and is not trying to equate them by a mere verbal device . If this is Davis ' thesis then , I would say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while sociology in general is not similarly impotent . Davis deals with this point in his paper . His argument is two-pronged : on the one hand he holds the accusation to be trivially true if functionalists take their static model of society literally ; otherwise it is false because some of the best analyses of social change have come from people labelled as functionalists ' ( pp. 766-7 ) . Both of these replies are weak . It is not a question of whether or not functionalists take their static model literally . It is difficult to see how they can do otherwise . Take , e.g. , economics : a simplified model of a market is there used to help understand the concomitant variation of supply and demand . But every economist well knows the impossible complexity you quickly get into if you add and vary parameters to make the model more realistic ' . Now functionalists are trying to understand the whole of society , not just a partially quantifiable aspect of it like economics . All they can do is try to construct highly simplified hypothetical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can not but be on a static principle . They can not avoid taking this model literally ; it is all they have to take . Ipso facto they must consign the explanation of change to some other model . The second reply of Davis is purely ad hominem . I would answer that the fact that Levy , Merton , Schapera , etc. , have been responsible for some of the best analyses of social change ' proves nothing at all about functionalism , while revealing a great deal about those authors ; in particular  --  since they do not use functional analyses in their studies of social change  --  that they intuitively recognise the limitations of functionalism which I have already outlined and break the injunction to seek the integrative purpose of every institution . Two things emerge from this criticism of Davis . First : were Davis ' thesis true , and were it the case ( as I think I have shown ) that functional explanation was not always satisfactory explanation , then the whole of present-day sociology would be toppling . ( This is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is coterminus with functionalism . ) Second : I have already tried to establish that there is at least one set of sociological problems  --  those of social change  --  which has to be tackled in other ways . As a matter of fact I think there are many such sets , but to establish that there is one is The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology sufficient for my purposes . Thus either sociology is toppling or Davis ' argument is mistaken . I opt for the latter alternative . Elsewhere ( 1961 ) I have tried to dissect the various structuralfunctional theories with which social anthropologists operate . I want now , with a quotation from Timasheff , to present the doctrine of the revolution in its most acceptable form . I shall then summarise my criticisms of it . In the first place ( and this starting-point is often obscured in the writing of functionalists ) , the maintenance and the possible extension of a group and its social system , as well as the persistence and possible improvement of the group 's culture , are defined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals . Empirical study should reveal a given system 's functional requisites , that is , the conditions under which these objectives can be achieved . It can then be shown that specific parts of the group 's social structure and culture operate as mechanisms that satisfy ( or do not satisfy ) the functional requisites . Further propositions follow as broad theoretical guides . First , universal functional needs can be met in different ways , illustrated by social and cultural variation ; and individual societies , so to speak , have selected ' their particular procedures from a wide range of cultural possibilities . But , second , the number of such choices is always limited , limited by the biological characteristics of man and by his social and psychic needs ; hence the prevalence of independent and parallel inventions in different societies ( a phenomenon which served the evolutionists as one of their strongest arguments ) . Third , the range of choices ' for a specific society is further limited by the interrelationship and , in some measure , the interdependence of the choices themselves ; thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , restricts the number of possibilities in other institutional areas . ( More concretely , as it has often been noted , modern industrial growth in traditionally agrarian societies no doubt limits , but does not determine , the number and type of possible political and other institutional developments . ) A major task of functional analysis is to discover the number and type of cultural possibilities under diverse social conditions ... . ... The function of a partial structure , that is , a culture trait , custom , institution or subsystem ( A ) , more exactly , of its operation , is not identical for system N with the consequences of the operation of A , but with the meaning of these consequences or of the specific contribution of these consequences for N. Let us designate them by M. Then we can say that the specific contribution which A makes for the persistence of N is M. Or , expressed in another way : a contributive cause of the persistence of N ( say , the family ) is A ( e.g. the incest taboo ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . It would not be functional , but teleological reasoning , however , if one claimed that the prevention of confusion of roles in the family is the cause of the incest taboo . . . .  --  Timasheff , 1957 , pp. 228-9 . So : a group has the objectives of maintenance and extension of 195 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology itself and its culture and there are certain requisites if these objectives are to be achieved . The requisites are selective but the selection is limited in various ways . The function of an institution is its consequences for the persistence of system N. The question is : does it explain an institution to specify the manner in which it satisfies the functional requisites of this society ? My answer is : a functional theory would explain an institution causally only if it contained the assumption that societies indeed have aims which have means of realising themselves ; i.e. to say that societies have requisites is not enough ; they must also have ways and means of obtaining these requisites . To this it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the society has survived that shows it has managed to obtain these requisites . I would answer that this is circular reasoning : why do societies survive : because they have obtained all their requisites : how do we know they have obtained their requisites : because they have survived . Some little more independent argument is required to show there are requisites which are obtained , as there happen to be alternative accounts of why societies survive and of how institutions should be explained which do not operate with requisites at all . Besides , powerful attacks have been launched on the idea of functional requisites or societies ' needs as such . ' If the theory is to be taken seriously , these demand an answer . Sometimes it is replied to such an argument that , of course , structural-functionalism is not causal explanation , but something else ( Davis calls it pure description ' but that takes us back to machian phenomenalism ) . The only suggestion I can make here is that perhaps teleological explanation is meant . I would regard that admission as already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not wish to argue but simply to point out this puts them beyond the pale of science . Science is usually understood to give causal explanations and I see no reason why that should not apply to the Science of Man . Now to go on with the causal claims of functionalism . I will commence with an example . Problem : why did the price of gilt-edged securities plunge on such and such a date ? Answer : because the price of gilt-edged is an inverse function of Bank Rate and Bank Rate went up * per cent on that day . This is a causal explanation if and only if it postulates a causal connection ( not just correlation ) between the price of gilt-edged and the Bank Rate , i.e. if we can construct a theory or model which shows how the one affects the other . Explanations in natural science generally explain the known in terms of the unknown . For various reasons , including the rationality ' For both see Gellner , 1958 , and Agassi , 1960 , 196 The Aims and Methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ( see section 6 ( ii ) below ) we have into behaviour , in social science we tend to explain the mysterious known in terms of the unmysterious known . Whether the explanation of the price-shift of gilt-edged is satisfactory depends to a large extent on whether the explanation in terms of a rise in Bank Rate is problematic or not to the person posing the problem . If it is , it is perfectly easy to give a situational explanation of why the Governors of the Bank of England raised their discount rate to the money market at this time . Having gone this one step further it will also be necessary to go on to explain the structure of the Bank and how it is controlled by Governors who are subject to Treasury directives , and so on . Generally speaking , then , functional explanation is satisfactory when it succeeds in tracing the cause of a social happening to an unproblematic event or institution . For example , Radcliffe-Brown explained extended kinship terminologies in terms of the extended social relationships to which the terms referred . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the given ' social-structural set-up . Were the social-structural set-up in its turn to be queried he could explain it only as a unique configuration , historically developed . Where , then , does functionalism go wrong , if at all ? To put it in general terms first : it goes wrong when it tries to smuggle in , under the guise of producing a causal explanation , the unintended consequences of an event as a cause of that event . ' An example is the explanation cited above ( section 3 ) where Malinowski argues that magic serves as an organising force in society . If this means that it so happens we can see that magical practices result in a certain reinforcing of the social structure  --  well and good . But if it is being insinuated that the reason there is magic there is that it serves as an organising force for society  --  then the explanation is dubious . He has muddled antecedent and consequent . If we say if magic then enhanced organisation in the society ' we have a statement of the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being explained by a , it is simply a logical mistake to think a ( magic ) is explained by b ( its tendency to strengthen organisation ) ; b ( organisation ) only is partly conditioned by a ( magic ) not a by b . The reinforcing is an effect of magic and can not , for that reason , be said to explain it causally . That magic has the disposition2 to integrate a society is not a causal explanation The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology of the presence of magic . The fact that this disposition has such an effect might be the reason why it is maintained in existence . If , that is , we can talk of parts of society needing reasons ' for their existence . If the consequent can not causally explain the antecedent it can be said teleologically to explain it . However , in science the status of such explanation is dubious even with regard to living organisms . Teleological explanation can be usefully compared to the following . Why did the stone fall ? Because it wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stone fell because its support was withdrawn and gravity dragged it down . It was the ( unintended ? ) consequence of this that it fell and hit the ground . Few would defend the idea that the stone intended to get to the ground , that magic intended to be an organising force in society . But it might be argued that these explanations are quasi-intended . That is to say , that the evolution of society can look as though it had a definite direction , was being intentionally guided . There can be the appearance of a Hidden Hand operating , but it is no more than an appearance for it can be explained as the disposition of the stone and the magic . Far from disregarding this , I regard it as a crucial reformulation which avoids the teleological criticism and leaves functionalism free from this difficulty . I have therefore tried , in section 6 ( ii ) and Chapter 4 , section 5 , to sketch a possible account of such directed ' evolution which utilises only situational logic . Thus functionalism can be rescued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the help of evolutionism . It thus allows those historical explanations it was designed to exclude . This has led some anthropologists to insist that social anthropology is thus shown to be an historical study . 5 . Anthropology is History : Evans-Pritchard and Worsley Malinowski 's revolution , then , was a revolution in method : he proposed the abandonment of historical conjecture and its replacement by functionalist sociology . Radcliffe-Brown followed up by rectifying the functional theory to include the social structure and substituted what we might call the needs of the structure , or its essential interdependencies , for Malinowski 's biological needs . The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology But this revolution of method had also become a revolution of aims , or problems . The science of man , conceived of structuralfunctionally , explains neither the problem of man 's unity nor that of his practical problems . In fact its relativism makes the first no problem : man is assumed to be equal everywhere and differences are assumed to be contingent , the problem is simply to catalogue these contingent differences . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is conservative and omnitolerant : societies which have survived are harmonious and do not need reform . Even on the level of cataloguing the differences of soceties there is no attempt causally to explain these differences . The aims and methods of the science of man , then , are hardly prescribed adequately in structural-functional terms . One consequence of this inadequacy , or perhaps its central part , the rejection of the past as having any relevance , has stirred up the most prolonged and intensive controversy between anthropologists . Evans-Pritchard has said that this throwing out of history is a mistake and he comments that the revolution is scientistic and inhumane . Worsley follows him in this to a very considerable extent . However , he counter-rejects EvansPritchard 's anti-scientism and argues simply that Malinowski 's nonhistorical scientism was an error . I shall now discuss this deviation . I have not finished with functionalism , though , for after this digression I shall return to it with a new theme : since it was so successful there must have been something in it . Question : what worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : those parts of it which overlap with situational logic and explanations using the unintended consequences of actions . The digression will , I think , be worthwhile because it will enable us to review certain arguments against functionalism and against anthropology as the science of man , and thus further our quest for the worthwhile elements in functionalism that can be used in the science of man . The third view of the aims and methods of social anthropology which I am going to discuss , then , is the view that anthropology is a branch of history . According to Evans-Pritchard this makes it a humanity : according to Worsley it makes it a science . Evans-Pritchard has outlined his case in three places ; his Marrett lecture Social Anthropology : Past and Present ' of 1950 ; his magnificent little book of Third Programme talks , Social Anthropology ( 1951 ) ; and his lecture at Manchester , Anthropology and History ' ( 1961 ) . The first two seem to have been written at the same time and they even have parallel passages , so we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are written in an admirably clear and lucid style ; one always knows what he is saying . 199 The Aims and Methods of Social Anthropology Both Worsley and Evans-Pritchard , it seems to me , view social anthropology as the Study of Man . Evans-Pritchard , finding the views of those who see that Study as a Science repellent , decides that while the aim is to study Man , the only decent way this can be done is by coming off the verandah and seeking to understand men . He feels that a scientific approach involves the cold detachment of the verandah . The reason why Evans-Pritchard turns aside from science to history and not something else , is explanation . It is scientific explanation which Evans-Pritchard is specifically repelled by . As an alternative he looks to that humane study of the lives of men , history . History , for him , is attempting to understand men , not to predict and dehumanise them . Worsley on the other hand says this is precisely what the science of history does do . Evans-Pritchard was right , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but we only do this because by examining the past we can detect the historical laws of society and so predict the future . In the hands of Evans-Pritchard and Worsley , then , the central methodological conflict has shifted from sociology versus history to history ( humane ) versus history ( science ) . Malinowski argued that historical or origin explanations were not satisfactory and must be replaced with sociological , that is functional explanations . Malinowski and Radcliffe-Brown in fact opted for slightly different kinds of functional explanation which , because of certain resemblances to biological explanations , were thought to warrant the claim to scientific status . Evans-Pritchard objects that functional explanation has to be supplemented by the more humane approach of the historian or else a positivistic science will result . Worsley concurs with EvansPritchard but adds that the approach of the historian is to build a science too . Round and round goes the dispute . Now for a little detail . Evans-Pritchard begins , in his chapter Later Theoretical Developments ' , by sketching in the rise of evolutionism and mentioning the psychologistic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong reservations about functionalism framed largely as criticisms of the pronouncements of his teacher and predecessor in the chair at Oxford , Radcliffe-Brown . The latter 's fundamental position is outlined in this passage : The function of culture as a whole is to unite individual human beings into more or less stable social structures , i.e. , stable systems of groups determining and regulating the relation of those individuals to one another , and providing such external adaptation to the physical environment , and such internal adaptation between the component individuals or groups , as to make possible an ordered social life . That assumption I 200                     