@@773804

txt Religion in Africa scornful or disguised names so that disease will not think them worth taking away . Name-giving ceremonies are popular and many names are bestowed on the infant at a family festival . Prayers are made and libations poured on the ground , even in Christian naming rites . The names depend on circumstances of birth , likeness to parents and ancestors , and choice of divinity through an oracle . This is followed by an outing ceremony for mother and child , though it has little religious content . ADOLESCENCE African children mix with adults from the beginning of their lives , sharing in ceremonies and feasts at home , in visits to fields and markets , and in watching tribunals and funerals . In modern times many children go to school , and this makes for a separation from the elders that was not so marked in the past . Children sleep with their parents , usually until they enter their teens or are married . Traditionally many African societies were divided into age grades , and in adolescence the grade would pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rituals are often neglected , being interrupted by school , but grade divisions are still seen in dances and competitions , and in group pressures which guard the morality of the members . Circumcision is practised widely but not everywhere . It may be done in childhood or left till adolescence in circumcision schools , as in Lesotho and Botswana . Female excision is also practised , even in modern Egypt , despite attempts to suppress it by reformers . The Ibo had fatting houses ' where girls were prepared for marriage with the minimum of exercise , feeding on fats and having coils of metal and large solid ornaments fixed to their legs . Some of the best known initiation societies are the Poro and Sande of Sierra Leone and Guinea . They are examples of the socalled secret societies ' which have the double function of initiating youths into adulthood and perpetuating the traditions of the ancestors . The Poro is for boys , controlled by a hierarchy of elders , different in each village , which meets in a sacred grove where 8o The Life Cycle the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rebirth of the youths , who are said to be swallowed by the Poro spirit at the beginning and returned to their parents as reborn at the end of initiation . Not only is instruction given by elders in traditional rituals and social duties , but boys have to learn endurance by sleeping out of doors and fending for themselves . The Sande is a girls ' society which has the same purpose of preparation for adult life and marriage , with sex instruction and beautification . In both these societies the leader dresses in a mask and robe whenever he appears in public , but during the initiation his identity is revealed . The public manifestations of the societies are notorious through the masked figures which appear to represent the dead . Their bodies are always completely covered and it is taboo to say that they are human beings . They are accompanied by attendants who keep away the crowds and sometimes women and children have to seclude themselves while the masqueraders are out . In many towns the masked processions are like the carnival figures of Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flat pieces of wood tied on the end of cords so that uncanny irregular sounds are emitted . Such instruments , said to be the voices of spirits , are used in many parts of Africa , as well as in Australia and America . MARRIAGE Marriage is a social rather than a private affair , uniting two families as well as individuals . In the past this removed choice from the partners but it gave greater stability than marriage has today in some western countries . Although marriage is a rite of passage , going from one state to another , its religious side is not distinctive . It is regarded as the normal sequel to rites of adolescence , whose purpose was to prepare for this state . There are laws of affinity which restrict the choice of partner , and taboos of certain forms of marriage , though these differ from place to place ; whatever the form the regulations are fairly strictly observed , even where there is some relaxation in modern and town life . Betrothal takes a long time and includes arrangement of the marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The girl 's consent was often formally asked by 8s Religion in Africa her prospective bridegroom , and it is commoner now when many young people choose their own mate . The next step is payment of , or agreement upon , the dowry or bride-wealth . This is paid by the bridegroom to his wife 's family to reimburse expenses they have made for her , even back to her education , and to act as a guarantee of fidelity . It is accompanied by many gifts in kind to parents and relatives . Modern marriage involves much more expense , in which church customs and clothes are added to traditional cost and often plunge the family into debt . But the basic contract is marked by a relatively small payment , or even a simple exchange of kola nuts and libation to ancestors . FUNERALS AND ANCESTORS There is much more ritual connected with death because these last rites of passage are intended to ensure that the dead person leaves this world with full ceremony and enters safely into the company of his fathers . In tropical heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day or two and there is a speedy first burial ' . The corpse is washed and dressed in its best , and traditionally interred in fine clothes , with nowadays usually as splendid a coffin as the family can afford . It used to be the custom , as in many other parts of the world , to bury the dead with tools or weapons used in life , and with fine robes and ornaments . But the latter are now generally removed before burial . Death is thought to be like a river , as the Jordan , which must not be looked at before then but must be crossed safely . Money may be left in the corpse 's hand to pay for the journey and provide gifts for the ancestors on arrival in the world beyond . When the body is placed in the grave prayers are said , and the spirit of the dead person may be asked for blessing and protection from harm . Burial , and not cremation , is the universal practice and only evil people or those with highly infectious diseases , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most graves are simple shafts , but some have a niche at the side into which the body is slid to prevent earth falling on it ; this type of grave is found in both southern and western Africa . A second burial ' is fixed at a time to allow all the family and friends to gather and may vary from a few weeks to months after 82 The Life Cycle death . But if it is delayed too long it may be thought that the ghost of the dead person will appear in dreams to trouble his relatives . This final rite of passage is to make the grave firm ' and separate off the dangerous powers of the dead finally from the living . In some places , such as south-east Dahomey , the head of the corpse is removed some time after burial and placed in a box or bag for annual commemoration ceremonies . At these final rites the secret societies ' appear again , with masked figures which sometimes impersonate the dead , visit their houses , speak in guttural voices , and bless their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still believe in such impersonation , but they are convinced of the continuity of the spirits of their loved ones . The many masks of the dead , which are made all over tropical Africa , testify to the importance of the departed to their relatives . Sometimes the masks are white and express coldness and impassivity in the dead , sometimes they are in animal form like totems , and sometimes they are abstract or nearly so and indicate the different powers and awesomeness of the deceased . That life survives death is one of mankind 's oldest convictions , found in all countries and at all periods . No doubt there is some wishful thinking in unwillingness to consider personal extermination , but there is a more rational basis to the conviction that the elements of the universe are not destroyed , and that although the form may change life continues in another manner . The new religions , Islam and Christianity , affirm survival of death as well , and add details about the afterlife , though they have not always sufficiently adjusted themselves yet to the full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ancestors as ghosts ' , which is unfortunate in English because the word means an apparition or spectre . Lienhardt says it would be wrong to suppose that when the Dinka offer food and drink to the ghosts ' they imagine that these beings physically consume the offerings . That is true , . and Africans generally , like people in other religions , would agree that only the essence of the sacrifice is received by the ancestor . But Lienhardt proceeds to say that ghosts ' are not in any way materialized , and although they appear to their kinsmen in dreams 83 Religion in Africa I have never heard of an encounter with a ghost as occurring in the " external " " objective " physical world ' . * Whether this is known among the Dinka or not , many other African peoples tell vivid stories of ghosts which appear to their relatives as apparently visible and tangible as in their lives on earth . Ghosts , says this writer , are to be understood as reflections of a kind of experience , not as a class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European explanation , but certainly elsewhere in Africa the ancestors are not just re-garded as part of a man 's experience only ; they have life and power in themselves , they are dead persons who have survived as real and immortal beings . The profound conviction of the vitality and continuity of the dead as a great cloud of witnesses ' can not be explained , in African terms , as a simple experience of the survivors . Even if this were a scientific explanation it would not be what people believe . REINCARNATION The return of the dead , or some part of their life force , to their family is widely held in Africa , though there are many differences about the degree and manner in which this takes place . Although this belief where it is held in Africa resembles Indian belief in reincarnation , there are important differences . Indian ideas are based upon the conviction of the indestructibility of the soul which journeys from one body on earth to another . As with Plato , in the myth at the end of the Republic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entail of a man 's deeds ' brings him back to a higher or lower destiny in the next life . He may rise to the level of a priest or sink to that of an animal ; the soul may be reborn as male or female and in any family . Even Buddhism , which tried to dispense with the soul , was unable to part with the belief in rebirth and tied it to behaviour in a previous life on earth . African belief starts from different presuppositions and flows from its philosophy of power . It is not belief in a collection of in-dividual souls coming back to higher or lower levels in this un-real world , and finally escaping altogether . That which is passed on from elders to children is the force which makes life possible and through which property is inherited . This is not based on 84 The Life Cycle moral judgements , but anything which blocks the linking of power , like witchcraft which is thought to cause sterility or prevent babies from being born and surviving , is condemned as very evil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthen it with sure links of continuity . And because the African world view , like the Biblical , is world-affirming there is none of the Indian notion of world-denial which sees punishment or loss in being born at all and holds out hope of escape into a featureless nirvana . For Africans return to this world of light and warmth is far preferable to the cold of the beyond . Yet African belief is complex . Ancestors are reincarnated yet offerings are still made to them at their graves ; they are in heaven , yet back on earth , and they may enter not only one body but perhaps several . That a dead person may be reborn in several descendants has suggested to some writers that Africans are not logical in their thinking , or are pre-logical ' , but in fact this agrees quite well with the philosophy of power , for one force can strengthen or weaken another or several , and wisdom and happiness are increased by the influence of the dead forebears . So it is not the single soul ' of the ancestor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ round or chain of existence . Rather it is the ontological influence ' , as Tempels calls it , which a forefather exerts on his grandson or grandsons , it is the immortal vitality that continues to reinforce and uplift . The Ila of Zambia hold that all people are reborn , except evil ones who worked for sorcerers and have become wandering ghosts . After a child is born the parents go to a diviner who tells them the name of the ancestor who has come back . When the child is named he cries , till he is given the birth name of the proper forefather and then he stops . Some say that the ancestral spirit comes on him now , others that it came before birth at the moment of quickening . The Ila believe that a male spirit may return in a female child and also that the same spirit may descend upon two bodies . The parents accept the word of the diviner that this is so and say our father has returned to our home ' . When there is a dispute over a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a powerful ancestor has his case strengthened . E. W. Smith says , My old friend Mungalo now sitting smoking a 85 Religion in Africa pipe with me , or sitting yonder under the eaves of his hut and carving a wooden spoon , is the Mungalo who lived here a hundred years ago , and , furthermore , Mungalo is his musedi , his guardian spirit , shall we say , always accompanying him , guarding him , warning him of danger . There is here some metaphysical subtlety . The spirit that assumes a material body is not confined to that body ; being spirit it can not be imprisoned in the material . It is in the body and yet it is not of the body ; it is there as a kind of aura , surrounding and protecting the body . ' * Among the Yoruba popular names are Babatunde and Yetunde , father returns ' and mother returns ' . Three months after birth the Ifa oracle is consulted to know which is the ori , the head ' or life ' of the child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child ' . The same phrase is used at funerals , when mourners wish the relative the blessing that he may turn to be children for them , and that his turning may fill the house . This turning ' may even be used of a living person , and seems to indicate that his power will be passed on without dying . t There is widespread belief in born-to-die ' children . These are babies who are so unhealthy that they keep dying , but each one is supposed to be identical with its predecessor and great efforts are made to break the chain of rebirth and redeath , by magic and medicine . Circumstantial stories are told of babies who had the same physical characteristics or deformations as their predecessors . Similar tales are told of a child and his returning ancestor ; both had facial or other resemblances and so the diviner recognized which ancestor had been reborn . Differences of character and status are also explained by reference to the in-carnating spirit , and part of the importance of the idea of re-incarnation is that it provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy of power . The Ibo believe that before birth the soul chooses between two bundles which the Creator offers to him , one of which contains high fortune and the other lower . If he makes a bad choice , how-ever , he may still hope to change his lot in the next life by special 86 The Life Cycle efforts . Evil people are said to have an inauspicious reincarnation , so that a moral element enters in . A great curse on evildoers declares may you not be reincarnate in human form ' , and those who are born in an abnormal manner , with feet first or having teeth , are looked on with fear as bringing evil power to birth. * There is little history of African religion because of the absence of reliable documents from the past , and in modern times so much is changing that it is difficult to know whether beliefs are the same as those of a century ago . But recent research into African communities that have survived from descendants of slaves in South America shed some light on beliefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have received no influence from Africa since then . No doubt there have been other influences , but they are different , and comparisons can be made between two kinds of African belief that are widely separated . Records of slaves in the eighteenth century show a high proportion of sui-cides , partly from despair but also it is said with the hope of being reborn in their native land . Because of this their owners cut off the heads of suicide slaves to suggest that they would be reborn mutilated . South American Africans today believe that dreams indicate which ancestor is being reborn in a child . A man can be reborn as a woman , but never as an animal , though animals can be reborn among themselves . An ancestor can be reborn in several people at once , and gifts may be presented to the newborn child under the ancestor 's name , as well as to the ancestor himself at his grave . A reborn spirit is called the spirit which comes back to see the world ' . Criminals become ghosts and are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a limit to the number of times rebirth takes place ; some say three times , others up to twelve times , and after that the liberated soul becomes a soldier of the highest spirits. - 7 Society and Morals Many modern writers on Africa have a special interest in social organization . They describe in great detail , though not always easy style , the agnates and cognates , affines and lineages , clans and tribes . All of this is important and its recording is a valuable element in building up the history of Africa . But a great deal is in process of change and the organization of hitherto untouched villages alters or even disappears in the multiplicity of great towns which have sprung up all over Africa . Further , in the sociological approach the place of religion , in past and present communities , may be interpreted in different ways . The social function of religion tends to be stressed at the expense both of its individual and ideological characters . Yet it is important to emphasize that a participant in public worship does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has a personal faith , the light by which he lives , and in these days the power of ideology ought to be very clear . Nevertheless religion has a social importance . A man and his family create and live in the midst of relationships , which extend both in space and time . Mythology seeks to explain and justify these relationships and link them with the wider field of the universe . Myths of creation make all clans descend from God , and he created the hero-ancestors from whom the present clans descend . Myth and actual genealogy overlap , as do the actions of God and ancestors . Morality The social relationships in which men live are links of authority , indicating the proper places of individuals and prescribing courses 88 Society and Morals of conduct for them . Man lives in a moral community and his behaviour is prescribed by relationship . Morality is the mores , the manners and customs of society . Good morality is living in appropriate relationships with other people , high and low , old and young . The smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A foreigner is regarded with suspicion , because it is not known what relationships can be established with him , even if men do not throw bricks at him . This is modified to some extent by myths that include all men within the creation of the supreme God , though this belief may be vague and formal . The sanctions of morality are the disapproval of the social group , expressed in reward and punishment . These vary greatly according to the status of the persons who have been favoured or offended ; offence against a humble person is less dangerous than against an elder or priest . The ancestors also have their sanctions , but they are part of the social unit . They founded the clan , gave its laws and imposed taboos . Ultimately there is God , the final authority and court of appeal . It has sometimes been doubted whether God is essential to morality , or whether religion is necessarily moral , since morality concerns society in its interrelationships , horizontally rather than vertically . But God is not to be separated off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Creator of all and the pinnacle of the hierarchy of beings . While he is high and lifted up , and his power may be delegated to lesser beings , yet he can no more be abstracted from the world view than the veiled chiefs could have disappeared without shaking society to its foundations . God is not only responsible for the abnormal , such as sudden deaths of the wicked ; he is near to men in strange and lonely places , and also in the ordinary affairs of everyday life . That rewards and punishments are believed to come from God in reaction to human behaviour , shows that God is thought to be closely concerned with morality . The relationships of authority in the past were static , and although there were deviations and individual aberrations these did not change the essential pattern . Rituals and sacrifices were made to renew the social order but not to change it . But in modern times the many changes that occur bring uncertainty as to the 89 Religion in Africa new powers that are operating and the proper ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more witchcraft nowadays , and while there is no evidence at all for an increase in the belief because the incidence of it in past centuries is quite unknown , yet the assertion is evidence of modern uneasiness expressed in a conviction that there is more evil present now . An offence against society in the past was a breach of a well known custom or law , in a pattern of relationships that was relatively understood and unchanging . While this still holds in some areas of life , there are many new situations in which people are not sure what is the best course of conduct . Traditional religion suffers here , because although it had a vague and general world view , its obligations were largely local and tribal . The concepts of universal brotherhood and charity to a neighbour whatever his race have only made their appearance with Christianity . It is easy to idealize the past and sigh for an imaginary Golden Age away from the disturbing present with its rapacious commerce , oppressive politics and bitter warfare . The facts are that even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sudden deaths and human sacrifices . Although oracles and magic worked in favour of some people , they could work against others who had paid less . The bribing of diviners and ministers of ordeals is no new phenomenon . The new religions bring a disturbance of society and its values , but they also bring new values of their own which in time will create a new stability . Old and New Authority The divinity that hedges a king has been much written about . Whether the king is a god or not his office is regarded as sacred or awesome , and the sacrosanct nature of the office surrounds the ruler as well . Many African societies have been ruled by monarchs , paramount chiefs or kings , though their authority was rarely absolute or despotic . But many other societies are more loosely organized and may have no tribal ruler at all or only a figure of convenience ; and most sacredness attaches to clan elders who perform ritual functions on behalf of the community . 90 Society and Morals Many of the Bantu of South Africa have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the embodiment of the unity of the people , administrator of traditional laws , leader in war , source of wealth , priest and rain-maker . Some of them rose to great power , like Shaka of the Zulu , born of an illegal union in 1787 , but by his own efforts and genius building a great army and in fifteen years conquering an area larger than Europe . People fell before him in adoration and flattered Shaka with praise names , till he became harsh and cruel , though he himself considered some European practices were inhuman . Shaka was becoming re-ceptive to more advanced European ideas when jealous brothers assassinated him and his empire was destroyed . More traditional and peaceful were the kings of the neighbour-ing Swazi . They have retained their great annual ceremony , the Incwala , in which the king is the chief performer and recapitulates the history of his people . It is controlled by priests who wash the king in sea water to give him strength . A black ox is slaughtered and the king acts to break off from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long and elaborate ritual , which has been des-cribed by H. Kuper in An African Aristocracy . The king and his mother are the leaders of the kingdom , she is called mother of the people ' and he is child of the people ' ; after enthronement the king is called Lion and his mother Lady Elephant . The mother has charge of national sacred objects , but if they are to be effica-cious her son must manipulate them with her . The royal pair are called twins and any disagreement between them is believed to cause national disaster , such as drought and famine . A national anthem sung during the ceremony expresses some of the people 's feelings towards the king . Here is the Inexplicable , Our Bull ! Lion ! Descend . Descend , Being of heaven , Unconquerable . Play like tides of the sea , You Inexplicable , Great Mountain . ' * The Rain-queen of the Lovedu has been mentioned in con-91 Religion in Africa nexion with rituals of the storm ( page 52 above ) . Among many other African peoples there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which they are invested . However , in our day there are clashes with new powers of political life . In 1966 Sir Edward Mutesa ( King Freddie ) , Kabaka of Buganda , fled his country after the army had seized the palace . The President announced the end of the Kabaka 's government and the division of Buganda into four districts administered by the central government . Traditionally the Kabaka had been regarded as the source of the health of the nation and his absence would be disastrous . All the land was called his possession , and while he delegated the administration of justice and much of the ritual of sacrifice to officials , he was the final source of their power and authority . At his installation he was dressed in a barkcloth and skin , like those worn by the first ancestors when they took charge of Buganda , and very old drums were beaten . Most monarchs of West Africa have experienced more gentle decline in influence , most of them still holding tenuous authority but overshadowed by politicians and soldiers . The Alafin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Niger Delta to Togoland , but he was exiled a few years ago , and though he returned it was to much diminished influence . Traditionally the Alafin was direct descendant of Oranyan , a semi-divine founder of the nation who is still represented by a twenty foot stone pillar at Ife which is called his staff . When the Alafin was enthroned he ate the king ' , making a token meal of his predecessor 's heart in order to gain his power . Other rulers were surrounded with customs to emphasize their sanctity . They wore bead veils to hide their faces from the common gaze , and spoke only quietly or through spokesmen , the so-called linguists ' of the courts . Men prostrated in the dust before them , and some do so still . Shoes are removed in their presence and the shoulders bared of robes , as at a shrine of divine spirits . The chiefs ate alone or behind curtains , since they were supposed not to need food . It was once an offence to have more riches than a chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many rich men , soldiers and politicians now have more luxurious mansions and cars . Traditional monarchs were great powers , surrounded by holi-92 Society and Morals ness and taboos . E. Meyerowitz , in The Sacred State of the Akan , claims that the king of Ashanti was fully divine , the child of the sun whose golden colour was sacred to him , and his body1was dusted with gold in ceremonies . The queen mother was daughter of the moon , with silver as her emblem . This interpretation is disputed , but the king of Ashanti was undoubtedly invested with sacred powers and related to the Golden Stool . This is a national emblem , made by a priest Anotchi in the eighteenth century , and said to have come down from heaven in a black cloud . Stools are personal possessions and at death are used as shrines for ancestral cults . Anotchi said that the Golden Stool contained the soul of all the people of the Ashanti nation , and he made powder from the nails and hair of the king , queen and chiefs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stool was believed to give the Ashanti victory in war and gold chains and masks of conquered kings were fixed to it . It was never sat on , but at his installation the king was lifted three times over it . After disappearing during wars with the British , who had demanded to sit on it , the Golden Stool was discovered and restored to the capital town of Kumasi again in 1921 . But the power of the Omanhene , the king of Ashanti , has been much curtailed under colonial and later independent rule . President Nkrumah thought himself a much greater authority , and his followers declared that he would never die , but he took care not to visit Kumasi even at the height of his power . Despite their power in the past most African rulers were not despots , with some exceptions like Shaka , and totalitarian rule is not a traditional phenomenon . Although the king was often monarch by right of descent , he could be deposed or could abdicate . He ruled with councils of elders , and if he abused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action that cut him off from the ancestral forces . An Ashanti king was destooled by whipping off his shoes so that he came into forbidden contact with the sacred power of the earth , or he was made to sit on the ground , or his body was mutilated . A Yoruba king was presented with parrot 's eggs to eat , which was a traditional sign that he must abdicate or take poison . As has been said , many other African societies were more loosely organized , though sometimes chiefs were foisted on them 93 Religion in Africa in modern times for convenience of imperial rule . Lugbara society in Uganda and the Congo is composed of some sixty clans , descended from founder heroes , which are dispersed among territorial tribes . But the tribes have no single head and the chief central authority is a rain-maker whose power is only exercised occasionally . Effective authority is expressed through heads of family clusters , and these elders differ in power according both to their position and personal qualities . The elder is in charge of shrines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancestors . He has various tokens of office , the most important being a special stool which is inherited and on which he alone may sit . He is called the one who sits on the stool , the one who stays with the shrines and puts meat in them , and the one who eats the elder 's portion of meat , which includes special parts of the victim reserved to him at sacrifices . He consults oracles and has ritual authority , as well as secular power , for example in the allocation of land. * Similarly loose and decentralized authority is found among the Ibo of Nigeria . There are some kings , as at Onitsha , but they are based on foreign patterns and even so are elected , not hereditary . In the villages government is fairly democratic , and all adult males share in the direction of communal affairs . The village rules its own concerns and since the houses are scattered about , a central government such as that practised among their neigh-bours in big towns is difficult . Beyond the village there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuts ' , and uniting for matters of common interest . The head of a family , or oldest member , has a ritual staff ( ofo ) as symbol of authority , and is respected as intermediary between the family and its ancestors . Priests and medicine men have similar wands of office . The family head sacrifices to Ala , the earth spirit , on behalf of all members of his lineage . Politically he is a president over committees which consider disputes , and he gives advice on custom and tradition , indicating where a proposed action agrees with or violates them . His effective powers are limited to cursing offenders on his ritual staff , which is rarely done . When decisions have been agreed upon by the whole group , the elder strikes his 94 Society and Morals staff on the ground four times , declaring that it will kill those who disobey the law and all the assembly responds in support. * This democratic system has survived the vagaries of modern rule . Under colonial administration it was assumed that the Ibos lived in ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centralized administration was imposed . Warrant chiefs ' , picked by district commissioners , were appointed to represent village groups . This led to various revolts , with women 's riots in 1928 , and so reforms were made in which new courts were instituted , customary courts ' to regulate inter-village affairs , though the villages themselves are administered much as in the past . Modern Change The different kinds of social organization have been affected in modern times not only by politics but by religion . Of course politicians themselves claim supernormal powers , and religious attitudes can not be divorced from political or any other departments of life . Similarly Islamic and Christian influences inevitably accompanied the political forces of the Berbers or the Europeans . These two religions are missionary forces but they have political effects . K. A. Busia , in one of the best studies of such culture-contact , says that Christianity came into immediate conflict with the chiefs in Ashanti ' . The first converts were encouraged by their leaders to cut themselves off completely from heathen ' customs , and in some cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional authority of the chiefs . Even where such segregation was not practised Christians were liable to reject the jurisdiction of the chief . They refused to work on Sunday but laboured on the land on Thursday which was taboo to the earth spirit ; they rejected forced labour or Sunday courts ; if called to a court they would not remove their shoes before the chief or swear oaths on symbols of the ancestors ; they objected to libations and annual ceremonies to gods and ancestors . Busia says that the cleavage centred round the two vital questions of ancestral authority and the liberty of the Christian . These are 95 Religion in Africa both political and religious . From the point of view of the chief , Christians were rejecting all traditional customs and the power of the ancestors which was incarnated in him . In 1941 the Con-federacy Council of Chiefs decreed that those who farmed on Thursday committed an offence . Christians saw this as an attack both on religious belief and on their economic position , and ap-pealed to the central government . The problem was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was left in abeyance , in the hope that time would solve it. * The new religions present many problems for traditional faith and customs . When they are still new intruders , with little power , they can be ignored or allowed as exceptions , but when their followers become numerous the dilemmas grow . With modern ease of communications and international links , these world-wide religions have many advantages over the old local cults . Christian-ity , with its stress on liberty , has tended to aim at personal salvation and responsibility . Islam , broadly speaking , has aimed more at the conversion of chiefs in the hope that the people will follow later . But chiefs still have many traditional customs to perform , which involve some recognition of spiritual powers that both the new religions declare to be non-existent . What happens , both with Muslim and Christian chiefs , is that traditional rites are performed , but often by a substitute who acts on behalf of the chief and allows him to attend church or mosque . A short note on characteristics of modern African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this book . 96 Statistics of African Religions There are no figures available of the numbers of adherents of Traditional Religions in Africa . The population of the whole continent is estimated at about 28o million . Calculations of the numbers of Muslims and Christians will be found at the end of their respective sections , but there are , approximately , 83 million Muslims and 68 million Christians . This means that about 130 million may be reckoned as still holding to the old religion , though the growth and appeal of both Islam and Christianity are very strong and many people come within their scope of activity and are potential Muslims and Christians. * 8 North Africa and Ethiopia Christianity has the longest history of the great living religions of Africa . It is not necessary to discuss Christian doctrine here , or the organization of different churches , since these are the same as in other continents and can be studied in countless books . Rather than discuss Christian doctrine , in the way in which we have been considering the beliefs and customs of African traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its extension in modern times . Christianity entered Africa in the first century of our era and it has had a continuous history in Egypt and Ethiopia , so that it is truly a traditional religion of Africa . There is a vast literature on the ancient Egyptian , Ethiopian and North African churches , and though the latter disappeared the influence of the writings of their leaders remained important . Here only a few sketches can be given of the early history and some account of the modern churches of Egypt and Ethiopia . Egypt The ancient civilization of Egypt is one of the two oldest in the world , the other being in Mesopotamia . Both were centred round rivers and the annual flooding of the narrow Nile valley enabled Egyptian agriculture and civilization to flourish . City-kingdoms arose here in prehistoric times , gradually joining into two major groups of Upper ( south ) and Lower ( north ) Egypt . At first these cultures were isolated in Africa but about 3000 B.C. links were formed with Mesopotamia , and also at this period the kingdoms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was followed by the age of building pyramids , immense royal tot Religion in Africa tombs , many of which remain as some of the wonders of the world in their size and yet geometrically precise construction . Texts abound from the pyramids and later inscriptions which reveal ideas of religion and morality among the ancient Egyptians . There were local gods , often represented in animal form , and cosmic gods which appear as human . Re was a typical sun god , and Osiris a king and vegetation deity . There was great concern with life after death ; the dead were embalmed as mummies , and the journeys of the soul are described in the Book of the Dead . Some attempts have been made to link the religion of ancient Egypt with beliefs and practices of various parts of modern Africa , but few scholars see more than some vague resemblances in this . J. O. Lucas considered much of Yoruba religion as a degenerate form of Egyptian religion . He thought that the Yoruba must have ' settled for many years in ancient Egypt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that not less than half ' the words in modern Yoruba contain Egyptian roots . But the Egyptian language was related to Hamitic and not Negro-Bantu languages , and although it was written in picture form the signs indicate consonants and there is no certain knowledge of the vowels of most ancient Egyptian words . As an example of his method , Lucas dissected a Yoruba name for the Supreme Being , Olorun. 01 was dropped as a prefix , and n as a nasal ; there remained Oru which Lucas said came from the Egyptian Horus , a sky god . But this method was as forced as the attempt of another writer to find a respectable ancestry for a central African name for God , Leza . Drop za as a suffix , reverse Le into El , and you have El or Elohim , a Hebrew name for God and so Africans have Jewish religion , Q.E.D. But E. B. Idowu says reasonably that the attraction of Egypt is a trap for students of Yoruba religion and he criticizes Lucas 's etymologies as far-fetched ' . * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exported their religious ideas even to near-by peoples , let alone into the tropics . Some of the Hebrews were in captivity in Egypt about 1300 B.C. and were always close neighbours , but they show few signs of that great preoccupation with life after death which characterized the IO2 North Africa and Ethiopia Egyptians . Tropical African religions were much farther away , and they have very different conceptions of the universe as a dynamic field for the interplay of spiritual powers . After leading the world in culture for thousands of years Egypt gradually declined , submitting to the Persians in 525 B.C. , to Alexander the Great in 332 and to the Romans in 30 B.C. Egypt became fully incorporated into the Mediterranean world ; some of its religious cults spread to Greece and Rome , but in Egypt itself they slowly declined under the growing pressures of Greek culture , Judaism , Christianity , and finally Islam . Even the Egyptian language eventually disappeared , to be replaced by Arabic , and the only remains of the old tongue are in the liturgy of the Coptic Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the most cultured city of the Roman empire , with a large Jewish population . Its academies and schools drew scholars from all over the Mediterranean world to study Greek philosophy and rhetoric . The Roman empire provided peace , organization and roads for easy communication between countries . The Greek language was spoken by most educated people and became the great medium for the circulation of ideas . It was only natural for the first Christian writers , who were nearly all Jews , to compose the New Testament in Greek . In the first century A.D. Christians spread from the Holy Land to Asia Minor , Greece , Rome , and no doubt into Egypt , though the early history of the church of Alexandria is obscure . That Jesus himself went to Egypt is asserted by St Matthew in recounting the story of the flight of Joseph , Mary and the child from the wrath of Herod . Nothing more is known certainly about this journey and sojourn , but apocryphal writers in later centuries delighted to tell of the places where the family stopped in Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the water that sprang out of the ground for their needs . There are four sites of the Flight still venerated by both Christians and Muslims in Egypt , which are said to make Egypt a land of peace . Other tales about Jesus learning the religion or magic of the Egyptians are pure fantasy , for the Gospel says that he was taken back to Nazareth while still a child . 103 Religion in Africa Simon of Cyrene , who carried the cross of Jesus , was probably a Jewish settler from part of what is now Libya . Other Jews from Cyrene who became Christians are mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles , and they preached to Greeks as well as to Jews . A notable Christian was Apollos , who is called a Jew but an Alexandrian by race , a learned man ' ( Acts 18 , 24 ) , but it is not known where he became a Christian and he first appears in activity at Ephesus . The Coptic Christians claim that the Egyptian church was founded by St Mark , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companion of Paul and interpreter of Peter . The first written evidence for this is in A.D. 311 in the church history of Eusebius , who says they say that ' Mark founded the church of Alexandria , but it is curious that when Dionysius of Alexandria discussed the career of Mark he did not mention his connexion with Alexandria . In a Syrian writing , the Clementine Homilies , it is said that Barnabas first preached in the streets of Alexandria . However , the Egyptian church holds to Mark , and for centuries the patriarchs of Alexandria were elected beside a tomb which was believed to hold his body . Christianity spread in Egypt no doubt first among the Jews , who numbered about a million in the whole country . In Alexandria and the towns of the Nile delta it made headway among intellectuals . In the country the native Egyptians , later called Copts ( meaning Egyptians ) , were devoted to the cult of Osiris . This taught the murder of the god by his brother Set , the search for Osiris by his wife Isis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Osiris was brought back to life and given the kingdom of the dead . Although there are only vague resemblances between this myth and the Christian history of the Crucifixion , there was a clear appeal in the preaching of the Saviour who had conquered death , that constant preoccupation of Egyptians . The church took a strong hold on the people and later there were many ascetics and martyrs . For the first two centuries Christian progress in Egypt was relatively peaceful , and it seems that there was no widespread persecution until that of Septimius Severus ( 193-211 ) . The first house-churches were soon replaced by special buildings for zoo North Africa and Ethiopia worship with a kind'of freehold land . But church organization and discipline was not rigid , perhaps because of the high standing of the congregations ; bishops were not yet clearly distinguished from presbyters . The Alexandrian church was more tolerant than some towards Greek philosophy , and other books as well as those of the Bible were used , including a Gospel according to the Egyptians which seems , from the few references @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some ideas which have little basis in the canonical Gospels . In such an atmosphere it was not surprising that there was latitude towards speculations of Gnostics who taught theories of gnosis , knowledge ' , which divided most churches in the second century . From pagan roots this movement spread throughout the church , but split into sects by the end of the second century . One of the leading Gnostics was Valentinus , who is said to have been a native of Egypt , but who lived at Rome from 136 to 165 , seceded from the church and went to Cyprus . He distinguished between the supreme and unknowable God and a creator god or Demiurge . Christ was regarded as a divine emanation who came bringing gnosis , but he was not properly human and did not die , either being a spirit who lived in the human Jesus for a while or a merely phantom human appearance . Such ideas were later to influence the Coptic Church and Islam . The recently discovered Jung Codex and other manuscripts from Nag Hammadi near Luxor are fourth-century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt . Orthodox Christians could not accept teachings which denied the humanity of Jesus and the reality of his death , but attempts to bridge the gulf between Jewish and Greek thought were made more significantly by a succession of great Alexandrian teachers , with whom knowledge of the church and its doctrines really begins . A famous Catechetical School was founded which was unrivalled in the world . Clement of Alexandria came from Athens , where he had studied philosophy , and became head of the Alexandrian school for twelve years , till in 202 he was forced to flee during the persecution of Septimius Severus . Clement agreed with the Gnostics in seeking for knowledge ' , but he said that this was found in the church . He held that both Greek philosophy and 105 Religion in Africa Hebrew theology came from God and that Christ , the Word , was the source of all human reason . Even more famous was Clement 's successor , Origen , who was born at Alexandria of Christian parents in 185 . He saw his father die a martyr in 202 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Decian persecution at Tyre in 250 and died soon after . Origen gave allegorical explanations of the Bible , trying to bring out the mystical sense of true knowledge in the union of the soul with the wisdom of the Word . He speculated on the salvation of all creatures , even the devil , and some of his theories were condemned by later authorities . The persecutions of this time revealed the deep hold that Christianity had gained , especially in Egypt and North Africa where they were fiercest . The historian Eusebius speaks of these athletes of God ' who suffered many tortures and varieties of death , especially in Alexandria , but also in all Thebais , the territory of Thebes five hundred miles up the Nile , which shows how far Christianity had expanded . He gives lists of church leaders who suffered , and himself saw large crowds in the Thebais confessing their faith and rushing to death . But the church continued to expand despite persecutions , and in 320 there were too bishops in Egypt , Thebais and Libya . The Greek language was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but evidence of the penetration of Christianity among the people is found in translations of the Bible into other languages . There was a Sahidic version used in Upper Egypt in the third or fourth centuries , and a Bohairic one in the Nile delta later which became the official version of the Coptic Church . Some of the monks knew no Greek and were urged to study the scriptures in their own language . The church took deeper root by this use of the vernaculars , and its numbers in Egypt at the beginning of the fourth century have been estimated at over a million . Persecutions and the wickedness of the world drove some Christians into the desert and began the great movements of hermits and monasteries which have remained to this day in Egypt and Ethiopia . Antony of Egypt is usually regarded as the founder of the hermit life . In 269 he gave away all his belongings to6 North Africa and Ethiopia and retired to the desert , where he is said to have fought with demons . Other hermits followed his example , including some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antony , founded a monastery in the Thebais and instituted rules for communal life in 320 . At his death there were nine monasteries for men under his rule and two for women . These provided the pattern for the later European monastic organizations of Basil and Benedict . Alexandrian teachers played a leading part in theological controversies that shook the whole church . Arius , the great heretic , was a Libyan in charge of an Alexandrian church who taught that Christ was a creature , subordinate to God . He was opposed by Athanasius , bishop of Alexandria , who triumphed over the Arians at the councils of Nicaea in 325 and Alexandria in 362 . Athanasius taught both the full divinity and the full manhood of Christ , and also introduced knowledge of monastic movements to the West . Debates on the nature of Christ continued so long and were so divisive that they left a permanent mark on the Coptic churches . Most eastern and western Christians held that there were two natures in Christ , divine and human , and this was affirmed at the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , which was divine , and they were especially strong in Egypt , Syria and Armenia . The battle cry of one nature ' was taken up by African monks and the Coptic churches separated from most of the rest of the Orthodox on this issue , a separation that has remained . Only a few Orthodox were left in Egypt , called Melkites or Imperial Christians . Nubia and North Africa The first record of an African converted to Christianity is the Ethiopian eunuch ( Acts 8 , 26f . ) . Scholars consider that he probably came from the ancient kingdom of Meroe , between Aswan and Khartoum . He is called the treasurer of Candace , but this was a title like Pharaoh and the proper name of this queen is unknown . The eunuch was a literate man , reading the book of Isaiah no doubt in the Septuagint Greek version . He was baptized by 107 Religion in Africa Philip and went on his way rejoicing ' , but nothing more certain is known about him . Later writers claimed , not unreasonably , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was taken to the Sudan or Nubia by missionaries from Egypt . But it seems that despite trade with Egypt , in which no doubt Christians took part , Christianity had not been accepted in the Sudan before a presbyter , Julian , went in 543 with royal approval . There were mass conversions by him and his successors , many churches were built and Christians reduced the Nubian language to writing . This was the first establishment of the church among the Negro races , and long after Egypt had become Muslim the Arab advances were resisted in Nubia . But from 1275 Arab expeditions entered the northern Sudan and there was Arab immigration which slowly spread Islam . Finally the fall of the Christian kingdom of Aiwa in 1504 led to the disappearance of Christianity in the Sudan , till missions in modern times brought it again to tribes in the south . Apart from the mention of Christians from Cyrene in the Acts of the Apostles little is known of the spread of the church along North Africa till the end of the second century . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which describes how a dozen men and women were executed in 18o at Scillium in Numidia for refusing to recant their faith despite the persuasions of the authorities . In 203 a girl Perpetua and others were executed in the arena at Carthage after having been baptized as Christians . Roman Africa ' comprised roughly the countries which are now known as Libya , Tunisia , Algeria and Morocco . Here Latin was spoken and while even in Rome itself Greek was still used in the church , African Christians were writing in Latin and using Latin Bibles and liturgy . The chief centres were the Romanized towns on the African coast opposite Italy , but before long Christians were found as far west as Mauretania . In a synod at Carthage in A.D. 220 there were 71 African bishops , and some 250 by the following century . There were many famous African Christian writers and leaders . Tertullian of Carthage ( 160-220 ) was the first Latin writer among Christian theologians , and the first to use the word 108 North Africa and Ethiopia Trinity ' . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christians were good citizens , and said that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church ' . But his puritanism led Tertullian away from public life and to support the Montanists who expected a speedy end to the world . He was followed by Cyprian , bishop of Carthage , a pagan rhetorician who was converted to Christianity and martyred in 258 . In the fierce persecution by Diocletian in 303 many other African Christians suffered . Others denied their faith under threats , and these lapses caused divisions in the church . The Donatists refused to accept a bishop of Carthage whose consecrator had previously denied his faith , and they separated into their own churches led by Donatus . The rival churches were involved in quarrels and later were repressed by the state , but they remained till the Arab invasion . The most renowned of all the African church fathers was Augustine , bishop of Hippo , who was born at Tagaste in 354 . His Latin writings on the church and doctrine have been influential down the ages , and he opposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a council at Carthage in 411 there were 286 Catholic bishops and 279 Donatist bishops , but Augustine secured the condemnation of the Donatists . The evident large following of the Donatists is attributed not only to their rigorism but to their claim to be Africans as against the Romans , and they were successful in converting many Berbers to Christianity . Other divisive forces were at work . The Vandals sacked Rome in 410 and as Augustine lay dying in 430 they besieged his city of Hippo . A Vandal kingdom was established in Africa for nearly a century , teaching Arian Christianity and persecuting the orthodox . Then the position was reversed when the Byzantines took Africa in 533 , and Arians and Donatists suffered disabilities . Then Islam came on the scene . Islam and Christianity The Prophet Muhammad had friendly relationships with Christian Egypt and Ethiopia . Some of his followers fled to Axum in 109 Religion in Africa Ethiopia from persecution in Mecca , and they held discussions on religious beliefs with the Christian authorities who protected them . When the Negus , the emperor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and asked God to forgive his sins . From the ruler of Egypt the Prophet received a Christian concubine called Mariyah . In the Koran it is said that Christians are nearest in love ' to Muslims , and their monks are praised for piety and kindness . After the death of the Prophet in 632 the Arab armies burst out of Arabia looking for worlds to conquer , and soon Syria , Palestine and Mesopotamia fell to them . In 64o the Arabs were in Egypt , knocking at the gates of Alexandria . The city had a garrison of 50,000 men , and a Byzantine navy was in the harbour , while the Arabs had no ships or siege machines . But the Copts were oppressed by Byzantine rule and the imperial Melkite church had tried to forbid Coptic worship . Yet now the Melkite patriarch , Cyrus , offered no resistance , and in 642 he surrendered the keys of the city to the Arabs . Tribute was paid to the Arabs , but religious toleration was guaranteed and the Coptic patriarch was restored to office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country in Egyptian hands , for the Arabs were soldiers and bent on further conquests . At first there was little pressure on Christians , for as People of the book ' both Christians and Jews were respected by the best Muslims and only pagan idolaters were forced to accept Islam . Little by little restrictions were introduced . New churches were not to be built , it was decreed later , or crosses displayed in public , and special dress was prescribed from time to time for Christians and Jews . The poll tax could be oppressive when collected by private revenue men , and when exemption was offered to converts to Islam thousands of Christians changed religion . There were revolts which were put down , followed by mob attacks on churches and monasteries in later centuries . But Christians could often travel freely to many places in the Islamic empire and beyond to visit other Christian lands . The Arabs continued into the whole of North Africa , as will be described later under Islam , and here their triumph was more complete . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa and Ethiopia North Africa could look across the Mediterranean at largely pagan Europe , but from the eighth century Christian Europe looked across at Muslim Africa . This statement contains exaggerations , yet there is enough truth in it to raise the question why Christianity in the end disappeared from North Africa . The most serious defeat that Christianity has ever suffered was in the loss of Africa . Why did this happen ? Firstly , the loss was not complete . A strong minority church has remained all down the ages in Egypt , just because it was most deeply rooted there . Christianity remained in the Sudan till the sixteenth century , and it is the state religion of Ethiopia to this day , but that land was distant and difficult of access . Then the Arab conquest was by force of arms , an obvious statement but often neglected . Muslim rule was imposed on North Africa and has remained for thirteen hundred years . While there was toleration , there was also strong social pressure which increased with the centuries . Christian churches did not disappear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of African churches and monasteries outside Egypt which long remained . But the North African churches were weakened both by divisions , such as Donatism , and also by the failure of their roots to go deep enough . The leaders were Roman or Byzantine , and Latin , was the official church language . The Punic language of Carthage was used in preaching , though Augustine found it hard to get priests to use it . The Berber language was even less used , and it seems that the Bible was not translated into either Punic or Berber . When the Vandals came they used their vernacular in worship , and apparently most of their Arian clergy were Germans . Some of the Berbers were Christian , mostly Donatists , yet they formed the mass of the population and when Romans and Byzantines left the church was in their care . So dissension and antiRoman feeling prepared the way for Islam . Islam did not make exacting demands , beyond outward conformity from pagans , but it established itself slowly by peaceful penetration as well as by conquest . Using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in lonely places to practise their religion , and gradually attracted serious people among their neighbours . So Islam took root and the last III Religion in Africa remnants of Christianity disappeared from North Africa outside Egypt . Egyptian Churches The oldest Christian churches in Africa are those of Egypt and Ethiopia . The supreme head of both Coptic churches is the Patriarch of Alexandria , who is also called Pope and successor of St Mark the Evangelist . Mention has been made of the Melkites , a nickname meaning Emperor 's men ' , by which the Coptic Monophysites mocked those Egyptian Christians who adhered to Byzantine imperial orthodoxy . The name was first used about 470 , and by the time of the Arab invasion the Copts outnumbered the Melkite Orthodox by about thirty to one , nearly six million being Monophysites . The numbers of Melkites or Greek Orthodox in Egypt have continued tiny , though they have their own Patriarch , separate from the Coptic Patriarch . The Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria is one of the five leading Patriarchs of the Orthodox churches , second only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living in Egypt and other parts of Africa , numbering about I20,000 . There are Greek Uniates , united ' with Rome , in Egypt and Syria who are also called Melkites . They have a Patriarch of Antioch who is called Patriarch of Alexandria as well , and who lives alternately in Damascus and Cairo . This church uses Arabic in its liturgy , with fragments of Greek , and is a wealthy community . There is also a small Coptic Uniate church , with about 20,000 members , which uses the Coptic liturgy and has a Patriarch of Alexandria . A few Ethiopians and Eritreans are Uniates , governed by a Vicar-apostolic , and they use a Latin liturgy translated into their own language . The Coptic church is the dominant church of Egypt . Its early history has been sketched above , and when Arab rule began it was promised protection and security ' by the Arab general Amr . The church of St Mark had been burnt during the siege of Alexandria and it was rebuilt , together with other churches and II2 North Africa and Ethiopia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the seventh century , however , the Patriarch was tortured till he produced money demanded by the governor . The Fatimid caliphs , who ruled for two hundred years from the tenth century , were tolerant at first . But there was harsh persecution under the mad caliph ' Hakim , from 996 . The Coptic Patriarch was spared but three thousand churches were destroyed and many Christians were forced to renounce their faith . But in all these centuries only one bishop apostasized . The Crusades led to the overthrow of the Fatimids but brought the Copts into conflict with Roman Christians . Saladin , in the thirteenth century , was harsh towards Christians , forbidding them to hold public office , have public processions , or display bells and crosses outside churches . There was tyranny also under some of the Mamluk rulers . Finally the Copts obtained full freedom under the British occupation of Egypt in 1882 , though they shared in later nationalist movements for independence . Since the eleventh century the Coptic Patriarch had lived in Cairo , and in 1965 the government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coptic cathedral in Cairo . Estimates of the numbers of Coptic Christians in Egypt today vary from about a million to six million , but members and adherents may be about three and a half million out of a total population of some twenty million . Most of the Copts are peasants , but among the educated many are merchants and professional men and they have taken a leading part in national affairs . A reforming party demands higher education for the clergy and more lay control of finance . All the Copts speak Arabic , which is used in church sermons and Bible readings . But most of the liturgy , called that of St Mark , is in Coptic , the ancient Egyptian language , with a few Greek phrases . Service books have parallel Coptic and Arabic texts . In Old Cairo the most ancient Church is Abu Sarga , or St Sergius , largely underground , and said to contain a well where Jesus and Mary rested . On its walls are old paintings of the Last Supper , showing vegetables as well as loaves and wine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islamic stories of the Gospel Table . Coptic churches are like other Orthodox churches , with a screen 113 Religion in Africa before the altar . Men and women sit separately and are divided by a partition at the chief liturgy . Coptic women , like most women in the towns of northern Egypt , are not veiled , unlike the Muslim women in the Sudan . Laymen read the Bible lessons in Arabic , and there are Arabic inscriptions under pictures and inlaid in screens . The Coptic hierarchy is led by the Patriarch , who is elected by twelve bishops . As in other Orthodox churches the bishops are celibate , and they are taken from monasteries since most parish priests are married . There are numerous monasteries , from St Mercurius in Old Cairo to St Antony near the Red Sea . From the nineteenth century Roman Catholic and Protestant missions founded churches in Egypt , Ethiopia and North Africa . The Church . Missionary Society from 1825 did not try to proselytize but helped the Coptic church by education and translations of the Bible . J. R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Patriarch , and one of his pupils was later head of the Ethiopian church . After Lieder 's death in 1865 there was an interval of twenty years before Anglican missions were resumed on a wider scale . Other Protestants like the American Presbyterians sought to occupy Cairo ' and found their own churches , from 1854 . Roman Catholics established a vicariate of Egypt in 1839 , to work partly through Uniates , who were Orthodox but accepted unity ' with Rome , and partly through the establishment of their own churches . Throughout North Africa they built up considerable congregations and centres , particularly during the French occupation which lasted over a century in Algeria . But perhaps the most influential Roman Catholic work has been in education and social service ; their schools , institutes , hospitals , and orphanages have done much for African life . Together with some of the leading Protestants , Roman Catholic scholars have helped towards the study of Islam and the establishment of interreligious dialogue after centuries of misunderstanding . An important modern development has been the growth of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Melkite Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria . Reuben Spartas of Uganda left the Anglican Church there and , impressed by the writings of Marcus Garvey , the Jamaican-born American Negro leader , and by the foundation of an African Orthodox Church , 114 North Africa and Ethiopia mainly in the southern parts of the United States , was largely instrumental in establishing an Orthodox Church in Uganda . Ordination was given by an Archbishop Alexander from South Africa , who in turn had been ordained from America . The Ortho-dox Patriarch of Alexandria had ordained priests for Greek communities in South Africa and they were invited to visit the new African Orthodox in Uganda . The result was that the Ugandans severed relationships with the American branch and gained the authority of Alexandria . Spartas was blessed by the Orthodox Patriarch and in 1959 he accepted the rule of the newly appointed Greek Metropolitan for East Africa . Spartas translated the Orthodox liturgy into Luganda , a fine piece of work , and he did not hesitate to incorporate old pagan words for priest and king into the Christian service. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this is the word used in the popular verse , Ethiopia shall haste to stretch out her hands unto God ' ( Psalm 68 , 31 ) . Candace , who is called queen of the Ethiopians ' in the Acts of the Apostles , is identified by Ethiopians with the Queen of Sheba and the royal line is said to spring from her union with Solomon . Less romantically it appears that Christianity reached Ethiopia through Frumentius of Tyre , who was enslaved and taken there . He became chancellor of the king and on his release he promised to return to the country . He went to Athanasius in Alexandria who consecrated Frumentius bishop and sent him back about 350 . This story is confirmed in a letter preserved by Athanasius . Nothing is known of the work of Frumentius on his return , but Christianity was probably first confined to the coastal cities and Axum , the capital . Then about the year Soo there arrived Nine Roman Saints ' , meaning Byzantine monks , who established monasteries in northern Ethiopia and translated the New Testament into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a cathedral was built at Axum . The Ethiopian church was dependent on I15 Religion in Africa Egypt , followed its Monophysite teaching , and received its bishop ( Abuna , our father ) from there . The next centuries in Ethiopia are obscure . There was persecution under a Jewish queen in the tenth century . After the foundation of the Solomonid dynasty in 1270 Christianity dominated the highlands of Ethiopia proper . The pressures of Islam , which was slowly spreading down the Nile , were repelled and confined to the plains . Some of the Roman Popes tried to bring the country under their obedience , but a Dominican mission in the thirteenth century was opposed by the emperor and destroyed . In 1490 Portuguese missions arrived looking'for Prester John , the Priest John who was thought in Europe to be a Christian king ruling all India , and thanks to this belief Portuguese traders had boldly ventured into the largely Muslim-controlled Indian Ocean . The Christian emperor of Ethiopia was the . nearest the Portuguese found to a Priest-king , since he is head of church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had some success , their great triumph being the conversion of Emperor Susenyos to Roman Catholicism , which was declared the state religion in 1626 . But the country was against him , led by Abuna and the monks , and the emperor abdicated . The Jesuits were expelled and some of them martyred . Roman Catholic missions returned in the nineteenth century and were especially favoured under the Italian rule from 1936 to 1941 , but the Coptic church remains the dominant state religion . Although closely attached to Egypt , by history and against Rome , there has been more independence in Ethiopian church life in recent years . Traditionally Abuna was appointed by the Coptic Patriarch of Alexandria and had to be an Egyptian monk , who normally knew no Geez , the liturgical language . In an agreement signed with the Egyptian church in 1948 Abuna would be chosen from Ethiopian monks or bishops , though with the approval of the Alexandrian Patriarch , and the first to be consecrated was Anba Basilios in 1959 ? He is metropolitan of Ethiopia , with several suffragan bishops . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Tribe of Judah , Elect of God . 116 North Africa and Ethiopia The Ethiopian church has long had a monastery in Jerusalem , which has provided a link for relationships with other churches . Pilgrimage to Jerusalem is almost as important for Ethiopian Christians as pilgrimage to Mecca is to Muslims . Ethiopia has been called an island of Christians in a sea of Muslims ' , though about a third of the nine or ten million people of the country are Muslims . Christianity is dominant in the central and northern areas , and modern missions have spread it to Eritrea , while Islam dominates in regions adjacent to the Somalis . There are pagan majorities in the extreme south and west . In its isolation Christianity united Ethiopia proper , though the isolation led to stagnation . Down the centuries education has been in the hands of the church , and almost every village has its church with adjoining school . Instruction has been largely oral since books are scarce . Prayers and Biblical texts are learnt in the ancient liturgical tongue , which nobody speaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current language of Amharic . Further education has been given in the monasteries . In modern times European forms of education have been promoted , by foreign missions and by the state , culminating in the university of Addis Ababa . There are over a dozen Protestant missions , from Britain , Scandinavia and America , and several Roman Catholic orders . English is widely taught as the second language . The official canon of scriptures includes the Bible and some apocryphal works . It is in Geez but there is an authorized Amharic translation , and the two languages are also printed side by side in new liturgy books . Liturgical order is much the same as in Egypt . Churches are round or rectangular , and there are famous churches carved out of rock . Round churches have four doorways facing the principal points of the compass . Churches are regarded as holy places , and the ordinary Ethiopian gets off his mule or bicycle to pass a church and kisses the gate or ground in front of it . There are three concentric parts of the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the sanctuary stands the altar and the Tabot , the Ark . This is a small wooden box which represents the Biblical Ark of the Covenant , and is an object of great iii Religion in Africa veneration without which no church service can be held . This is circurnambulated , keeping it on the left as in the circumambulation of the Kaba in Mecca . There are two kinds of clergy , priests who administer sacraments but are not much educated , and more learned lay clerks ( dabtaras ) who chant church offices and teach in schools . The importance of lay orders is one of the striking features of Ethiopian church organization . Each church of any size has a lay leader ( Alaka ) who not only rules over the cantors and stewards , but also over priests and deacons . There are many monasteries , and some monks practise extreme forms of asceticism which seem as natural to this country as to ancient Christian Egypt or India . The monks work on the land as well as pray in chapel , and have special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In some monasteries there are no private possessions , but others do not insist on this . There are special practices of the Ethiopian church , some of which have been attributed to Jewish influence , but it may be just as likely that they are due to general Semitic practice . Circumcision is performed on all Ethiopian Christians , and the uncircumcised person is regarded as not a Christian . But Muslims and many pagan African peoples also have this practice . Saturday is a holy day as well as Sunday , and since this was observed also in the early church it may have formed part of the Christian tradition when it reached Ethiopia . Male children are baptized forty days after birth , and girls after eighty days . At Epiphany , 6 January , there is a ceremony loosely called baptism , when the Tabot arks are taken to rivers for ritual washing . Jesuits who observed this were shocked to think that it was re-baptism of believers . The Tabot may be an imitation of Jewish practice , though in Jewish synagogues the ark is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many holy days , which are strictly observed , and fasting is thought by Ethiopians to be essential to religion ; the Lenten fast is indispensable . Monogamous marriage is the rule of the church , but it is often left till late in life and there are many temporary unions . At funerals there are no candles but plenty of incense , and there are prayers for the dead and remembrance days . I18 North Africa and Ethiopia The Ethiopian church was isolated for many centuries , practically its only link with the rest of Christendom being with Egypt . It had to face increasing pressures from Islam on every side . It has often been called degenerate and careless of the evangelization of the rest of Africa , but in southern Ethiopia and Eritrea considerable missionary efforts have been made in modern times , and it is claimed that over a hundred thousand pagans have been baptized . The national church has a great prestige , it forms a unique link between Europe and Africa , and between western Christianity and southern Orthodoxy , and it shows that Christianity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa . 9 Early Modern Missions First Attempts The Christian mission in Africa , apart from Nubia and Ethiopia , was cut off by Islam from the seventh century and was hardly renewed for eight hundred years . Scattered Christian communities remained for long in North Africa , and groups of European traders and soldiers were allowed to have churches in Islamic countries but were usually forbidden to evangelize . There were a few visits by Franciscan , Dominican and Jesuit missionaries , the most notable being those of Ramon Lull to Tunis from 1292 till his martyrdom in 1314 . But large scale proselytization had to await the explorations of the Portuguese . The missions of the fifteenth century and after followed the blazing of trade routes round Africa to India and China . The Islamic grip on North Africa and the eastern Mediterranean was to be outflanked , and contact made with supposedly Christian kings in Africa and Asia , such as Prester John . These voyages were chiefly for trade , but evangelization was included and a papal indulgence was granted for this . It is now some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Portuguese explorers . In 1470 La Mina , in what is now Ghana , had been reached , and in 1472 Benin was visited . A fortress of Portuguese stone was built at Elmina ( La Mina ) , an altar erected , and prayers were offered for the conversion of the people . In 1484 stone pillars bearing crosses were erected on the banks of the river Congo . The Canary and Madeira islands had been evangelized in the fifteenth century , and missionaries visited Senegambia . The Wolof chief Behemoi went to Portugal with twenty-five companions and was baptized in 1489 , but after his return the missionaries were expelled . Jesuits began work in Sierra Leone in the late fifteenth century , but progress was slow for the first hundred years till the king and many of his people were baptized . I20 Early Modern Missions Alfonso d'Aveiro made considerable progress in Benin in the early sixteenth century , building churches and baptizing thousands of people . The king 's son became a Christian , succeeding as King Oba Orhogbua in 1550 . But the climate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of missionaries that from the middle of the sixteenth century most of them were recalled , leaving Benin priests in charge who were visited occasionally till 1688 . Finally the Benin church disappeared till modern times , leaving only three shrines called altars of God ' which were taken into the traditional religion . In Dahomey the kingdom of Allada was visited by Capuchins for a short time in the seventeenth century , but all that remains is a copy of their catechism in a Spanish library . The Portuguese went farther south , to the Congo and Angola . Missionaries arrived from 1490 , taking with them skilled work-men for building stone churches and houses . The Congo kingdom was one of the largest tropical African states and the king , the Manikongo , lived at Mbanzakongo , which is the modern San Salvador in Angola . The Manikongo and some of his chiefs were converted to Christianity , much building was done , and many young men were sent to Europe for . education . Nzinga Mbemba , who succeeded to the throne in 1507 with the baptismal name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death in 1543 , trying to fashion his kingdom on European lines ; his son Henry was consecrated bishop of Utica in 1518 . But the Portuguese changed their policy , and from early missionary aid turned their atten-tion to the slave trade . To supply this traffic armed bands made raids on towns and villages , and before long attacked the Congo kingdom . Throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the Manikongos , who were all Christians in name , ap-pealed to their missionaries and the Pope for help . Several Popes sent stern letters to Portugal but the government said it could not control its subjects in Angola . In 166o the Congo people took to war and were defeated by the Portuguese and their allies . The kingdom broke up , missionary contacts were finally broken , and by the end of the eighteenth century Christianity in the Congo had withered away . Similarly in Angola after a hopeful start missionary work slowly I2I Religion in Africa declined . A cathedral was built in San Paulo de Loanda , which became a bishopric in 1596 . Yet all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Livingstone visited Loanda in 1854 he saw one of the cathedrals used as a workshop and cattle feeding in another . In South and East Africa the Portuguese built a stone church at Mossel Bay in 1501 , and services were held when forts were built at Kilwa and Mombasa . There was no Portuguese settlement at the Cape , but missionaries landed in south-east Africa from 156o and went inland , baptizing Thonga chiefs and proceeding to Shona country . Gonzalo da Silveira landed at Sofala , baptized Thonga rulers and four hundred subjects , and went up the Zambezi to the country of Monomotapa , in what is now Rhodesia . He baptized the king and his mother , but their Muslim advisers having suggested that the missionary was a spy for the viceroy of India , he was strangled and became the first Christian martyr in southern Africa . This Jesuit mission failed and was succeeded by Dominicans from Mozambique and Sofala , whence Dos Santos gave valuable descriptions of journeys on the coast and up the Zambezi to Monomotapa country . After religious and political struggles another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and six Jesuit places of worship on the lower Zambezi . But at the end of the century warfare drove the Monomotapas and their Portuguese overlords off the plateau , and all the missions finally disappeared . Other missionaries went to Mombasa and the north , but despite some baptisms the converts generally relapsed to Islam . These first Christian missions in tropical and southern Africa were all Roman Catholic , shared between different orders . They struggled for up to two centuries , but all vanished eventually and there is no continuity with modern times . The field was wide open to them , for African rulers in general welcomed the strangers , whose educational work was appreciated . Sometimes there were mass baptisms , but this meant superficial conversions , and on the other hand rulers were usually too involved with ancestral rituals to break with the past . There seems to have been little of the liberal attitude towards ancestral cults which gave the Jesuits considerable success for a long time in China . Some vernacular I22 Early Modern Missions work was done , but the liturgy remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missionaries were heroic , but others were time-serving clergy attached too closely to the traders and colonial rulers . African society was broken up in the interests of the slave trade in the west and in a scramble for gold in the east . The fall of Portuguese power , due to troubles in Europe as well as to the climate and warfare in Africa , took with it the missions , which in few places had taken much root . There were not many Protestants in Africa before the nineteenth century . Trading forts were built at English and Dutch centres on the west coast , and there were also Danish , French and German trading posts . These stations had chaplains , but they were usually only concerned with the traders and their servants . Settlements were made at the Cape , by English and Dutch , and their founders piously hoped that the Hottentots also might become servants of God . From 1648 some Dutch settlers tried to educate the Hottentots in the Christian religion , and slaves who had been imported from Angola and Guinea were given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was baptized in 1662 and married a Danish surgeon . But before long there was opposition to the conversion of slaves , as then they could no longer be sold or bought . Although most Protestant churches were still establishing themselves in Europe , the evangelical Moravians were moved by missionary impulses . George Schmidt was a Moravian sent by the Reformed Church in Holland to the Cape in 1737 to work among the Hottentots . But when he had baptized several his ordination was challenged by Dutch clergy and his baptisms were regarded as a breach of their prerogative . After seven years Schmidt was obliged to return home and the mission to Hottentots was not resumed for half a century . Also in 1737 two other Moravians , Huckoff and a mulatto , Protten , arrived in Elmina . Huckoff soon died and Protten returned to Europe , but he went back to Christiansborg later and translated portions of the Bible into Fanti . Nine other missionaries followed , but all died and the mission was closed . The English Society for the Propagation of the Gospel had work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in 123 Religion in Africa 1751 it sent Thomas Thompson to Cape Coast , both as chaplain to traders and evangelist to the Fantis . He only stayed four years , but took three young Fantis to England . Two of them died , but Philip Quaque was ordained an Anglican minister , the first nonEuropean ordained in this church . He was sent home as chaplain and missionary in 1766 and served there till his death . Quaque travelled about in Fanti country and engaged in trade , there were few baptisms but the example of Europeans was bad and public worship was sometimes suspended . After Quaque 's death decades elapsed before another missionary was sent by his society . Early Nineteenth Century Various influences can be traced in the growth of church missionary movements in modern times . Growing imperialist policies of Europe , expansion of trade , and increase in medical knowledge were all contributory factors . In reaction against an earlier stress on religious revival , it has become fashionable to emphasize social and political factors behind the missions . But these also can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is always significant in human affairs . The Evangelical movement in Britain and America in the eighteenth century was linked with the continent of Europe and was potent in both state and free churches . It was hardly an accident that within twenty years of the death of the Methodist leader John Wesley , some of the most important Protestant missions were founded . The first was the Baptist in 1792 , followed by the London in 1795 , the Church in 1799 and the British and Foreign Bible Society in 18o4 . Other notable societies were founded about this time in Scotland , the Netherlands and America , and a little later in France , Germany , Switzerland and Scandinavia . Sierra Leone was one of the first centres of attention . Chaplains had ministered to the traders but made little contact with Africans . Zachary Macaulay , father of the historian , was governor of the colony from 1794 to 1799 and took twenty-five Sierra Leonean children to England for education , where they were baptized . 124 Early Modern Missions From I792 over a thousand Negro settlers had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as most of them belonged to the evangelical churches they directed their own religious life independently of a rather suspicious government . Two Baptist missionaries arrived in I795 but did not stay long , and a party brought by Macaulay to work among the Muslim Fulani was also short-lived . Others came from Glasgow and London , but some died and others returned home . Sierra Leone had been opened as a home for freed slaves , first from England , then Nova Scotia , and in 1800 there came Maroons from Jamaica , ex-slaves of the Spaniards . After the Act of Abolition of Slavery it became a crown colony and a centre for suppressing the slave trade . The first Church Missionary Society workers , who were German Lutheran pastors , arrived in 1804 . Reinforcements came later , and despite the usual health troubles the colony was organized into parishes and education was established . Fourah Bay College was founded in 1827 and played a great role in West African education , being later affiliated to Durham University ; its first student was the freed Yoruba , Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it was not till 1852 that the diocese of Sierra Leone was established , with an English bishop , so that clergy no longer had to travel to England to be ordained . In 1811 the Methodists sent a minister and three schoolmasters to Sierra Leone and began continuous work . Roman Catholic Sisters of St Joseph established themselves there in 1823 . The Sisters of Cluny were settled in Goree in Senegal from 1819 . Wesleyan Methodists went to the Gambia in 1821 , trying without success to convert Muslims , but slowly building up a community among freed slaves and their descendants . Liberia was colonized by freed slaves from the United States , the first going to Sierra Leone but moving down to Monrovia which they founded . They had their own churches , but difficult relationships with the indigenous Africans . Five American missionary societies saw Liberia as a field of activity and an entry into the Muslim hinterland . Jesuits also came to Maryland in Africa ' which had been established at Cape Palmas . In 1851 Anglicans from the West Indies started a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Religion in Africa and extending earlier work in Africa from American descendants of Africans . There was little Christian impact on the Ivory Coast till the twentieth century , except in coastal towns like Grand Bassam which were linked with what was called the Gold Coast , later Ghana . The Basel Mission sent four missionaries to Christiansborg in 1828 but all were dead in two years . Others followed and were more successful in the interior , Kumasi being visited in 1839 . Then William de Graft , a Fanti who had been educated at Cape Coast , formed a Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge and was imprisoned for subversion . De Graft later settled at Dixcove , and Methodist missionaries came to help him spread knowledge of the Bible . One of their leaders was Thomas Freeman , a mulatto who for twenty years was one of the most active Christian workers . He visited Kumasi , Abomey , Badagry and Abeokuta , becoming civil commandant of Accra and Christiansborg after resigning from his mission over a disagreement on expansion policy . The German Bremen mission began work among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disabilities in the Ashanti wars , but persevered till in the twentieth century it became one of the first self-governing churches . Freeman had stationed an agent in Dahomey , at Whydah and later in Porto Novo , and the Methodist church there still remains and is now independent . The Roman Catholic African Mission of Lyons began at Whydah in 1861 , among Portuguese mulattos and returned slaves from Brazil , and soon spread to Lagos and Abeokuta , but was less successful in Abomey and the hinterland . Before the end of slavery many freed slaves from Freetown began to return to their homes along the coast , or to trade in the growing commercial centres . Christian Sierra Leoneans , as they were called , formed communities in most of the coastal towns of West Africa and some way into the interior , and missionaries and teachers followed them . The largest numbers went back to the Yoruba areas of what is now Nigeria , to Lagos , and especially to Abeokuta whence many had been captured by Dahomean armies . Methodist and Anglican churches were established there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave market they entered 126 Early Modern Missions there immediately . Organization of churches and schools was arranged as in Sierra Leone , with African ministers for selfsupporting churches , and missionaries finally concentrating on education and work in the interior . Farther east , Presbyterian missions were established in the Calabar and Cross river regions by enterprises from Jamaica . Hope Waddell from the Scottish society arrived there in 1846 , with colleagues from the West Indies , Chisholm and Miller . Meantime Jamaican Baptists had been responsible for beginning work in Fernando Po and the Cameroons . When Fernando Po changed from British to Spanish hands priests arrived and the Baptists had to leave , though Protestant churches revived later and still remain . In South Africa the Moravian work among Hottentots was suspended for fifty years after the departure of Schmidt , but three more missionaries arrived in 1792 . They found one of Schmidt 's converts , with a Bible he had given her , and in the next twenty years seven hundred Hottentots were baptized . There had been no attempt yet made to evangelize any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a name curiously adopted from the Arabic and meaning unbelievers ' . The pioneers were the London Missionary Society , led by the Dutch Dr Van der Kemp and three others who arrived at the Cape in 1.799 . Although they tried to work among the Xhosa they could gain no facilities and settled among the Hottentots near the present Port Elizabeth . Van der Kemp and some of his friends married coloured women , lived a simple life , and championed the rights of Hottentots as free men . Dr John Philip , who arrived in 1819 , also championed the rights of Hottentots and joined his efforts to those made earlier by Van der Kemp , who had died in 1811 , to free Hottentot workmen from oppression , cruel masters , and even murder . The two missionaries were reviled by white farmers , but when the Cape came under Britain from 1795 disabilities on the Hottentots were removed by 1828 , thanks largely to Philip 's advocacy there and in England . Philip also fought for the rights of the Bushmen , and warned of coming trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death of chief Hintza of the Xhosa . Robert Moffat in 1816 went north to the Tswana and settled I27 Religion in Africa among them for life . He gave up the Cape Dutch language , which others had used in evangelization , mastered Tswana and with the help of others translated the Bible into it . He became a friend of King Mzilikazi ( Moselekatse ) of the Ndebele ( Matabele ) and described his reception by the ruler , before an immense assembly , taking him by the arm and saying , the land is before you ; you are come to your son ' . Moffat was a patriarchal figure , whose fervent evangelicalism led him to underestimate African traditional religion ; he thought that the Tswana had no word for God , which later research proved untrue . In the same period French Protestants began work among the Sotho and made notable studies of their customs . Edouard Casalis was protected by king Moshesh and described this ruler and the peace of Lesotho before and after the devastation wrought , directly or indirectly , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as noble and assured ' , with a smile of great good will ' . He became the confidential counsellor of Moshesh and was followed by Coillard who advised the Sotho till they became a protectorate under the British in 1884 . By that time there were more than two thousand baptized and many more Christian adherents in the country . After twenty years among the Sotho , Coillard went to open a mission among the Rozi ( Barotse ) , where the king Lewanika gave permission for church work , but more difficulties were encountered . German and British Methodists were at work in Natal among the Zulus , and in 1853 an Anglican diocese was established with J. W. Colenso as first bishop . He was a man of independent views who got into trouble not only by his Biblical teaching , which today would be considered mild , that Moses was not the author of the first five books of the Old Testament , but also because Colenso considered that polygamists converted to Christianity should be baptized . Most missionaries , though not all , have refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Biblical faith has caused many troubles . Colenso was sentenced to deposition and excommunication , and a rival bishop was appointed , but he refused to budge and stayed with his house and cathedral till his death in 1883 , and the Natal schism was not healed till 1910 . I28 Early Modern Missions Roman Catholics had been banned from the Cape under the Dutch , but established themselves under British rule , and appointed their first Vicar Apostolic in 1818 with headquarters in Mauritius . There were too many conflicting churches in South Africa , a portent of the sectarianism to come , and overlapping of mission stations might have been avoided if there had been a common policy . In 184o a Quaker traveller , Backhouse , who had visited the stations of all the missions in South Africa , reported that there were 45 in Cape Colony , 18 in Kaffraria ( mostly Xhosa ) , 6 among the Sotho , 7 among the Tswana , and 9 among the Namaqua and Griqua Hottentots . In Malagasy ( Madagascar ) French Carmelites and Lazarists began missionary work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finally collapsed when the colonists were massacred or withdrew in 1674 . The Lazarists made two further attempts in the eighteenth century but these also failed . The London Missionary Society began a new mission in 1818 , and David Jones gained the protection of King Radama , on condition that artisans were sent to improve Malagasy living standards . Twenty-eight converts were baptized in 1831 , but in 1835 the new Queen Ranavalona started a violent persecution in which at least two hundred Christians were killed and others fled to the forests , while missionaries were expelled . Not till the death of the queen was freedom restored and then the outcasts returned from the forests , some marked by wounds and starvation . Despite persecution the numbers of Christians had multiplied fourfold , an increase which is attributed to the possession of the New Testament in Malagasy . After the peace other societies arrived as well , particularly Norwegian and French Protestants , while Roman Catholics began afresh . Today the Christian population of Malagasy is estimated at about forty per cent . Later Nineteenth Century African churches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized in the middle of the last century , and it was not till the seventies that some of them began to be impressive in I29 Religion in Africa numbers and distribution . Yet though they were small their influence was important and grew continually . Christians were great factors in the mutual understanding of Africa and Europe , representing white culture to Africans and making African needs known to Europe . They were foremost among the explorers . The Church Missionary Society employed a number of Germans , and Krapf and Rebmann in 1848 were the first Europeans to see Kilimanjaro and Mount Kenya . In South Africa it was the missionaries who lived farthest north . The most famous was David Livingstone who crossed the continent from east to west and back , virtually unarmed , and as a missionary he pleaded with Victorian England for Africa to be opened to commerce and Christianity ' . He was chiefly a lonely explorer , though a great opponent of slavery , and it was through the Royal Geographical Society that he became a consul , travelled up the Zambezi to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaches of the Congo . Following the travels of the journalist-explorer H. M. Stanley , missions sought to reach the heart of Africa . English Baptists went a thousand miles up the Congo , to be followed by American Presbyterians and many others . After experimenting with the segregation of their converts from pagan influences , the policy was adopted of sending out African Christians as village evangelists and this practice was gradually developed almost everywhere , forming one of the most effective means of naturalizing the church in a new environment . The Americans tried this first among the Luba of Kasai and by 1904 they had forty out-stations with three thousand church members . Almost alone in the Congo , it was at Katanga that missionaries succeeded in gaining the protection of the rulers , and they were criticized for undue dependence and treating Msidi as a great king . It is strange that the interior of South and East Africa , where the climate was much easier , was little explored before that of West Africa . As climatic difficulties were being overcome in the west , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and east . The penetration of central Africa from the Zambezi was a project of Livingstone 's , and the Universities Mission to Central Africa was formed with this objective . A party set off in 1862 , but it failed to get far up the Zambezi and withdrew to Zanzibar for 130 Early Modern Missions another twenty years . Stanley had appealed for missionaries for Uganda and the Church Missionary Society sent a party which arrived at Kampala in 1877 and was received by King Mutesa . The first baptisms took place five years later , but then Mutesa died . His son Mwanga began to persecute Baganda Christians and Bishop Hannington , perhaps through a misunderstanding , was speared to death . Hundreds of Christians were killed , and in one day in June 1886 thirty-two young men were burnt to death . Then Mwanga was banished , the church revived and in a few years there were seven thousand baptized members and many inquirers . But meanwhile rivalries with French Roman Catholic missionaries led to a civil war , in which Lugard supplied arms to the Anglicans so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then on chieftainships and control of land has been strictly divided between Anglican , Roman and small Muslim parties , with Anglicans dominant in administration and education . Baganda Christians , whose countrymen had often fought neighbouring tribes , were now foremost in their evangelization . Apolo Kivebulaya ministered to the Toro , and made further contact with pygmies , translating the Bible into their language . Bishop Tucker planned a Native Anglican Church in 1897 , which was opposed by his colleagues but remained an ideal for the future . German-speaking missionaries and explorers were foremost in many parts of Africa and when Tanganyika came under German rule the Lutheran missions began to go ahead . They were particularly successful among the Chagga of the Kilimanjaro region and most of them became Christians . Kenya was evangelized rather later , from Uganda and the coast , and the first baptism was held in 1908 . Many missionary societies followed and there are now large churches . The Universities Mission finally succeeded in reaching Lake Nyasa and work in Malawi was divided between it and the Scots , and there developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most notable rulers converted to Christianity was Khama Boikano of the Bamangwato in Botswana . The first missionaries were Lutherans and Khama was baptized in 1862 while still a prince . Three years later his father drove him out for 131 Religion in Africa refusing to take part in tribal initiations but Khama held fast to his faith , succeeded to the throne and ruled for fifty years till 1923 . As a traditional rain-maker he held church services when rains failed , and he campaigned untiringly against all forms of alcohol . When Rhodes tried to annex his country to South Africa , Khama appealed for and received British protection , and he succeeded in playing off the interests of foreigners against each other to strengthen the position of his people . In West Africa new attempts were made to overcome the climatic troubles and consequent shortage of missionaries . The policy in Lagos and Freetown had been to gather small congregations round a missionary , send out catechists as work developed , and finally ordain clergy who would in time be independent , so that the mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy formulated by Henry Venn , secretary of the Church Missionary Society from 1841 to 1872 , aiming at self-governing churches which would absorb the mission . A Native Pastorate had been established in Sierra Leone in 186o and a bishop consecrated , but there was a succession of European bishops and no African . In Nigeria , however , the outlook was both difficult and challenging . A Niger Expedition in 1841 supported by Prince Albert and Gladstone , reached Lokoja , ridiculed by Dickens in Bleak House as Borrioboola-gha , and attempted settlement . The scheme failed completely , and of the 145 Europeans 130 had fever and 40 died . But 158 Africans had joined the expedition at Sierra Leone and of these eleven had fever and none died . Among them was a catechist , Samuel Ajayi Crowther . Crowther was a Yoruba who had been saved from a slave ship and taken to Freetown . Baptized in 1825 , he became the hope of the African mission and church . He returned to Abeokuta , found his mother and sister , and translated the baptismal service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consecrate Crowther in Canterbury cathedral in 1864 , the first Anglican African bishop . He was bishop on the Niger ' , a curious term that indicated the vagueness of his diocese , which might cover any part of Nigeria except Lagos , then under the bishop of Sierra Leone . Crowther had to face many difficulties . He and his Yoruba and Freetown clergy had to use interpreters to speak to the Ibos 132 Early Modern Missions and others among whom they worked , while to the north were Muslims who were opposed to Christianity . Crowther had little local support and depended on the missionary society in London , for he was a missionary bishop . After the death of Venn the overseas support was uncertain , and in 1890 there was violent criticism from young missionaries which led to a purge of the mission . Crowther died the following year and his diocese was absorbed into a new one based on Lagos , and there was no other independent African bishop for many years . The church was still very weak on the upper Niger , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bonny . Despite the difficulties , Crowther 's work had gone farther inland than any other West African mission ; he had made contact with Islam , gained the confidence of chiefs whom he always treated respectfully , and secured their financial support for many schools . Part of his diocese became a Niger Delta Native Pastorate Church , virtually independent though not seceding from the mother church , and finally reunited with a new diocese on the Niger ' in 1921 . Meanwhile other secessions had come , partly as a result of the reversal of earlier mission policy of self-government , and independent African churches were formed . The Presbyterian church at Calabar was centred on the Cross river and the chief pioneer into the interior was Mary Slessor who was appointed vice-consul in 1892 and , after the breakup of Aro power and the destruction of their oracle , settled among them for nearly thirty years . The Basel mission went into the highlands of Cameroun and by 1914 had ninety stations on the grasslands . The same mission was also active in Ghana , and after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kumasi and farther north . Other missions consolidated their position from this time on , particularly in Togo , Ghana , Liberia and Sierra Leone . Roman Catholic Revival Roman Catholic missions , which had begun with the first explorations of Africa and for long held the field , had slipped well behind in the early nineteenth century . In 1622 the Sacred 133 Religion in Africa Congregation of the Propaganda was created , but Spanish and Portuguese colonies were not included in its jurisdiction and Africa was neglected . Then suddenly Roman Catholics became aware of the many Protestant missionary societies and saw that the world might become Protestant . The renewal of African missions is attributed to the foundation of the Congregation of the Sisters of St Joseph of Cluny which sent missionary sisters to Reunion in 1817 and to Senegal two years later . There was an abortive attempt in Liberia , where eight out of ten priests died in 1843 from the climate , and in 1841 Pius IX created the vicariates of the two Guineas ' and Mauritius . Most of the great Orders and Societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . In 1868 Cardinal Lavigerie founded the Society of Our Lady in Africa , better known as the White Fathers , who from Algeria went to West and East Africa , and from the Great Lakes to Rhodesia . Lavigerie was Apostolic Delegate for the western Sahara and saw in Algeria the open port ' to the continent of Africa . The first parties that tried to cross the Sahara were murdered by Tuaregs , though later settlements were made in desert places but with little immediate effect on the Muslim population . Charles de Foucauld lived alone at Tamanrasset from 1905 till his death in 1916 , without making a convert . Lavigerie gathered round him eighteen hundred children who had been orphaned after epidemics of cholera and typhus in Algeria and settled them in Christian villages . This method was followed by others , with freed slaves and orphans , and separated Christian villages were established in many parts of Africa . These were chapel-farms ' in which farming and handicrafts were taught to make them self-supporting , but there was the danger of a ghetto existence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would be independent and integrated into tribal life . Many Roman Catholic missions went to Africa in the latter part of the nineteenth century . The older orders , such as Benedictines , Dominicans , Franciscans and Jesuits , all sent workers . There were new African foundations , like the Mill Hill Society of St Joseph and the Society of the Divine Word . The more 134 Early Modern Missions favourable sea routes to West and East Africa replaced the dangerous desert crossings . The attraction of the kingdom of Buganda induced Lavigerie to send a mission there , despite appeals not to rival the Anglicans , and other Orders came later . The White Fathers also turned south to Tanzania and had difficulty in getting a foothold through opposition from Arab slave traders . Only after the extension of colonial power , and the decline of slavery , did the mission begin to flourish . The White Fathers entered Nyasa in 1889 and the Fathers of the Holy Spirit went to Kenya in 1891 , but some parts of the latter country still have few missions . South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on to Lesotho , where King Moshesh received them in the land where French and Swiss Protestants had been at work for thirty years . Roman Catholics concentrated on Lesotho , pouring in men and money , and came to dominate education and much of public life . In Angola and Mozambique the Portuguese always gave a privileged position to the Roman Catholic church , though there have been some large Protestant missions , notably the United Church of Canada in Angola . But until 19o8 all education was under the control of the official church , and priests were virtually government officers . The old Portuguese missions had practically disappeared and in 1873 the priests of the Holy Spirit began new work , so successfully that within twenty years it was claimed that one eighth of the population of Angola was Christian . But methods of colonization , seeking to assimilate relatively few to Portuguese citizenship , have kept illiteracy high among the masses , and Protestant missions , especially American , have been viewed as politically dangerous . The most spectacular Roman Catholic missions were in the Congo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the east . These were French , but Belgians were also sent to please Leopold of Belgium , and other societies followed . Protestant missionaries had been in the Congo first in modern times , but were finally outnumbered by Roman Catholics and the government favoured the latter and for a long time only gave money for education to there . But despite hundreds of missionary 135 Religion in Africa priests and nuns conversions were slow at first , and by igio there were only fifty thousand Christians in the vast Congo area . It was not until after the First World War that the landslide occurred which brought more than a quarter of the population into the church . Cameroun was also a successful area of mission eventually . Progress was slow , so that by the twentieth century only some two or three thousand were Catholics ; but after that they poured in men and money and are now said to outnumber Protestants by four to one and to dominate entirely some parts of the country . Roman Catholic work was also slow to begin in West Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Liberia . The founder of the Lyons Society went to Sierra Leone with four companions in 1858 , but all died of yellow fever in a few weeks . The work was taken up in Dahomey and Lagos in the sixties . Borghero , an Italian , celebrated Mass in the disused Portuguese fort at Whydah and went up to Dahomey , with a grandiose scheme for reaching to the desert far north . Though well received the mission struggled against many difficulties , of climate and indifference , and came to include Porto Novo , Abeokuta and Benin . Later the missionaries crossed the Niger and became most influential among the Ibo people . Once they had got under way Roman Catholic missions in Africa were pursued with great determination , and countless lives and fortunes were expended . Their inherent nature made it difficult to establish independent churches and the celibacy demanded of the clergy , which was as foreign to African traditions as to other religions of the world , made the establishment of an indigenous clergy doubly difficult . As late as 1923 there were only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa , including Malagasy . There were some areas of Africa which were closed to all Christian missions , as much by the European overlords as by African rulers . Thus they were banned from the northern Sudan , after the trouble over the Mandi , but allowed to enter the pagan regions of the southern Sudan . Missions were prohibited in British Somaliland , but not in French and Italian Somalia . And in 136 Early Modern Missions Nigeria Lugard ruled that Christians could only enter the Hausa states if the ruling chief concurs ' . Eventually they did manage to reach the still pagan tribes , though the northern Nigerian cities remained barred to Christians who had to build churches outside . 10 The Twentieth Century The many efforts , starts and checks , and continuing spread of the churches throughout tropical and southern Africa in the nineteenth century , began to bear fruit in the twentieth , with the mission becoming the church . The old picture , in which only Egypt and Ethiopia had large Christian populations , was replaced by a new one in which nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christians , and sometimes a majority . In the movements for political independence most of the African leaders in the tropics had had a Christian education , and often they did not hesitate to acknowledge the role that the church played in the development of their land . Moves towards self-governing churches came from various sources . The First World War brought conflict between the German colonies it Africa and the British and French . One by one the German colonies fell and were never returned ; the German missionaries were interned or deported , and their churches were cut off from the financial help that they had received from Germany . British and French societies tried to fill the gaps , and it was easier for Roman Catholic societies than for Protestants , for the latter were usually divided into national societies , and had different organizations and sometimes different doctrinal emphases from their German counterparts . But African leaders now saw their chance ; Martin Nganischo of the Berlin mission in East Africa and R. D. Baeta of the Bremen field in Togo gave outstanding examples of holding and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became independent , though later it received help from British and French missions . Powerful assertions of African independency came in the many prophetic movements that have marked this century , but these are so important and numerous that they must be discussed later 138 The Twentieth Century on their own . Less obviously relevant , but eventually giving powerful impetus to independence , were the great educational works of the churches . As Professor Oliver has said , the churches sowed the dragon 's teeth of education , and from them arose insistent demands for religious and spiritual independence . Some fundamentalist missions resisted education , considering that their task was evangelization and that the larger missions had betrayed themselves to the education departments ; but few have been able in the end to oppose African demands for what Europe enjoys , and belief in the brotherhood of man implied equality of opportunity . As demands for education increased governments were obliged to cooperate with missions , for they alone could furnish teachers at reasonably low pay , and only government had enough money for the growing numbers needed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational policy jointly , and also in 1916 at Fort Hare in South Africa was opened the Native College , which became affiliated to Rhodes University and in which the churches ran halls of residence . Although its facilities never equalled those of the white universities , Fort Hare brought together Africans , Indians and Coloured , till after forty years it was segregated off into a merely tribal college . Two education commissions under the American PhelpsStokes fund surveyed the situation of African education ; West and South Africa in 192o and East and South Africa in 1924 ; and these and other commissions received evidence from the churches and included members from them . The result was to set up centres of higher education , such as Achimota in Ghana in 1924 , where J. K. Aggrey was vice-principal , and training schools like Kabete in Kenya and neighbouring countries . Though these were largely of Protestant impulse , Roman Catholics were soon urging their own representatives to cooperate fully in all governmental schemes for higher education . In British-ruled territories the usual dominance of Protestants allowed government to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without fear that any church would have a monopoly . Also British use of vernacular languages in elementary education made it more easy to teach and paid respect to African culture . Under Portuguese and Spanish rule Roman 139                     