@@8282

English , Thomas Dunn , 1819-1902 : THE RECEIVING SHIP . from The receiving ship ( 1891 ) Yonder she floats , an old hulk on the water ; Glows through her port-holes the sunset low sinking ; Sea-grass and barnacles seem to have caught her Just when her planking is warping and shrinking , Bow and stern anchored , dismantled , decaying . Motionless , save where the tide gives her motion , Wind , stream and weather alike on her preying , Her , in the past without peer on the ocean , Her that one time was proud , careless rover , Ah ! how she sailed , how she sailed and seas over ! Friends to greet , foes to meet , loud her guns thundering ; Then like a living thing riding the surges ; White her wings , swift she sped , all the world wondering  --  Sped in the South where the hurricane urges ; North , where the spray as it flecks the prow freezes , West , o'er water-waste , well-named Pacific , East , where the spice-lands perfume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lashing terrific , With the persistent monsoon battle wages ; Where the typhoon in the Yellow Sea rages ; There where the coral reefs , stretching in acres , Give out no warning by ripple or breakers ; Sailed by a skipper in galantry peerless , Skillful her way o'er the water-plain shaping ; Manned by a crew , stout , obedient , fearless , Iceberg and tempest and reef-rock escaping , Never a better , staunch , grim , self-reliant , Stars and stripes carried at gaff-peak defiant . Look at her now ; but a few know her story ; Tell it to others they listen in wonder  --  Wonder to hear how in days of her glory , Fell the red cross at the sound of her thunder , There she rides , keel , timbers , planking half rotten , Veteran , disabled through battles and cruises , Services rendered the country forgotten , Moored in these waters to sink in the oozes . Name that she bore our proud history hallows ; Battles she won us will live there forever ; Give her a grave in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rot there ? Ah ! never ! She shall not lie in the mud in the harbor ; Let them once more in her bravery garb her , Raise from the bed where it slumbers each anchor , Set every rag of her canvas upon her , Main-sheet and fore-sheet , gib-sheet and spanker , Topsails , to'gallantsails , royals , moon-rakers , Then send her forth in all glory and honor , Mid-wave to sink in , or crash on the breakers , So her torn timbers for ages may lie there . Queen of the sea , let her wander and die there . Cradled in foam , let her death-bed be ocean ; Lash to the peak the old banner so glorious , Borne as she bore it o'er foemen victorious ; Let the winds guide , as they choose to , her motion ; Let the storm deal with her rather than give her Shame in the harbor and grave in the river .                     