@@8179

Lathrop , George Parsons , 1851-1898 : AN ADDRESS . from Poems , in Occasional addresses ( 1890 ) May 31 , 1886 . Better than regal pomp and pride The power that moves to tears or laughter ; The art whose memories sweet abide And make life rich forever after . Better than art , the soul whose plan Makes brotherhood the foremost factor : A man is all the more a man Who figures as a sterling actor . And so the true man on the boards , Whate'er he feigns of smiles or sorrow , Lends to the public from his hoards More sympathy than he can borrow . Such is the friend we greet to-night : Complete in skill  --  his humor blending With honesty time wears more bright , And geniality unending . There have been Edwards crowned as kings ; And Harrys , too ; but if you tarry , You 'll see this man whose good name rings With fame of Edwards and of Harry . Why should I lengthen out my lay ? I see you ' re bent upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say Is , crown him with your fairest laurel ! Lathrop , George Parsons , 1851-1898 : PROLOGUE TO THE WIFE . from Poems , in Occasional addresses ( 1890 ) April 7 , 1890 . Here on the bank side of the Thames we meet , As on the Bankside Shakspeare used to greet Old London 's audience . But our London ' s New , And this bright theater we owe to you . Long is the path from those far English times When the great drama rang its morning-chimes : Blackfrairs , the Globe , the Rose , the Swan , the Curtain  --  Long since , all vanished . Yet who doubts ' t is certain That , while man breathes , new theaters will rise , And echo with new words ' neath New World skies ? Good friends , who come to us from work or home To spend with us an evening , as we roam ,  --  You bring us life , we give you life again : Love , laughter , sorrow , starry pleasure , pain ; The blended hopes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the triumph glorious Wherewith true hearts may crown our days victorious . Your eager living we in earnest play , And try to show the laws your lives obey . So , when we leave you , may our mimic scening Leave with you some fair thought of life 's true meaning . Then shall we be content . And may this place Long be the haunt of music , mirth , of grace , And worthy actors ' art ! Thus , when each year Rounds out its term , the plays enacted here Shall form a memory as of seasons mellow Still closer linking fellow-man to fellow . And when life 's curtain on us all descends , As we have met , so may we part  --  good friends !                     