@@485474

" DOVE ANDIAMO " ( Whither are we drifting ? ) is the title of a very remarkable article by the well-known professor ( now Senator ) v mari in inc ivuova A.ncotogla air lvovemoer . The date has to be taken into account , as it precedes the public reading , in the Chamber of Deputies , of the report of the seven commissioners chosen by the president Of the Chamber to inquire into the banking scandals , or , rather , to ascertain what ministers or deputies or public officials had , in their public capacity , any share therein . The seven commissioners , chosen impartially from all parties down to the radical republican Professor Bovio , after seven months of patient , unremitting , noisome toil , have done their level best to be impartial , to expose all sins of omission and commission which affect the public service Taken as a whole , the " - revelations " are far less scandalous than well-wishers feared or enemies of Italy hoped . Against successive ministers the one accusation brought is , that , knowing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order not to create a panic , that one and all urged the Roman and other banks to lend large sums to building and other societies , which is strictly against their rules ; that more than one minister favored , the loan of - over three mullions to a scamp who , it was well known , - had received three millions from the Tuscan Bank ten years previously without paying a farthing ? , this to as ' sist works in a part of the southern provinces where workers were many and labor scarce . - None are accused of pocketing any of the loans . The deputies come off less cleanly : some had large loans while they were on the committees that were chosen to investigate the ? situation of the banks ; journalists and editors of papers received annual subsidies , either to sustain or to oppose the vital question of a single bank . The individual chiefly affected by the- revelations is the present minister of the interior and the president of the cabinet , Commendatore Giohtti- He is shown to have known the state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed and stanchly supported the extension of its rights as a bank of emission for the next six years , and , despite his knowledge that a double series of notes with the same number had been issued by the director , Tanlongo , to have proposed him as Senator and to have obtained the royal signature to the decree . To the question whether the 60,000 ire handed over to the present Government by the Roman Bank had been expended in electioneering corruption , the commissioners- answered in the negative , but the other facts were considered so serious that several members of the Extreme Left proposed . , the impeachment of the minister . The proposal could not be put to vote , as the Speaker left the house , and on the morrow the premier announced that the cabinet lam ) . tendered their resignation to the King , but that the ministers would remain m office for the despatch of current business . I doubt whether even the United States , even a federal republic , could hold its own without the providential law which enables the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from upsetting them during the presidential term of office . Without the slightest sympathy for or belief in the statesmanship of Signor Giolitti ( his total failure in restoring peace to Sicily proving the absence of this sine qua non of a prime minister ) , it seems scarcely fair to make him the scapegoat for all the previous bliindeirs " and concealments and the continuous impunity extended to all the banks of emission since 1866 , nor will his downfall and the substitution of other men of the same party effect , without a change of system , any amelioration in the financial conditions of ibaly , ally .01.17111LULLU All LIU , JUlr1.21 , e.seneancal state of the working and agricultural populations which form two-thirds of the population of the continent and of the islands There is something sadder than all the banking scandals in the present attitude of public men , in the comments of the press , on the question of the reconstruction of the ministry . With exchange at 16 per cent. , rentes at 80 , and-now with the stoppage of the Credito Mobiliare , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but-which had too many irons in the fire and had been led to commit quite lately some gross financial blunders , it is pitiable to hear a discussion as to the partisan right of A , B , or C to this or that portfolio , without any relation to ins technical knowledge of finance , of industry , of commerce , or of agriculture , but simply because he sits with the Left or the Left Centre or the Right Centre . As Crisp. , who has been brought before the public because of a debt incurred with the national bank before he became minister or had anything to do with banking commissions or committees , is , for the time being , out of the run , the King intrusted the present Speaker of the House with forming a ministry , and if perfect honor- and honesty and purest patriotism could insure success , Ze.nardelli would have been enabled to present ' himself to the House on the eve of the day that he received the commission . But party spirit and personal antipathies stand in the way Hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Senator Villari asked before there was any idea of this sudden crisis , is even less easy to answer in a satisfactory manner now than then . " Since the kingdom of Italy came into being , " he writes , " we have had many anxious days , - but all our past misfortunes resulted from a visible , or apparently visible , cause . All seemed to see the possible remedy , so hope never abandoned us . . . This is the first time that we are assailed by apprehensions which make us doubt about ourselves and our future . " He then portrays the situation in gloomy colors  --  the alleged corruption in high places , the financial position , which could hardly be worse ( and tins before the Credits - Mobiiare had asked for a moratorium ) ; - the state of public Insecurity , which does not brighten the picture , while " the spectre of socialism , which no one ever dreamed of as possible in Italy , suddenly presents itself in Sicily . " He next examines the causes that have brought the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on earth despotism bred heroes while liberty has bred scamps , " " while , what . is worse , our moral decline , once begun , has continued , and still continues without showing any sign of stopping . " - " In order to understand our political character , our present social conditions , we must bear mmind that the masses , especially the peasants , took but a slight share in our-revolutions and none whatever in our political life . Everything was effected by the borghesta , the middle classes , which hence became arbitrators ; of everything The history of other peoples : teaches - the dangers that society is menaced ' with whenever it is abandoned to the power of a single class , especially when that is the burgher class Government assumes the as- pect of a company of shareholders ( eonsorteria ) , , a eamorra , an association of malefactors which exploits the country for-the benefit o members " Ths writer here quotes Tocqueville 's strictures on the burgher class , then points out their first acts on entering into their kingdom ? built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individuals who then directed affairs-had possessed the moral , civic , and political to the use of liberty ) , they would have annexed the provinces , and , on coming down to the south , have constituted a new government with a very simple programme  --  alliance with such honest men , few or many , as could be found , without counting numbers , and thus reconstructing the country , convinced that the only solid foundation for liberty is Justice ! And those who were in the southern provinces in 18603 could see with their own eyes that this was the desire and the hope of the so long oppressed and ignorant multitude who understood nothing of politics Each act of justice , each repression of violence and of arbitrary acts so common among us , gave a moral force , a ? prestige , an authority beyond words . It formed a propaganda far more efficacious than all the new laws , all political guarantees , all , proclamations of principles . But the hopes formed were soon deluded No one took into account , no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have no existence in the presence of the borghesta , of the so-called galantuomint , who were the all in all , who dominated everything , and often oppressed the others The generous.enthusiasm which had initiated and ennobled our revolutions vanished It was said : The masses are ignorant , corrupt , honest men can not govern them . Then began - the search for the most audacious , no matter if they were dishonest , because it was believed that with such it would be easy to command , to govern , to found liberty . This conception , which was , in fact , a heritage of our ancient slavery , was accepted by our best men , even by true Liberals . . . How often have we seen politicians of whose private life , of whose personal character , the most atrocious things were affirmed , sought after , caressed , flattered , by the same persons who attacked their private life , simply because they were eloquent , audacious intriguers ! Did we not at one time adopt the theory that in order to combat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was necessary to enrol other malefactors in the police ? And then we were surprised when , instead , we saw that the evils rapidly increased , because the miscreants on both sides entered into a secret alliance . " At this point Villari shows how everything was corrupted-the press , subsidized by the Government , transformed from an instrument of moral and civic education into a fi esh instrument of Corruption , how the law on public instruction was falsified ; how the object in all financial questions was , not to repair the deficit , but to hide it , to deny its existence . " The agricultural inquiry revealed the awful condition of the tillers of the soil 9 What remedies were applied ? The tillers of the soil , who , in Italy , are literally the producers of national wealth , in many of our provinces , after a day 's toil longer and harder than that of any other worker in the civilized world , do not earn sufficient to satisfy the cravings of hunger . " No communist or socialist or even anarchist could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this representative of that class , but when it comes to proposing remedies , the mistrust , the fear , of " the people " paralyzes his pen Professor Villari points to the people in Switzerland , in Scandinavia , in the Hilted States , as cultured and civilized in comparison with the masses in Italy , and affirms that , " for some tune yet , the burghers must remain the only class which can , which ought to , direct society and retain the reins of government . " Of course the burghers are to get reformed , but who is to reform them P Villari recalls the fact that the Italian revolutions succeeded . because all parties rallied round the house of Savoy and monarchy - " We ought to have the abnegation and the patriotism to rally anew round monarchy , and call upon it , now that such supreme duties lie before us , to reassume its historical importance Monarchy is placed and ought to remain superior to all parties and could easily unite us . It is not a party government which is necessary- for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which should reunite all , reestablish concord and harmony between Parliament and the country , between social classes , a government based upon the enormous majority of the people who care nothing for Right or Left , or for this parhamentarism which has worked and still works so much evil " - Adverse critics of this article , which has excited considerable interest , accuse the professor of proposing a coup d'etat This was not his intention , assuredly , but it would have been well if he had entered into details as to ways and means . What could the monarch do in this special crisis 7 By the sixty-fifth article of the Statuto , " The King nominates and revokes his ministers . " Now , the peculiarity of the present situation is , that the Giolitti ministry has a large majority in the House , it has not been overthrown by a hostile vote of either chamber , but has felt itself bound to resign on account of the verdict of the seven commissioners . This on the 24th of November Today , the 6th of December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministry . Why should not the King , who well knows that the cabinet which will be formed sooner or later can not bold its own because the House is divided on the question of taxation , nominate a working cabinet pro tem. , and dissolve the House , intimating that this time there shall be no pressure exercised by the men in power ? The general elections would thus be the result of the popular will , which they never have been yet save in one instance . Th% people would send up to Parliament men whom they really believed to be honest and capable ; the workingmen would send representatives of their own class , and even the agricultural populations would unite in certain provinces to secure individuals who would demand certain urgent and simple remedies for their desperate condition . Thus we might haVe a government such-as Prof. Villari demands , based-on the enormous majority of the people As , by their own confession , the burghers have brought the country to the brink of ruin , it does not seem an exaggeration to demand that the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed , nay helped , to exercise that right But even those who would not stickle at the King 's exercise of his undoubted prerogative are too timid to advise it They fear the people ; fear that a really popular chamber would propose the diminution of the expenses of the army and navy , insist on the reduction by one-half of the bureaucratic expenses , on reduction of the civil list ( it is affirmed that the King- has offered to forego three of his annual fifteen millions ) and of the salaries of ministers , on the diminution of the enormous numbers of - civil servants and of the extraordinary expenses in which the provinces and the communes indulge , on a progressive income tax , to range from 2,000 lire of income , which should remain untaxed , gradually , at so much per cent. , until the millionaires are made to contribute their just share to the necessary national expenditure . These are the fears that assail the haves , who will keep the have-nots out in the cold as long as moral or physical force avail-them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken . " Today the country itself is in danger , " writes this moderate professor , this Senator of the realm , but last year minister of the crown " The fatherland is in peril , it is menaced not by foreigners , but by ourselves ; it invokes an initiative , a common action , the concord of all . Our very moral existenceds at stake . " . T. W TAINE 'S POSTHUMOUS WORK PARIS , December 5 , 1893 . " THE dead ride fast , " says the ballad . Tame has not been dead long , and the posthumous appearance of the last volume of his Origines de la France Contemporame ' has passed almost completely unperceived . This volume , which is the sixth of the series , is the second of what Tame has called " Le Regime Modorne . " Inthe first volume Tame attempted to describe the " ancien regime " He followed the modern documentary method , and took innumerable notes of the correspondence of the intendants , the tax-collectors , the fermiers-gOnerauce during the last thirty years of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volumes of the procts-verbaux and cahlers of the States-General The conclusion was the condemnation of the political and social organism of the old regime , - and in consequence the necessity of the Revolution . Volumes ii. , in. , and iv . were the result of an immense labor . m order to understand the work of the Revolution , Taine condemned himself to read and analyze the correspondence of the military commanders during the years 1789 and 1790 , the letters , memoirs , and statistics of the committees of the Chambers , the correspondence of the administration with the departments and the Municipalities . This somewhat tedious analysis was fortunately mingled with some vigorous portraits of the principal revolutionists , such as Mirabeau , Danton , Robespierre . Tame had deliberately killed in himself all party spirit. - Having no political ambition , he deliberately devoted him- ? self entirely to the search after Truth : he therefore described such men as Danton and Robespierre as a naturalist would describe a new species . His volumes on the Revolution caused great consternation in the camp of- our revolutionists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first volume had been by the monarchists I may acid , however ; that these criticisms were of what may be called a Platonic kind Tame lost nothing by it , as republicans as well as monarchists well knew that his Ofignies ' could never become a popular work , that its influence , if it had any , could be felt only in the most cultivated class of the nation , and , even in that cultivated class , by a select few , having leisure and imhued with the most disinterested love of truth . The fifth volume scandalized the admirers of Napoleon as much as the preceding ones had scandalized the partisans of the monarchy or of the republic . Following his usual analytical method and his theories of the influence of the medium on the development of character , Tame saw- chiefly in the Emperor Napoleon the Corsican , the Italian , he described him as one of-the petty tyrants of the Italian cities of the Renaissance , as the " Prince " of Machiavel transported by circumstances to a higher sphere , and allowed to control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes , as selfish , as unmerciful , as cruel , as devoid of morality as a Borgia or a Malatesta . The portrait drawn by Tame has some truth , has even much truth ; but it is too systematic and , on the whole , gives but an imperfect and fragment- ary reproduction of the original . It is made up of small facts , of small details ; the ensemble is not satisfactory There is something in genius which can not be analyzed The popmlax and legendary view of Napoleon is not absolutely exact , but it is more exact , on the whole , than the documentary and analytic view taken by Tame . It can not be wondered at if his criticism had no influence on the popular mind . No better proof could be found of this affirmation than the Napoleonic revival we are now witnessing Is it not extraordinary that , so few years ( comparatively speaking ) after Sedan and the fall of the Second Empire , French literature should suddenly be so completely imbued and saturated with Napoleon and Napoleonic memories 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Napoleon drawn by Tame , - there are few or none to be made to his appreciation of the administrative work of the Emperor . The whole machinery of the French administration remains about the same as-Napoleon-left it . - French centralization was , at first , the work of the Revolution , but it was still very imperfect and very rudimentary when Napoleon became First Consul . It was during his Consulate that Napoleon astonished- all the members of his Council of State by the clearness of his perception , his immense power of work ; he introduced order into everything  --  finance , legislation , the organization of the army , all departments of the administration . Table , after his usual method , studied not only the voluminous correspondence of Napoleon , he made ' himself acquainted with the reports of the councillors of state in commission at the end of 1801 , with the correspondence of the prefects under the Consulate and the Empire . He had proved that the administrative machine of the old regime could work no longer , he studied every part of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to perfection by the Cqnsulate and the Empire . The substitution of the departments for the old provinces destroyed all remains of the old provincial life , the prefects were the successors of the intendants , they became as powerful as the ancient proconsuls of Rome Nothing was left of the old parlements ; the judicial power was completely separated from the executive power . A department , with its prefect and sub prefects ; - its consuls-genei al , 464 The NatiOn . Vol. 57 , No. 1486 its municipal councils , its courts of justice , resembles every other department ; it is a unit , ? and all these units depend on the central government . This prefect centralization suited the despotism of Napoleon , it has not yet been found incompatible with parliamentary government , the ministers change , the prefects do not change with them  --  that is to say , they do - not necessarily change : the machinery-of the administration is constantly m motion , and so far the instability of the ministries has not had its immediate and direct reflection in the administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and admmistratiVe life a new element ? you will find in each department electoral committees , which are formed of the politicians of the department ; they are the wire-pullers in the elections . These committees are self-constituted bodies without any responsibility , the Deputies and Senators are in great fear of them , and the prefects are obliged to count with them . Tame has described with his customary force the advantages as well as the defects of French centralization ; on-the whole , he can not be said to be a great admirer of it ; he considers it destructive of individualism . In his opinion , to sum up in few words , the isolation of individuals has rendered them incapable of associating themselves ; the power of the State has paralyzed the individual . The consequences of it are an exaggeration of egotism , especially in the provinces , great political incapacity , a slow commercial and industrial development He dwells at length on the consequences of the Civil Code ( which is the written law of the Revolution ) on the French family . The family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a society . Its mission is to perpetuate itself , to prolong its own life . " The wholesome ideal , " says Taine , " for a young man is to create , a family , a house of indefinite duration  --  to create and to govern . " The French Revolution was not content with abolishing the right of primogeniture , it also regulated testamentary liberty and the right of entail ; it aimed at equality in all things , and one of the consequences of the Code Napoleon has been a continuous subdivision of the land and of property , which has acted as a bar to early marriages . The birthrate of France is continually decreasing . Statistics are very instructive in this respect The system of universal military service introduced in France since the war of 1870 will certainly contribute to diminish this ratio even more ; our young men are obliged to serve in the ranks , and can be called at any moment between the age of twenty and the age of forty-five ; the number of marriages , especially of early marriages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of the new regime are alarming . Marriage , instead of being the great object of life , the great ambition of youth , becomes too often a mere end , the last chapter m the drama of life instead of the first . Not only in the diminution of the birthrate does Tame discern a great danger for France , his philosophical mind finds other reasons for disquietude . What he says on the development of science , of popular and vulgarized science , is perhaps too pessimistic . He believes that science can not be learned by halves , and that scientific notions spread by the press among an ignorant public may do more harm than good . First of all , he considers that science has substituted for the time-honored notion of the universe " a new conception , which is coherent and logical in the higher minds , but which becomes disturbed and deformed as it goes slowly down among the masses . . . . The new ideas spread as a beneficent or a pernicious dogma according to the nature of the brains in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of throwing them like savages into a work of pure destruction if they are not wholly understood , as well as of organizing them in a novel manner if their real meaning is grasped . " A Catholic orator , some time ago , speaking of Catholic dogmas and the socialist movement , was explaining the progress of socialism by the decrease of religion . " You have , " said he , " taken Heaven away from the workingmen ; they ask you now for the Earth . " Popular science has done much towards weakening the religious feeling . In so far , Taine holds it responsible for the increase of materialism in the masses and of pessimism in the most cultured classes . The applications of science have greatly enhanced the comforts of the rich ; but increase of comfort does not increase happiness , and the ancients knew already that it was possible " propter vitam vivendi perdere causes . " The literature of almost all European countries , France not excepted , is at present inspired by and saturated with a curious pessimism , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers and the , dread of new wars and revolutions Tame 's work is singularly interesting for the political philosopher . History seems to have been in his eyes nothing but a conflict of ideas . He is never dramatic , he does not give new life to the past He does not view it , as most historians do , as a mere battlefield ; the past appears to him like a crucible , he is waiting , like a chemist , to see what reaction will next take place Strangely enough , nobody has said more to prove the influence of the medium on the development of man , and nobody has been more free from its influence . No political party , no philosophical school , can claim him ; - he preserved during too short a lifetime a most extraordinary intellectual independence and moral serenity . He was among us , but not of us.                     