@@585085

txt THE interest taken in the proceedings of the National Australasian Convention , outside the colonies immediately interested , is not merely flattering but significant of the closeness of the bonds which now unite civilized peoples . Reports of the debates in Sydney , in March and April last , have been communicated to the press of the world ; and the political fortunes of a continent , of whose existence Europe was scarcely aware a century ago , have furnished matter for the familiar comment of its publicists , the chit-chat of its capitals , and the sermons of those who preach the solidarity of humataity . The comments have varied considerably , and even when best informed have necessarily exhibited that lack of local atmosphere and coloring which , as Mr. Bryce has noted , can only be caught after direct personal acquaintance with the country , and can not be conveyed except by a comprehensive study of the people and their environment . Any sketch of political development must imply and assume much as to the social system of which it is a part and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most prominent feature of outside criticism has been its good-will . Great Britain has exhibited a maternal pride , not unmixed with maternal solicitude , in viewing an effort toward union among its vigorous offspring . A certain insularity renders the average Briton prone to sudden seizures of apprehension when coteries with a craze now and then attain a brief notoriety by amazing discoveries as to colonial policy , and apocalyptic prophecies of its terrible consequences ; but the general disposition of the mother country toward her children is full of generous consideration , and displays a sincere desire for their welfare . The continental critic has been friendly too , but as a rule his experience does not assist him to interpret events with the same readiness as those of our own race . The prevailing tone abroad is consequently one of surprise and curiosity : surprise at the- freedom enjoyed and independence exhibited by dependent communities ; more surprise at the moderation displayed under such conditions ; and considerable curiosity as to the possible effective value in future combinations of this new scion of the British stock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother country , or will it imply a new policy in the Pacific ? The foreign statesman can not but note that the ostensible occasion of the late Convention was a sense of the need of combination for purposes of mutual defence , and having the despatch of the Soudan contingent in his mind , doubtless regards the new development with an expectancy akin to that of " some watcher of the skies when a new planet swims into his ken . " - In the IJnited States of America the kindliest and most sympathetic feeling has been manifested toward the young provinces which are following a path resembling in so many respects that which the founders of the great Republic trod a century ago . Its thoughtful citizens have observed with interest the attempt of colonists of their own blood and temper to create pacifically under the crown a large and organic system of self-government , such as came to them as the prize of long suffering , fierce conflict , and anxious debate , amid the ruins of an established order , and the throes of insurrectionary revolution . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its relationship to the great Anglo-Saxon Republic ignored . At the Convention copies of the " Federalist " were in every hand , the names of Hamilton , Madison , Adams , and Jefferson were upon every lip ; while the most effective peroration at the Melbourne conference , in 1890 , was couched in the words of Washington . To the students of political institutions everywhere , whose name to-day is legion , the federal movement has necessarily offered a rare opportunity of noting the process by which a new constitution // is being evolved under their very eyes . The theorists , who are still more numerous , are fastening upon it already in support and illustration of every conceivable hypothesis . To both of these classes an elaborate technical history of the event will be a desideratum . But outside of the ranks of specialists and doctrinaires stand a large body of persons given to the general survey of current affairs , to whom the plain tale of its development may be not without attraction , provided it be brief . The occasion is unique . Should the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will be in all probability the last in the world 's history which a civilized people will erect of their own motive , without the disestablishment or overthrow of a pre-existing form of government , free from all compulsion , and upon virgin soil . It is not inconceivable that some of the foreign expectancy discovered as to the shape which the federal organization would take has been due to a half-conscious anticipation of a likeness between the social and natural history of the country . Australia having been noted for the number of missing links with which it has startled the science of its time , for the composite and apparently contradictory character of its forms of life , and for the strangeness of its vegetation , has been looked to for equally startling developments in its politics . The rapidity of its national unfoldment , the romance of its enterprises , the opulence of its prosperity , have promoted forecasts of a sensational character , and there must be a certain number of onlookers rather disappointed at the sobriety of constitution-builders born in the land of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the kangaroo . An orderly sequence of growth is apt to appear tame in itself , while the fortunate absence of the pomp and circumstance of war deprives the federal climax of much picturesqueness . Then again , the fact that the , constitution has been drafted in the full light of day leaves no room for mystery , or for the future introduction of miracle or fable . The parentage of every one of its provisions is obvious , and the purpose of every clause unmistakable . Most , if not all , of its omissions are intentional ; there have been few stirring passages in the debates prior to its adoption , and from the first line to the last the measure bears upon its face the impress of the chastening influence of compromise . On the other hand , the bill produced may be fairly claimed to be the necessary outcome of the political experience of the colonies up to date , and will be the more commended on that ground to the reflective . To make what may be termed the inevitableness of its form comprehended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has arisen , and the stages by which it has taken shape , will be essentiaL Prosaic in the circumstances of its birth , the new commonwealth , unstained with blood and unadorned by romance , makes its appeal to the reason and patriotism of its people . Among the tacit misconceptions into which distant critics are most likely to fall about antipodean affairs is that which is based upon ignorance of the enormous area and possibilities of the colonies . Especially is this likely in the IJuited States , where the assumption may be that , as the population of Australia is about the same as that of the thirteen original seaboard colonies of America , the surface over which they are distributed is also approximately the same . As a matter of fact there is no such proportion . New South Wales alone is as large as they were ; Tasmania , the Rhode Island of Australia , is as large as that State with New Jersey , New Hampshire , and Massachusetts added ; Victoria , the smallest colony of the continent , is equal in size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria , France , and Germany ; South Australia , one-third greater than Queensland , is nearly as large as Western Australia , which of itself has nearly four times the extent of Texas , while the two colonies together are larger than the whole of Europe without Russia . The seven colonies between them occupy a territory greater than that of the United States , excluding Alaska . It is true that at present Australia has barely four million inhabitants , but these immense areas represent // a potential population to which it is impossible to set bounds . No part of the continent is so hot and so unhealthy as to forbid white settlement , and if the strip of low - lying coastlands in the north be omitted , there is no part of it yet colonized in which Europeans can not work . Port Darwin , the country about the Gulf of Carpentaria , and an indefinite belt toward the northwest lie within the tropics , and are suitable for tropical productions ; but the high plateau of northern Queensland , which runs close to the sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and enjoys a bracing winter . The back country , though waterless by comparison with the Mississippi Valley , is able to carry stock well in most seasons , and with wells , tanks , and dams may be made to do so in all years . The desert country of eastern Australia has yet to be found . A squatter 's fence to-day runs by the spot where Burke and Wills lay down to die in 1861 , and the area of country taken up for stock is still pushing steadily westward . Tasmania , New Zealand , and Victoria have delightful climates , corresponding to those of Maryland , central France , and California . Whether or not we accept the estimate of the government statist of Victoria , that fifty years hence there will be twenty million souls within the bounds of Australasia , it is at least certain that colonies with a greater area than states in the new world , or empires in the old , will eventually support more millions than they have hundreds of thousands to-day . Their present commercial status may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imported ? 66,000,000 worth of foreign goods , exported produce to the value of ? 62 ,  - -  500,000 , and spent upon public purposes ? 28,000,000 . When the new commonwealth commences its career it will enjoy ( if all the colonies come in , and , as anticipated , adopt the Victorian tariff ) a revenue of ? 8,680,000 from customs , and after having provided for the administration of justice , defence , government , and the collection of revenue at an estimated cost of ? 2,226,000 , will have six millions and a half sterling to divide among them in proportion to their contributions . The next condition requiring to be realized is that every colony is an independent state so far as its fellows are concerned . The British Constitution is the basis of government in all , so that each has its parliament of two Chambers , its responsible ministers , and its governor , as if it were the only country in these seas . The governor appointed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies acts upon the advice tendered to him as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact as well as in name . With the exception that a few special measures , such as those relating to marriage , are always reserved for the Queen 's assent ; that there is a general power of disallowance two years after the passing of a local act ; and that communications with foreign nations must be made through the British Cabinet , the colonies are , within their own borders , independent even of the mother country . But they are absolutely independent of each other without any qualification whatever . Each pursues the path of legislation which it prefers ; taxing its neighbors ' imports or offering bonuses upon its own exports just as it pleases . At their good-will and pleasure the colonies make treaties with each other on such subjects as they desire , but there is not a vestige of compulsion possible . Each meets the other as a free contracting party . In their commercial relations they possess a greater latitude than the States of the American Union , because they are not yet an union . Inter se they are sovereign states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war with one another , are as separate and distinct as France , Germany , and Russia . The difficulties and dangers of creating upon a new continent a series of communities without any common political bond or means of joint action was perceived in Great Britain so long ago as 1849 , when a committee of the Privy Council , appointed at the instance of Earl Grey , recommended the selection of one of the governors as GovernorGeneral , with power to convene a General Assembly of Australia capable of federal legislation . This body was to be elected by the legislatures of the colonies so soon as two of them should // have petitioned for its creation . A bill was introduced into the British Parliament in 1850 to give effect to this scheme , but abandoned in consequence of the opposition with which it was met . In 1851 Governor Fitzroy was appointed Governor-General , but no further step was taken to make the title more than a nominal distinction. * In 1853 constitutional committees of the Victorian and New South Wales Legislative Councils incidentally referred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a General Assembly as had been suggested in 1849 ; the latter , under the leadership of Wentworth , more emphatically and precisely declaring for a complete federation . The great colonist , to whom New South Wales is chiefly indebted for its earliest impulses toward political fieedom and for selfgovernment , was the first statesman to embrace the cause of union with vigor and earnestness . Born in Norfolk Island , he has claims to be considered the first Australian , and is unquestionably the first great figure in our history . During a visit to England , in 1857 , he presented a memorial in favor of federation to the British Ministry , but though the Victorian Legislature had evinced its interest in the question by appointing another committee upon the question in January of the same year , the proposal found no support in England . In November the Victorian Parliament invited the other colonies to meet in conference to consider federal possibilities ; but in New South Wales a similar proposition , warmly supported by Mr. Deas Thomson , fell to the ground owing to political changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no further action was taken owing to the want of response from New South Wales . In 1860 , on the initiative of Sir Charles Gavan Duffy , who was , after Wentworth , the most active and capable supporter of the cause , a thhd Victorian committee was appointed , and again invitations were sent to the other colonies to discuss a basis for federation , but without success . In the * Australian Year-book , 1891 . Essay on Australian F ' *deratiou. 0 . B. Barton , F. R. Hist. 5 . , Barrister-atlaw. same year it is true the veteran Dr. Lang obtained a committee in Sydney , but it brought up no report . As the main movement did not make definite progress , the colonies whose interests were becoming more and more involved each year , fell back upon conferences at which each ministry was represented by two or three of its members . Common interests were discussed and agreements arrived at as to the action to be taken in regard to postal contracts , telegraph cables , custom duties , and similar issues . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Melbourne and three in Sydney , have been held since 1863 , besides a certain number of departmental meetings at which special departments of the several colonies have conferred together . Unquestionably they have not been without results ; but the general experience is that political changes have supervened in one or more of the colonies , and that the concerted action agreed upon has generally failed . After nearly thirty years ' trial of a system of ministerial treaties made in conference , the unanimous verdict is that it has broken down badly , and that , save as a means for the interchange of ideas and maintenance of friendly relations between public men who are in power at the time , such assemblages are almost worthless . The fiscal issue presented itself as an intercolonial problem even in the earliest days . The first agreement arrived at appears to have been that under which goods for New South Wales or Victoria , introduced by the Murray River , having paid South Australian duties , obtained free admission to the other colonies , which received annually from the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariffs of the three colonies differed considerably , the inconveniences of such an arrangement are obvious . At a later date a formal treaty was made to meet the circumstances occasioned by the extension of the Victorian railway system to the New South Wales border . The former colony paid to the latter a lump sum of sixty thousand pounds a year on condition of enjoying the right of free importation across the Murray , from 1867 until 1873 , when the treaty was // abrogated . In 1884 a provisional agreement for commercial reciprocity was entered into between representatives of the Victorian and Tasmanian governments , but the proposal proved unpopular in the former colony , and was never even submitted for the sanction of its parliament . Meanwhile the trend of colonial opinion was everywhere toward protection . Victoria led the way in the sixties , and by the seventies was thoroughly committed to a high tariff on imports of manufactured goods ; New Zealand followed suit , then Queensland , and then South Australia ; while Tasmania and Western Australia both employed the custom-house as a means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its adherence to free trade , though in 1889 a step in the direction of protection was taken , only to be retraced by another ministry twelve months later . Parties in that colony have been very evenly balanced during the last few years , and seeing the result of the general election just concluded , it seems probable that very soon the last convert to the policy of assisting native industries will have been made . At present each colony , except New South Wales , has fenced in its markets against the world , levying duties impartially upon all goods , whether from the mother country or from other colonies . Individualism and independence have therefore been pushed to the utmost extent . The cattle and sheep of New South Wales can not enter Victoria to-day without paying duty , nor can Victorian dairy products enter New South Wales without a similar tolL Reprisals have been threatened by excited politicians , and there is always a possibility of a war of tariffs between these young peoples of the same race , in the same territory , and under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another kind was imparted to public opinion in Australia , principally in Victoria . Vast as the unoccupied area on the continent still is , the people of the colony named had always felt the French occupation of New Caledonia as a menace , had hailed the annexation of Fiji with satisfaction , and had kept a jealous eye upon the progress of European settlement in the South Seas . The deportation policy of the French Republic passed almost unchallenged so long as political prisoners only were sent to Noumea ; but when , instead of communists and radicals , the sweepings of prisons , jail-birds , often convicted and regarded as irreclaimable , or felons guilty of horrible offences against society , were arriving by hundreds , the colonies became thoroughly alarmed . The distance of New Caledonia from Australia is upward of seven hundred miles , but at certain seasons the ocean is calm , and escapees in open boats have repeatedly reached the shores of Queensland and New South Wales in safety . Some of these no sooner found their way to the great cities than they recoinmenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paris or Marseilles . The prospect of a continuous invasion of this kind filled the minds of the Australian householders and of the unprotected classes with anxiety , and protests against what was regarded as an abuse of international relations echoed from north to south . Contemporaneously with this agitation occurred the attempted annexation of eastern New Guinea by the Queensland ministry , of which Sir Thomas Mcflwraith was chief  --  a step suddenly taken because they were apprehensive of German designs upon the part of that island which is beyond the Dutch boundary and lying nearest to our mainland . Annexation was disavowed by the British Government , Lord Derby , the then Colonial Secretary , treating the colonial fears of foreign aggression with cold contempt and polite ridicule . When immediately after his assurance of the impossibility of such a step the northern portion of the great island was actually annexed by Germany , the angry sentiments of Australia rose to white heat , and a spasm of indignation at the supineness of the Gladstone cabinet roused passions which were threatening , except so far as they found vent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , the French , who had long been casting covetous eyes upon the New Hebrides , a fine group lying immediately to the north of their possessions , sent a detachment of soldiers which disembarked and camped at // the chief harbor , ostensibly to protect the interests of their settlers , but in reality as an advance-guard of occupation . The government at Paris opened negotiations with London , for the recession of the treaty by which both powers had bound themselves to maintain the independence of these islands . Add to this the movements in Samoa , which culminated eventually in the seizure of the native king and his exile to Germany , and the bitterness created in Australia may be conceived . Animosity against the recidivous influx was universal , but on other questions the colonies were divided . The public men of New South Wales appeared indifferent to events in the South Seas , which in Victoria exasperated both the public and their leaders to an extreme degree . This may have been because the smaller area of the latter colony had led to a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power , above the stress of party politics , who was a man of large ideas and indomitable courage , and who boldly seized the opportunity to express aspirations which he had long cherished . Probably this epoch will be recognized in the future as the awakening of Australia to a national life , for certainly it was now for the first time that the colonies , recognizing their common interest and need of unity , spoke and acted together , more or less imperfectly ; for the first time they found themselves face to face with foreign powers , and developing a foreign policy . The Honorable James Service , to whom Australia owes the first practical grasp of its position as a people , of its obligations abroad , and of its influence in England , was also the man who made use of their recognition to lay the foundation for federal union . A Scotchman , gifted with the enthusiasm as well as with the foresight and canniness of the race , he had come to the front in Victorian politics in the early days , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a party leader , and from 1883 to 1886 was the chief of a coalition ministry never even challenged by a vote of want of confidence . At his instigation and invitation the federal issue was once more raised , and a conference of all the colonies assembled in Sydney in November , 1883 , at which it was agreed that federation of some kind was possible and necessary , and that with a view to preparing the way for an ultimately closer union a federal council should be at once created . This was to consist of two representatives from each colony , who should have power to deal with those matters of common interest with which no local parliament could deal singlehanded , and also with any other matters that might be referred to it by two or more members of the group . New South Wales and New Zealand declined to approve of this proposal , and though concessions were made to their views , steadfastly refused to accept its jurisdiction . An act was obtained from the British Parliament permitting the council to be called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This condition was duly complied with , and its first meeting was held at Hobart , in 1886 , under the presidency of Mr. Service . Representatives from Victoria , Queensland , Tasmania , Western Australia , and Fiji attended , but little more was attempted at this meeting than to inaugurate the counciL Its founders felt that it was at least *n outward and visible sign of Australasian unity , and trusted to time and conciliation to bring the absent members of the group into the fold . In 1887 a conference of an unprecedented kind was held in London , at which all the colonies of the British Empire were represented on the invitation of the British Government . It is not too much to say that the chief place at the gathering was allotted to Australia , because the only practical results of that conference were Australian . First there was the agreement to contribute to the cost of an additional imperial squadron in Australasian seas , and next the unequivocal assurance which the Marquis of Salisbury received , and upon which he acted , that under no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Hebrides to France . In point of fact , the decisive ultimatum of the British Government , withheld until then , went to Paris immediately after this expression of opinion , and the French evacuation of the // New Hebrides followed in due course . But even at the council table in the Colonial Office , the want of unanimity among the delegates discovered itself at every turn . The terms upon which the squadron was agreed to be built , though fair , were less favorable than they would have been if the colonial representatives had acted together cordially ; There was sufficient general agreement to impress the minds of imperial ministers , who , like Lord Knutsford , proved themselves considerate and generous friends to the colonies ; but there might have been a much deeper impression upon the people and government of Great Britain if there had been unanimity . We might have seen the first step taken toward the practical adoption for the Australasian Pacific of a policy akin to that expressed by the Monroe doctrine in America . The Federal Council sat in 1888 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any kind . Its president that year was Sir Samuel Griffith , a very able young Welshman , educated in the colonies , who rose rapidly to the leadership of the Queensland bar , and of one of its political parties , who drafted the Federal Council act of 1883 , and is chiefly responsible for the form of the Commonwealth Bill now under consideration . In 1889 the session opened under more cheering auspices , since South Australian representatives appeared for the first time . The Council then spoke for the whole of Australia with the exception of New South Wales . It was resolved that its constitution should be amended , so as to increase the number of representatives according to a scale with a maximum of six for the most populous colonies , so that if all joined it would comprise thirty - six members . This step being gained , it was intended that subsequently the powers of the enlarged Council might be correspondingly enhanced . These projects were never regarded as final , but merely as another step toward complete federation . In this third session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and now prime minister of South Australia , a politician of long experience and great acumen , whose integrity of character had assisted to give him his influence in parliament , and who has always taken a large view of his Australian responsibilities . The last sitting of the Council took place in January of this year , when , owing to an unseemly piece of partisanship on the part of the South Australian Upper House , that colony was excluded . In view of this and other changes in the situation , the meeting was robbed of most of its interest . The Federal Council , however , was and is a real union , possesses an authority which though undefined is already wide , and which is capable of indefinite expansion . Its measures , though but seven in all , have been practical and useful , and it is still available for national emergencies , and if by any chance the greater scheme now afoot should unfortunately miscarry . The stumbling-block to the success of the Council has always been the abstention of New South Wales , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Henry Parkes , the political leader of that colony . English by birth and Australian by adoption , this statesman , now in his seventy - seventh year , is a man of remarkably robust intellect and physique , with a catholic taste in literature and art , an unrivalled knowledge of politics and political tactics , and a power of speech which has enabled him to win and retain a position of paramount influence in his own colony . He has always been an advocate of federation , and at one time drafted a bill which anticipated the measure establishing the Federal Council in many points . But , up till 1889 he declined to attach himself to the movement of which it was the outcome . The report of General Edwards , who visited the colonies at their request to criticise their military forces , pointed of course to centralization of control as an essential for effective defence . After its perusal Sir Henry Parkes at once invited the colonies to consider the wisdom of an immediate union . His opponents urge that his apprehensions of a protectionist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of escape from an impending free - trade defeat ; but it is probable that the proposed enlargement of the Federal Council had much more to do // with the alteration of his demeanor . He foresaw that with such a council in action New South Wales would be isolated and overshadowed , if not compelled to seek admission . The veteran politician , by making this new departure , took a step which at all events mitigated that danger . Accordingly in January , 1890 , there assembled in Melbourne a preliminary conference , composed of two delegates from each colony . The Honorable Duncan Gullies , prime minister of Victoria , upon whom had fallen the mantle of Mr. Service , presided at the sittings . A Scotchman , like his former chief , and like him identified with the early history of the colony , Mr. Gillies has proved his title to be the first parliamentarian of his colony , and its best debater . His eminence is illustrated by the great personal influence which he has enjoyed for nearly a quarter of a century , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasted for five years . The conference under his presidency unanimously agreed that the time for complete federation had come , and decided that the parliaments of the colonies should be invited to appoint delegates to a convention , twelve months later , to draft a constitution which could be submitted to the people and legislatures of the group . The National Australian Convention called in obedience to this determination sat in Sydney in March and April of this year . It was certainly the most important political body which has ever assembled in Australia . Imposing in mere numbers , it embraced seven representatives each from New South Wales , Victoria , Queensland , South Australia , Western Australia , and Tasmania , with three from New Zealand , a colony not proposing to enter the Union at once , but desiring to be heard on the ground that it might seek entrance at a later date . The prime minister and the leader of the opposition of every other colony were present . There were thirteen members of existing administrations , two speakers , and twenty-five others who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these , Sir George Grey , K.G.B. , was also formerly governor of New Zealand . Only five members of the Convention had not held office , and four of these came from Western Australia , where responsible government has only just been attained . All were members of parliament , and each colony made its choice from both chambers of the legislature . The Convention therefore embodied the ripest political knowledge of the whole group , and though there were men whose absence was regretted , it is improbable that the aggregate could have been much improved , or that even a convention directly elected by the people , though it would then have possessed a higher sanction and a fuller authority , would have been more capable of accomplishing its task . The Convention sat for twenty-two days , under the presidency of Sir Henry Parkes , and for six days a majority of its members were engaged in committee . But the twenty-eight formal sittings do not by any means include all the time devoted to their task . It may safely be said that , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their work day by day , and every day , as well as a good many nights , for six weeks . The Hansard report of the public discussions , though it does not include committee work , makes a bulky volume of nearly a thousand pages royal octavo . It is thought that there are few arguments for or against the bill not educed in some speeches , though many were elaborated and all were reviewed in committee . The discussions were often warm , and at times impassioned , and so strongly did feeling run that at one stage of the proceedings there were many prophecies that the assembly would break up without accomplishing anything . At last , by mutual concession and with much persuasion , the opposite parties were blended sufficiently in committee to secure a majority in favor of a particular scheme , which was duly drafted in the form of a bill , and after a short struggle adopted by the whole body with but trifling amendments . Twenty - three divisions were taken ) but if the bill as a whole had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful if a single member would have been opposed to it . So far as the conduct of its proceedings was concerned , // the Convention therefore may fairly be pronounced a success . It was composed of men whose political experiences were wholly Australian ; some had travelled two thousand miles to be present , and many had never met before . They were under no compulsion to concede anything to each other , and with but the vaguest instructions from those for whom they spoke ; they were of all shades of political opinion , of all ages , and of all varieties of British nationality , about one-fourth of them having been born in the colonies . The mere fact of their general agreement testifies to a certain fitness for self-government and experience of its working . The important question of the sacrifices to be made by the local governments , for the endowment of the central government , was settled with comparatively little difficulty . Practically all the powers of Congress , save that of making war , and all the prohibitions of anti-federal State action in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Practically all the authorities specifically assigned to the Canadian Parliament , except those relating to the criminal law , its courts , and penitentiaries , are included within the charter of the Federal Parliament . Following the IJnited States model , and in contrast to that of Canada , the undefined margin of legislative authority not precisely surrendered to the central government is retained by the local legislatures . The commonwealth will have exclusive control of defence , cu stoms , and excise , postal and telegraphic services , navigation , shipping , and lighthouses , marriage and divorce , banking , coinage , aliens , and external affairs . It will have a general and unlimited right of taxation in national emergencies . The privileges peculiar to it are the power to deal with islands of the Pacific ; river navigation with respect to the common purposes of two or more states ; the control of railways with respect to transport for the purposes of the commonwealth ; matters referred to the parliament of the commonwealth from the parliaments of states desiring a common law , and the affairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws not applicable to the general community . While therefore the colonies will still control their lands , mines , forests , railways , irrigation , and other public works , education , the administration of justice , municipal affairs , and general legislation , the commonwealth will be no insignificant or dependent estate , but will possess all the potentialities of the Swiss , Canadian , and United States federal governments . The provision as to references from the local to the central legislature will enable them to be increased in the future according to the necessities of time . This point apart , the Convention debates may be briefly summarized , because as a matter of fact the whole of the differences of opinion clustered about a single issue . It was evidently agreed at once that the new Parliament must , like that of the United States , comprise two chambers , one elected by the people on the basis of numbers , and the other elected by the colonies , in which each should have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislative , which obtains in the American republic , was not in favor , though there was a leaning on the part of a minority to the Swiss method of electing ministers by both chambers , thus abolishing party government and responsible government , as it exists in Great Britain and in the colonies . This innovation never reached a formal proposition ; nor did the Canadian plan , by which the separate colonies are subordinated to the central government , receive support from any quarter . A proposition to make the governorgeneral elective was rejected as inconsistent with our political system , under which the head of the state is not permitted to be a partisan or to act except upon the advice of his ministers . The battle raged around one point only , and was practically concluded by its decision . The all-important question was , Should the Senate be allowed equal powers with the House of Representa-tives ? At first sight this may seem a matter of secondary importance , but the fact that by the second day it had divided // the Convention into two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To make the Senate the superior body , as in the United States , implied the subordination of the populous and wealthy colonies of New South Wales and Victoria to communities not onequarter as developed . On the other hand , to unduly limit senatorial authority meant that the smaller states would be absolutely at the mercy of the majority of people residing in the largest colonies . The advocates of the lower chamber took their stand upon the British practice , which forbids the House of Lords to amend bills raising or expending the public funds , declaring that the people would never submit to be taxed by a Senate to which they did not send representatives directly . On the other hand , their opponents insisted that unless the Senate were enabled to amend money bills , the smaller colonies might fail to receive their due share of expenditure , or be made the victims of unfair levies . The Liberals leant naturally enough to the side of popular Houses , while the Conservatives for the most part favored the Senate . Again , those who wished to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , supported the larger House , as representing the people of Australia without distinction as to colony ; while those who preferred a loose kind of federation or confederation , and jealously guarded state autonomy at every point , clove to the Upper Chamber . At the outset the Senate party were in a majority of five to one , and , indeed , there were opposed to them , out of the whole Convention , only the prime ministers of New South Wales , South Australia , and the five members of the Victoria Assembly . After a keen debate in the Convention and a prolonged struggle in the Committee , it was agreed that in general legislation the two Houses should be co-ordinate , but that the Senate could not be permitted to originate or amend money bills . It might make suggestions for their amendment , and these the House of Representatives could consider , accepting or rejecting them at pleasure ; but after having made its suggestions , the Senate , like the House of Lords , must either take the bill as returned to it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in South Australia for some time , and has therefore received a certain trial , but the strain upon a Federal Legislature is likely to be more severe . Collisions between local chambers have occurred at times in the colonies and have been settled more or less satisfactorily . The good sense and self-restraint which have sufficed in the smaller area must be relied upon in future struggles on a larger field . Americans may not unnaturally exhibit some surprise that this particular question should have been so hotly contested ; for with them the Senate amends money measures freely , a disagreement of the two Houses evokes no special comment , and does no positive injury : the machinery of government proceeds as usuaL The situation is totally changed , however , when responsible government is introduced , for it is then as if the President and his cabinet were ranged among the members of the directly elected Chamber , when pitted against a Senate which has been deprived of all executive control . A majority of the electors , a majority of their representatives , and the administration with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an almost irresistible attacking force . The American Senate might sustain the shock , and an Australian Senate under the new constitution would have a formidable power of resistance ; but public opinion under a responsible government takes a much more precise shape , takes it more rapidly , and is enabled to compel its leaders in the popular House to take aggressive action much more effectively than in America . By its control of the administration the House of Representatives will possess powers of coercion unknown in the United States . The prohibition against the amendment of money bills is not in itself very coercive , but it is at least a means of attack which can be employed at times . Its real significance is that it gives priority and superiority to the popular chamber , as well as additional prestige . Englishmen would probably marvel at the power entrusted to the Upper Chamber , but the fact that it is a Federal House distinguishes it // entirely from an hereditary chamber like the House of Lords , and even from the elective Upper Houses of Victoria and South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it associates a responsible government , dependent upon one chamber alone , with a second chamber strengthened by its federal origin and a kind of inviolable independence in its constituencies which will remain in some aspects , as they are now in all aspects , sovereign states . This combination is original , constitutes a type , and may properly be styled Australian . One strong argument for the adoption of responsible government in the commonwealth is that this is the system already in force and likely to be maintained in the several colonies . Just as the central government of the United States is a copy on . a large scale of the constitution in force in each State , except so far as the Senate is concerned , so the central government in Australia is to be a copy of the constitution now in force in Australia , with the exception of that of the Upper Chamber . In each country manhood suffrage is the basis of the House of iRepresentatives , a body elected for three years , but in Australia capable of being dissolved at any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unmakes administrations and new policies at uncertain intervals . The ministry , nearly all of whose members belong to the House , depends on its majority in the House , and the House depends upon the constituencies , thus forming a direct chain for the transmission of the popular will from the electoral to the executive . The second chamber in some colonies is composed of nominees appointed by successive ministries , and in others is elected upon a property franchise . Governments are represented in it only by one or two of their number , for it neither makes nor unmakes ministries , rarely takes the initiative in legislature , and has only a general veto on financial proposals . The governor is theoretically able to summon and dismiss ministries at his pleasure , but as parliament possesses the power of granting or refusing supplies , he could readily be compelled to accept the leaders and the policy favored by the legislature . As a matter of fact , he invariably does so without demur , and the control of the country remains in their hands . The one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in current politics is when he accepts or rejects the advice tendered to him by ministers to send the House of Representatives to its constituents before its term has expired . In this case , should he decline to act as advised , he must find new advisers who agree with him in his refusal and take the responsibility of it to the House . Unless they can command a majority there , they will be promptly ousted , so that in the solitary instance in which a governor can intervene in politics he can only delay the determination which , under all circumstances and in all cases , rests with parliament . In Canada parliament means the House of Representatives ; for the Senate consists of nominees . Even the States of which the North American Federation is composed are subject to that body in all their legislation . But in Australia Parliament will always consist of two Houses , with states as supreme as those of the great Republic behind the Upper Chamber . In working their British constitutions with chambers which are either nominee or directly elected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The commonwealth departs even more decisively from the familiar lines both in the appointment and authority of the Senate . In both respects its founders have confessed the influence of American example . The same influence is again apparent in the machinery provided for the alteration of the constitution , which requires that any amendment must be endorsed not only by both Houses , which would be sufficient in Great Britain or in Canada , but also by a majority of the voters in a majority of the states . The difference between this and the United States practice is , that while the will of the people of the American republic may be expressed either by their State legislatures or by conventions elected for the purpose , and has in fact been alwaysexpressed by the State parliaments , in Australia the legislatures are entirely // excluded and the issue is required to be submitted to conventions in all cases . The alternative method by which the legislatures of two-thirds of the United States may cause a convention to be summoned to draft and submit constitutional amendments , finds no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been employed in America . The colonial method , while jealously preserving state demarcations , brings the central legislature and the people closer together without the intervention of the local parliaments . This interesting combination of British with American constitutional forms is also distinctively Australian , and will undoubtedly develop on different lines to any existing state . It would be difficult to find any constitutions more liberal in their general principles , or more capable of being thoroughly liberalized , than are those now enjoyed in Australia . That proposed for the commonwealth is in one respect an advance upon them all , since a majority of the members of its Senate must be elected by the popular chambers of the several colonies , always numerically much stronger than their legislative councils . This not only renders the constitution more democratic , but more workable than those of the several colonies . As the local assemblies are returned by universal suffrage , we must look to the electors to insist upon their choice of senators of like mind with the members of the commonwealth House of Representatives , and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most questions , and authorities which may conflict in alL The immediate prospects of federation depend upon the politics and politicians in each colony , and as a rule the outlook is not promising . The first body consulted has been the New South *Vales Assembly , in which an attack was immediately made upon the proposed bill . This was defeated , but the free - trade government , which has never had more than a bare majority , was instantly faced by an opposition motion of want of confidence , and leading to a dissolution in June , at which the federal issue was submitted to the electors . As invariably happens , the verdicts of the various constituencies were not given on the same grounds . In a few the free trade or protection bias of the candidates determined their fate , but in most a new labor party swept the polls , bearing down freetraders , protectionists , federalists , and anti - federalists indifferently before them . They have returned a sufficient number of members to hold the balance of power between ministry and opposition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their general feeling is understood to be antagonistic to one or two of its chief provisions . The Victorian Parliament is at the time of writing engaged in discussing resolutions generally approving of the measure , and proposing to remit it after debate , and possibly after amendment , to the people . This will take place at the next general election , which must be held within the next seven or eight months , and may occur much earlier . The remission will not be , as in New South Wales , by means of candidates seeking seats in the new parliament , who declare themselves on this and other questions , but to a separate vote in separate ballot-boxes , which will render it an equivalent of the Swiss Referendum . Two amendments hostile to federation having been almost unanimously rejected , it appears probable that Victoria will adopt the bill pending its submission to the people . Mr. Munro , the present prime minister , has always declared in favor of federation , and some ten years since challenged the opinion of parliament upon it . Mr. Gillies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude , so that on this point both parties in the colony are already united . In South Australia the debate upon similar resolutions is just about commencing , and is expected to result in favor of the convention scheme , though there is a likelihood of one or two amendments . The adherence of Queensland is anticipated , with a probable remission of the bill to a local convention , and the adhesion of Tasmania is considered sure . On the other hand , it is certain that New Zealand will not join at present , and it is very probable that Western Australia will stand alone for a short time . If // New South Wales consents , the probability is that the whole continent will be federated in three years . If she stands apart , as she probably will , it is possible , but not probable , that Victoria , South Australia , Queensland , and Tasmania may form an union into which their neighbors on the mainland will come at a later day . Acceptance of the bill without amendment appears probable at present only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure so far proceed almost wholly from the radical ranks . There are those who desire that the limitation of each man to a single vote shall be made a condition precedent to the establishment of the new constitution ; others foresee danger in the special powers of suggestion entrusted to the Sejiate ; while a third party desire that the state representatives in the IJpper Chamber shall be elected by the people directly . In New South Wales a few politicians oppose the scheme because they know it will necessarily imply an Australian system of protection ; while a few protectionists in Victoria dread the operation of inter-colonial free-trade ; but neither of these opinions is likely to prove of importance . The conservative aspiration for a supreme Senate seems to have been abandoned , and dislike to the republican ring of the name commonwealth to have died away . The labor party suspect the bill more because of the men who support it than from any definite apprehensions , so that if the federal issue could be fairly and separately submitted to the people in all the colonies it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of union . Whatever may be the outcome of the party struggles which now , as always , occupy the chief place in the local parliaments , and may be the means of obscuring or temporarily defeating federation , the power that makes for union is certain ultimately to accomplish its end . Nor should it be many years before this consummation is reached , seeing that the whole subject has now been thrashed out , and a practical scheme submitted upon which criticism can cxhaust itself so as to educate public opinion . It can not be set aside without discussion by even the most narrow party men , and criticism is likely to commend it in the long run to thoughtful citizens . The bill is not perfect , but whatever its faults when judged by an ideal standard , it is the crown and culmination of a long effort after union , which partly blind , and partly conscious , partly occasioned by the pressure of external need , and partly inspired by a deep national aspiration , has produced in its due time a birth which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what its immediate fate may be . The draft constitution is at least a landmark , and in all likelihood very much more than that , even under most adverse circumstances . It is an embodiment of a great principle which may be superseded , but can not be effaced or ignored . ' All sections of the population have contributed in their turn to the task of preparing for it . The Australian-born Wentworth , who led the way , is followed by an earnest throng of his countrymen , who , through their special association , have done much to maintain and extend the ambition for union . From his time to the present hour leaders of the movement have risen indifferently from the several nationalities and the several colonies : the Englishmen Parkes and Playford , the Scotchmen Service and Gillies , the Irishmen Duffy and Macrossan , and the Welshman Griffith . The press is all but unanimous in its favor , and it is at least as able and influential here as in the other Anglo-Saxon communities . The cause of union , sacred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grow upon them and to inspire others until it attains its exalted aim . When its commonwealth is established , Australia will have acquired an august political organization , capable of responding to the fullest demands of national life ; within which all the latent forces of its people may expand without difficulty or danger , peacefully attaining their free fruition under the shelter of a citizen army and an effective fleet , without peer or rival in the southern seas.                     