@@563367

txt EVER since the passage of the act to regulate commerce , popularly denominated the Interstate Commerce law , there has been a continuous though unsuccessful effort to secure , by Congressional enactment* the substitution of provisions for the legal recognition and Federal supervision of railway pools for the absolute prohibition of such arrangements contained in that statute . Railway owners and managers , during the period when the present law was under consideration in the National Legislature , protested vigorously , and with substantial unanimity , against the inclusion of the anti-pooling clause in the scheme of regulation adopted for the business of interstate railway transportation , and have continued with progressively increasing vehemence to assert the impracticability of affording adequate protection against unjust discrimination to railway patrons unless the revenues of railways that should be profitable are also protected against the losses that are certain to result from unrestrained and illegitimate competition of bankrupt lines and circuitous routes . They have contended , with apparently sincere and certainly plausible arguments , that such protection can not be secured except through agreements for the division of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of this fact any provision of law forbidding such agreements is radically inconsistent with other provisions prohibiting the preferential treatment of particular shippers or localities . Adopting these conclusions , though possibly with modifications and reservations not at all material to the present discussion , the proposition to amend the Interstate Commerce law so as to permit railway pooling , subject to suitable conditions of official supervision , has received the approval and endorsement of the present // chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission ; of successive annual conventions of State Railroad Commissioners , of the National Board of Trade , of Judge Reagan , the author of the antipooling provision of the present law ; of Senator Cullom , chairman of the Committee on Interstate Commerce of the United States Senate ; of the present Speaker of the National House of Representatives , and of every intelligent and honest student of transportation . Before examining the causes which have resulted in this surprising and unfortunate failure of the almost unanimous sentiment among the most enlightened portion of the public to secure a measure which it has consistently favored , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been reached the conclusion that the division of competitive traffic or the earnThgs therefrom among the various railways whose lines are available for its transportation , in proportions fixed by a common agreement , is , under present conditions , an absolutely essential element in any seheme for the mitigation of the evils of the present railway situation that can be satisfactorily successful . The nature of the business of furnishing railway facilities is such that it can be competitive as to comparatively but few individuals , including those only who are located at or near points served by two or more independent railways . In its relation to all other individuals , and to all localities provided with less ample facilities for transportation , the railway corporation possesses a monopoly privilege , and , in the absence of effective legal restraint , its charges are limited , if at all , solely by the requirement imposed by enlightened self-interest that they shall not prevent the movement of traffic . In practice , this theoretical limitation is too frequently disregarded , and the rates prescribed are practically prohibitive . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of the Potomac and Ohio rivers , and east of the Mississippi river . The railways serving this section have formulated their rate schedules in accordance with a purpose , by them freely acknowledged and warmly defended , to foster the wholesale or jobbing business of certain cities , and to compel the residents of all other cities and towns to purchase their supplies in the favored cities , while restricting the sales of the merchants located in the places discriminated against to the goods necessary to supply the retail demand of their several localities . // Though competition among railways might , of course , be confined to the facilities for safe or rapid transportation offered by the different companies , it is usually carried on by means of offers to perform similar services for varying compensation . Its tendency is to reduce the charges for transportation between localities served by two or more carriers , while , at the same time , preserving the average rate of all charges by the maintenance of relatively unreasonable rates for the movement of non-competitive business . Serious discriminations against localities served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even at the comparatively few points at which there is actual competition anion* independent and rival railways , the benefits of the contests for traffic are rarely distributed among the general public with even approximate equality . In consequence of the modern specialization of industrial functions , the larger interests at such points are usually , if not invariably , concentrated in a few lines of production . Considerations relating to the convenience of the railways , as well as to that of their patrons , naturally impel the former to provide special equipment for the transportation of the traffic supplied by such interests , and this , together with the magnitude of the business they furnish , renders it the especial object of whatever competition may occur . Under ordinary circumstances , competition among sellers finds expression in a series of offers to supply the particular commodity vended at varying prices , this series of offers finally resulting in a practically uniform price which approximates the cost of production of the last increment of supply for which there is an effective demand . Such offers are open to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom they are made . Among railways , and it may parenthetically be noted , at times among highly centralized lines of production generally , such is not the ordinary course of competition . Open offers would speedily result in uniform charges , and traffic would seek the lines naturally best adapted to convey each particular shipment . Each line attempts , therefore , to keep secret its concessions to shippers , and , in order to do so , makes them to particular patrons only . Hence arise unjust discriminations , upon which are built up extortionate profits , and finally enormous industrial combinations , which in turn are able effectively to demand favors in the adjustment of railway charges and to dictate the terms upon which they will purchase transportation . No one has better ex* // pressed these facts than Hon. Martin A. Knapp , the present chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission . In the course of one of the best studies of railway problems ever written , he said : " The ultimate effect of preferential rates is to concentrate the commerce of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is usually the large shipper , is furnished with a weapon against which skill , energy , and experience are alike unavailing . When the natural advantages of capital are augmented by exemptions from charges commonly imposed , it becomes powerful enough to force all rivals from the field . If we could unearth the secrets of these modern trusts , ' whose surprising exploits excite such wide apprehension , we should find an explanation of their menacing growth in the systematic methods by which - they have evaded the burdens of transportation . The reduced charges which they have obtained , sometimes by favoritism and oftener by force , account in great measure for the colossal gains which they have accumulated . This is the sleight of hand by which the marvel has been produced , the key to the riddle which has amazed and alarmed the nation . If these combinations were deprived of special and exclusive rates there is little doubt that they would be shorn of their greatest strength and lose their dangerous supremacy . Indeed , I think it scarcely too much to say that no alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove of real , or at least permanent , advantage , if rigidly subjected to just aud impartial charges for public transportation . " An effect similar to that of unjust discriminations among the patrons of a single line may be produced among those of competing railways if the rate schedules of the latter prescribe different charges for like and contemporaneous services . For example , if among two or more individuals who simultaneously ship equal quantities of the same commodity from the same place to the same destination , one secures the transportation at a lower aggregate cost , the commercial disadvantage resulting to the others is neither more nor less , whether the routes traversed by the various shipments are identical or otherwise . For similar reasons it is not of the least importance to the residents of a district coinpeting with those of some other district for the privilege of supplying a particula.r community with some necessary product , whether the relatively unjust rate which deprives them of equality of opportunity in the market common to both is for a service performed by a line owned or operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfairly favored locality must pass . It follows that it is essential to the equitable distribution of the aggregate cost of transportation , not only that particular railways charge similar rates for similar services , but that all railways or combinations of railways which offer to perform similar services // Bliall establish and collect therefor uniform rates and charges . Anything less than this necessarily involves unjust discriminations and ultimate demoralization of the industries dependent upon railway transportation . However the Interstate Commerce law may have failed to satisfy the expectations of its friends , its operation during twelve years has established beyond controversy the fact , that satisfactorily permanent uniformity in the rates exacted for traffic for which two or more railway routes are available , can not be maintained without the aid of a system which provides a substantial incentive to adherence to agreements after they have been adopted . Such a system must substitute for the superficial spirit of rivalry and conflict , now too frequently prevalent among railway managers , a thorough appreciation of the identity of the corporate interests which they serve . As long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among a large number of legally separate corporations with different bodies of security holders , and their surplus revenues to be divided , in consequence , among distinct bodies of investors , the requisite harmonization of interests can be achieved , if at all , only by the division of all traffic for which two or more routes are , from a commercial standpoint , practically avai1ai*le among the carriers operating such routes , in stipulated proportions , according to contracts , the observance of which may be enforced by judicial process . Though railway competition has not only failed to secure the public against unjust discriminations , but has actually fostered them , it is frequently contended that it has resulted in cheapening transportation , and popular approval of the regulation by which it is enforced has been sought as a consequence . Here a somewhat plausible affirmative argument can be made by the mere assumption , which will frequently pass unnoticed , that coincidence of time and place establish a relation as between cause and effect . Average charges for railway transportation are , per unit of distance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than elsewhere in the world . The whole period of the development of railway facilities has been characterized by a downward movement in rates of fare and freight , which is one of its most salient features . Careful investigation of the incidents of this decline show clearly , however , that it is due to causes which are wholly extraneous to the railway system except in so far as the // enlightened perception on the part of those officials having charge of railways , that the future of such properties is invariably dependent upon the development of the territory contiguous and tributary to their lines , and that such development is largely dependent upon cheap transportation , can be considered an intrinsic cause . The genuine competition of trade , and not the pseudo competition of transportation , is the cause with which the decline in railway charges can be logically connected . Persistent and powerful pressure is constantly exerted to secure concessions in rates , in order to place particular producing regions upon a better footing in markets already reached , or to extend the areas which they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient to enable one region to monopolize a market formerly common to several , and thus lead to demands upon other carriers reaching the market from different directions . The sugar of Hawaii and that of Germany and Cuba find common markets in the United States , and whether the sale of one or both in large districts shall be profitable , or the reverse , is wholly a question of transportation rates . Salt from Michigan and Kansas meet in Iowa and other states on similar conditions , as do many other commodities in various portions of the country . Competing shippers in the same locality are constantly endeavoring to obtain more favorable rates than those accorded to their rivals , and though these may be , under present conditions , temporarily secret , they not infrequently lead to open reductions . The use of particular commodities is often limited territorially by the freight charges from the points of production to those of consumption , and when charges are too high on certain articles , substitutes produced nearer the points of consumption , or carried at lower freight rates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by limiting the distance which agents may profitably be sent or purchasers traverse , and otherwise hindering personal communication , effectively prescribe the limits of profitable interchange of commodities and interfere with the territorial division of labor . In consequence of these facts , the whole force of commercial competition , the most amazing and tremendous product of modern industrial and economic organization , is arrayed in a continuous effort to secure ever cheapening transportation . As a result , railway charges tend uninterruptedly toward the lowest rate that will produce a revenue sufficient in the aggregate to meet operat // ing expenses , including necessary repairs and renewals , and , in addition , return to capital the lowest recompense for which it can be procured . As the latter is at any particular time a definite and ascertainable sum , it is evident that expenses of operation constitute the only controllable element . Here is found a barrier which legislative attempts to secure railway competitiou have erected against further reductions in charges being made possible by the inauguration of extensive economies in operation . There is thus imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise unnecessarily high , this peculiar form of competition , that is profitable to no one , and , as has been shown , is the prolific parent of unjust discriminations . Some of the wasteful expenses incident to competition may be enumerated . Authentic statistics of the amounts paid by rival lines as commissions for securing business are very difficult to obtain , as the *uccess of such practices depends very largely upon the degree of secrecy that it is possible to attain . The Interstate Commerce Commission was able to ascertain , however , that nine roads paid out an aggregate sum of more than one million dollars in a single year as commissions on passenger business alone . It is stated on reliable authority that as much as $20.70 has been paid to secure a single second-class passenger from Chicago to San Francisco . The multitude of outside agencies and travelling agents , maintained solely for the purpose of securing business for their respective lines that might otherwise go by those of their competitors , involves an expenditure so great , even during periods of comparative harmony , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract . The agreement now in force limits to eight the number of these agencies that may be maintained in the city of New York by each of the nine roads competing for through west-bound traffic . As it is a fact of ordinary observation that such agencies invariably cluster in particular portions of the city , and around particular corners , it is obvious that under a system of joint agencies , the public could be accorded superior service at lower cost . During the too frequent periods of wholly unbridled competition , popularly denominated " rate-wars , " each participating road has its freight and passenger agents in nearly every important city in the country , at a total expense for rents , clerk hire , advertising , etc. , that must be enormous . Four roads operating westward from Chicago are known to have expended // over a million and a quarter dollars for outside agencies and advertising in a single year during which rates were fairly maintained , while during an equal period one road out of New York expended $871,291 for similar purposes . The competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for traffic that would naturally traverse cheaper and more direct lines , is another gross extravagance too frequently observed . Between Omaha and St. Paul , with a short line distance of 373 miles , traffic is carried by a line *34 miles in length . From Chicago to New York , 21 routes-rangin* from 912 to 1,376 miles-compete for traffic , while between Omaha and San Francisco there are five , of which the shortest is 1,865 and the longest 2,724 miles . Besides the numerous regular and " tramp " steamships available for shipments from New York to New Orleans , more than ninety all-rail lines are actively seeking to share in the business . The most direct of these is 1,340 miles in length , or 711 miles shorter than the longest . As an example of the waste of competitive train service it is not necessary to add anything to the bare statement that forty-four trains leave Chicago each day for New York , and that simiar duplication of service exists all over the country . No intelligent student of transportation doubts that whenever it becomes possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of regulative legislation , to eliminate from the cost of railway operation these economically useless and wasteful expenditures , the saving thus effected will accrue to the benefit of . the general public , .. through the reductions in rates which will be then permitted to result from the action and interaction of the commercial forces hereinbefore described . Having reviewed with some care the facts and arguments which , together with a knowledge of the present , though tentative , limits of possible legislation , imposed by intelligent conservatism , long ago can sed enlightened public sentiment practically to crystallize in favor of the re-establishment , under suitable restrictions , of the pooling system , it will be of some utility to examine the obstacles that have so far prevented any effective legislative expression in accordance with that sentiment . Such an expression has been principally prevented by causes that may be classified and characterized as : ( a ) The unwarranted fears and toostrenuous conservatism of certain railway owners and managers ; ( b ) the honest ignorance of a portion of the public and its legisla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dishonesty of those who are in a position to gain pecuniarily by the continuance of present conditions of railway rate-making . The causes in each class will be examined in order . A limited number of railway owners and officials , it is believed , very reluctantly and only from a strong sense of duty to the public as well as to their own and their employers ' interests , have interposed objections to legislation that would permit railway pooling , a thing which in itself they most earnestly desire , because all such legislative proposals have included provisions intended to strengthen the scheme of Federal railway regulation , which provisions the objectors consider to be framed , not only in derogation of the vested property rights of railway corporations , but so as to be inconsistent with the fundamental principles and inimical to the institutions of a democratic republic . The provisions to which exceptions are taken are , speaking generally , intended to make the Interstate Commerce law mean what the public supposed it to mean at the time of its enactment . They are intended to confer upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( probably ) minimum rates , to be applied to particular traffic after complaint regarding those promulgated by the carrier or carriers has been made , and followed by a formal investigation of which notice has been given to all interested parties , and at which such parties have been afforded ample opportunity to be represented by counsel and to present testimony . If adopted , substantial finality would be given to the findings of fact determined by the Commission as the result of its formal hearings , and judicial review of its proceedings would be limited to questions of law , though any court to which appeal may be taken would be permitted to remand any particular cash to the Commission for further investigation of the facts . A modification of the fourth section , commonly known as the " long and short haul clause , " has also been proposed , as has a grant of authority , similar to that exercised in England , to require the establishment of joint routes and the promulgation of through rates , and a considerable extension of the notice of changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes of apparently minor importance , but it is to the first two enumerated above that there is most vehement opposition , and , as they are the only ones likely to be finally insisted upon by the friends // of the law , upon the validity of the objections to them must rest the wisdom of this particular form of antagonism to the proposed enactment . Without entering upon any discussion of the sufficiency of ordinary judicial processes to control the rate-making powers of railway officials , it may be declared , with confidence , that the people will not consent to be finally relegated to those processes for the redress of their real or fancied grievances against railway corporations . The Interstate Commerce law having practically failed to supplement , in a satisfactory manner , the means for relief previously available , it is impossible to believe that the people will cease to demand substantial supervision of interstate railways , or that Congress will acknowledge its impotence to exercise , in adequate measure , its Constitutional authority to regulate commerce among the several states . Though effective legislation may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensity of the public sentiment in its favor , nor mitigate its eventual rigor . The practical question for the most conservative owner or manager of railway property to decide is not whether the operation of the properties in his charge shall be subject to Federal regulation , but rather , what form such regulation shall assume . The latter is , as yet , an open question , and at the present time the influence of those in charge of such properties may have controlling force in determining the decision . Their advice , frankly , promptly , and ingenuously given , may be , it is even likely to be , heeded . But if it is too long deferred , if they struggle too obstinately or yield too grudgingly , they may see , not only the serious impairment of the property rights for the preservation of which they contend , but the inauguration also of experiments pregnant with danger to the Republic . The impracticability of attempts to regulate railway business by means of a commission being once definitely established , or , what to many may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to outwear the patience of the people , the next , the inevitable , and as true conservatives may discreetly fear , the unfortunate and irretrievable step , will be to the government ownership and operation of the railway facilities of the country . The alternative is not one that railway men should long hesitate to accept . Their traffic is not increased or their revenues permanently enhanced by restricting the interchange of commodities and the movement of commerce , but by encouraging the territorial division of labor and promot // ing the development of the resources of the regions tributary to their respective lines . Their interests lie not only in dealing justly with the people and in seeking an adjustment of their charges that treats different and competing communities and citizens with both absolute and relative equity , but , also , in securing the most ample public confidence in the integrity of their intentions . Few will assert that the president , or the traffic manager , or other rate-making official of a particular road is the one individual certain to take the broadest and wisest view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which may arise in connection with the amount to be charged for almost any service that can be performed by the company for which he acts . The data in his possession may be meagre ; he may be affected by acquired prejudices ; or , thou , h men of small ability are rarely prominent in railway business , his capacity may be moderate . While permitting him to act in the first instance , the endowment of the Interstate Commerce Commission , with the limited ratemaking authority that has been suggested and to which the other proposed powers are mere adjuncts , would supplement his authority by that of a board of impartial and unbiased experts , whose function , in this particular , would be to review such of his conclusions as became the subject of complaint , and to arbitrate upon them between the railway corporation and the public , by whom the functions of the latter have been delegated . Such a board and the willingness of railway corporations to submit their ratemaking power to its supervision would seemingly strengthen , in public estimation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial equity of their demands , or at least , in the uprightness of their intentions . It is exceedingly difficult to discover any valid objections to the creation of such a board of expert arbitrators which , when advanced by railway managers , are consistent with the belief that those who urge them do not desire to exact unreasonable compensation for ' the services they supply . They will not claim that by accepting such arbitration they would surrender any substantial power to determine their own charges , for the most enlightened of them have admitted have indeed founded able and convincing arguments upon thc- tact as a premise , that the exercise of the rate-making power n6minally possessed by them is invariably subject to limitations imposed by commercial conditions wholly external to the railway system , and // against which they would vainly struggle to secure extortionate returns . While the legal restrictions now existing are continued , the rates on competitive traffic enjoyed by any particular carrier are also effectively controlled by their rivals and in constantly imminent danger of demoralization as the result of a struggle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporarily eliminated the necessity of earning interest upon its funded debt . For this situation railways and their patrons might well prefer to substitute an agency which would promote their mutual interests , by fixing all rates upon a basis reasonable alike to those who pay and to those who collect them . Opposition arising from what has been called the honest ignorance of a portion of the public is rapidly disappearing , as a consequence of the liberal education resulting from the worse than failure of the anti-pooling clause of the Interstate Commerce law . Such opposition has been , principally , the consequence of the unreasoned popular prejudice against those combinations which are rather indefinitely grouped under the term " monopoly , " as it is commonly applied , a prejudice resulting in a large degree from the acceptance as axiomatic of the maxim which declares that competition is the life of trade . Skilfully played upon by corrupt and selfish demagogues , the consequences of this prejudice include provisions of constitutional and statutory law , both national and state , which have retarded harmonious railway development , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under similar provocation it yet lingers in certain sections , a curious rather than a dangerous relic , of an unwholesome and evil force now nearly extinct . That the public will insist upon the permanent maintenance of* a wasteful , extravagant and uneconomic competition among the various portions of what should be a thoroughly co-ordinated and harmonious railway system , when such competition has ceased to be more than a costly and baneful fetich , a justification of higher charges than would otherwise be required , and the prolific parent of unjust discriminations , is not to be believed . The most powerful , and , in many respects , the most alarming oppositon to railway pooling under any and all conditions , springs from the selfish interests of a class that is always keenly alive and intelligently active to take advantage of the slightest oppoffunit* to secure increased profits . Attention has already , in this paper , // been directed to the importance , to the many large combinations of capital invested in industrial enterprises , of the unfair advantages in the charges for railway services which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission , " sometimes by favoritism , but oftener by force . " Under existing conditions of competition , they are able to secure such advantages by threatening to withdraw their patronage from any line the officials of which are obstinate in their refusals to make the concessions demanded . It is not necessary in every case actually to violate the letter of the Interstate Commerce law . Though rebating , making secret rates , underbilling , false weighing and similar practices are frequently resorted to , results equally satisfactory can often be secured by means of rate manipulations which do not involve the transgression of express statutory provisions . Early information of pending rate changes may be turned to considerable advantage when the difference in charges amounts to all , or nearly all ( it is sometimes much more ) , of the possible profit on the commodities transported . Rates may be temporarily lowered while the large shipper is purchasing transportation , and advanced before his rivals can take advantage of them , or the former can wait until his competitor has shipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the promises he has obtained , that his own shipments will be forwarded promptly at greatly reduced rates of charge . The relation between rates on raw materials and their manufactured products are often of vital importance to large shippers as well as to their competitors . For example : Flour would not be manufactured in the Northwest for shipment to Eastern consumers if the rates for shipments of wheat were relatively much lower than those applied to flour , and the place at which cattle shall be slaughtered is determined in a very large measure by the differences between the charges for transporting cattle and their meat products . It has been frequently asserted that the adjustment of rates upon the latter pair of commodities from Chicago to the Atlantic seaboard has been dictated by a combination of capitalists engaged in the business of slaughtering cattle at Chicago , and their control of the rates on eastward bound shipments of dressed beef , which is a matter of public record , is understood to have been secured by means of a contract to concentrate upon a single line a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to secure definite information regarding the practices by which illegal favors are granted , important facts concerning some of them have been made public through legislative and judicial investigations . Recalling the testimony of a railway official before the " Hepburn " committee of the New York Legislature that rebates were paid to Mr. A. T. Stewart in order to " build up and develop " his business , it will be of interest to cite some fragments of the evidence that shows in what manner the Standard Oil Company has attained its present mastery of the business in which it is engaged . A principal official of one of the leading trunk lines of the country testified , in 1879 , that " we stated to the outside refiners that we would make lower rates to the Standard Oil Company than they got . " Similarly , an official of one of the Pacific roads declared , during 1887 , that the oil combination " from the time it acquired the oil business on this coast had lower rates than the general tariff provided , or than other shippers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Marietta , Ohio , sought to compete with the Standard Oil Company , the rates charged for bringing crude petroleum to his refineries was placed at thirty-five cents per barrel , while his gre at competitor secured identical service for ten cents per barrel . This discrimination was forced from the railway by means of a threat on the part of the oil trust to construct a competing pipe line if it were refused , and if the social consequences of the application of such principles to railway rate-making were less serious would be rendered almost humorous by the additional fact , elicited in the course of judicial proceedings , that txventy-five cents of the thirtyfive cents per barrel paid by the independent refiner to the railway corporation were by the latter transferred to the oil combination , as a further consideration for its refraining from the construction of a pipe line . The hopelessness of competition among producers under such conditions needs no comment , yet it is to secure such result that the aphorism " competition is the life of trade " is made a rule of action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No one would suppose that the beneficiaries of unjust discriminations would not seek to prevent an enactment that would make them more difficult or impossible to obtain , and we are not surprised therefore to find the trusts unanimously , though , so far as possible , secretly , working to prevent the legalization of railway pools . If separate // carriers could enter into agreements for the equitable division of competitive business and to secure the enforcement of such agreements could obtain the aid of the Federal courts , they could no longer be compelled to accept the business of even the strongest shipper or combinations of shippers upon terms dictated by the latter . Instead of independent and inharmonious corporations , each ready to become an agency to demoralize the traffic and earnings of the others , the railways of the United States would constitute a compact , homogeneous system , presenting , toward all shippers , an aspect of undeviating fairness and unyielding unity , not to be destroyed by the attacks of those whose selfish interests demand the perpetuation of the principal evils , the correction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Current opposition to that form of railway pooling which constitutes the single essential preliminary to the railway reforms now most necessary is practically included within the classes enumerated . One may well hope that the belated ignorance which , in spite of the amplest evidence to the contrary , still insists that there can be genuine competition among railways , and that such competition has substantial regulative value , will soon cease to be an effective agency for the maintenance of conditions that result in unjust discriminations which are mainly beneficial to those whose efforts are directed toward the suppression of competition in trade , and that , after full consideration , railway owners and managers will perceive the wisdom of accepting , together with permission to make contracts for the division of their traffic , whatever degree of effective Federal regulation may be necessary to satisfy a reasonable public . When these things have been accomplished , the combinations of capitalists that destroy competition in trade and banish real individualism in industry , will have little power further to retard the most substantial step toward the solution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support , though their efforts to do so will no doubt be as secret , as vigorous , and as tireless as ever.                     