@@485629

IT MAY NOT be an omen for- the coming legislative year , but it is a comforting thought that the two civil-liberties heroes of the 87th Congress will be back in the Capitol lists DAVID WESLEY is editorial-page editor of the York Pa . ) , Gazette and Daily . when the 88th convenes.rOne a Republican Congressman , and the ' other a Democratic , Senator , they led a handful of - cohorts to an unprecedented pair of exploits . in the civil-liberties : field ; and both followed up by iaining-impressive , re-election vic-tories . The heroes were Representa-tive John : , V : Lindsay- in New York and Senator Joseph S. Clark in Penn- . sylvani a . ' . In what began as a one- ? an crusade , Lindsay succeeded in defeating a bill that would - have given statutory , authority , for arbitrary government , firings of : defense-industry . ' workers and scientists . But of equal import to-the libertarian cause was the fact that the bill 's defeat involved the marshaling of the greatest Congressional show of force against the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was committee-sponsored and authored by its heretofore , unbeatable chairman , Representative Francis E. Walter . Roughly half a dozen were the most anti-HUAC votes ever , mustered before . Lindsay 's battle array , when the final count was taken on Sept. 19 , came to an amazing , bipartisan 132 . This was enough to beat the bill because Walter , ' as he often does , was trying to slip his measure through on the suspensiOnof-the-Rules calendar , a " gag " device that liMits debate time but requires a two-thirds vote . Just a week after this milestone event in the House , Senator Clark set a similar record in the Senate . In fighting a-mail-censorship provision in the postal rate-revision hill , ' Clark came up with an amendment that garnered thirty-three votes in its favor  --  a third of the Senate 's membership . Although the provision stayed in the new Postal Act , thereby saddling the nation with the first censorship-of-the-mails law in its history , no less , a Congressional authority than Vice President Lyndon Johnson observed when the battle was over that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a civil-liberties vote in the United States Senate . " WALTER 'S bill , introduced as an amendment to the McCarran Act , would have made law out of former President EisenhoWer 's Executive Order No. 10865 , under which more than five million AMerican workers and scholars  --  those laboring in the vineyards of national defense  --  are subject to tough security-screening regulations that carry over into private enterprise the " faceless informer " and no-reasons-given dismissals formerly restricted to , classified government employment ( though Lindsay pointed out that ev , en the supersensitive AEC provides better protection for employees about , whom accusations might be made than do the , industry regulations , including those in Walter 's bill ) . The little-known Industrial Secu-424 rity Clearance Review Program drops a securety-clearanCe blanket-Over all wage- and salary-earners in every defense-connected : private industry and , as HR 11363 said , " any industrial ' , educationareor research organization , institution ; enterprise or other ' legal entity " rdealirig in any way with ' " classified . information . " The private employer is compelled to fire at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and while a departthental appeal procediare  --  s provided ( there is no judicial : revie* as there is in the Administrative Procedure Act ) , this apparatus , at the'discretion of the Department , need not be used . ON July 27 , , 1959 ; when these regulations Were in effect by Defense Department fiat alone , the Supreme Court threw them out on the ground that they had , been authorized neither by- the Executive nor the Congress , ( Green v. McElroy ) . In so , ruling , however , the Court appeared to imply that the absence of due ' process in the procedures raised a potential constitutional question . In combating HR 11363 ? which , like Eisenhower 's Executive Order , was produced in response to the Court decision -- Lindsay took up the constitutional issue where the Court had dropped it , and with prompt and vigorous ' backing from the AFL-CIO and the ACLU he formed a bipartisan team with five colleagues that undertook a swift ' lobbying job on the entire membership of the House . While the size of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the HUAC bill was too important to be adopted withOut full debate ; it was the Defense Department 's ' Sweeping authority over a sizable segment of the American labor force and scientific community , without the constitutional safeguard of due process , that agitated Lindsay and such other civil libertarians in the House as Roosevelt ( D. , Cal . ) , Reuss ( D. , Wis. ) ' and Ryan ( TX , N.Y. ) . Under the bill , said ' Lindsay , " the government , for the first ' tine , could , come between a. man and  --  iis private emploYment without due process of law . " ' The fact is , " of Course , that it already can , and his ; under the Executive Order Program , and perhaps more than any other single thing this weapon of the military , held at the head of every employee , so to speak , in an industry that accounts for more than 10 per cent of the Gross National Product , provides a major underpinning for " the warfare state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though also legalized by an Eisenhower Executive Order ? has been the practice of the Customs Bureau and the Post Office of detaining so-called " Communist propaganda " ( ' the definition used is the much-criticized one in the Foreign Agents Registration Act ) sent by other than first-class mail . This example of what Walt Whitman called " the never-ending audacity of elected officials " goes back to 1940 , when the Attorney ' General , in response to a question from the Postmaster General , declared that the Postmaster was within his rights to exercise this arbitrary authority  --  a need having arisen to control a flood of Nazi propaganda . The program lapsed after the war , , was picked up again with the Korean War  --  the target being switched from Nazi to Communist material  --  and finally formalized  --  for the first time in peacetime ? by ' President Eisenhower . Within three months after taking office  --  on March 17 , 1961 ? President Kennedy issued ' an order canceling the program , saying he thought " the American people are used to ' hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signal for the intrepid Mr. Walter to come to the rescue again , but this time he suffered a rare and still unexplained attack of Constitutionitis . His ' bill , passed by the House in ' September , 1961 , dropped the detention feature and contented itself with warnings of " Communist propaganda " ' affixed to post-office walls and dispatched to ' recipients of such mail . This , announced the patriarchal ' guardian of Americanism to his startled ' associates , was " as far as we can ' constitutionally go . " ' It was not , however , as far as the House was willing to go . To the 87th 's huge Postal Service and ' Federal Employees Salary Act of 1962 , one Glenn Cunningham , a right-wing Republican Congressman from The NATION Omaha , Neb. , offered an amendment reinstituting the old postal-censorship program in more drastic form , which the House accepted . When the Cunningham amendment , reached the Senate , Senator Clark instantly went into action . In committee , ? is efforts were reinforced by critical testimony from ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brunt of the screenings and who shuddered at the enormity of the task ( in St. ' Paul , Minn. , some years ago , a hapless Customs ' employee Was set loose ' in a warehouse bulging with accumulated " propaganda " armed only with a Russian-English dictionary ) ; and from USIA Director Edward R. Murrow , - who li-imented the possibility that , ' reviVal of ' the program #1h-t , bi ; ing Soviet- retaliation just 1.01ea the. , way ' Was being eased for ArrieriCan propaganda in the Communist state 's . As a matter of fact , ' statistics provided by a usually reliable source-indicate that the propaganda scales are ' weighted these days somewhat differently than popularly imagined . At a press conference after House passage of the Cunningham amendment last January , President Kennedy noted : " I think in the last twelve months ending March 31 , 1961 , we sent a total of 16 million pounds of mail of all types to the iron-curtain countries , and food packages and all of the rest , and we were only receiving 2.3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been a drop in the mail coming in from Communist countries , " he said , since cancellation of the censorship . IN THE end , the committee found itself nonplused as to what to do about the situation . " Finally , " Clark later revealed , " we were handed a proposed amendment and told verbally that some officers of the Administration thought it could be lived with , and we swallowed it hook , ' line and sinker by a vote ' of 6 to 3 . " The new measure abandoned the worst ' features of the Cunningham amendment and even improved on ' the Truman-Eisenhower system . Under ' the House proposal , matter determined by ' the Attorney General ' to be communist propaDecember 1:5 ; 1962 ganda would be limited to fourth-class distribution . This , of course , would entail total mail . censorship , since even sealed letters would have to. - go through the X-ray machines . The Senate version kept the detention feature of the former program , under which addressees were notified - of the detained matter and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ) first-class mail ; ( b ) matter known to .. be desired , such as publications going to regular subscribers : , - (c) mail addressed to any ' government agency , public library or educational institution ( but not , as the section was later amended ' in conference with the House , the students and faculty ) ; and ( d ) any mail delivery that was part of a specific cultural-exchange program . IN THESE exceptions , incidentally , Clark immediately noted a blow at freedom of the press : " There is no exception provided , " he pointed out , " for radio broadcasters , television news analysts , newspaper reporters or anyone whose job it is to tell the American people exactly what propaganda is . " All the same , except for The New York Times and The W ash , - ington Post , the debate on the amendment in the Senate aroused little press interest  --  although another section of the act was all but turned into a cause ceMbre , namely , the increase in the second-class mail rate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was eloquently seconded by Senators Randolph ( D. , W.Va. ) and Yarborough ( D. , Tex. ) , who had joined in voting against the amendment in committee . Randolph insisted the measure was unconstitutional , and declared that " A federal censorship imposed under any guise in time of peace is repulsive to me . " Yarborough brand ed it a " police-state amendment . " While Clark made much of the fact that those forced publicly to disclose an interest in certain information from Communist countries would provide a handy source of file-fattening names for the FBI , Yarborough pointed out that the detention system itself supplied a vastly larger roster of loyalty suspects , namely , all the addressees . If the Soviet Ambassy , he suggested , wanted to embarrass anti-Communists , it need only place them on its preferred mailing , list . Declaring that " it would be wiser to rely on the common sense and patriotism of the American people to reject propaganda than to take the first small step toward a police state by creating . . . censorship , ' FOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but his proposal would have given the President the authority to put its provisions into effect at his discretion . This time Mansfield spoke up in support and so did Senator Cooper , Kentucky Republican and former Ambassador to India , who made a strong constitutional plea against the Senate amendment . It was this final vote against Clark that showed the relatively narrow margin of 48 to 33 . Having lost their good fight , Clark , Randolph ' and Yarborough wound up voting for the act as a whole , which was eventually signed by the President . But their feat , and that of their counterparts in the House , may well have raised the whole civil7liberties struggle in the Congress to a new level . Rarely have so many legislators in both Houses stood to be counted in favor of the U.S. Constitution . 