@@485475

The Brontes in Ireland ; or , Peas Stranger than Fiction By Dr. William Wright - London Hodder &; Stoughton , New York Appletons . Pp. xx , 308. 1893 TE:E extensive and deeply interesting literature relating to the Bionte sisters has hitherto treated of little previous to the period of their father , Patrick Bronte , leaving his home in the county of Down , in 1802 , and entering at St. John 's College , Cambridge . Dr. Wright has evidently for many years given himself conscientiously to the task of tracing the farm -- ly history back to its source , and we have now the result of his labors in a volume graphically written , beautifully printed , and profusely illustrated . Yet we can not say that we rise from its perusal with feelings of unmixed satisfaction . The interest attaching to names brought prominently before the public is of different degrees and kinds , and what we desire to know regarding one is not altogether the same as what we desire to know regarding another . We should welcome the slightest hint of truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Washington . Any author would claim attention and our thanks who threw fresh light upon the re : lations between Swift and Stella , or between Shelley and Harriet . But it appears to us a mistake to suppose that all that could be , told regarding the family antecedents of Charlotte , Emily , and Anne Bronte would be of necessity welcomed . Our interest m them is of a tender if not of a sacred character  --  sacred almost as should be the hidden details of their private life . The manner in which Mrs Gaskell realized these undefined limits of interest and reticence is that which , apart from her delightful style , gives such a peculiar charm to her biography of Charlotte Bronte . That book has rendered Haworth sacred ground to thousands It suggests thoughts of all that is womanly and refined , all that is gentle , much-that is sad That veil of mystery which must and should envelope each human being , is not unduly raised . On the other hand , the book before us gives a certain sense of strain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact of much which is evidently only-surmise and amplifidation ; incongruity , in. connection with the Bronte sisters , in the elaborate recital of incidents such as a prize-fight in which a member of the family came off victorious , and cock-fighting , and the particulars of the somewhat boisterous surroundings of a circle some members of which kept country liquor-stores . We welcome illustrations of old Bronte residences , and maps of the Brenta district ; we can not feel interest in a full-page engraving of a pool simply because it ; wasthe scene of a ducking that led to a fight in which a Brenta was one of the combatants . In , truth , all seems shadowy regarding the family until Hugh ( father of Patrick and grandfather of Charlotte ) , an adopted child , brought up by an aunt and her husband ( who , also an adopted child , had taken the name of Bront ? ) , appears in the County Down , and , marrying a Catholic girl , Alice McClory , founded the family from whom the occupants of the Haworth parsonage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adventures of Hugh as a child . An impression of - exaggeration and want of reality in the narrative is confirmed by the admission ( p 131 ) : Hugh Bront ? seems to have had the rare faculty of believing his own stories , even when they were purely imaginary . " And our belief in the excessive brutality of his anduc- " for or guardian , Welsh " Breath , " on which these recitals are based , is shaken by the fact that Hugh gave one of his sons the same name Dr. Wright has not satisfied us that Bronte was ' the - true family name . Admitted , ly , the accent was added by the father of the novelists some time after his removal to England , previous to which the name is found entered as Bronte , Bronte , or Bronty . There are , or were lately , Pruntys in other parts of Ireland  --  so far as we are aware , no Brontes or Brontys We az e still of the opinion of authors before Dr. Wright , that the- name was ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family of a vein of realistic , often weird , story-telling power . He describes well and truthfully many customs of peasant life once prevalent in Ireland , now so rapidly disappearing He'ioints many a moral relating to the present and late agitations . Ehigh Bronte , the grandfather of the young Yorkshire noveli ists , was evidently an original , remarkable man . Dr. Wright says ( p 152 ) : " The doctrine of common honesty enunciated by Hugh Bront ? has lately received the approval of Liberal and Conservative governments in what is known as tenant-right ' or the ' Ulster custom . ' " But , we must be permitted to add , to find the origins of the Ulster tenant-right custom we must search much further back than the teachings of Hugh Bronte or any other village Hampden of the middle of the last century . The following quotation refers to Hugh Bronte 's family ( p. 165 ) : - " We had never seen men like - the Irish Brontes , and we had never heard language like theirs The quaint conceptions , glowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their unlettered lips revealed the original quarry from which the vicar 's daughters chiselled the stones for their artistic castle-building , and disclosed the original fountain from which they drew their pathos and passion . Similar fierce originality and power are felt to be present in everything produced by the English Brontes ; but in their case the intensity of energy is held in check by the Bramwell temperament and kept under restraint by education and culture " The family genius was certainly not characteristically Irish . The almost grim earnestness and absence of humor remind us of the Scotch nature , to which , indeed , that of the northern Irish is more akin than to the temperament of their fellow-countrymen in the south of Ireland . The Yorkshire Brontes were evidently not proud of their connection with their father 's birthplade . Charlotte 's most intimate friend and frequent ' visitor never heard any reference from the family to their Irish history or the Irish relatives with whom they were in constant communication . The only Irish character depicted by Charlotte Bronte is the reverse of admirable , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means flattering . Of Patrick Bronte , the future vicar of Haworth , m his Cambridge days , we read ( p. 265 ) : " As the handsome youth and distin- guished scholar drilled shoulder to shoulder with Lord Palmerston- and with the late Duke of Devonshire , few could have suspected his humble origin in Emdalo , or the titanic struggle by which ho - had gained a foothold at the University . " Perhaps to many readers the most interesting passages in the book are those in which are described the reception in the district of Jane Eyre ' and sister volumes . The uncles , aunts , and cousins of the authoresses were incapable of appreciating them . " The Irish Bront6s had never seen a book like ' Jane Eyre ' before  --  three volumes of babDec. 2I , I 893 The Nation-. 469 - languishing condition . Whether there was an increase in the general volume of wealth or not , there seems to have been a diminution of civic prosperity in many once powerful boroughs While the general excellence of chapter ii must be acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reservation . In the first place , though the author 's terminology is in the main correct , he seems to lay too much stress upon the distinction between gilds and misteries or companies . His own citations from various sources ( pp. 129 , 142 , 146 , 149 , 156 , 157 ) show that the term " gild " continued frequently to be applied to craft societies , and that the word was not exclusively associated with religious fraternities . The author also makes a sharp distinction between gilds of craftsmen existing for religious purposes , and craft organizations having more or less supervision over their industries . He contends , moreover , that in many cases the latter emanated from the former , or that the two might even exist side by side for one and the same occupation ( pp. 74 , 140 , 141 , 151 ) But his evidence in support of these assertions is not convincing . For example , he maintains that various societiesof craftsmen in Lincoln - and Norwich were at first religious fraternities entirely distinct from the machinery for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function was a later acquisition . The evidence here presented is that little or nothing is said of industrial control in the reg-u lations of these fraternities printed in Smith 's ' English Gilds But the regulations may be incomplete In the statutes of the tailors ' gild of Lincoln it-is expressly stated that they were " written in very great haste " Probablymost craft fraternities had certain religious features , and doubtless some had more than others ; but it is very difficult to draw the line between re hgious gilds of craftsmen , on the one hand , and craft societies with industrial functions , on the other - A more serious defect in the author 's history of the crafts is his account of their relations to municipal government ( see especially ? 26 ) . He speaks of their extensive administrative and political functions , but does not clearly indicate what these functions were . He intimates on p 7 that , as a rule , the crafts were represented in the town council ; we should be glad to know " the many instances " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part composed of the elected representatives of the companies " ( p 23 ) The sources seem to indicate that this was rarely the case One might infer from Prof Ashley 's account of the crafts that the tendency since 1350 was towards the democratization of municipalities , towards allowing the craftsmen greater participation in the government of boroughs . But it is certain that the drift after 1350 was decidedly towards the formation of aristocratic " select bodies , " which monopolized political power and the control of government in many boroughs . Prof. Ashley does not take this aristocratic tendency sufficiently into account . He says , indeed , that " the government of the towns had by this tune early in the sixteenth century fallen into the hands of select bodies " ( p 48 ) , but this development does not square with his theory that in the fifteenth century the misteries had a large share in the government of the town , that thenceforth they were represented in the civic eouncil , that they were political organs of local administration , and only their members could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Our author does not attempt to reconcile these two opposite tendencies , one of which was democratic , the other aristocratic . His position is all the more difficult to understand owing to his opinion ( strongly expressed in volume i. ) that in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries the government of English towns was aristocratic . If that was the case , how came the crafts to participate in borough government 2 What factors or forces caused " the exclusive privileges of a small governing class " to vanish 9 When did the transition from conflict to harmony between the crafts and the municipal authorities occur 2 What evidence is there of such a transition 9 These are questions which Prof. Ashley leaves unanswered The transformation from the one regime to the other should be accounted for , especially in a book which lays such great stress upon continuityof social development On p. 209 we are informed that the exclusive privileges of the old oligarchy had passed away in the two centuries following the reign of Henry II , but on p. 129 we are told that the-struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously ruled " was still raging at the close of the fourteenth century . The only evidence of this struggle produced by the author is a conflict in Norwich , which , however , seems clearly to have been a contest of the commons of Norwich , not with an old aristocracy , but with a new " select body . " Probably the only important political function which the crafts as such exercised in many boroughs during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries was to act as a medium of citizenship , the freedom of the borough being obtained by entrance into a mistery . But this function of the crafts implied comparatively little political influence or participation in municipal government in towns controlled by a select body , and hence it is misleading to say that " only members of-inisteries could take part in the government of the town " ( p 26 ) . The tendency to ascribe to the crafts an undue increase of power in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries has also led Prof. Ashley to underrate the authority and degree of organization which they possessed during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourteenth century there was no marked desire on the part of the crafts to limit corn -- petition by diminishing the influx of new-comers into the town or into the gilds ( 132 ) But the early charters gave the members of each craft fraternity the exclusive right to carry on their particular industry in the town , and to prevent all other persons from intermeddling with their occupation . In the case of the craft fratermty , as in the case of the gild merchant , this meant protection from the competition of new-comers , or what the Germans call Zunftzicang . But Prof. Ashley 's language implies that this was not the case , that the crafts became " organized communities with exclusive rights " late in the Middle Ages , and that previously there had been no marked " delimitation of the crafts towards the outside world " These conclusions can not be accepted unless more evidence is produced to support them . The most that tho author proves is a tendency during the fifteenth century towards a somewhat narrower and more exclusive spirit among the craftsmen . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very small portion of the chapter on crafts ; the chapter as a whole is scholarly , and adds much to our knowledge of the subject Chapters in. and iv. , which deal - with the woollen industry and the agrarian revolution respectively , require little comment , as they are revised editions of papers published some time ago . Among the sources we miss Hohlbaum 's Hansisches Tirkundenbuch , ' which contains material illustrating the history of the woollen industry and other phases of English economic development . In his chapter on the agrarian revolution , e. , the substitution of pasturage or sheep-farming for tillage , the author holds that in the period from 1450 to 1550 " enclosure meant to a large extent the actual dispossession of the customary , tenants by manorial lords , " and that this often took place " in the form of the violent ousting of the sitting tenant " ( 150 ) Mr. Leadam , in the October number of the English Historical Renew , presents some strong arguments against this view . Prof. Ashley states that " proofs abound " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of them . Most of his-evidence does not directly touch the question of actual dispossession , but bears only on the legal theory regarding the lord 's right to oustIthe villein from his tenement . The last two chapters are entitled " The Relief of the Poor " and " The Canonist Doctrine . ' ? The author has made use of only a small part of the literature relating to the history of English tithes , and does not seem to be acquainted with Hasbach 's Englisches **26;427;TOOLONG , ' which deals with the charitable functions of gilds Both chapters are interesting and , valuable , though chapter vi . shows , less original investigation than any other in the book , and only a small portion of it directly relates to England ; it " is based upon a study and comparison of a number of modern German writers on the history of canon law and of commercial law , " whose works are little known to English scholars . Li this chap , ter he shows how men invested their money in the Middle Ages , hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various forms of partnership , and the attitude of the Church towards these different kinds of investment . On p 437 he says : " The mere fact that statutes were passed against usury from time to time , with the usual pessimistic preamble , no more proves that the law was generally broken than the frequent new criminal laws of modern times prove that all men are thieves or murderers " But in another connection , on p. 309 , he considers repeated legislation as an argument to show that the law regarding tithes was not being observed In conclusion , we venture to add one general criticism on the book as a whole . The author not infrequently exhibits a tendency to generalize from insufficient data He relies too much upon the records of London and upon Continental analogies Hero and there he seems to be unduly influenced by German writers , and hence is sometimes inclined to identify by analogy the development in England with that on the Continent ( pp. 107 , 141 , 142 , 297 , 309 , 314 , 422 ) . ? Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from the history of London ( 1126 , 32 , 36 , 44 , also pp 89 , 384 , 462 ) This is a dangerous tendency , for we do not think that " the difference between London and the other towns . . . was one of degree rather than kind , of quantity rather than quality " ( p. 11 ) . The medieval constitution of London was in many respects anomalous when compared with that of other towns , and unless this fact is clearly recognized , little progress will be made in the investigation of the history of English municipalities . But Prof. Ashley has not gone as far astray as most ' of his predecessors in laying undue stress upon the annals and muniments of London . He makes considerable use of the printed records of other towns . Only 470 = The Nation . - Vol. 57 , No. - 1486 - few of these have , however , been published . Hence it is to be regretted that he did not ex -- plore the town archives , the British Museum , and the Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to crafts , and the assertion may be ventured that , " cluring a summer 's vacation , Prof Ashley could easily have doubled his data , at least for the history of Crafts All generalizations on this last-mentioned subject must , in fact , be accepted with reservations until more - craft statutes have been published or utilized . The author often complains of the meagreness of the sources , for example in connection with such subjects as journeymen fraternities ( p 124 ) , the growth of livery companies ( p 132 ) , foreign weavers ( p. 202 ) , the woollen industry in the fifteenth century ( p 218 ) , monastic almsgiving ( p 314 ) , and the attitude of the Church toward usury and toward business practice ( 176 ) Doubtless there is plenty of material on most of these topics in the central and local archives of England , and probably no considerable search need be made to find much of it Those who know what discoutaging obstacles the historian has to surmount in the investigation of the social and constitutional history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement in the preface that he has been obliged in a large measure to do his own work of excavation , and they will not feel inclined to exaggerate the few defects which his book contains . The volume before us will add much to the reputation which he already possesses as one of the leading authorities on the economic history of - England . We hope that the public will not have to wait long for the appearance of the third volume . CHILDREN 'S BOOKS ? IV . THE children , and we are sure there are many of them , who remember Mr. Joseph Jacobs 's ' English Fairy Tales ' of three years ago , with the bell and cord on the back and the key on the side , will be delighted to know that , after Celtic and Indian Fairy Tales , Mr Jacobs has come back this Christmas to his first love , and given them More English Fairy- Tales ' ( Putnams ) , with illustrations by John D Batten Stories and pictures are , if possible , better than those in the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students in the notes , the volume is of equal interest , to the old as well as to the young The editor disarms criticism by the frank avowal of his method of compiling his collection In the dearth of English fairy tales , which have disappeared to a greater extent than in any other country in Europe , Mr Jacobs has gleaned in Australia and America , and has pressed into his service ballads ( sometimes reduced to prose and sometimes left in their original shape ) and tales from across the border . As before , he has largely rewritten the stories as he fancies they should be told , and introduced changes here and there in the interest of his juvenile readers . The result is a charming book even if it is not an authority on English folk-tales The stories represent every class except the legend , - and some are variants of those in the earlier collection One of these , " The Wee Bannock , " is a variant of " Johnnycake . " In a note to the former Mr. Jacobs supposes that Johnny-cake is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Webster or the Century Dictionary , and we must wait for Dr. Murray to catch up with it To the notes on No. lxin , " The Pedlar of Swaffham , " Mr. Jacobs might have added the interesting lecture by Jacob- Grimm , " Der Traum von dem Schatz auf der BrUcke " ( ' Eleinere Schrifteri , ' Ili , 414 ) , where the Oriental origin of the story was first pointed out . While Mr Jacobs is continuing his series of fairy tales , Mr. Andrew Lang , although he has not exhausted the colors of the rainbow which he has employed to designate his annual collection , has reluctantly turned his hand to true stories and given us The True Story-Book ' ( Longmans ) , twenty-four tales of adventure , only one of which , " The . Spartan Three Hundred , " is borrowed from ancient history The others are more or less- modern , " The Tale of Isandhlwana and Rorke 's Drift " ( contributed by Mr Rider Haggard ) being of yesterday , so to speak , and just as heroic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and captivity ( Casanova , Baron Trenck , Cervantes , and Cmsar Borgia ) , tales of pirates , the story of Kaspar Hauser , Grace Darling , etc The adventures of the Young Pretender and his followers after the battle of Culloden are told at considerable length , but the largest space is devoted to " The Conquest of Montezuma 's Empire , " reduced by Miss Wright from Prescott 's history Mr Lang says of it : " That is a very long story , but , to the author 'S ' taste , it is simply the best true story in the world , the most unlikely , and the most romantic " There are but two stories from North Amen-can history , " A Boy Among the Red Indians " ( from Tanner 's Captivity , ' 1830 ) , and " The Shannon - and the Chesapeake " ( in which Commodore Bainbridge is incorrectly called Bairbridge ) In case the American boy does not relish the latter story , the editor has made his peace by observing at the end , " As a rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms in the conflict with the American marine . " Mir Lang has made an attractive book , but we think his young readers will echo the sentiment expressed in the - " For For Fairyland 's the land of joy , And this the world of pain , - So back to Fairyland , my boy , We 'll journey once Caere . " Mr. Stanley tells us that , during his second expedition ( that described in Through - the Dark Continent ' ) in 1875 , it became the custom to gather at night about the camp-fire and listen to stories told by the natives . Some of these have already been published in the great explorer 's books of travel or in the magazines , " but a considerable number of the choicest and most curious of those related during seventeen years , " remained , and these Mr. Stanley has now given to the public in the volume My Dark Companions and Their Strange Stories ' ( Scribners ) , with numerous illustrations . The first story is " The Creation of Man , " a curious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a toad , the origin of which is not known ; " it is suspected , however , that the water brought him forth out of some virtue that was in it " The Moon proposed making a man and woman , but the toad pleaded so hard to be allowed himself - to create them that the Moon consented , but declared that the toad and his creation should be mortal . The other stories have for actors the various African animals , the rabbit and terrapin playing the part of weakness and cunning triumphant over strength and stupidity . While there are no parallels to the stories in the collections of Harris , Jones , and Owens , the resemblance is striking ? and confirms the hypothesis of the African origin of our own neg  --  o tales . The stories are well told and are extremely interesting . Mr , Stan .                     