@@485775

AT the first meeting of the League of Nations one point in the order of business can be disposed of at once : the former colonies of Germany . They were " allocated " long ago by secret agreements among the conquerors . All that remains is for the Council of the League of Nations to make the formal gesture of handing out the mandates in accordance with Article 22 of the covenant , as " previously agreed upon by the members of the League . " Some of us had been under the impression that it was for the League of Nations and not the Paris Peace Conference to discuss who the mandatories were to be , that it remained for the League of Nations and not the Big Three at Paris to determine questions of sovereignty in the interest of the populations concerned . Mr. Snow , in his illuminating article elsewhere in this issue , points out our error . He quotes the official statement issued on May 7 by the Council of Three at Paris covering their action on May 6 , 1919 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former German colonies . " It was this disposition which the sacred covenant had in mind in Article 22 . It was this colonial bargain , in advance of the meeting of the League of Nations , that bound Germany ( and all other nations ) in Article 118 of the treaty " to conform to the measures which may be taken now or in the future by the Principal Allied and Associated Powers " to carry out Germany 's renunciation of " all rights and titles " to territory outside Germany . It is , therefore , the Peace Conference at Paris and not the League of Nations that determines who the mandatories shall be , as also " the degree of authority , control , or administration to be exercised by the mandatory . " The last outstanding question connected with the naming of mandatories seems to have been settled a few weeks ago , toward the end of August , when the Supreme Council at Paris expressed its " approval " of the agreement between Great Britain and Belgium as to the disposition of the districts of Ruanda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Belgian forces had helped Great Britain subdue German East Africa . Their aid had been characterized by the British as " loyal , unrestricted , and of the highest value . " They had even taken Tabora , the war capital of the German colony ; and " when Tabora was handed over to Belgium 's great British ally , " this " disinterested act " was described by the Belgians as " an act which tried the pride of the victorious regiments . " But Ruanda and Urundi were permitted to remain under Belgian administration for the three years that have elapsed since their conquest ; and it was taken for granted by Belgium that " these provinces which have witnessed the sacrifice of so many of her sons " would remain in her possession " by right of conquest . " The official statement concerning the action of May 6 by the Big Three ? Clemenceau , Wilson , and Lloyd George  --  overlooked the " rights " of Belgium , despite the statement of M. Hymans that " assurances were given him that those rights would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Belgium had " a right which she could not allow to be disposed of by agreements to which she has not-been a party . " Thereupon M. Hymans was " requested to call upon President Wilson , " and Lord Milner summoned to Paris . " An amicable agreement was reached . " But our own Mr. Frank Polk , having taken the place of the President and Mr. Lansing at Paris , was dissatisfied with this amicable agreement . He did not seem to take much stock in the Belgian declarations that " at the close of 1918 , thousands of natives covered distances often necessitating several days ' journey in order to express to the representative of Belgium their gratitude , their attachment , their devotion , and their sincere desire to become Belgians . " Mr. Polk , remembering perhaps the " Red Rubber " administration of the Congo , seems to have credited the reports of some missionaries that " the population of those territories were opposed to being placed under Belgian domination . " Signor Tittoni , however , and M. Clemenceau argued vigorously for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Polk to give way , but under reservations , till the arrival of new instructions from Washington . " What these were we are not permitted to know . But on August 26 , several days after Mr. Polk 's passage-at-arms in the Supreme Council , two letters were read by M. van den Heuvel before the Belgian Senate , " the first giving Great Britain 's confirmation of the agreement between Great Britain and Belgium concerning the German colonies , and the second expressing the approval of the Supreme Council of the League of Nations " ( sic ! ) . What had happened ? Only this : In order to remove all legalistic objections to the agreement , Great Britain had made a " free gift " of the provinces . " Ruanda and Urundi , which constitute the most fertile position of the colony and which have a population of over 3,000,000 natives , have been handed over to Belgium as a gift . This gift to Belgium is a mark of British gratitude to her ally , Great Britain having been under no obligation whatever to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African domain , to Belgium or any other country . " This statement being a bit too bald , a later British statement makes it out to be " a gift not to Belgium but to the Principal Allied and Associated Powers , from whom Great Britain derives her right to be the future mandatory for German East Africa . . . . As yet , no Power actually holds a mandate from the League of Nations , but as the Principal Allied and Associated Powers who sanctioned the transfer of the territory to Belgium will also be the controlling force in the Council of the League of Nations , there can be no question that Belgium will receive the mandate . " This " gift " was made by one Power of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers , despite the fact that Article 119 of the treaty with Germany makes all of them joint owners of all Germany 's " rights and titles over her over-sea possessions . " The United States is one of the Powers in whom these titles are vested . But before our Senate has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic representatives acquiesce in a " gift " made by one of the joint owners to some other Power , or to the League itself . We concur heartily in Mr. Snow 's suggestion that the Senate consider this situation most carefully and , if the treaty be ratified at all , make a reservation " which shall do justice to the United States and to all concerned . " We regret we can not follow Mr. Snow in some of the motives and purposes of his proposed reservation . He contends that Japan and New Zealand have received as mandatories those Pacific colonies of Germany which , for various reasons , should be under the control of the United States . But we want a mandate for none of these colonies , just as we are opposed to having them turned over to Japan or New Zealand . We condemn American colonial imperialism with the same zeal and for the same reasons as that of Great Britain or Japan or France , and , let us add , of Imperial Germany , the rigors of whose colonial policy must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " colonies , " not those of Imperial Germany alone , should be brought under the control of a genuine League of Peoples ; that they should be administered primarily for the benefit of the native populations ; and that their raw materials should be supplied , under international control and supervision , to the peoples of the world , not as today in accordance with their ability to pay , but in accordance with their needs as members of the human family . The Street Railway Debacle S AYS The Detroit Journal : " Once there was a town that had no street railway troubles . It had no street railway . " The troubles have not all been on the side of the towns , as was shown at the meeting of the American Electric Railway Association just ended at Atlantic City . In suggesting the appointment of a Federal commission of investigation last May , Secretaries Redfield and Wilson pointed out that fifty or more systems were already bankrupt , the cities affected including New York , St. Louis , Buffalo , Pittsburgh , Providence , New Orleans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Paul , Denver , and Spokane . In the course of the hearings held by the commission , it has been discovered that sixty-two electric railways with 5,912 miles of track are already in the hands of receivers ; that sixty railways with 763 miles of track have been dismantled and junked ; and that thirty-eight railways have been forced to abandon 257 miles of track . The bankrupt New York surface systems are being broken up into their constituent parts , and the receiver announced to the listening street railway men at Atlantic City : " When the financial burdens under which we are laboring reach the point where we can not maintain a reserve  --  which will be in about ninety days ? I am going to ask the court to stop the running of cars . " What are the causes of the well-nigh universal failure ? The superficial ones are not far to seek . The companies , operating generally on the basis of a five-cent fare as fixed by franchise , have had to meet enormously increased costs of labor and materials , higher taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the more profitable runs , and of private automobiles everywhere , has often cut sharply into earnings . In Bridgeport , for example , while the cars have been carrying less than 15,000,000 passengers , the jitneys have taken care of almost 19,000,000 . In consequence of these immediate causes traction bonds , according to Roger W. Babson , have , during the past five years , shrunk in value by twenty-five per cent. , and traction stocks by no less than seventy-five per cent . The proposals made by the street railway executives before the commission unfortunately give little promise of meeting the situation . The suggestions fall into four groups . They include : an increase of fares , either by the raising of the flat rate or by the introduction of zone systems ; the employment of the principle of service at cost , which has resulted in a raising of fares on the Boston Elevated , for example , three times within a year ; State subsidy to private companies ; and economies of operation , such as the one-man safety car , already in use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these devices and suggestions go to the root of the difficulties leading to the present disastrous situation , in which public purchase of the lines has been strongly urged by many of the street railway men themselves . The furnishing of the public service of street-car transportation for private profit contains in itself fatal contradictions . The enterprising men who introduced street-car transportation all over the country performed an enormous public service ; but the possible profits under favorable conditions were so large that exploiting financiers seized the opportunity to load down the systems of large cities like New York and Chicago with an enormous mass of securities . The monopoly character of the industry made impossible the benefits of competition ; the conflict between service and profits was therefore sharp and direct . Mr. Yerkes taught us that " the profit is in the straps . " Then came public regulation , with all its strangling limitations , imposed on companies in many cases already water-logged . The fat years once passed , the companies faced automobile competition , rising prices , a fixed fare , and a public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the road . Whither shall we turn ? The course indicated by experience was pointed out by Mr. Delos F. Wilcox , one of our leading traction experts , in his testimony before the Federal commission . First , he declares that the investment in street railways must be made non-speculative ; capital must be brought in , not by the hope of large but uncertain dividends , but by the certainty of a low but guaranteed return . Second , the business must be run for service and not for profits ; fares , for example , should be fixed on the basis of what is best for the community and not necessarily of what will make the service most profitable or even most nearly self-supporting . As a condition of such liberty of action , Mr. Wilcox insists that operation must be public and not private  --  and this despite the manifest weaknesses of municipal management under existing American Political conditions . Fourth , says Mr. Wilcox , continuous operation must be insured , and strikes made impossible  --  by the public fixing of wages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure prevent strikes ? In this connection we may note the action of the street railway employees of Oakland , California , and the American Labor party of New York , each group favoring the application of the Plumb plan to its transit situation . The street railway business must be put into the hands of men who will understand that they are providing a public utility . An economical and flexible service must be assured ? and here the Plumb plan has much of suggestiveness . As much or as little must be charged for the service as the public interest may require ; and if it seems wise to incur a deficit , it must be met out of taxes . Transportation under modern conditions is a public utility in the broadest sense . We must learn to treat it as such . The Silver Age of Our Literature T HE death on October 7 of Mr. Henry Mills Alden , for fifty years editor of Harper 's Magazine , removes from the journalistic profession in America one of its least conspicuous and yet most influential figures . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those editors who are content with the fame which comes to their magazines , of those workmen to whom good workmanship is in itself an end , of those friends of a cause who are satisfied when the cause prospers . In this he was much like Wendell Phillips Garrison , for so many years editor of The Nation . As untaught in the arts of sparing as of advertising himself , Mr. Alden read all the manuscripts submitted to the magazine , and to an eminent degree gave it unity of taste and tone . That during his entire editorial career he depended first upon George William Curtis and then upon William Dean Howells to stand beside him , if not a little before him , in the public 's knowledge , is a fact which illustrates no less his modesty than his taste . For like both of them he was gentle , firm , decent in language , careful of form , high-minded , clear-sighted  --  always at once the citizen and the man of letters . Even The Atlanti ? Monthly , the rival in Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been less steady and uniform . The list of authors whom Mr. Alden discovered and encouraged is a long one , but everywhere on the list appear the qualities of good art and civil realism which have habitually marked the course of the magazine . Indeed , it might well be said that as Mr. Howells was long our more or less official exponent of realism , nearly an academy in himself , Harper 's was long the principal organ of that doctrine , with Mr. Alden the editor who did most , even more than Mr. Howells or The Atlantic , to foster it and make it widely heard of . And as a preference for realism in fiction is of course but one symptom of the character of Harper 's under Mr. Alden 's direction , the excellence of its engravings and the wide and informing range of its general contributions are to have been expected to complete the picture . To what is due the fact , which can hardly be denied , that the great older magazines no longer dominate the fields of journalism and literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answers may be given , and all have been given by observers of varying predilections : that the tide of proletarian vulgarity has risen ; that the levels of art have fallen ; that public taste demands more violent stimulants ; that the non-English elements of our national composition are asserting themselves as never before ; that a sharper critical temper has invaded the atmosphere ; that the Bolsheviki are among us , red and raging ; that our democracy has just begun to live . Each of these is but explanation from one angle . Speaking as historians , we see in that shift of leadership the end of an epoch , the period from about 1870 to 1910 which we may call the Silver Age of our literature . - It is no essential contradiction of that title that during the era there throve such glorious barbarians as Whitman and Mark Twain ; they came from a class and a region which flowered later than the Shantung of our nation , the New England of the image-breaking Emerson , the philosophical hired man Thoreau , the transcendental critic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translator Longfellow , the jolly Cantabrigian Lowell , the festive Bostonian Holmes . Nor is it a contradiction that at the end of the century came such a rollicking philosophe as William James or such a silken ironist as George Santayana , or such naturalistic young men as Stephen Crane and Frank Norris and Jack London , or such a multitudinous cynic and sentimentalist as 0 . Henry ; or even that during the era lived those three terrible infants of the Adams family , Charles Francis II , Henry , and Brooks , to flay the era and all its inherited conceptions . The background and the prevailing color of the age were still silver . It was then that reminiscence began to enrich the texture of our literary past . Most of the epigones ? Thomas Wentworth Higginson and Frank B. Sanborn , for instance  --  devoted a good ' part of their lives to writing about the lives of the protagonists . Holmes , of the greater line , wrote memoirs of Emerson and Motley ; Mr. Howells , later but greater too , gave us dozens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wait till some revolution should spill them out . Washington as chief national hero gave way to Lincoln , whom the Silver Age softened and sweetened until his angularities hardly showed . The old flaming ardors about manifest destiny considerably cooled , not so much because the national humility was stronger , but because there was a stronger sense of decorum current . Poetry was dainty and smooth and rounded as never before in this country . The short story after many experiments straitened itself to a few prevailing types of a distinctly native form and substance . The novel , with Mr. Howells as choragus , even subdued Mark Twain from the extravagance of his earlier burlesques to the suaver annals of Huckleberry Finn and Joan of Arc ; and it taught the drama that reality had a place on the stage as well as in books . Our essayists grew lighter and gayer , not without a good deal of orthodoxy and a gusto which somehow seemed to have been trained upon sweet cider , but still mellow and kindly and urbane . After the faun Thoreau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; dissertations showed their heads . At the best , these silver qualities all tended towards art ; at the worst they bred dilettanteism and languor . Now such unaccustomed qualities as dilettanteism and languor in the midst of a nation which had plunged into furious industrial competition and was beginning to cherish imperialistic schemes without quite realizing what it was about , hardly belonged to the setting . In the Silver Age this discrepancy had seemed not to matter very greatly , for the reason that the opinion of the day held that after all a fairly decisive cleavage exists between art and affairs . The trouble began when a more strenuous generation arose and demanded that literature perform a larger , or at any rate a different , share in the national work . It was a hot and impatient generation , and not tolerant of its elders . It has taken it upon itself to damn the gentle tradition by calling it genteel . It suspects it of lukewarmness , accuses it of prudery , and believes it to have been verbose and trivial . The older magazines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now under indictment . The question seems to be whether they can renounce their old virtues , now become sins , and acquire the new virtues , which certainly would have been sins in their proper day .                     