@@673138

txt Now that there is no reasonable doubt that Mr. CARLISLE of Kentucky is to be the Secretary of the Treasury in Mr. CLEVELAND 'S new Cabinet , it is extremely desirable that he shall have Assistant Secretaries who will be faithful and efficient lieutenants in carrying out the essential principles of the Administration with reference to which his own appointment is so satisfactory . The first of these , as pertaining directly to his own department , is that of taxation and currency . Mr. CARLISLE is one of the oldest and most intelligent advocates of tariff reform , and is entirely familiar with the problems of legislation involved in it . His labors in that direction will necessarily be exacting . In the administrative work of the department , which under our system has an important bearing ou the success of any legislation that may be required , he will be entitled to the aid of specially qualified assistants . In regard to the currency , the soundness of Mr. CAnisst.x 's own views would be sufficiently attested by an appointment from Mr. CLEVELAND , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , while he has been in sympathy with the general sentiment of his State , he has always been a conservative man , having a clear perception of the requirements of the country at large . It will be obviously to his advantage and to that of the Administration for him to have near him in official connection with him some one intimately acquainted with the financial system and the financiers of all parts of the country . The second principle which will be from the start regarded as essential by the Administration is that of administrative reform . It is the avowed and . deeply-eherished purpose of Mr. CLEVELAND to do all that the great powers of his office shall enable him to do , on the one hand to bring the organization of the public service to the highest level of character and efficiency and on the other hand to withdraw it as far as possible from that illegitimate relation to politics which in the past has brought so much mischief both to the service and to politics . This purpose will be carried out by the steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of the civil service reform law to appointments . The actual rules will be , of course , faithfully observed ; their scope will be gradually extended ; all officials will be held to a candid and sincere observance of them where they may be applied , and outside of the classified service the permanent good . of the service and the elevation of its character will be the first and party claims will be a secondary consideration . With regard to this branch of the work of the Administration , the Treasury Depart ment is clearly very important , being the one , with the possible exception of the Post Office Department , in which the perverted idea of " patronage " and . the connection between party service and the public service has obtained most largely and done the most harm . An Assistant Secretary , not only in entire harmony with the very pronounced views of the Administration , but qualified by study , experience , and capacity to give them practical effect , would be of the utmost help to Mr. CARLISLE and to the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have occurred , and such as it is plain have occurred , to many of those who appreciate the wide scope of the task assigned to the Administration through the groat popular demonstration of November , and assumed by Mr. CLEVELAND with so clear and profound a sense of his opportunities and responsibilities Nothing in our political history has been more remarkable or more encouraging than the broad conception by the Presidentelect of the work intrusted to him . Every utterance of his since the election , as before it , has shown that he understands that he may within these four years of his final public service establish his party on a basis that can not be shaken , just to the extent that it can be brought to the firm support of principles that will secure the highest good to the Nation . These principles are those we have already defined . In the prosecution of this work in a way to make it lasting , it is his right and his duty to strengthen every department by calling to it not only chiefs but assistants who shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to give to his Administration . What we have suggested applies , of course , to all the departments , but is especially pertinent to the requirements of the Treasury office . It will go far toward securing for Mu CARLISLE that kind and degree of success which he values most highly .                     