@@781340

txt The Coroner 's jury , which investigated the death of the striking miners at Lattimer. met in Deputy Coroner Cowman 's office this evening , and after an hour 's deliberation rendered the following verdict : " That from the circumstances of the case and the evidence offered , the said Clement Platock and others came to their deaths by gunshot wounds on Sept. 10 , 1897 , at the hands of Sheriff James Martin and his deputies , and In this we , the jury , do all agree , and we , Philip J. Boyle , Thomas T. Thomas , Barton Freas , and Peter McKiernan , of this jury , do further say that the said Clement Platock , with others , was marching peaceably and unarmed on the public highway ; that they were intercepted by the said Sheriff Martin and this deputies , and mercilessly shot to death ; and we do further find that the killing was unnecessary , and could have been avoided without serious injury to either person or property , and we find , finally , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . George Mane and F. J. McNeal of this jury , do not concur , and we , the jury , do further say that there was such strong suspicion of unlawful violence at the hands of persons unknown by this jury as to make this inquest necessary . " Miss Ada Bischoff , twenty-five years old , of 852 Sixth Avenue , was perhaps fatally burned at her home last night by an explosion of alcohol which she was heating for medicinal purposes . Miss Bischoff and her widowed mother , with several young women as boarders , live on the this floor . Mrs. Bischoff is an in- valid , and each night before she retires warm alcohol is applied to her externally . Her daughter was heating the liquid last night when it accidentally caught fire . Instantly she was in flames , as she dropped the vessel and the burning liquid fell on her . She ran out of the room shrieking and into the hallway . Mrs. Bischoff , though very weak , jumped from her bed , and with a blanket sought to put out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house also ran after Miss Bischoff , but she had run down stairs . She tried to get into the street . but found the hall door locked . She then turned into a saloon , which is on the ground floor , known as the Oak Hotel . She fell in a faint just inside the door . The bartender and several men took off their coats and smothered the flames . Policeman Hornbuster of the East Fifty-first Street Station sent in a call for an ambulance , and Miss Bischoff was taken to the Flower Hospital . She is terribly burned about the bbdy , and her beautiful black hair , of which she had a luxuriant growth , was burned close to her head . Some one sent in a fire alarm , but the fire in the flat was extinguished without the aid of the engines .                     