@@673685

txt Labor Unions Will Try to Elect Candidates to the Legislature . When the subject of politics came up before the Central Labor Union yesterday , a circular from the State branch of the American Federation of Labor was read This stated that hone of the organizations which the federation had asked whether it was advisable for labor to go into independent political action had voted in the negative . Consequentlyl , the federation advised that in cities where there were central labor bodies the matter of politics should be placed in their hands , and that they should call upon the unions to send delegates to a convention to select candidates for the Legislature . Where there are no central bodies , the individual unions will be asked to act in the same manner . The meeting indorsed the circular , and directed that the constituent unions should be immediately required to comply with it . The Committee of Ten on politics issued a call to all trades organizations to send delegates to a labor conference to be held at Clarendon Hall next Friday evening , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the plan that it has formulated for an aggressive campaign . Mr. Hill Goes to Albany . Senator Hill went to Albany yesterday , leaving this city at 9:30 o'clock . Chairman Hinckley of the Democratic State Committee went with him as far as Poughkeepsie . It was expected that the State campaign would be opened at Albany Wednesday night , but a report from that city says that the hall where the meeting was to be held is engaged . It is not known when Senator Hill will again come to headquarters , as it is his intention to at once outline a trip to several of the cities of the State , where he will speak . Rev. Mr. Peters will Vote for Mr. Goff . The Rev. Madison C. Peters yesterday celebrated the fifth anniversary of his pastorate of the Bloomingdale Reformed Church , Boulevard and West Sixty-eighth Street . " I shall be proud , " said the Rev. Mr. Peters , " to vote for Mr. Goff for Recorder . He is a man who , more than any other man of his race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacred duty . His name is a tower of strength for pure and devoted citizenship . " To Ratify the Ticket . A mass meeting to ratify the Democratic State ticket will be held this evening at Cooper Union , under the management of the Democratic Club of the City of New York .                     