@@674473

txt The Republican members of the Finance Committee of the Senate have reached an agreement either to strike out the retroactive provision of the Dingley Tariff bill or to so amend it as to pave the way for its being stricken out in conference , and have so notified the Democratic members of the committee . The Democrats have agreed , in view of this promise , not to press the Vest resolution on the subject of Secretary Gage 's recent circular . This was one of the accomplishments of the visit of the Republican members to the Senate yesterday . The sentiment among the Republican members is said to have been against the provision from the first , but they felt that to take decisive adverse action upon it in the face of Democratic opposition would place them in the light of acting under fire and taking a position because of the criticisms of the opposition . They therefore asked that the Democrats keep their hands off until the Republicans should have an opportunity to make their intentions known . The Democrats considered this proposition as reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vest resolution until the result of the labors of the Republican members could be known . While not absolutely decided between the material modification of the provision and its complete cancellation . the balance of opinion in the committee is understood to be quite on the side of destroying it entirely . The Democratic Senators generally believe this will be the result of the committee 's deliberations , and expect that when the bill is handed to them the clause will have disappeared . There has been some discussion of the probable programme of the Democratic members of the Finance Committee with reference to the Tariff bill , and it is learned that while their plans are not definitely matured they intend to have reasonable consideration of the bill in committee , and believe that they will have the support of Senator Jones of Nevada upon any fair proposition they submit . The Democrats do not want an extended consideration in committee , but may desire to offer some amendments after they have seen the bill , the adoption of which they consider they would be more likely to secure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is said that in the Senate the Democratic plan is not to delay the bill any longer than is necessary , but that every Senator desiringto discuss it shall have . opportunity to do so , and that such record-making votes as the Democrats think necessary shall be had . This policy the Democrats will pursue to the end . In this connection it may be stated that the Democrats of the Senate do not approve of the policy of Mr. Bailey and his fellow-Democrats of the House . Attention is called to the fact that it was long ago said that the policy Speaker Reed and the Republicans of the House are pursuing would be allowed in order to direct attention to the delay of the Tariff bill in the Senate . If delay should ensue by reasort of action taken by Democratic Senators it will be pointed out , Democratic Senators say , that this delay is not indorsed by the majority of the Democrats of the House . The Bailey Democrats will be indorsing the Republicans in their criticisms of the Democratic Senators . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders are freely giving the Democrats of the House will be taken , but it is known that House Democrats have been advised that acquiescence in the Republican tactics is not good policy . The Democratic Senators do not want criticisms which may be directed at them to be indirectly indorsed by the Democratic members of the House . It is learned to-day that In the changes made in the Tariff bill by the Senate subcommittee the rates in the metal schedule have been made very close to the present law , and the same is said of the cotton schedule . The chemical schedule is understood to be about completed . Many changes in it in the direction of reductions have been made .                     