@@675358

txt ? It is lucky that the American people are not acutely sensitive to the criticisms of foreigners . If they were mindful of the opinions of what Justice STANLEY MaTTrnsws called " abroad , " many of them would crimson with shame and humiliation at the spectacle offered to the eyes and the mirth of the world by our present and our recent attitude toWard Admiral DEwsv . Less than two Months ago millions of Americans joined with pride and exultation in a welcome to the victorious Admiral that transcended in splendor , picturesqueness , and mere crowds and noise the triumphs of the heroes of Rome and of Britain , two nations that have done some notable things in the way of welcoming their returning Warriors . To-day our hero , descended from his lofty pedestal and become simply a man , is undergoing a storm of criticism that has extorted from him a cry pf pain and mortification . For the great Captain who so gloriously won the battle of Manna we could not do too much , nor could we sound his praise too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible forgetfulness made a disposition of the people 's gift which the people failed to understand , or at any rate did not like , we are scarcely more considerate than we should be of any casual John Doe or Richard Roe who had chanced to incur the public displeasure . It is too bad . For our own sake and for DEWEY 'S sake it is too bad , not merely because it makes us appear ridiculous in the eyes of foreigners , but because these alternating currents of emotion , this most abrupt substitution of the cold shoulder for the warm heart , argue a want of steadiness in our make-up , a lamentable volatility that we have hitherto been accustomed to impute to the excitable Gaul . Is it not probable that the American people after their sober second thought , when their candor and natural fair- , Mindedness have come to correct the errors of a hasty judgment , will decline to permit their earlier , finer , and juster estimate of DEWEY to be overclouded by opinions they may hate formed or expressed about so prosaic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house to his wife ? But , say the critics , the house was a gift of the people ; he ought not to have deeded away what was intended for himself alone as the token of a people 's admiration . Yes , but even if we admit that he made a mistake , is not an error of judgment about such a matter a pretty small thing to set over against the faultless judgment and splendid courage and professional capacity that made this man the hero of Ma-nila ? Read Admiral DEWEY ' s statement about the transfer of the house and the criticisms made upon his action . It is pathetic . We think it ought to touch the hearts of even his swiftest and least sparing critics . It is a cry of pain and resentment extorted from his heart by What he knows to be a severe judgment and feels to be an unjust one . There are fresh indiscretions in the statement , but who could be watchful of his tongue when the storm so raged within him ? A generous public can and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortification . A generous and just public , too , will gladly let the matter drop , dismiss it absolutely from its mind , and restore our Admiral to his wellearned place in its esteem . Let us have some sense of perspective In our public judgments . It is a little too absurd to let a transaction accomplished in the dingy office of a Register of Deeds obscure even for a moment the historic glories of that May Day victory in Manila Bay , a fitting theatre for stirring actions wi .. h all the , world for spectators . The arms , the achievements of DI : a fry- are worthy of our song and always will be . Let us not allow an action of the man , natural enough and in itself not in the least blameworthy , to diminish for a single day the public admiration for him we so lately honored with a National welcome .                     