@@674828

txt There has been no denial here to-day that Gen. Shatter and the Fifth Corps of the United States Army , with some additional forces added at the last moment , have departed from Tampa and are now pretty nearly twenty-four hours on their way toward their destination . It was not because of any well-defined intention of the Government that the news was published in the papers this morning . The greatest caution had been exercised at Tampa to prevent the information from reaching the newspapers , because it was deemed important to conceal the exact moment of departure and the certain destination of the troops , together with any statement of the exact commands included in the expedition . Yesterday afternoon Gen. Greeley made some statements that led a few newspaper men to believe that he had instructed the censor at Tampa to " let up " at midnight and permit the press dispatches announcing the departure of the fleet to come through . That liberty implied the assumpti3n that the fleet had gone , but it turns out to-day that what Gen. Greeley desired to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fleet had departed , as he assumed that the information sent out after so long a delay could not inflict any damage upon the Government . Some Troops May Remain at Tampa . There are - evidences here that the fleet had made more than one effort to get away , and that troops that imagined that they were to go are still at Tampa , and without some of- their recent associates . A local correspondent , writing from the camp of the District of Columbia regiment at Tampa only yesterday , said : " The regiment had a similar experience Tuesday to the one they had when they marched up the hill and then marched down again . " Another Washington correspondent , telegraphing from Tampaa , was permitted to say of the condition of the camp last night ; " The streets of Tampa were deserted last night compared with what they have been . " Twenty-four hours ' leeway will permit the sending of the news of the departure of the fleet to-morrow morning . Twenty-four hours later , if a member of the Cabinet is speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is admitted as possible that accident or unfavorable weather may postpone the arrival at Santiago a day longer , but it is expected that the transports will be at their destination or destinations ? for it is expected that the party will be divided for landing  --  before Saturday night . Gen. Shafter 's Siege Train . Military men are very much interested to hear what is to be done with the heavy siege train taken along by Gen. Shafter . The guns must be landed before used , and it is recalled that in putting them on board at Tampa they broke down the wharf . To get them off the ship on which they are loaded will be a task to try the most ingenious engineers , and those who believe a landing must be made where there is the possibility of reaching a wharf argue that the reconnoissance at Caimanera , where a railroad comes down to the edge of the Bay of Guantanamo , indicated the spot where the heavy guns are to be landed . That is something like forty miles east of Santiago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points , which are also separated by prominent hills or mountains . The arrival at Santiago of the battalion of United States marines in advance of the land forces may produce startling news by Sunday . but the impression at the War Department is that nothing more than details of the arrival of the forces can be looked for earlier than Monday . Much will depend upon the sort of reception which the troops meet . Some apprehensive army men are inclined to believe that Gen. Blanco , who must have heard of the preparations for the expedition , probably has sent reinforcements to Gen. Linares , with instructions to the men to reach Santiago at the earliest possible moment and to urge the garrison to offer the stoutest possible resistance . As the troops in the eastern end of the island are posted so as to protect many towns which would be occupied by in , surgents if the Spanish garrisons were I withdrawn , and the Spanish officers can not be sure that Santiago.is to be attacked , this effort and the display of enterprise involved in it are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plans of campaign as not worth worrying about . Adjt . Gen. Corbin , who is acquainted with . all the plane for the army of Gen. Shatter , declines positively to talk about any operations in progress . He will not indulge in speculation about anything . " Wait and see , " he " but don ' ? expect me to tell . "                     