@@673544

txt The decision rendered by the court of last resort in Kansas in the case of the Montezuma Railroad is important . The road was a. part of a much more extended line , and . the construction was almost wholly paid for by the subscriptions of communities along the route . The larger plan was never Carried out , the line was sold undef foreclosure to some of the original promoters , who refused to operate it on the terms fixed by the Railroad Commission . When they sought to remove the rails , the towns holding bonds sought to prevent them by law . The court decides that the law can not prevent them , because they can not be required to operate their road- at a. loss . So far as this principle is involved , It is a sound one , and its enunciation on this high authority may have a wholesome Influence on the general opinion in Kansas , and in soine other communities , that owners of railroads are the complete slaves of the State Legislature . Yet it is plain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are in the same case as people on many other lines  --  have a substantial grievance , and have suffered a real wrong , for which there appears to be no legal remedy . They were induced to pay out their money on promises that have never been kept , and that very possibly were not meant to be kept . The law now says that they invested their money in the same way as other bondholders , or lenders to the road , but though they may have only the same legal rights as other bondholders , they clearly did not make the same kind of investment , and in equity , if not in law , they stand differently . Had the road been a solid business enterprise , had it been free from the speculative purpose and the tricks that speculators resort to , it might , with the money provided by the towns on the line , have been made , with careful management , to pay a fair return on the money actually invested . The attempt of the people of Kansas to regulate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bound to hurt themselves as well ; but it has a basis of Justification . We see no ready remedy for either the wrong or the error . Experience alone will bring one , and that slowly and at great cost . But it is well for the managers of railroads to remember that there are two sides to this question , for their own permanent interests can not be safeguarded until they act on this fact .                     