@@675173

txt " Send Olympia 's mail to B. F. Stevens , 4 Trafalgar Square , London , England , " was the notice given out at the Navy Department to-day . This was the first formal indication that the famous flagship is coming home immediately . Upon inquiry it was ascertained that Secretary Long had cabled Admiral Dewey Permission last evening to return at once to the United States . He has been relieved of the obligation of remaining at Manila until the Philippine Commission completes its work . He is not even required to await the cessation of hestilits , but may start homeward at once . The notice posted at the Navy Department indicates that the Olympia will not remain long enough to receive the next outward mail . The Mr. Stevens referred to is the Navy Department 's agent at London to distribute all of the mail for United States warships in European waters , and it will be his duty to see to it that the Olympia receives her 's as soon as she passes the Suez Canal . It is estimated at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in time for a National demonstration on the Fourth of July . The Olympia will not come under full steam , but , nevertheless , she should make the run to New York in about fifty-five days from Manila . That she is to come to New York is nearly certain , as is shown by the response by Secretary Long to the urgent message from Mayor Van Wyck of New York . The Secretary 's reply to tse Mayor was sent before the , notice was cabled to the Admiral that he might come home at once , and was as follows : Navy Department , Washington , D. C. , May 11 . Sir : I am in receipt of your telegram with regard to the return of Admiral Dewey , and expressing a desire that he arrive first in the country at New York . The time of his return has not been fixed , and the department has taken no other action than to authorize his return whenever the conditions of the Peace Commission shall permit . As to the route he shall take in returning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has served with great ability and must necessarily feel so much the effect of his arduous labors in a trying climate , and under trying circumstances , that the department is disposed to let him govern himself in this respect largely by the consideration of his own personal convenience and wish . It is understood , however , that Admiral Dewey will elect to return to New York . Very respectfully . JOHN D. LONG , Secretary . Hon. Robert A. Van Wyck , Mayor of the City of New York.  - -  Rear Admiral Watson will sail from San Francisco next Tuesday as a passenger on one of the regular Pacific Mall steamships , but can not possibly reach Manila before the middle of June . In order to provide for the direction of naval affairs in Asiatic waters between the date of Admiral Dewey 's departure aid the arrival of . Rear AdMital Watson , orders have been issued placing Capt . A. S. Barker in command of the Asi.atic Squadron after Admiral Dewey 's departure , until relieved by Rear Admiral Watson . Capt . Barker is now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Admiral " Dewey , is the senior officer on the station . He was Assistant Chief of the Bureau of Navigation during . Admiral Ramsay 's term of office and a member of the Naval Strategy Board during the Spanish war . At the close of the war he relieved Capt . Clark of command of the battleship Oregon and took that warship from New York around the Horn to Callao , Peru , and thence by way of Honolulu to Manila , where she arrived several weeks ago . As soon as relieved of command of the Asiatic Squardon by Rear Admiral Watson , about the middle of June , Capt . . darker will start for home under a leave of absence granted a few days ago .                     