@@674105

txt The Senate and the House have each passed Cuban resolutions . That of the Senate has been on the Speaker 's table since it was submitted by the Senate . That just passed by the House has gone to the Senate , and to the Committee on Foreign Relations . It was expected that the House might take up the Senate resolution , and , having rejected it , proceed to accept the resolutions of the House . That would have made the way clear to the conferees . Now , the chance of final action is deferred for how long a time no one will venture a. guess . Eventually the conferees may endeavor to meet the hopes of both the Senate and the-House by a compromise . The Senate has become so accustomed to compromising everything that it will not long resist a proposition from the House committee to bring together the best points of the two resolutions to be incorporated in a. conference report . By the time that conclusion shall be reached the chance of war with Spain may have passed beyond the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President regrets the efforts being m9.do to force the Administration in this matter . His sympathies are naturally with the Cubans , but he is convinced that in such a matter as this it is not wise to be guided altogether by sympathy or sentiment . Having in mind his responsibility to discharge a duty to Spain , the President feels that the Administration should be convinced that the recognition asked for on behalf of the Cubans has been won . The Administration must , he believes , be prepared to justify so serious a- step as the recognition of the right of the Cubans to be regarded as belligerents . If his course was plainer , the President could have employed opportunities to cultivate the popular feeling that he has disregarded , and Congress in such a case might have been constrained by political reasons to take a course somewhat opposed to that now occupied by the majority . The information has not been confirmed by the Department of State , but it has been asserted that Secretary Olney , at the sug- gestion of some member of the A.dministration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been coIlectink-Tnformation for the President of the character , extent , and prospects of the revolution . This information , it is said , was desired from a thoroughly trustworthy source , in consequence of the intimation that the reports of Consuls , not assailable for lack of candor , but possibly affected by sympathy for or against the revolutionists , were incomplete . At all events , the President would have preferred to be permitted to act at a time when circumstances pointed to the necessity of intervention to check further bloodshed or destruction of property , and not to have that action hurried by what may strike Spain as premature or hostile expressions by Congress . While the concurrent resolutions adopted by the Senate and the House are in no wise regarded as a command to the President , and will not , therefore , compel any demonstration in force against Spain , the adoption of the resolutions has been shown already to have some weight , and has been hailed by the Cubans as a great help to thelcause 02 Uhe Cuban insurgents . Mir . Cleveland still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recognition of the insurgents as a Government . He , like President Grant , may come to the conclusion that the . insurgents do not sustain a Government ; that there is no Government , except that of Spain , that is recognized and maintained in Cuba , and that the cause of independence would not be helped by Presidential proclamation . Whatever Congress may do , dependence may be placed upon President Cleveland to do his duty when the time shall come for decisive action , and his record is one that will not justify any citizen of this country in assuming that he will be deterred in performing that duty by any timidity or fear of public criticism .                     