@@675377

txt Col. Smith , with a detachment of the Seventeenth Infantry , surrounded and captured in a village near Malasqui a party of guerrillas , who had made their headquarters there . The party included the band which assassinated seven officials at Malasqui for friendliness to the Americans . All are insurgents who became bandits when the disintegration of the Filipino army began . They kept the country around Malasqui in a state of terror for several weeks , and committed twenty-five murders in less than that number of days . When they were caught they were promptly sent to Gen. 's headquarters , at Bayambang , by train . It is expected that they will be speedily tried and either shot or hanged as an example , if convicted . The whole country north of San Fernando and between San Fernando and Manila , except within the permanent line of troops around the city and the closely patrolled stretches of railroad , swarms with similar bands . Probably they will be increased by men from Pilar 's army , many of whom are making their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These people for the most part succeed in dodging Gen. Grant 's , Col. Bell 's , and Col. Hood 's troops , who are scouring the country for them . They devote their energies to ambushing commissary wagons and to picking up soldiers who leave their commands . Every day some wagon train is fired upon or some soldier disappears . Gen. Wheeler 's secretary , Mr. Garrett , - was disarmed and slashed by a boloman almost within sight of headquarters , his assailant pursuing hint almost into the headquarters building . The policy of these ruffians is to make the country uninhabitable for Americans and to frighten natives into refraining from giving any assistance to the Athericans ? as well as to compel the inhabitants to support the insurrection . Frequently they raid and loot towns . The brother of the President of Imus went outside the town the other day to harvest some rice . He was captured by his compatriots , accused of being a spy , and executed . Only a small portion of the insurgent arms have been surrendered , and the problem of suppressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of the American officers think it worse than fighting Indians , owing to the difficulties of the country and the trouble of locating the enemy , who resort , when hard pressed , to the amigo dodge and hide their guns . Some of the Americans favor the issuance of a proclamation declaring all natives found with arms to be bandits , punishable as criminals , instead of being treated as prisoners of war .                     