@@672825

txt There were two accidents on the Sixth Avenue elevated railroad yesterday . One was a derailment and the other was a rear-end collision . Both narrowly escaped being attended by loss of life . The derailment was without explanation . The collision was apparently due to gross negligence . Each served . in its own way , to illustrate anew the constant and imminent danger to which travelers ou the elevated roads are exposed . The two accidents were linked together . The derailment came first . The collision followed in less than fifteen minutes , and was the outcome of the blockade caused by the derailment . Locomotive 164 , driven tender first by Engineer McCoy , drawing a train of five cars , all well filled with passengers , was running down town at 3:17 P. M. , and had just rounded the sharp curve at Murray Street when the tender jumped the track . The speed of the locomotive , which was about five miles en hour , and the impetus of the heavy train behind it forced it along for 100 feet on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then the wheels of the tender jumped clear over the tracks and the guard rails and the tender ran off toward the middle track , finally stopping at a wide angle with the track . The driving wheels of the locomotive did not leave the track . The passengers received sudden notice of what had occurred by a series of violent jerkings forward of the cars , and the train seemed to be snatched alternately forward an inch and backward an inch until the engine finally stopped . There was considerable excitement among the passengers , and those who had left their seats preparatory to getting out at Park Place were badly shaken up . When the train stopped many of them saved themselves from being thrown to the door only by wildlY grasping at whatever was within reach . Conductor Dalton communicated the news of what had . occurred to all the passengers , and they left the train at the station . Word was sent to Rector Street and Trainmaster Wise and Roadmaster It . B. Blank sent workmen to Park Place with " jacks " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the passenger cars had left the track . A number of jacks were put on the tender , and after working nearly an hour it was gotten back upon the track and the train ' Went on to Rector Street . Here the train was sidetracked .. and the locomotive was sent to Harlem . Its running gear sustained no injury of account . The derailed tender ripped splinters off the heavy timbers on both sides of the track for .100 feet , unshed the timbers where it " slowed " around toward the middle track , and scraped heavily against the ends of the planks of the platform . The accident to Locomotive 164 resulted in ablookade which lasted for half an hour , and extended at one time as far up the road as Eighth . Street . It being Sunday the trains were not running on a very close headway . and the blockade was not so extensive as it would have been on a week day . News of the derailment was telegraphed to all stations above Park Platte to Harlem . The operator at Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station . That meant that there Was a block at Park Place , and was a formal notice to station agents to warn conductors of south-bound trains . The first train following was stopped at Chambers Street . The third train , drawn by Locomotive 334 , Engineer Ferguson , with J. H. Bush as conductor , stopped at a point about 300 feet south of the station at Franklin Street . The usual red danger signal was shown from the roar platform of the last ear . Following this train was one drawn by Locomotive 325 , Engineer Mayer , with a man named Voorhees as conductor . This train stopped at Franklin Street'and then moved on down the road . The train ahead was in plain sight , 300 feet away . It was broad daylight and there was the danger signal on the roar platform . Notwithstanding this , Engineer Mayer pulled open his throttle and went ahead . It took only a minute or two for the train to cover 300 feet , and then its locomotive plunged into tho roar car of the train in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every seat in all ten cars being occupied . The shook of the collision was so heavy that passengers sitting in the rear cross seats were thrown ups% the persons occupying the opposite cross seats . The passengers occupying the side seats were lifted out of their places and hurled against one another . Great excitement prevailed in both trains . Women screamed , and many of the passengers throw up the windows , intending to make their exit from the train iu that way . Many received bruises by being thrown against the seats or the sides of the cars . One woman was lifted up bodily and deposited in the lap of a man who was asleep . The shock of the collision and the descent of the woman were so nearly simultaneous that the man was not able to separate cause from effect , and awoke with a suddenness which brought a yell of astonishment and apprehension from his lips . He clutched at the woman , who yelled in turn and struck a bee line for tho door , only to be turned back by the guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an effort to open the iron guard-gates , but the trainmen barred the way and added to the confusion and excitement by refusing to allow any passengers to leave the train . They said the collision did not amount to anything , and the train would go on in a few minutes . When fifteen minutes had passed and neither train had moved , the passengers held an indignation meeting and denounced the train officials in unmeasured terms for having carried them past Franklin Street without notifying them of the existence of a block . The guards finally opened the gates , and many of the passengers walked back on the planking beside the track to Franklin Street , and there made their way to the street . Word of the collision was telegraphed to Rector Street and Park Place , and Roadinastor Black , Superintendent Smith , and Trainmaster Wise hurried to the scene with a force of workmen armed with jacks . The services of the latter were not required , as neither locomotive nor cars had left the track . In other ways , however , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on both trains were broken . The rear platform of the last car of the train which was ran into was badly smashed . and the front of Locomotive 325 was battered up , and its side bars broken , so that it was rendered useless . The ironwork on the front platform of the passenger car behind and also that on the roar platform of the last car of the train ahead were twisted out of shape . and the platforms of several of the other ears were damaged . Locomotive 334 was also shaken up . The road officials worked at the scene of the collision for nearly an hour before things were finally straightened out . Travel on the road was blocked until 4:16 o'clock , and then trains were run around the wreck . Trains were also run around the derailed tender at Park Place for some little time before it was gotten back on the rails . The cars of the train drawn by Locomotive 334 were chained together and sent to al arlem . The train of Locomotive 325 was shunted upon the middle track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suppress news of the collision . When . ' drat approached . they said they knew of only one accident  --  the derailment at Park Place . When ' Dressed , they recollected the collision , but pooh-poohed it and said the daniages would not exceed $50 . Trainmaster Wise spent the . rest of the day gathering-facts for Superintendent Smith . Lie exhibited the rules of the road . These provide that , in case of a block , the nearest operator shall telegraph the news to all other stations . The operators or agents at these stations must then notify the conductors of all arriving trains , and the conductors must then notify the passengers and give them the opportunity of leaving the train at a station . None of these rules appesrs to have been observed yesterday . la slyer , the agent at Franklin Street , said he had nut notified or caused 10 be notified the conductor of the train driron by locomotive No. : ; 215 that there was a block . Passengers on both trains stated that the co La deelors ! lad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a matter of fact , Passengers are seldom . if ever , notified of it block . There is a rule of the elevated railroad which allows trains to draw up very close together in ease of a block . Under it they may approach to within fifteen or twenty feet of each other , but in practice they get much eloser . It was the existence of this rule which allowed locomotive No. 335 to go on past . the Franklin Street Station and approach the train in set epee . It was said utter the collision that Engineer Mayer was color blind . Trainmaster Wise was unable to give any explanation of the cause of the collision . He had not talked to Mayer , he said , and did not know where he was .                     