@@780963

txt The representation of the Canadian Government at Washington , by the addition of an official to the staff of Sir Julian Pauncefote , the British Minister , formed the subject of an animated discussion in the Federal House of Commons this afternoon . Dalton McCarthy , Q. C. , member for North Simcoe , said that the vast commercial interests existing between the United States and Canada , together with the political questions from time to time requiring adjustment between the two Governments rendered it advisable that a Canadian should be attached to the staff of the British Minister . He thought it was necessary to adont some means more in accordance with modern institutions to prevent friction between the two countries , and so avoid the red tapeiam of the imperial authorities . The British Minister , he said , could not possibly have full knowledge of Canadian interests . The Hon. George E. Foster , Minister of Finance , accepted the idea as increasing Canada 's independence , but thought the agent himself would be in an anomalous position , being neither a Minister Plenipotientiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the latter . The Hon. Wilfred Laurier , leader of the Opposition , thought the step one in the right direction , only it was not sufficiently pronounced . The Hon. George E. Foster , he said , favored the appointment of a Commercial Agent , but why not give the proposed official a quasi diplomatic , status as welL Canada , while a dependency , should guard her rights , The Hon. D. Mills thought Canada 's interests were not sufficiently well watched . Other interests of the British Empire were paramount to Canadian interests at Washington . As an illustration , he asked the House to look at the Fenian raids . Was there one single argument in favor of the United States in the history of the Alabama claims that did not tell ten times as heavily against the United States in the Fenian raids ? Sir J. Thomson suggested that matters were working toward the settlement of interests between Canada and the United States by personal interviews . Events in 1888 and since that year showed this . He failed to see what position a Consular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Sir Julian Faunae-tote 's staff could help Canada . He moved the adjournment of the debate , which motion was carried .                     