@@673109

txt The Agricultural Society of Connecticut has adopted resolutions calling upon the Senators of that State to support the AntiOption bill as a measure calculated " to greatly advance the agricultural and legitimate business interests of our country by preventing speculation and gambling in the staple products of life . " This action forcibly illustrates the delusion that ex ists among the honest supporters of antioption legislation regarding the nature and effect of trading in futures . This seems to be regarded by them as sheer speculation and gambling , and as in no sense " legitimate business , " which is largely due to ignorance of what that kind of trading is and what it does . No doubt there is a good deal , of trading on the Exchanges which is mere speculation upon the fluctuation of prices , but only to a small extent does it affect the fluctuations , and so far as it has effect it is as likely to be in the direction of increase as of depression . The real nature and effect of selling for future delivery has been often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be understood . Our principal crops , as of cotton or of grain , are necessarily harvested and made ready for the market duringta short season of ; each year , while the demand for home consumption and for export is a continuous one . If the producers were compelled to sell these crops only for immediate delivery , the supply thrown upon the market at or just after the harvesting season would greatly depress prices and derange the facilities for storage , transportation , and exchange . Purchases would be made.on a large scale at low prices by operators who would hold the products for a rise , while the supply became distributed to  --  meet the demand of the future months . As- the demand increasedrelatively to the supply on hand the prices - would advance . The result would be that the producers would sell at the lowest prices of the year and the middlemen would get the whole benefit of the highest prices , and the difference would sometimes be wide . The system of selling for future delivery is based upon a calculation of the supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demand for that supply throughout the year until another crop season , and it serves to anticipate the rise as the demand becomes adjusted to supply , and to maintain comparative uniformity and stability in prices . The system grew absolutely out of the exigencies of the situation , which required that an enormous volume of products coming into the market at one period of the years should be so handled as to meet a demand that was continuous throughout the year . It gave facility to all the processes of collecting , storing , transporting , and distributing , and of effecting exchanges upon these products , and . with it are involved various branches of traffic , including banking . The greatest of its benefits undoubtedly accrues to the producing classes which are crying in some parts of the country for a suppression of the system . Its abolition would be tho greatest calamity that could befall them , as they would speedily find if their demand should be heeded . But to them " gambling " in what the Connecticut Agricultural Society clumsily calls " the staple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system of selling for future delivery , the prices established are legitimate prices and are determined , as all prices of commodities must be , by the relations of supply and demand . But they vary more or less . There is an element of uncertainty in prices depending upon calculations of future requirements . Upon that uncertainty speculators operate , and they may endeavor to advance or to depress prices . according to the side of the market upon which they are interested , but they can not materially affect the general level , and they can not help or harm the interests of producers . They may gamble upon inevitable fluctuations and contend with one another in efforts to produce fluctuations , but their gains and losses are mutual . What they make they make out of one another , and what they lose they lose to one another , so far as their operations are mere gambling . They do not depress prices for the producers , and their operations , however objectionable in themselves , afford no ground for destroying the vast advantages of the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     