@@674923

txt The interview with Gen. Miles , generally printed in this morning 's papers , revived some of the bitterness that was observed during critical periods of the war when the name of that officer was quoted in connection with alleged interferences and possible attempts to humiliate him by the head of the War DeDar t ment . The very first statement made by Adjt . Gen. Corbin , when he was asked to-day if he had anything to say about it , was that he believed Gen. Miles would disavow the entire interview . " The Major General commanding the army is a man of too much experience , " he said , " to indulge in such criticism of his superior officer , " and Gen. Corbin felt confident that be would repudiate the interview from beginning to end . Gen. Miles may see fit to repudiate the publication , but that will not make much difference with the facts . Before he left this city for Santiago he told some of his friends that he expected to command the army there as a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The argument used against his association all that time is mentioned now to prove that he was not in command , and was not entitled ' to command , because the President had appointed Gen. Shafter to command that station , and be could be relieved only by a specific order from the President , delivered by Gen. Miles . Some discoveries of mutilated dispatches sent to the department by Gen. Miles from Santiago have been mentioned in the newspapers , but the dispatch stating explicitly that fever affected every regiment at Santiago was published at the War Department in part , the word " yellow " being omitted . There is no doubt that Gen. Miles advised precautions to maintain the health of the troops long before the famous consultation was held at Gen. Shafter 's call , resulting in what has been alluded to as the " rpund robin , " and the general order for the transfer of the troops to Montauk . Gen. Miles unquestionably followed out the plan for landing in Puerto Rico that he had made before he left Washington . He had made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the different practicable places . He found that Fajardo , which had been picked out by the War Department people as the rendezvous of the army of invasion , was not to be compared with Guanica . There was for several days a conflict of statement about the intended landing place . The Puerto Ricans who accompanied Gen. Miles insisted that Guanica. , and not Fajardo , would be the place . The transportation officers , who had provided the transports , insisted that they had been ordered to Fajardo , which turned out to be true , but Gen. Miles persisted in going to Guanica and required the transports to follow him instead of making what he considered would be a mistaken attempt to land where the water was shallow and where no lighters had been provided to transfer the troops from an open roadstead to the shore . The omission to send lighters , which might have turned out to be a serious oversight if Fajardo nad been chosen as the landing place , proved to be of no account , as Miles found plenty of lighters at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the conduct of the war at the report that Secretary Alger , who is said to have been deeply grieved and annoyed at the criticism aimed at him , will insist upon an investigation of the whole subject , and will expect an inquiry by Congress at the beginning of the next session , It is not asserted that this will come through a court-martial , as that , it seems . Is not intended . The investigation is to be made in the interest of historical accuracy and to dispose of the accumulating charges against several branches of the service that have been held up as lacking in efficiency and capacity to meet the situation . It is not believed here that the Secretary of War will have to press his invitation to Congress to_the make such an investigation . Once started , it is sure to be comprehensive and will surely endeavor to find out what the Quartermaster 's Department , the Commissary Department , the Medical Department , and perhaps the Ordnance Department were doing when the war was in sight and even after it had broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made by it will be looked into , and some public account will be given of the lack of oversight of this service that made it possible for sick and wounded soldiers to be shipped home in unfit vessels after the Government had become responsible for payment for the very best and most perfectly equipped vessels that could be procured regardless of the price asked for their use .                     