@@674741

txt The Times , in an editorial , quoting the statement of its New York correspondent , George W. Smalley , that , " despite war talk the best opinion still holds to President and peace and the greatest danger is from a possible irresistible outburst of unreasoning , if generous , sentiment , " says : " This does not tend to lessen the chances of war , for , although such waves of sentiment not infrequently subside as rapidly as they r  --  se , they may last long enough to lead , for good or evil , to irrevocable decisions . " The Times , proceeding to comment generally on he situation expresses the opinion that war is inevitable if the United States " interferes " in Cuba , while the result is certain beforehand . It expresses gratification that Gen. Woodford has taken the " unusual and significant step of publishing an emphatic contradiction of the malicious rumors circulated by the Spanish yellow press , which represented him as adopting a provocative attitude . " The Times , after declaring that this statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concludes its editorial as follows : " While hoping that we may yet be spared the sad spectacle of a contest between two friendly nations , both bound to us by the ties of old friendship , if the - worst comes , we should not forget , while maintaining the duties of neutrality toward both , that one of them is knitted to us yet more closely by ties of blood . " The Standard , editorially reviewing the : Whole situation , says : " Unfortunately , there is such a profound distrust in the United States of the competence , if not the good faith , of the Spanish Government , that nothing but emancipation of Cuba is likely to satisfy American public opinion . The name of suzerainty might , perhaps , be retained , but nothing short of practical independence would be held satisfactory , and this is the view which commends itself to English , as well as American , judgment . " The Daily News , in an editorial justifying the attitude of the United States , says : " America has no spite against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is all very well to call Senator Thurston a fanatic because he invokes the principles of the Christian religion against the cruelties of a Christian power . But he speaks of what he sees and his testimony is not contradicted . " Spain is entitled to govern the Cubans , but not to extirpate them . A weak despotism is the most cruel government in the world . President 's calm and sober language does honor to him as a Christian and a statesman , and Spain will commit a grievous mistake if she interprets it as a confession of weakness . " Senor Sagasta has a great opportunity . In President he has a high-minded and generous opponent , who will make things as , easy for Spain as he can . It is curious how completely , at this critical time . Mr. Sherman has fallen into the background and Mr. come to the front . "                     