@@672513

txt The text is published of what purports to be the English proposal for settling the Behring Sea dispute . It contains little that is new , and advances the controversy not at all beyond formulating a scheme for discussion . Still , it marks a new point of departure in an international controversy of the first magnitude , and therefore can not . be neglected by any observer who wishes to keep traok of such events . Sir JULIAN PAUNCEFOTE proposes , in a preamble and twelve sections , that England , Russia , and the United States shall form the North American Seal Fishery Convention , which shall deal with the entire subject , and thereafter invite the accession of other nations to the conclusions of the original signatories . With a view to final settlement the convention shall appoint a mixed commission of experts , which shall report in the first place whether the regulation of the slaughter of seals upon the islands will suffice to preserve the species . If not , the experts shall report how much water ought to be preserved and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both respects . Upon the basis of reports by the official experts and any other volunteered reports , the convention shall frame rules . If the convention is unable to agree , final arbitration upon the whole case by an impartial Government shall be invited . Meanwhile a temporary enactment is provided wholly forbidding sealing during May , June , October , November , and December north of a line drawn from the southern extremity of the island of Saghalien to the intersection of 50 ? north with 160 ? east , and thencej along the fiftieth parallel to the point oft intersection between 50 ? and 160 ? west. , Marauders shall also be forbidden to an-x preach within ten miles of the seal islands . Poachers shall be subject to arrest , fine , and imprisonment , and poaching vessels shall be subject to confiscation . Arrests and seizures shall be lawful by the naval vessels of either of the signatories , but final adjudioation shall be promptly invited by the courts of the nation to which the men and vessels belong . Fines and seizures shall be applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take effect upon agreement , shall endure for six months after the experts report , and as much longer as agreed . Whatever defects may be found in the foregoing proposal , it has one merit . Under it the dispute over Behring Sea ceases to be a dispute between England and the United States . At its last point the diplomatic correspondence had reached something very like an issue . " We will " was the virtual position of England . " You shall not " was almost the language of Mr. BLAINE . Anything which relieves such a situation as that must be very bad to be entirely unacceptable . The solvent is found in widening the issue and introducing new parties . Under Sir JuLTAN 's proposal it ceases to be a question whether or not England shall be forbidden to take seals in waters which are American by disputed title . Russia and the Russian half of Behring Sea are included , and the Okhotsk Sea as well . However it may seem to Mr. BLAINE , it will seem to prudent Americans most unwise to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be , it is identical with the Russian , for good or for ill , and Russia is no such friend of England or such an enemy of the United States that any fair objection can be made to sharing on an equality with her . The flavor of " knuckling down " vanishes entirely from such a proposal . These considerations are wholly aside from the point as to how Russia may like the idea . Clearly she , like the United States , could not hope to make better terms , peaceful or warlike , alone than with an ally which has already taken extreme ground . For Russia , also , joining with the United States would facilitate any possible victory and soften any necessary defeat . Assuming that Sir JULIAN had private authority for using the Russian name , he must be credited with a suggestion which , whatever its fate , shines brilliantly in comparison with Mr. BLAINE 'S march into a pocket , where it was necessary to fight or confess defeat . Sir JULIAN has manoeuvred Mr. BLAINE into a conspicuous failure as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course Sir JULIAN has not surrendered everything . It is reserved that in case of disagreement arbitration shall be submitted to , And , of course , any one of the three signatories may disagree . That reserve is no more than a prudent refuge from a coalition of powerful opponents . And it is sufficient , for England , if she were to be satisfed with simple justice as it appears to an impartial judge , might find herself in the position of securing from him what her opponents denied her . The suggestion that the world is to be invited to approve the result is also excellent , for the ocean is the world 's , and no Oarrow sanction is adequate . The temporary proposals for the regulation of sealing are adequate for the preservation of the species , at least , during the period named . In short , Sir JULIAN 'S proposals are all that could be asked by any fair American , excepting ( if they be fair Americans ) those who maintain that half of Behring Sea is ours , by right and purchase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument to that effect has been duly set forth in these columns . Whatever its technical merits it has this practical defect  --  that we must , it appears , fight to maintain it . Is it really better to fight on such an issue for such a stake , or to joint our co-tenant in agreeing to what he can agree to , with the alternative of arbitration in case of disagreement That is the case presented by Sir JULIAN , and for the credit of American statesmanship we are sorry it was left to come from him .                     