@@672559

txt All discussion of rapid transit in this city is sure to revert sooner or later to Broadway as in nearly all respects the ideal route for a main line , if an underground road is to be adopted . Just now there are several circumstances which direct attention more forcibly than ever to that thoroughfare . In the first place , Broadway is destined to be torn up in the next year for two purposes . It has already been decided to reNave it from the Bowling Green to Thirtyfourth Street without unnecessary delay , and the Broadway and Seventh Avenue Railroad Company has determined to adopt the cable system and has obtained the necessary authorization . Besides , the continual necessity of opening the pavements for the purpose of laying or repairing pipes and conduits of one kind or another has suggested the desirability of a permanent subway system which would accommodate all subterranean connections of the kind where they would be accessible without breaking the surface . If , now , a tunnel for an underground railroad through Broadway could be made feasible , here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Permanent subway provision could be made for all pipes and wires , and the pavement could be secured again.st the injury of perpetual tearing up and could therefore be maintained in a , perfect condition and easily kept clean . The processes of tunneling , of preparing for the cable system of the surface road , and of repaving could be carried on at once with economy for all . That Broadway affords a most convenient and attractive line for rapid transit and one that would be moat surely profitable can not be denied . That the construction of an underground road there is entirely practicable , provided no legal obstacles remain in the way , has been settled so far as the opinions and calculations of engineers can settle it . The chief obstacle heretofore has been the opposition of private property owners along the line , which , under inadequate or uncertain legislation , has attained its object by litigation . Butwe have never had any doubt that if a rapid-transit line were once constructed through Broadway under ground , it would prove an enormous advantage to that thoroughfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More than ever would it become the great artery of traffic and travel through the city and hold a unique position among the streets of the world . Its capacity would be largely increased and its surface would be relieved of many causes of obstruction . Nor would the building of a rapid-transit raid under Broadway stand in the way of the construction of a similar line along the Elm Street route . Being the most direct and feasible route between the City Hall and Post Office and the Grand Central Station , Elm Street is sure , sooner or later , to be chosen for one of the principal rapid-transit lines . The objections of property owners to an underground road in Broadway have beeA. mainly two . One , which has been kept in the background on account of its strictly private and selfish character , is that existing vaults connected with private-promisee would in some measure be interfered with The extent of this interference would not be great , and all proper-compensation would . be made for it , and- certainly-snob an objection ebouldnot be permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other . chief obj e ction has been that theloundations of buildings would be rendered insecure by the excavation . The opinions of competent engineers , as well as the suggestions of common 401186 , are entirely opposed to this view . Broadway is eighty feet wide between the building lines , and one-half of that width is occupied by the roadway , leaving twenty feet of sidewalk on either side . In no ease would the excavation be within twenty feetof the buildings or more than twenty feet deep at the utmost , and the foundations of all large and heavy ? uildings reach a much lower level . If a sustaining wall of masonry were constructed along the line for the support of the roof Of the tunnel and the well of the street way , the buildings would be quite as secure as if no tunnel existed . What legislation may be needed to remove legal obstacles we do not propose to discuss at this time , nor is it necessary to consider the financial scheme of such an undertaking . That capital could be readily obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of engineering and construction , we have no doubt , for nothing could be more certain than the success and profit of arapid-transit line through the city , of which Broadway should be the route of the down-town section . In view of the subway feature and the pavement question it might not be improper for the city itself to undertake the construction of the main stem as far at least as Thirty-fourth Street and lease its use to the operating company . But these questions are subordinate to the main one , whether the Broadway lino for an underground road is to be ruled out altogether , when so many considerations continue to urge it upon the attention of every one who studies the rapid-transit problem .                     