@@675375

txt Money will be a useless commodity in Philadelphia on Sundays hereafter , if an the forces arrayed in favor of the old blue laws succeed in their crusade . Not a store will be open ; not a newsboy visible . In short , the only opening for the coin of the citizens will be the church contribution boxes and the street cars , which will be permitted to run by law . The police will be called upon to maintain quiet , but the real quietus to Sunday business will be given by the Philadelphia Sabbath Association unless the officials strike some serious snag in the way of public opinion . The officers of the association have issued thousands of copies of a circular in which they smy : " We call your attention to the law of Pennsylvania forbidding worldly employment or business on the Lord 's Day . " This law was passed in 1794 , and provides that " if any person shall do or perform any worldly employment or business whatsoever on the Lord 's Day , commonly called Sunday . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and be convicted thereof , every such person so offending shall for every such offense forfeit and pay $4 , to be levied by distress ; or , in case he or she shall refuse or neglect to pay the said sums , or goods and chattels can not be found , he or she shall suffer six days ' imprisom-nent in the house of correction of the proper county . " Mr. Mutchler , the Secretary of the association , was to-day asked to outline the plans of the society . He said : " Many meetings are being held each week now by our society to secure funds to push the prosecution which will he begun after the date mentioned in our circular . It is the belief of our society that all Sunday business should be stopped . " We mean to get after the cigar stores , the little grocery stores , the drug stores , excepting the sale of drugs upon prescriptions ; the candy stores , the newsdealers , the paper boys , the milkmen who : . re found on the streets after 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trolley toads , and all branches of business conducted in violation of the law . " Our society has practically closed the barber 's shops . but we have a list of offenders , and will renew prosecutions . We have been promised the aid of the police . The city has been divided into eighteen districts , and we have committees in each preparing to conduct prosecutions . " The easiest tasks will be taken up first . We will not attempt the impossible . Surely we can close ali stores , including the cigar and candy stores . Then the hawking of papers must cease . Just what will be de- , tided upon In this case I am not sure , but a crusade against newsboys and news deal ' ere seems feasible . The fine would be sufficient to destroy their ardor for Sunday papers , and the sale could be stooped : n this way easier than by attacking the papers themselves . " I am fold there is great bustle in the freight yards and express offices on Sunday . This must stop . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Police Superintendent Quirk has ordered the police to begin their work of closing stores to-morrow without waiting to receive the complaints of the society . There promises to be a lively time , as the blue laws practically stamp Sunday cigars , papers in the street , car rides . shaves . Kr.c. , as sinful . Secretary Mutchler apparently realizes that there may be danger that the too close enforcement of the law may lead to its repeal . for he says : " The society will feel its way along public sentiment carefully . "                     