@@781062

txt The President to-day sent to the Senate the name of Charles W. Dabney , Jr. , of Tennessee to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture , vice Edwin Willits , resigned . Dr. Dabney is the President of the University of Tennessee . There were forty-eight applicants for this position , coining from almost every Southern and Western State . Dr. Dabney was selected because he stands foremost among the agricultural scientists of the South . He graduated at the University of Virginia in 1877 , was Professor of Chemistry and Mineralogy at Emory and Henry College , Virginia , from 1877 to 1878 ; studied chemistry , physics , and mineralogy at Berlin and Goettingen , Germany , from 1878 to 1880 , inclusive , and received the degree of Ph . D. at the latter university . He was elected Professor of Chemistry in the University of North Carolina just before returning to America , and soon thereafter was elected State Chemist of North Carolina . In 1881 he became the director of the North Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station at Raleigh , and also State Chemist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is much interest in the trial trip of the Marblehead . This ship was allowed another trip , upon the request of the contractors , in the hope that they might obtain the speed which the gunboat had apparently made on her recent trip . The correction of the calculations , which included a subtraction from the reported result of the influences of the tides , cut down the speed from nearly 19 knots to 18.44 . This meant a loss of 850,000 from the apparent premium of $75,000 . A mistake seems to have been made in timing the trip , so that the ship encountered a change of tide . Those who have argued in favor of trial by the standardized screw system , believe that there would have been no necessity for another trial if that method had been adopted on the recent trip of the Marblehead . They say , too , that the fog would not have Interfered with the Olympia 's trial if their system had been used on the trial trip of that ship . The Secretary of the Navy , however , does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system over the old method . There was a desperate fight last evening in the liquor store of Harry Newkirk , 404 WEwt Street , during which two men were shot , but neither of them dangerously wounded . The row began during a quarrel among three brothers , William Doyle of 52 South Fifth Avenue , Henry Doyle of 150 East Third Street , and Joseph Doyle of 174 Perry Street . They are oyster openers . Everybody in the place joined in the fight . Connelly , the bartender , was shot in the face and hand , and James Haley , a blacksmith , was shot in the abdomen . All the participants were arrested . The statements from Washington , D. C. , that Congressman Sperry of this district will vote against the Wilson tariff measure are not relied upon by the Congressman 's friends in this city as authentic . Mr. Sperry had a conference with leading Democrats before leaving for Washington concerning the Wilson bill , and the couve advised was that the measure as a whdle should be supported by him . Even with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that he should stand by the bill . Mr. Sperry is anxious to secure a better footing for tobacco than the Wilson bill , on its face , gives that Industry , but it is not believed here that he will sacrifice the tariff reform within reacili because he can not effect changes in the interest of Connecticut tobacco . Judge James G. Jenkins of the United States Circuit Court , Seventh Judicial District , has been acquitted of all the charges against him ; so the ermine of that district is unsoiled . Judge Jenkins was indicted for illegal banking in connection with the Plankinton Bank . it was shown , however , that Judge Jenkins , though a Director of the bank , had no knowledge of nor the slightest suspicion of wrongdoing . His case was , therefore , separated from that of the other Directors , and a discontinuance was entered acquitting him of all charges . This will be gratifying to all who believe that the judicial ermine should be above suspicion , and it will be expressly gratifying to the many friends Judge Jenkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is so well known . Four negro tramps went to the house of Mrs. William Jones , in Dallas County , Saturday night , during the absence of her husband . They attempted to force their way in , when Mrs. Jones shot and wounded one of them . They fled , but were pursued and captured by a posse of citizens , taken to a tree in a neighboring swamp , and just at sunrise all four were suspended to the same limb .                     