@@673062

txt It was some months ago that we discussed the question of the colors which would be appropriate for house decoration at the approaching celebration in honor of COLUIVID us , and called attention to the magnificence of the Spanish standard , regarded merely as a decorative motive . With her usual promptness Chicago has caught up the idea and obtained from Mr. F. D. MILLET , who is now at work painting walls and ceilings for the World 's Fair , an opinion concerning the proper color for decorations in Chicago . The color indicated is a shade of terra cotta , which undoubtedly acts well as a background for other colors . But Chicago has now accepted that hue as the main ingredient of a banner which is to represent her as a municipality . We may readily allow her the color for a flag without the least envy . But does not the recent celebration here , the decorations for which still linger on many house fronts , teach us that New-York is not provided with a municipal standard which adds beauty of color to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a large scale for the temporary embellishment of walls and platforms ? Examining the colored sheets in Webster 's Dictionary which show the standards of various nations , it is soon perceived that the Oriental surpass Western peoples in the sense of what is proper for a flag . The broad yellow banner of China and the red and ' white flags of Japan . and Siam , as well as the red flags of Turkey , Egypt , and Tunis , may be mentioned . Almost alone in Europe the flag of Spain is a thing of beauty ; it glows like a pomegranate . It has but two main colors , but they are the most powerful and sumptuous in the scale . Now , Spain is the one land of Europe which was strongly filled with Persian and Arabian art and literature ; wherefore we may attribute to that Eastern strain the good art sense which of late every one with eyes must have perceived when looking at the Spanish colors among the flags on our street fronts . But , it may be said , what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume the Spanish flag for the banner of our municipality 9 Far from it . But , as it happens , the two nations that had most to do with the founding and progress of the city down to the Revolution can supply from their own flags the same or equally sumptuous colors for a standard which shall be New-York 's alone , and by its adoption mark the year in which , for the first time in several generations , this city has given solid proofs of possessing municipal self-consciousness and civic pride , From Old Holland , the land that gave the Puritans most of their ideas religious and governmental , excepting their intolerance , and exercised directly through New York the most profound and far-reaching influence on our General Government and that of every State and Territory in the Union  --  from Holland of old we can take as the most prominent color , the orange , suggested originally by the name of that property in the South of France which gave its own appellation to the Princes of Orange . OItANJE BOVEN was the cry once heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orange over all ! " ? referred to the color of the flag more particularly than to the Prince of Orange . From . ' the British islands , whence we got the other larger , but later , strain until after the Revolution , we can take crimson or some rich shade of red in order to form a broadish margin round the orange centre , or else two upright bands of red to right and left , thus disposing them differently from the parallel red bands in the Spanish flag . In this way we would obtain a magnificent standard , equally beautiful when straightened out by the wind , ( or , in the Oriental fashion , by a rod at top , ) and when falling in gorgeous folds . The red might also refer to the Scandinavian countries , Norway and Denmark . The adoption of yellow and red as the colors for a municipal flag would . be at once followed by their use in decorations for festal occasions , and the result would be a splendid play of color in our streets , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this favored laud . It may be that fond admirers of their own flags in the old countries will resent the suggestion of taking from Holland and the British islands the colors of a flag rather than from their favorites . But the Irish flag , which some will consider next in importance , while exactly suited to the Evergreen Isle , does not carry enough decorative value in our climate and is not suited to our sub-tropical atmosphere . The German flag offers nothing either historically or in an art sense , though it is a fine combination as it stands . Still less possible is the Italian ; while the French and Netherlandish flags are merely our own national colors , the red , white , and blue of our Revolution , arranged variously in three solid masses ; however used they would render a flag liable to be confused with ethers . In taking the orange from a flag no longer employed as national by Holland , and the red from the flag that New-York troops once fought under , we should have a powerful warrant from history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alien flag . For the adjustment of the two colors might be readily somade that nobody could mistake it for the Spanish ensign , and . yet we could obtain all the splendid color effects with which that flag is endowed . On some such lines as indicated above it might be well to publish generally a demand for colored designs , with money prizes or medals obligatory , as a preliminary to the choice of a municipal standard . The old arms of the eity would find place thereon . One of our powerful clubs might be a good body to move in such a matter , like the Manhattan Club or the City Club of New-York. and on a second competition the designs might be carried out in silk and bunting on a practical scale in order to judge how such a flag will look in various positions , either as a drapery , a processional flag , or a motive for broad decorations .                     