@@781294

txt According to the best information in the possesion of Gen. Miles , the number of Cubans who can be depended on to aid Gen. Shafter in the operations against Santiago is between 7,000 and 8.000 ? probably not in excess of the latter figure The information upon which this conclusion is based is derived from several sources , each confirmatory of the other , and there is every reason for accepting it as accurate . In the first place , Lieut. ( now Lieut . Col. ) Rowan , who landed on the south coast of Cuba , near Santiago , and made his way to the camp of Gen. Garcia , found that the insurgent commander then had in his immediate force 2,000 men , and , as the result of his observations while in Garcla 's camp and en route to and from there , Lieut . Rowan reported to Gen. Miles on his return that he believed the total number of effective troops that could be expected from the insurgents in the neighborhood of Santiago was about 8,000 . This testimony was confirmed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a detachment Of Garcia 's army when he landed the Florida expedition at Port Banes . Putting together the facts reported to him by Lieut . Rowan and Col. Dorst and the statements of the insurgents themselves , Gen. Miles concluded that it would not do to count on Garcia for more than S , 000 fighting men . He is sure that the Cuban leader will marshal that many , and equally confident that for the particular work In which they will be used they will prove a most valuable auxiliary for Gen. Shafter 's army . Instructions to Garcia . When the dispatching of the expeditionary force to Santiago was decided upon , Gen. Miles sent a communication to Gen. Garcia , asking him to do five things , namely , drive the Spaniards in the neighborhood of Santiago into the town , harass and worry them as much as possible , prevent their sending reinforcements into the place , seize some elevated points from which the Americans could use artillery , and co-operate with the fleet in protecting the landing of the Shafter expedition . Garcia agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so far gen . Miles has no eaUse , he thinks , to complain of the way the Cuban commander has executed his part of the programme , since up to the present he has done everything he promised to do . Whether Garcia will be able to prevent the entry of the Spanish reienforcements into the beleagued city remains to be seen .                     