@@672792

txt A number of the campaigners who have been on the stump for several weeks past in one or more of the States where important elections occur to-morrow ; have returned to Washington , and there is considerable speculation as to the result of the election . Some betting is being done , but the situation is generally regarded as too doubtful to encourage indulgence in that pastime . The members of the Administration are Ma , doubtedly very anxious . and are awaiting the result with a feeling of no very great confidence . ; By the judicious circulation of a strong intimation that the Administration might in the near future rind no further need of the services of men who failed to show an interest In the party 's well being , most of the clerks who have votes where they are greatly needed have been r persuaded to buy tickets at club rates and go home to vote . Politioians here regard the situation as worse mixed than they have ever before seen it , but the prevailing opinion is that the Democrats are in. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been in doubt about New-York say that the activity of Mr. Cleveland has saved to Flower many votes that at one time he seemed to be in danger of losing , and they predict a grand majority for the Democratic ticket . En-Senator Kellogg , who is a prefty shrewd observer of political events , and is a good enough Republican to be reasonably sanguine of his party 's success , said to-day : " The situation is as full of doubt as I have ever seen it . I have not for some time had any hope of Fassett 's election . 1 think it is probe ? ble that the Democrats will carry New-York . I think we shall carry Ohio and Iowa , probably , ? and that the Democrats will probably carry New-York , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania . No one can tell , however , what will happen . It may be that the Democrats will carry Ohio . . I certainly should not be greatly surprised if they did . When you have this blanket Australian ballot it is hard to tell how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be surprised at anything . Espeoially if you take it in a State like Ohio , where the result depends so much upon the votes of employes of factories , is there room for grave doubt . Where these men have had their wages cut down since the law went into effect they will be mighty apt to take advantage of the seonrity offered by the secret - lot , and vote against the party . For any part . I am not disposed to place too much confidence in ' , , the result ' 7 --  A private letter received from Secretary Foster to-day says : " Have seen many people who are judges of the situation , and am clearly of opinion that this is a Republican year in Ohio . . and &Republican; Legislature will be elected . " Representative Bynum expresses the greatest confidence in a general Demooratio victory tomorrow . He said to-day he was confident of a good majority for Flower in New-York , and believed that the Democrats had a good chance ' of success in the other four States . Campbell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Ohio , ' and was confident of election . Representative Shiveley says there is no doubt that Mr. Campbell is as confident as any Man could be . and he ( Shiveleyl shared his confidence . Mr. Shiveley thinks the Democrats will carry three out of the five elections of importance to-morrow , and have a very good show ' to carry them all . At the Farmers ' Alliance Headquarters reports have been received from the managers of the third party in three different sections of the State of Ohio , all contending that the third party vote will reach between 40,000 and 50,000 in the State . Most of the votes , they say , will come from the Republicans . At the poolrooms here bets are quoted at two. / , to one on Campbell and three to five in favor of ; I , Flower .                     