@@674277

txt Two inquiries are constantly being made by Democrats who have not yet made up their minds to vote against BRYAN . and both relate to the election of MCKINLEY , which they rightly regard as the only probable alternative to the election of BRYAN . One is : " How can we , sincere believers in a tariff for revenue only , help in the election of the most narrow and obstinate of high protectionists ? " The second is : " What can we hope for in the reform of the currency from a President , who in the past has been an advocate of free silver , a supporter of the Sherman purchase law , a critic of those who voted to repeal it , and who will be constantly tempted to trade some sort of silver legislation to get the high tariff on which his heart is set ? " We fully appreciate the embarrassment of those who are troubled by such ques- tions as these , and we sympathize with the distrust that is Inspired by the past conduct of Mr. MCKINLEY and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called . But the men who are at this late date seriously considering such questions are singularly short-sighted and take in a lamentably small part of the present situation . As to the tariff , we have long regarded it as the second most important of the questions that have come before the American people since the war issues were out of the way . But it is just as clearly beneath the money question in importance as it is above others . It affects only very indirectly the vast field of domestic commerce in which trade is absolutely free . It is , moreover , a question that , even if the Republican Party be placed in complete control of the Government , is not likely to give rise to serious legislation for at least two years , and even then is not nearly so likely to lead to radical measures as would have been the case four years ago . But if it were entirely certain that Republican success would be followed by the re-enactment of the law , or something even more radical , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July , 1897 , we should regard such a result as infinitely preferable to the trouble that would follow before next January the mere election of BRYAN in November . The evils of differ , not merely in degree , but in kind , from those inevitably involved in Bryanism . There is all the difference between them that there is between an annoying attack of influenza and a stroke of paralysis . As to Mr. MCKINLEY 'S record on the silver question , it is , up to the adoption of the Republican platform , about as bad as it could be . When it was a question with the Republican Party whether Mr. MCKINLEY should be named on a platform corresponding to that record , we did all in our power to expose his weakness . We have nothing to take back of what we said then of his errors or of the cowardice that kept him silent while the nomination was dangling before his eyes . But he was named on a platform which distinctly did not correspond to his record , and since then , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to all doubtful points . In the first place , it must be remembered that we now have the gold standard , that we are buying no silver , that every dollar of our currency is kept at par with gold . The Bryan platform and his own threats require an aggressive policy , a revolutionary policy , in this matter . The issue , then , is between keeping our present system safe and sure or upsetting it with silver monometallism . The latter BRYAN 'S election beyond all doubt would do . Would MCKINLEY 'S election do the former ? His platform requires it and his pledges promise it . In his letter of acceptance he explicitly repeats that " until an international agreement can be reached every interest requires us to maintain our present standard . " Now , the present gold standard can be imperiled only ( 1 ) by free coinage , ( 2 ) by ceasing to maintain all currency at a parity with gold , ( 3 ) by some such compromise as the silver-purchase law . On every one of these points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1 ) The Republican Party , he says , " will not consent to put this country on a silver basis , which inevitably would follow independent free coinage at a ratio of 16 to 1 . " ( 2 ) Referring to the maintenance of the silver dollars at a parity with gold , he says : " The Government has solemnly agreed to keep them as good as the best dollars we have . " Again : " The Government having issued and circulated the silver dollar , it must in honor protect the holder from loss . This obligation it so far has sacredly kept . Not only is there a moral obligation , but there is a legal obligation expressed in public statute , to maintain the parity . " Still again : " It is proposed to keep all of the silver money now in circulation on a parity with gold by maintaining the pledge of the Government that all of it shall be equal to gold . This has been the unbroken policy of the Republican Party since 1878 . It has inaugurated no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that all the efforts of the United States Government to advance the price of silver have been futile . And he asserts that the Republican Party " has done all that could be done for its increased use , with safety and honor , by the United States , acting apart from other Governments . There are those who think that , it has already gone beyond the limit of financial prudence . Surely we can go . no further , and we must not permit false lights to lure us across the danger line . " These pledges Mr. MCKINLEY could not break or evade without weakness and baseness , of which we believe him absolutely incapable                     