@@672883

txt The suddenness and the depth of ISAAC H. MAYNARD 'S fall , under the corrupting influence of association with DAVID B. HILL , are illustrated with distinctness by comparison of what he did in November , 1889 , when he was himself a candidate for office , and the principles of honor which he then affirmed to be " the Democratic way , " with his notorious conduct in connection with the canvassing of the results of the last State election . The Delaware Gazette of March 2 , a Democratic paper published at Delhi , Delaware County , in attempting a vindication of Judge MAYNARD 'S character from the condemnation to which it has lately been justly subjected , publishes a letter once written by him , which we here reprint in fulls STAXPORD , N. Y. , November , 1889 . To the Board of Canvassers of Delaware County : I am informed that the question may arise before your board at its present session with reference to the legality of 105 ballots east for Mr. BALLA.NTINE in the Sidney . Centre district which do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , entitled an act to secure uniform ballots and preserve the purity of elections . I desire to state that no person is authorized to raise any such question in my behalf before your board or elsewhere . From the information which I have , these ballots are clearly illegal , and the casting of them is declared by statute to be an unlawful act . What disposition shall be made of them it is not for me even to suggest . That matter must be determined by the members of your body aoting upon your official oaths . I can only say that under no circumstances would I accept a certificate of election at your hands unless it clearly appeared that I had a plurality of the votes oast for that office . If that fact does not appear without the rejection of these ballots the certificate of election must be given to some other candidate than myself or the office will become vacant . It may be that it those distinctive ballots had not been used my vote in that district would have been increased . The member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls assures me that some Republican voters were deterred from voting for me by their use . But your board has no authority to make an inquiry of that character , and there is no means of determining to what extent this may be true . The Democratic way of obtaining an elective office is an election by popular vote , and not by Returning Board methods . I am well satisfied with the result as it stands , if the people of Delaware County are . An honorable defeat is always to be preferred to victory with dishonor . Very truly yours , ISAAC H. MAYNARD . In every point , whether of partisan duty , of legal right , of political morals , or of personal honor , this letter rebukes and condemns the conduct of ISAAC H. MAYNARD in respect to the canvassing of the last State election returns . No Republican has exposed the iniquity of his later course more completely . If he had faithfully adhered to the correct principles and courses this letter enunciates as " the Democratic way , " he would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnished the proof that MAYNARD sinned againt light and knowledge ; but it has not vindicated his character . The unquestionable devotion and splendid services of BENEDICT ARNOLD to the patriot cause before his betrayal of it do not wipe out the stain of his treason .                     