@@781795

txt The Commissioner of Public Works , who is not a New Yorker by birth , training , or long residence , - expresses in his plan to ruin Central Park by converting the lower end of it into a treeless , asphalted waste , the cheap utilitarian " practicality " that ' is always in vulgar opposition to the park idea in large cities . deleted 13 lines the Park that is safest , or most nearly safe , from the encroachment of the utilitarian destroyer because of the combined influence of the property owners in its neighborhood . Wherefore the Collis idea is chiefly ridiculous . But all parts of the best of our parks must be watched with- care by the people for whose , good it exists . The " park idea " ought to be taught in schools . The rising generation ought to be made to understand clearly that Central Park is . for all , not for any set or class , not for the poorest more than for the richest , not for lawn tennis players exclusively , or baseball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or horsemen , but for the whole public . It is our splendid garden , in which we may walk abroad and recreate ourselves . It is the only garden many , many thousands of us can hope ever to possess , and we ought to guard jealously our right to enjoy it , and to be ready to fight for it whenever its enemies threaten it . These enemies are of many sorts end dispositions , but chief among them are the practical fellows whom the sight of waste ground  --  that is to say , ground not encumbered by brick and iron buildings ? always annoys . Strange to say , it is the spirit these people represent that has disfigured various parts of the Park with hideous statues , by which we mean to say that it is neither the yearning for artistic expression nor the desire to glorify great men those metal figures represent so much as the idea that waste ground ought to be put to some use . In the past it has been sometimes for a site for a big fair , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to use some part of the park . They are always suggesting " uses " to which its greenswards can be put . The people who appreciate the Park best , those who are strongly possessed of the idea of a park for its own sake , are sorry that even the public reservoirs . are in the Park , though they may have a picturesqueness of their own ; and they regret that the worthy Metropolitan Museum of Art was ever planted there . They are jealous of every new " privilege " granted by the Commissioners . They go to the extreme on their side undoubtedly . But they have always been useful when Central Park has been in danger .                     