@@672561

txt The Senatorial situation has taken a new and unexpected turn , but yet one - which politicians have been looking for since Gov . Hill 's personal organ began to boom him for the third-term nomination . This is nothing more or less than to shift the political cards and attempt to nominate Roswell P. Flower for United States Senator , with the understanding that Tammany Hall will send a united Hill delegation to the next State Convention . It is a well-known fact that Gov . Hill promised to use his influence in behalf of Mr. Flower 's candidacy for the Governorship honors next Fall , but since the third-term bee has begun to - work in the Governor 's bonnet he has been planning to get Mr. Flower out of the way and at the same time retain Tammany 's support . The simplest process was to persuade Mr. Flower to become a candidate for Mr. Evarts 's chair , thus gratifying Mr. Croker 's ambition to have a Tammany Hall representative in the senate of the ' United States , insure the support of that organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time improve his chances . One of the chief arguments that will be advanced in behalf of Mr. Flower is that , as Chairman of the Democratic Congressional Committee , he is entitled to some recognition for the unprecedented - victory achieved by the party in November . Mr. Flower assured the writer six weeks ago that under no circumstances would he be a candidate for Senatorial honors , but politics are uncertain and arguments may have been made to change his views . A sample of the policy which Gov . Hill and his subordinates in the Legislature propose to follow was displayed to-day . To all persons who called at the Executive Chamber or at the Delavan , where Mr. Sheehan had engaged quarters , the uniform reply was returned to all queries : " Mr. Sheehan will not araive before to-morrow , owing to the serious illness of his father . " Further questioning elicitea the information that Mr. Sheehan had himself telegraphed this information about 9 o'clock this Worning . At the very moment this news was disseminated around town Mr. Sheehan was bounding along toward Albany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Naturally , Mr. Sheehan was desirous of avoiding the applicants for positions and their friends ; who , he was perfectly well aware , were flocking to the capital in droves . But there seemed to be no excuse to resort to this mystery , to call it by no stronger word . At all events , Mr. Sheehan appeared in the lobby of the Delavau House at at 5:30 this evening . He was somewhat surprised to find awaiting him nearly every correspondent of the big New York dailies who is stationed here . He had very little information to impart , however . As a matter of fact , he could hardly be expected to say anything touching the all-importaut matter of the composition of the Assembly committees until he had seen his master , the Governor , and heard from the Tammany Hall moguls . But the latter contingency had been all arranged . The 2 o'clock train had brought from New-York the Speaker 's most intimate friend , Senator Cantor of the Tenth District . Even the usually frank and open-mannered Senator was plainly affected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive Chamber and among the men who are supposed to enjoy what is called the Governor 's confidence . The Senator smilingly volunteered the information that he had brought no message from his organization , as if he expected any one - would imagine that he would admit the fact if he had . About-b o'clock both Senator Cantor and Mr. Sheehan repaired to , the Executive Mansion . where they were joined by Edward Murphy of Troy , Chairman of the Democratic State Committee . The conference , for such it certainly was , Tasted for several hours . More or less curiosity was excited by people who were cognizant of what was going on , because Boss of Kings was not represented . But it is a matter of notoriety that Mr. made known his wants immediately after election , which explains why none of . the Kings County delegation has made personal application for committee places . As yet very few Republicans are here . Gen. Rusted is dna to-morrow ; Mr. Acker , the next leader of the minority , on Sunday ; Hamilton Fish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in by the car load  --  candidates and hangers-on . Mr. Sheehan found a bushel of letters awaiting him at the Delavan House from Assemblymen applying for places and aspirants for clerkship honors . Among other things for him was a 400-word dispatch urging the selection of a certain man for Sergeant at Arms , written by a patriot who forgot to pay-the tolls . Only two New-York Assemblymen are here , Gen. , from the Seventh , and Blumenthal , from the Twenty-second . None of the Kings County delegation has appeared on the scene , it being presumed that Boss has not yet slippad their leash . Two important measures will be introduced in the Assembly , on Tuesday , the Rapid Transit and Enumeration bills . Both have been drawn and are awaiting the convening of the Legislature to be introduced .                     