@@674004

txt The committee recently appointed by the Business Men 's Democra tic ASSOCiat10u made public its address to the voters of city and State last night . It was signed by Walter Stanton , Asa A. Ailing , Evan Thomas , H. D. McCord , John A. Sullivan , James A. Snyder , Alexander Meakim , George P. Gantz , George W. Olivit , John A. Mapes , Henry J. Neahr , M. Ritteiihouse , S. S. Nicholas , W. d'H . Washington , and John G. O'Keefe . These comprised the committee , and the address was also signed by Theodore W. Myers , President ; Joseph J. O'Donohue , Chairman of the Executive Committee ; Julius D. Mahr , Secretary , and William I. Young , Treasurer . Discussing , brat , National issues , the address says : The country is slowly but surely recovering front a condition of busitiese depression and stagnation which has been most persistent and per . vading In Its ? oharaet , -r , and which ties reached and affected to a greater ur less extent all classes of business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Its extent , and universal in its effects . Amid while Its chief causes and mainsprings must be sought in deeper sources than those that originate with our Legislatures and governments ; yet the wise or the unwise action of Legislatures and governments does much toward alleviating or intensifying the effects of just such periods of business paralysis and inactivity as we have been groaning under during the past two years . We believe that the passage of the bill was one of the most disastrous acts of legislation that could have been passed at the ' time , precipitating as It did the business and financial crisis upon our country , and intensifying and prolonging Its effects throughout the land . Utterly uncalled for , it unsettled values , destroyed the equilibrium of commerce , diverted the natural flow or labor and capital , just at the most critical time , with results , as subsequent events have demonstrated , the most distressing and paralyzing to the people and their business aliice . We indorse the conservative and businesslike administration of National affairs by President Cleveland , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a return to prosperity and a continuance thereof comes from the Democratic Party and its principles as now administered at Washington , and that the return of the Republican Party to power in both branches of the Government , as its principles are now enunciated , would constitute a grave menace to a continuance of the present business improvement . When we return to the field of State politics , where the main contest of the present campaign Is being waged . Issues of weight and Importance between the two parties confront us , in which we feel it our duty to take sides and state our reasons fur so doing . On the very threshold of our investigation we are met by one fact of plain significance to all business men . After scarcely one year of control of the State Government in both the legislative and executive branches by the Republican Party , the people of the State are confronted with an increase of taxation of nearly $5,000,000 , and by an Increase of the tax rate from 2.18 mills , n 1894 to 3.24 mills in 1895 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Democratic Party can point to the fact that on the termination of their lease of power in State affairs , the State was out of debt and the tax rate low . This would appear to be at least an economical argument in behalf of the restoration of the Democratic Party to control in State affairs , and a business argument in addition . The effect of this argument might be somewhat lessened , if evidences of the proper use of and the necessity for this additional revenue were forthcoming ; but none are , nor do the exigencies of the situation appeal to the average citizen . A large amount of these moneys has been expended in most wasteful and ineffective ways , the formation of expensive and unnecessary commissions , and the junketing tours and investigations of legislative committees , mostly unnecessary and uncalled for , and none of them resulting In any needed reform through the subsequent action of the Legislature . Having full control of both houses of the Legislature , the Republican Party has practically blocked any effort toward true reform , In municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as have been made , purely for political purposes or party effect . We will be borne out In this statement , we think , by all true reformers , who conscientiously desire to improve the administration of affairs in State and city ; and we fail to see how in the face of the record of the last Legislature they can honestly expect fair treatment at the hands of a . Legislature similarly constituted . The address criticises the last Legislature for passing a great number of worthless or bad laws . It then discusses the question of home rule , which it favors . It says of the excise question : " VITIth home rule for the large cities of the State would necessarily come something in tha nature of local option , whereby at least each community could decide for itself and take the responsibility for Its own decision of the vexed excise question , and not be compelled as now to abide by the judgment of practically a foreign tribunal as to how and when its inhabitants shall partake of beverages , spirituous and otherwise . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of local authorities , and the community should also have the right , within proper general restrictions , to be heard in the matter of regulation which is to be imposed upon it , and to govern the conduct of Its own officers and elective agents . Of taxation the report says : As residents of the City of New-York , contributing as the city does so large a proportion of her revenue for State purposes beyond her own limits and without regard to her own needs , the question of the equalization of taxation is an important one , and one that we commend to the consider ? ion of an intelligent Legislature governed by right principles . After declaring that more is to be expected of Democrats than Republicans in the enactment of home rule laws , and alluding to the position of the association in not participating in local campaigns , the address says : And in the hurlyburly and strife of the contending factions in the local campaign . we must not as business men forget that after all it is to the Legislature that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside from the selection of capable , honest , and experienced public servants , it Is the political complexion of the coming State Legislature that is of more importance than any other issue that confronts us in this campaign . The address concludes with an appeal to voters having at heart the true interest of reform. , and desirous of seeing realized and perpetuated the principles of economical administration , low taxation , non-sumptuary laws home rule , personal liberty , and no special legislation , to support the Demo ? cratic State ticket , and spare no effort in securing the election of a Democratic Legislature .                     