@@674419

txt Methodist clergymen who attended the meeting of the Metropolitan District Association yesterday , at 150 Fifth Avenue , became involved in a discussion of the infallibility of the Scriptures . The meeting was executive , and those who were present are unwilling to give details , but it is known that some sharp things were said on either side of the proposition . The interest of the meeting centred in the paper of Dr , Curtis on " The Authority of the Bible . " Dr. Curtis has recently succeeded Prof. John Miley as tutor in systematic theology at Drew Theological Seminary , at Madison , N. J. , and the paper was of exceptional interest as the first utterance of the new tutor on an important theological question . He dealt with the subject from a liberal standpoint , defending the Bible as against the higher criticism . Dr. James M. Buckley , editor of The Christian Advocate , in discussing the paper afterward , said : " I do not believe that there are four men present who believe absolutely in the infallibility of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they are looking for a fifth , they can count me out . " There was a stir in the meeting . The conservative element was startled and the liberal element pleased , Three hundred preachers were present , and the question raised was one of vital interest . Before Dr. Buckley could continue his remarks , the Rev. J. N. Shaffer of Newburg , who was formerly Superintendent of Five Points Mission in this city , got the floor and said : " If you do n't believe it , doctor , we can do without you . " " Do you believe it ? " retorted Dr. Buckley . " Yes  --  substantially , " replied Mr. Shaffer . The incident would probably have ended here but for a proposition by Dr. Buckley to put the question to a vote of the meeting . This was hardly made befgre Dr. A. B. Leonard , Secretary of the Missionary Society , was on his feet with a protest . " Dr. Buckley , " said he , " seeks to put this meeting in a wrong light . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to commit his hearers in that way . " For a. few minutes there was some confusion on the floor , and points of order and questions of privilege were raised until the Chairman , Dr. Smith , the presiding elder of the Methodist Conference of New Jersey , set forth the method by which the discussion might proceed . The conservative element was by this time uppermost , and the proposition to put the question to a. vote was notr " enewed . The discussion which followed Was participated in by Dr. Buckley , Dr. Leonard , Dr. Cadman of Temple Metropolitan Church , and others . After the meeting it was said that the majority of the ministers concurred in the opinion of Dr. Buckley , but deprecated any effort to commit the ministers to an expression as a body on any phase of the question of Scriptural infallibility . All the participants in the discussion were out of town last night , except Dr. Buckley and Dr. Cadman . Dr. Buckley refused to talk of the matter , and Dr. Cadman was not at home . The Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was present and heard the discussion , said last night : " I will speak about it only to correct an error . There was no feeling of irritation at all . Nothing was said that the public might not know without detriment to the church . " The Rev. Dr. Francis H. Smith of the Seventh Street Church , who was also present , said : " The discussion involved the authenticity of the translations more than anything else . Fifty years ago there were Christians who believed that everything about the Bible , down to the commas , was inspired . Those who participated in the discussion yesterday , as well as those who heard it , doubtless all agree that the Bible is a work Inspired of God . It is unjust to put any other interpretation on what occurred at the meeting .                     