@@672806

txt We publish this morning every interesting statement in which Mr. W. VAN BE'NTRUYSRN , who is familiar with ' the long history of litigation concerning telephone patents , sets forth the grounds for his opinion that the Bell Company will not be able to extend the term of its monopoly by means of the patent recently granted to BERLINER . These grounds are that the Bell Company is prevented by its own admissions and assertions from taking advantage of the Berliner natant after the expiration of the Bell patents ; that the company has used for many years transmitters which are now said to be covered by the I Berliner patent , and that the patents specifically relating to these will expire at about the time when the basic Bell patents expire ; that the Bell Company has contended in court that the method covered by the Berliner patent is without originality and , therefore , is not patentable ; and that , after the expiration of the Bell patents , the public can safely use the transmitter devised by Rum fourteen years before the Bell patents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company are matters of record in the official reports of certain notable suits at law . The courts thus far have decided , Mr. VAN BENTRUYSEN says , that BELL 'S original patent covers every known method of transmitting speech by electricity , and have also upheld the company 's claim that the use of the methods set forth in the Berliner patent is an infringement upon the rights of BELL . The Bell Company prevented the issue of a patent to GRAY for a variable resistance transmitter , ( upon his caveat of Feb. 14 , 1876 , ) and after BELL 'S patent shall have expired the public can use the methods and devices for which GRAY was then unable to obtain a patent . The assertion is that the Boll Company after 1893 can not control , by means of a patent granted in 1891 , certain methods and devices for which , owing to the company 's plea that they were covered by BELL 'S application or patent , GRAY could not got a patent in 1876 . Everybody knows that the methods and devices covered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least ten years by the Bell Company in the Blake transmitter and the Runnings transmitter , both of which were patented in 1881 . The Blake transmitter is the transmitter universally used in telephone exchange systems ; the Runnings transmitter takes the place of it in the equipment of long-distance lines . Mr. VAN BENTIEGYSEN shows that the company has held . in several notable trials for infringement , not only that those transmitters  --  which have been patented and which " it has been using  --  were covered by the original Bolt patent , but also that the method used in these devices was old and not patentable ! It procured patents for a method which , it holds , was covered by the Bell patent , and which , it alsoholds , could not rightfully be patented because it had been known for many years If the company be right in asserting that the method used in its own transmitters and covered now by the new Berliner patent is covered by the original Bell patent , which is soon to expire , and if it be right in holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known several years before BELrls patent was issued , how will it be able.to control this method after 1893 by the patent recently issued to BERLINER It seems that by its own testimony and claims and arguments in the infringement cases the Bell Company will be restrained from making such use of the Berliner patent as it had in mind when it delayed the issue of this patent by collusive interference proceedings in the Patent Office . In the attempt to defeat GRAY and overcome the testimony concerning the inventions of REIS , and in the sharp legal contests with those who have sought to set up rival telephone systems upon the inventions of others , the Bell Company 's fire has been so completely drawn that it can not support the new Berliner patent against attack without abandoning nearly all of the claims which it has hitherto made and which the courts thus far have sustained . Mr. VAN BENTIMYSEN says that the new Berliner patent will expire this year , owing to the expiration of a similar patent taken out by BERLINER in England . It is not clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion of Examiner BISSING is not in accord with Mr. VAN BENTUUYSEN 'S on this point . But , if Mr. VAN BENTHUYSEN is right with respect to the other grounds for his belief that the company can not extend the term of its monopoly by means of this patent , the question as to the effect of the expiration of the English patent to which he refers becomes one of comparatively little importance .                     