@@675134

txt The duration of the battle is beginning to attract the attention of army strategists , as it is a very important element in determining the strength of the men , the supplies of ammunition and stores , and the spirit of the army . The first blow was struck before daylight last Saturday , and the fighting continued all that day , again . on Sunday , and now on Monday . The reports show little night fighting , except in repulsing an insurgent attack Saturday night . With to-day the fighting had lasted sevonty-two hours . Judged by the standards of great battles , such as Waterloo , Plevna , and others mentioned by army authorities , this is a long and intensely arduous engagement . But the fighting about Manila is quite different ' from the standards of civilized armies , as it is a running brush cOnflict , with only occasional isrues between organized bodies of troops Some of the battles of the civil war lasted many days , notably the battle of the Wilderness and the fighting about Richmond . In speaking of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had gbne ' for seven days in the continuous fighting , around Richmond without renewing the supplies originally issued'before the fighting began . The main question in these long-continued fights is to have all supplies , stores , &c..; kept abreast of the fighting force , so that there may be no exhaustion . In this respect all the reports of the fighting above Manila are most gratifying to the authorities here , in showing that theQuartermaster , commissary , medical , and signal stores are well up with bur fighting lines . The belief is expressed at the War Department that the Filipinos are manufacturing the ammunition that is being used with such recklessness . When Gen. Greene was in the Philippines he went to the Filipino camps and remained some time among them . His report to the President shows that the Filipinos obtained quite a large supply of arms and ammunition when Dewey captured Cavite , and that they had heretofore obtained a supply of Remingtons and Mausers . Gen. Greene also found that the Filipinos had established a factory for the manufacture of ammunition for these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and furnishing a sufficient supply to the insurgents . A short time ago the Zealandia and Pueblo left San Francisco with the Ninth Infantry , bound to Manila . By the 1st of April four transports are expected to arrive at San Francisco from Manila , and they will return with reinforcements for Otis about the 15th of that month . The Hancock will take the Twenty-first Infantry , the Warren eight batteries of the Sixth Artillery and recruits , the Newport 250 marines and recruits , and the Morgan City six companies of the Thirteenth Infantry . A little later the Ohio will arrive and return with the remainder of the Thirteenth Infantry . The Senator is also expected later in the month and can take 1,000 men . The use of Chinese as litter bearers is said to be a device to save our men for the more serious work . The Chinese carry a light bamboo litter , and , being accustomed to the climate , they can travel twice as far as an unacclimated carrier . The main point , however , is that the fighting force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of profound regret in army quarters , it is said to be comparatively low , considering the number of men engaged and the duration of the action . This is accounted for by the long-range shooting of the insurgents , who do not shoot at a mark , but in the general direction of our forces . While these stray bullets do considerable havoc in our lines , It is far less than would be the results of chose-range volleys from solid ranks of insurgents in the open . or from a considerable number of sharpshooters . War Department officials say that the position of the Spaniards who were captured by the United States forces when fighting with the Filipinos will have to be considered by the President before any determination can be reached . At present Gen. Otis has plenary powers in the Philippines , and the War Department does not seek to interfere with his management of the campaign in any way . It Is believed , however , that until the President considers the matter such prisoners will be held as prisoners of war . The War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was killed at Manila yesterday . There is no record showing that he had authority to go with the army as a representative of a foreign Government . or in any other capacity . It was said that he had enlisted in the regular army , but there is nothing in the War Department to show it . Secretary Hay knew Lowenstein in England , where he was married in 1897 . He was of a roving disposition . and went to the Philippines in a spirit of adventure .                     