@@674010

txt The statement in several newspapers that Chief Engineer GREENE of the Dock Department sent checks to Mr. CHOKER in order to retain his place is not justified by the testimony of Mr. GREENE and is quite incredible to those who know that gentleman . Commissioner PHELAN , having resisted the order of Mr. CROKER to remove Mr. GREENE , was naturally placed in an uncomfortable situation . " I felt grateful to Mr. PHELAN , " said Mr. GREENE in his testimony , " and thought I would like to do something that would be pleasant to him , and one day I asked him if it would make things more pleasant if I sent those fellows $100 or so . He said he thought it would , so I made out this check for $125 and took it to him . He looked at it and told me to take it to President CRAM . I did so . and the check came back in due time indorsed by RICHARD CROKER . " It is not an edifying incident in New-York City administration that Mr. PHELAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servant in resisting the removal of an experienced and most competent executive officer of the board should call for or suggest any particular gratitude , or any form of reward other than that of his own approving conscience . But while the Engineer might give liberally , from a sense of gratitude to the Commissioner , there is no evidence that Mr. CROKER or any one else ever did get , or ever could have got , from him " one cent for tribute . " The first woman who succeeded In obtaining official permission to ride a bicycle in the streets of St. Petersburg managed to fall from her wheel a fortnight later , and injured herself so badly that she had to retire to a hospital for extensive repairs . This accident has had a peculiar effect . The police now refuse to Issue eny bicycle permits to women , and thus The sport can not be practiced by them in or near the Russian capital without risking and usually encountering summary arrest and severe penalties . They are a queer set , the Czar and his people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kindly inserts a list of ten books which , in his /Opinion , thoroughly deserve to be called novels . Nine of these books most people have read , or at least heard about , but one of them is quite unknown to fame , appears In none of the catalogues , and is missing from all the libraries . And yet , somehow , the title which Mr. HOWELLS has set down , " Madame Flaubert , " has a strangely familiar sound , or , if not exactly familiar , in some way suggestive of one that is . Were it not so well established that Mr. HOWELLS writes with all the care and precision of an advanced realist , one might venture to express the suspicion that he has made a decidedly funny mistake of some mysterious sort or other .                     