@@674742

txt The Associated Press to-day procured the following a.bstract of the report of the court of inquiry which investigated the wrecking of the battleship Maine . This abstract is made from the report itself , access to which was obtained , despite secrecy unparalleled in the handling of official papers in Washing- ton . There are eight findings in the report , as follows : FIRST  --  The court finds that at the time of the explosion the battleship Maine was lying in five and one-half to six fathoms of water . SECOND  --  The discipline aboard the ship was excellent ; everything stowed according to orders  --  ammunition , guns , stores , &c.; The temperature of the magazines at 8 P. M. was normal except in the after ten-inch magazine , and that did not explode . THIRD  --  The explosion occurred at 9:40 o'clock on the evening of Feb. 15 . There were two explosions , with a very short interval . ) etween them . The ship lifted on the first explosion . FOURTH  --  The court can form no definite opinion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FIFTH  --  Technical details of wreckage are submitted , from which court deduces that a mine was exploded under the ship on the Port side . SIXTH  --  The explosion was due to no fault of those on board . SEVENTH  --  The opinion of the court is that the explosion of the mine caused the explosion of two magazines . EIGHTH  --  The court declares that it can not find evidence to fix the responsibility . The Court Unanimous . The report is unanimous and is signed by all the members of the court . It does not refer to the exigence or non-existence of Mines in the harbor of Havana , except in the specific findings that a mine was exploded under the ship , and the opinion that the explosion of the two magazines was caused by the explosion of a mine . The report , as a whole , is a formal , dispassionate recital of facts , and bears the stamp of that strict officialism which marks naval procedure . It is brief , not exceeding 1,800 words . It goes to the greatest length under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order of the ship . Under this head the court specifies with ? extreme minuteness , every detail of the satisfactory condition of everything on board being given . The normal temperature of the large forward magazines at 8 o'clock  --  only an hour and forty minutes before the explosion  --  disposes of the question of accidental combustion within these magazines . While the court holds that these magazines did not explode from internal causes , they nevertheless are of the opinion that the explosion of the mine under the port side of the ship caused the explosion of the two magazines . This will explain the remarkable destruction wrought , the explosion thus being shown to have combined the force of a mine without and two magazines within . The two explosions , which the court finds to have occurred , with a very short interval between them , is an additional detail showing that two forces operated in causing the destruction . The finding that the ship lifted on the first explosion indicates an external source , and one of tremendous power to be able to lift a battleship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , technically described in the fifth part of the report , from which the court deduces that a mine was exploded under the ship on the port side , sustains the view taken by some experts shortly after the disaster that the force of the explosion was exerted from port to starboard . Exoneration. of Capt . Sigsbee . A feature of the report of deep interest to the navy is the complete exoneration of Capt . Sigsbee and all on board contained in the second finding , setting forth the perfect order and discipline prevailing on the ship , and more directly stated in the sixth finding , which declares the disaster to be due to no fault of those on board . The inability of the court to find evidence to fix responsibility , as stated in the eighth Part ; makes the report so guarded in expression of blame that neither Spain nor the Spanish are mentioned throughout .                     