@@672503

txt O'Mahoney is seriously ill and will be unable to appear in court . The magistrates will , therefore , be compelled to adjourn the trial or to omit his name from the indictment . Mr. T. J. G111 , a prominent Irish Nationalist , has arrived in this country in the van of the party of Irish patriots who are soon to put the " plan of campaign " before the American people . Mr. Gill last night outlined the plane of his party in the approaching crisis . He repeated what has been intimated in dispatches , that the sudden departure of Dillon and O'Brien was the result of a deliberate decision of all the Irish leaders in session when it was found that the Government had called over 200 witnesses in the cages and evidently intended to drag them along until Christmas , thus drawing attention away from the distress and preventing an effectual appeal to the American people . Pecuniary aid is an urgent necessity . It had been hoped that the court would make an early decision , which would then have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have come to this country and have carried out their original plane , returning in time for the appeal . When the Government 's tactics were seen through there was but one way . Accordingly the escape to Prance and thence to America was planned . Mr. Gill pooh-poohed the idea that any fair-minded man could regard it as a flight or at all cowardly . Dillon and O'Brien had been too long before the public to have that accusation brought against them . One had stood trial nine times , the other three . All British voters knew better than to codger up any such theory as that ; besides , both men were going batik Immediately after their appeal to this country . Mr. Gill was very earnest as to the disposition of the fund that is hoped to be raised here . There was collected in Ireland last year $300 , - 000 , and the Irish people do not come begging , but ask co-operation . Mr. Gill says that , while the Irish distress may be termed rather sectional than general , It is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds raised in this country for Ireland , he says that the checks might better have been sent straight to the landlords , for , although the intentions were far different , that was where nearly all of the money quickly gravitated . Now , says Mr. Gill , a crisis is coming . The only way for the people whose crops are failures to live through the Winter is to use the money due for rent in procuring food . They are thoroughly organized , and the " plan of campaign " will be carried out to the letter . If the landlords accede , the famine will be arrested . But the probability le that they will not . They , too , are trimly organized , and , supplied with unlimited English Tory money , banked by the Government , they will proceed wholesale eviction . Then it is that the relief will till its mission . Money is wanted , not to pay rents , but to support the thousands of evicted families and provide them with shelter . The Tories think that the spirit of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wear them out before the next general election . The Irish leaders know that if the people can hold out until then victory Is theirs . Money must be had to carry them through . So on this ground and with this object in view the appeal to the American people will be made for the aid of the " plan of campaign , " and no money will be asked for for charity . Dillon and O'Brien are expected to arrive within a few days They will probably be received with a rreat demonstration in this city , and they will then speak in all the principal cities as far West as Chicago and possibly Kansas City .                     