@@781020

txt It is pretty generally understood about the Navy Department that Surgeon General J. Mills Browne , whose term as chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery will expire on April 2 , will not be reappointed , and it is almost equally as well recognized that the new chief will be Medical Director A. L. Gihon , at present on duty in NewYork City in attendance upon Navy and Marine Corps officers at that place . There were only two candidates , Drs . Browne and Gihon , and , as the former appeared to have made a good Surgeon-General of the Navy and has a host of friends , it was generally accepted all along that he - would be his own successor . Dr. Gihon , however , secured a great deal of Brooklyn influence while he was on duty at the Navy Yard and has a good many friends , who have reached the Secretary . Dr. Gihon is an excellent administrative officer and a progressive man . Ho is expected to wake things up in a bureau that has been very little heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Army Medical Department , whose officers are allowed to take part in the various medical and surgical conventions which are held in this and other countries . It is interesting to note that if Dr. Browne were to be reappointed as chief of the bureau he would be enabled to retire for age in 1893 , before another term expired , as a Commodore . which is the temporary rank held by all bureau chiefs , whereas his deposition from the ehiefship will result in his going upon the retired list as a Captain . Dr. Gihon 's appointment as chief will . It he is spared to reach his date of retirement , in September , 1883 , secure for him the coveted retirement as Commodore . There is , as already remarked in these dispatches , an inconsistency of fate in this arrangement which gives everything to the lucky mortal who happens to be chief of a Navy Department bureau when he gets to be old enough to retire , and does not allow ex-chiefs like privileges . It has been settled also that Medical Inspector Kershner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the assistant to the chief of the bureau in ? place of Medical Inspector Van Beypen . Dr. Kershner shared with Dr. Van Reypen the desire to become the chief 's assistant , but as Dr. Van Reypen has held the place since 1884 and had ingratiated himself in the favor of that indefinable body , the department , he had an advantage over all competitors , and . when the time came for some one to go to sea , Dr. Kerahner , as representing less pull , " was selected instead of Dr. Van Reypen . It was discoved , when Dr. Kershner was about to report for duty in San Francisco , that he had been to sea in 1888 and Dr. Van Ite , ypeu had not been since 1884 ; so the orders for sea were reversed , and Dr. Van Reypen goes to sea and Dr. Kershnor comes to a comfortable billet in Washington . He Is a selection of Dr. Gihon's.                     