@@673617

txt For an hour and a half the eagle bird screamed , the old flag constantly fluttered , while thunderbolts of patriotism aroused the more phlegmatic members in the Constitutional Convention to-day . Some of the country members roared about the Fourth of July and delivered carefully-prepared speeches to be printed in full in their local newspapers and used from the stump hereafter whpn political capital is low . The /debate was the funniest and deVeloped more bitter feeling than any that has yet taken place . It all came about because the Committee On Preamble and Bill of Rights , which is receiving more or less abuse these days for its industry in rejecting propositions whose introducers regard them as meritorious , saw fit to report adversely , along with a dozen others , a proposed amendment which had been submitted by Mr. Charles A. Fuller of Sherburne , Chenango County , and which reads : Article I. of the constitution is hereby amended as follows : Section 1 . The State of New-York is an inseparable part of the Nation known as the United States of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States are the supreme law of the land . To the Federal Government every citizen of the State owes paramount allegiance , and there is no reserved right in the people to withdraw therefrom . Mr. Fuller regarded this action of the committee with pain and indignation , and he proceeded to give his reasons for the necessity of such a patriotic proposition in a speech which consumed forty minutes , and which sounded like the speeches the Whigs made in Congress " befo ' de wah . " In the Constitutions of Alabama , California. , Florida , Georgia , Idaho , Maryland , and many other States , South and North recognized , he said , the supreme authority of the United States . It might be thought unnecessary to adopt such an amendment , but the Governor of Texas had recently opposed the introduction of troops into his State ; and another Governor , the companion of Anarchists , had criticised the action of the President in attempting to suppress disorder in his State . These were signs of disintegration . In the committee room he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a nation . He had been astonished to find such a.belief among the delegates . This was not a sentiment with him . He was proud of his country , for which he had two years carried a gun . ( Applause . ) . He thought the principle should be embodied in the fundamental law . Mr. Alvord said that the soldiers of the State , both Republican and Democratic , had written their faith in the Union in battlefields from the Mississippi to the Atlantic . It was a belief to which they would cling forever . Previous Question Dean of Chautauqua , whose seat is in the back row , came down into the well and shut off all further discussion by making the motion Which has become linked with his name . Although tire previous question was adopted , - nearly an hour was taken in calling the yeas and nays , from the large number of delegates who embraced the opportunity to explain ' their votes . The most oracular speech yet made in the convention was that of Mr. Speer , a delegate from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. President , " he said , " I believe in State rights . I do not believe the United States are a. nation . " Mr. Wright Holcomb of IsII ; v-York put the case in a nutshell in these words : Mr. President , as a citizen of the State of New York and of the Gity of New-York , both of which poured out their money and their blood like water in support of the Union during the time of the war between the States , and believing very firmly , indeed , that what we say here will not be long remembered , but that what the State and city did during that war will be remembered during all time , and that it is not necessary here or anywhere else to declare upon paper that the State of New-York is loyal to the Union of these United States , I desire to be recorded as voting yea . Applause . Even President Choate caught the infection , for he delivered his first speech on a matter pending before the convention . He said : It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New-York to vote yea or nay upon the question whether they are in favor of the Federal Union . I regard this as an unnecessary imputation upon that loyal and patriotic people . Applause . In view of her record during the last 115 years , New-York does not need to put before the world any declaration of her loyalty . Without New-York everybody knows that the independence of these States could never have been achieved . Without New-York the Federal Union , to which this declaration relates , never could have been created , and without New-York , that so freely shed her blood and her treasure in support of the Federal Government when it was attacked , this Union would have been broken into hopeless fragments , never to be reunited . Applause . The people of the State of New-York upon this record do not need , at this late day , to put forth any Professions as to their loyalty to the Union , and I therefore withdraw my request to be excused from voting , and vote yea . Applause . After Judge Griswold of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by stigmatizing the proposition and the speeches for it as " political buncombe , " the convention sustained the committee , 62 to 56 . For the purpose of expediting business and preventing the long-winded discussions that are precipitated without provocation , Mr. Francis ( Rep. ) of Troy submitted a. new rule , providing that an adverse report shall not be made until the committee thinks best , unless by vote of the convention , and when such a motion is made , only the mover and a member of the committee shall speak , and debate shall be limited to five minutes to each speaker . This proposition proved to be a veritable firebrand . Republicans and Democrats threw argumentative brickbats and clubs at it and would have pelted it to death had not Senator Vedder rescued it by having it referred to the Committee on Rules . . The general argument used was that the adoption of such a rule meant gag law and the transfer by the entire convention of its duties and responsibilities to a small part of the convention . The members of the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Convention is going , and from the quantity of oratorical gas stored in the receivers , the convention will never finish its work by Sept. 15 . To-day , therefore , Col. Morton of Kings offered a resolution that the Committee on Rules provide for evening sessions . Although the committee has not yet met , the sense of a majority is that sessions should be held on Monday , Tuesday , Thursday , and Friday evenings . This plan will no doubt be formally agreed upon next Tuesday , to which day the convention has adjourned .                     