@@672575

txt The long contest 111 practically ended , and W. A. Peffer , editor of the /arises Farmer , will succeed Ingalls as United States Senator , receiving 98 votes . Ingalls received 58 votes , and 8 went around-scattered by men who did not have the nerve to place them wheie they most desired . Major Harris was dropped out yesterday because of his Confederate record , which the old soldiers would not stand , even at the command of their Alliance leaders . Elder , the Union Labor leader , was much disappointed and threatened to resign his position as Speaker of the House , but when no one coaxed him to re ? main , but instead , began booming Mr. Neally , Democrat , for the position , he relented , con-. vented to stay , and voted for Peffer . Up to a year ago Peffer was an avowed hightariff man . He wrote a work in which he proved to his own satisfaction that the tariff was too low already . During the late campaign this book was used by Republican stump @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat , although he would say but little upon this subject . He is an earnest advocate of the free coinage of silver , which has been one of his hobbles for some time . The loaning of Government money at 2 per cent . upon land security is a pet theory of his , which he enlarged upon in a little work , " The Way Out " He would issue Government paper , limited only by the capacity of the printing presses until money became as plenty as was the paper money of the Confederate States during their last days . He advocates the system of Government warehouses for agricultural products , the Government to loan money upon the market value of the property stored . Mr. Peffer Zor years practiced law in Tennessee . Shortly after the war he came out of the army and settled here . Since then he has been in the newspaper business In tale State . During the past year , while he has been advocating the principles of the Alliance , he furnished the leaders of the Daily Capital or this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well along in years , being sixty years old , and is in exceedingly poor health . He is a student and dreamer , man of correct personal habits , and of grew* moral worth  --  a man whose integrity has never been questioned , but whose judgment has never been praised . The Senate , with 40 votes , gave Ingalls 35 . Two Republicans . for personal reasons , refused to vote for him . In the House the solid Alliance vote was cast for Pepper . There was not a single defection . One Republican dodged and would not vote . Senator Ingalls takes his defeat philosophically , and greets his friends as heartily as he did a week ago . His friends , however , are mourns ing , and refuse to be comforted . The Alliance men are jubilant , even the strong prohibition air of Topeka being enough apparently to intoxicate them . They are not as much gratified over their selection , as they are over the downfall of Ingalls , against whom they directed their efforts . Had Ingalls not been in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 7,000 , as during the entire campaign there was not an Alliance speech made in which Ingalls was not the central figure . The cause of this hatred to hit ) / has never been ascertained fully , as his most bitter enemies are former Republicans and pensioners . The dislike of the Democrats has been as overpowering lave compared with the hatred of the former Republicans . The victory of the Alliance is complete , and in the first flush of success the Alliance House has become so overbearing to the Republican Senate that there are already serious diflioultlea between the two houses . There Is a feeling of general relief , however , that this Senatorial contest has been ended .                     