@@674711

txt The American flag was taken down , by order of Bishop Charles E. , in the presence of an immense congregation , at St. Augustine 's Roman Catholic Church , Brooklyn , last Sunday . The affair caused considerable comment in church circles at the time , but the history of the incident did not become public until yesterday . . On the occasion in question the main altar of the church was being consecrated . The church is one of the finest in Brooklyn , and is located at the corner of Sixth Avenue and Sterling Place . The side altars were consecrated on Saturday , and the fact that the main altar was to be blessed on Sunday drew a large congregation . The church was beautifully decorated , and the Papal and American colors were everywhere . Back of the altar was a handsome American flag . Bishop presently appeared and glanced around the church . His eye rested for a moment on the flag back of the altar . Then he disappeared , and there was a long wait . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workman entered the church and went behind the altar . To ? the astonishment of the waiting congregation , he at once began the work of taking down the American flag . When he had finished , Bishop reappeared and the ceremony of consecration was begun . It is stated that when the Bishop saw the flag he turned to the pastor , the Rev. Edward W. McCarty , and said : " Take down that flag , or I shall not consecrate the altar . " Father McCarty , it is said , explained that the flag had been put there by the decorator , simply as a decoration , but the Bishop insisted , and Father McCarty yielded . It is beyond dispute that it was in obedience to the Bishop that Father McCarty had the flag removed . The . Bishop was ill yesterday and could not he seen , but his private secretary , the Rev. J. T. Barrett , said it was true that Bishop had ordered lhe flag removed It was not because it was an American flag or any other flag , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed upon the altar , and that was against the rubrics . Ti'is rubrics forbid anything being placed up.fla an altar about to be consecrated . " Father McCarty confirmed this , saying , " The flag was removed at the Bishop 's request , because it was against the rubrics . " " Were you not supposed to be acquainted with the rubrics ? " " Yes , but the flag was put in position by the decorator and 1 did not know anything , about it . " " Was the flag placed upon the altar or back of it ? " " Back of it . " " Then the rubrics were net violated , ' Jr the presence of the flag back of the altar ? " " It is simply a question of interpreting the rubrics , " . replied Father McCarty.                     