@@673579

txt The Post tomorrow will publish an exposUre of ' a plot whiCh had for its object the destruction of . the Capitol and , perhaps , other Government buildings , and which had been slowly developing for several weeks past . The Secret Service and police authorities , however , have been kept informed of the movements oft- the plotters , and would haVe been enabled to thwart thei had their machinations approached actual violence . Only once , " says The Post , " about three weeks ago , when the channel of information was unexpectedly interrupted , were the Federal and District authorities really alarmed . They did not know at what moment ? an attempt might be made to explode bombs in the Capitol , the Treasury Building , the White House , and the War and Navy Building . But , as the days passed and nothing was done , the authorities , who had redoubled their vigilance , restored the line of communication with the nest of Anarchists , and were able again to shadow every conspirator and to keep fully informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to the story , the plot was formed at the time Coxey 's army was marching to the capital , and reports of its existence came from various points , Omaha , Chicago , and Pittsburg among them . The Post says : " The prime mover in the Anarchistic plot  --  that is , the Washington end of it ? was Honore Saxon . He came from Chicago , and is still in the city . He is a provincial Indian . In Chicago he has been a disturber - for years . At the time of the Haymarket riot he narrowly escaped being arrested as a principal conspirator , and was shadowed by the detectives for a long time after that most memorable affair . " Saxon is a half-breed of unknown tribal origin .. He was one of Louis Riel 's lieutenants in the Canadian rebellion some years agO . The man has done some little newspaper work , and has frequently ' Sassed himself off as a reporter for The Chicago Times . " After Saxon 's arrival here letters were received by the Secret Service officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized in Washington , and that H. S. Jaxon of Chicago was the leading spirit . Independent investigations satisfied the officers that the writer of the letters was telling the truth , and since then , saye The Post , Secret Service men and local detectives Wave been constantly engaged in watching the band . The informant in the case has kept in touch with the conspirators and given the police . the names of those engaged in the plot , . together with other facts . These have been communicated to the officials of other cities , and they will probably act upon the strength of the information thus given . " The fact that the Anarchists have committed no act in Washington , " says The Post 's article , " upon which they could be convicted , . - has prevented their arrest here . Their meetings - have been , small and - secret ; their experiments with chemicals have been such that it-could hardly be proved that-they intendede to resort to extreme measures ; they have written no letters . In fact , all along they have waited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opportunity to carry out the scheme of violence . " Saxon 's headquarters was the residence of a Frenchman named Savant , recognized by his neighbors as an intelligent , but eccentric , character . One night the officers on watch saw a large class bottle , such as druggists use for explosive chemicals , delivered at the house . The conspirators met there and at other places , and " about three weeks ago the meetings became so frequent , and so many strange men came and went , that the officers felt that they were losing their grasp of the situation . There was danger that the climax might come at any time , and great alarm was felt . The Capitol officers , including the Speaker of the House and the Treasury people , including Secretary Carlisle , felt very uneasy . " One day , continues The Post , Saxon , accompanied by a tall , black-hatted ' man , called on Coxey at the jail . The visitors ' register showed that Saxon 's companion had represented himself to be " H. E. Taubeneck of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the National Executive Committee of the National People 's Party . If he was with Saxon , he was doubtless unaware of the man 's reputation . The discovery of the formula for making the explosive which the conspirators propose to use , says the article in conclusion , is probably- the most important piece of work done by the detectives . Several chemicals are used , and the proportions make a high explosive of a new and most dangerous kind . As soon as the police obtained the formula they took it to a well-known Chemist and asked him to make up a sample . He did so in the laboratory , and placed it on a window sill in the sun . In a few moments there was an explosion . A great deal of noise did not accompany the explosion , but there was a terrific concussion and a most nauseating and blinding smoke , although the quantity of the chemical experimented with was very small . A cat which was in the room died in a few seconds from the effects of the vapor . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explosive with which Saxon and his gang intended to operate . It explodes from the action of the sun , and does not require to be ignited from a spark or by concussion , like dynamite bombs and most of the devices of the Anarchists . In addition to furnishing an explosive force which , if the chemical isused in sufficient quantity , would shake the foundation of the most Substantial building , it fllls the air with a deadly vapor . An occasion for the use of the explosive , the Anarchists hope , is is said , to be furnished by the arrival of that part of Frye 's Industrial Army now reported in the Cumberland Valley . Under cover of a disturbance produced by them , the plot against the Capitol is to be carried out . In support of this , it is said that a number of Chicago Anarchists of the most rabid type are with that army . CHICAGO , June ** Saxon is well known here . He was never a reporter , but built sidewalks for the late Carter H. Harrison , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his death . This was Saxon 's - closest connection with - the newspaper business . He was Riel 's companion in the Manitoba rebellion . After the collapse of that opera bouffd war , Saxon escaped to this countrY . Ever since he has been engaged in mysterious conspiracies against the English Government . The British throne has not been observed to totter in consequence . He has a desire for notoriety that brooks% no opposition , and it is thought here that the story sent out from , Washington bears evidence that Saxon hungers for more publicity , and has not hesitated to bring himself before the public again . He is a harmless sort of a man , who wears long hair , and a mysterious cast . of countenance .                     