@@673411

txt The steamer Oceanic arrived from the Orient , via Honolulu , shortly after 10 o'clock this evening . The United Press correspondent at Honolulu writes as follows , tender date of Dec. 6 : " On the 24th ult. , the Warrimoo brought from Victoria our earliest knowledge of Mr , Gresha.m 's letter and Minister Willis 's probable instructions to restore the Queen by force . " The Monoaveai from San Francisco on the same day brought full details . No great surprise was felt . The Irmgard 's advices of the 2d had prepared us to expect facts . The royalists were greatly elated . " The Americans were also much inspired by the vigorous denunciations of Mr. Cleveland 's course by certain American paper*. and by the delay of Minister Willis in stating or executing his instructions . " One thing was thought to have become clear : That the ex-Queen and her supporters had been since early in March supplied with accurate information from Washington of the President 's policy and intention to restore her . ? " T. A. Davis was thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning . All the confident boastings of the Royalists , long-derided by the annexation party , were thought to have been based upon reliable secret information from Washington . Mr. Blount 's alleged relations of intimacy with the Royalists were also thought to be fully explained . " Immediately after the news by the Warrimoo was received , President Dole and Attorney General Smith waited upon Minister Willis . They asked to know his instructions . He courteously declined to communicate them , but renewed to them the previous assurance that he would absolute ly take no action until the return of the Alameda , on Dec. 21 . He further assured them that they would be the first to know of any course of action decided upon by him . He evinced a genuine sympathy for the Government , if not for their cause . " Minister Willis then listened appreciatively to a representation by the Attorney General to the effect that their struggle for good and constitutional government had been protracted and arduous for fifteen years , culminating in the Queen 's tragic trampling on the Constitution , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the ignorant and vicious despotism . " The Oceanic 's China mail on the 27th greatly increased the excitement by giving Mr. Blount 's report , as well as the sensation created at Washington by the Australia 's news . It was at first believed that Minister Willis 's delay in acting would result in the entire postponement of the intended restoration until Congress should be consulted . On the 29th , however , the Royalists became very active and exultant , and it began to leak out from them that the restoration would take place on Saturday , the 2d . There is now no more derision of the Royalist ru ? more . " It was surmised that Minister Willis had , by the China , received urgent orders to act . The Government trusted in his ass surance of the 24th , but strengthened their defenses and increased their guards as a precaution against a possible outbreak of the Royalists in their excitement . " On the 30th. united and vigorous demands were made on the Government by representative men of all classes to adopt a determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One committee was headed by the Marshal . " The Ministers felt severely burdened . by their responsibility , to maintain their Government as firmly as possible on one hand and save the people from ruinous consequences by the restoration of the Queen , and on the other the duty to avoid useless slaughter either of United States forces or of their own citizens , of whom their leading ones would be foremost in the conflict . " The united demand of the citizens terminated all indecision , and the Government became prepared to resist attack to the last extremity . The people are intensely aroused and mean fight . They feel death in battle to be more honorable , and even more safe , than to be remanded to the tender care of the Queen , exasperated by her former defeat . " A report emanated from the Royalists , and was widely believed , that after the Queen had been restored by the United States forces , forces were to be landed from her Majesty 's ship Champion , and together they were to assume the task of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said by the Royalists to be by special arrangements made by President Cleveland with the British Government . " The Attorney General this noon expressed his doubt of any such arrangement . He believed the Champion was here merely for ordinary protective work , in case of a battle or other disorder . Many of the most intelligent people believe that tfie report is true . They are of the opinion that President Cleveland . must have provided for a continuous protection of the Queen . " They say that as he can not so provide permanently , apart from the treaty stipulation and by the aid of the Senate , his most ready recourse would be to the British aid . For this he has precedent of joint protectorate over Samoa . " Mr. Blount 's report elicited from the American party a storm of scornful denunciation . He was always supposed by them to be directing his inquiries to expedite annexation . " Showy badges were prepared by the Royalists to distinguish their followers on the day of conflict , expected on the 2d . Several hundred of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia and Adams , who were already largely supplied with annexation badges , Orders were at once issued to the men to wear no badges of either party . " On the 2d the Australia arrived with the mails . Thurston 's letter on Blot 's report was received . He writes to his Government that it has caused no tension in his relations to Secretary Gresham , which are friendly , although Mr. Thurston has made very plain representations to him . " The Australia 's news encouraged the Ameticasis , as indicating the increasing and active sympathy with the provisional Government , as well as the serious perplexity of the Administration .                     