@@672946

txt The only evidence produced thus far to indicate that the President has been disturbed by the noise of the Blaine men was his own statement to a reporter whom he yesterday allowed to question . him for publication . Even the President 's friends complain of this Interview and say that there was no pressing reason for it . Gen. Hawley , who appears to be supersensitive about political paragraphs in the newspapers , files into a local paper to-day in a card in which he explicitly denies the story that Senator Allison 's dinner party discussed Blaine or anybody else as a Presidential candidate . One of the propositions heard to-day is an alternative one . tined is for Blaine in preference to Harrison , and he will not do anything to prevent Blaine 's nomination . Blaine is for Reed in preference to Harrison , and he will not do anything to deprive Reed of the honor . Of course , Reed will have to accept Blaine 's say so . He would not think of asking him for a letter . That would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that it certainly could not be taken as a guarantee for a campaign . Gen. Clarkson departed for New-York to-day . Before leaving here he went to the White House , and spent an hour with the President . There was nothing in his demeanor when he entered that indicated nervousness , and those who saw him leave the mansion say he appeared to be thoroughly at ease . The average man would find It exceedingly embarrassing to spend an hour with one whom ho was trying to deprive of a great honor like the Presidential nomination . That Clarkson exhibited no signs of a struggle with his conscience is a pretty good indication of what practical politics will bring a man to . The ex-headsman said later that he discussed the political situation thoroughly with the President , and assured him that he need have no fear the a " political cabal " would seek to compass his defeat at Minneapolis . If his nomination was thought necessary to insure a Republican victory , It would undoubtedly be bestowed . Mr. Clarkson said the President showed plainly that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his personal advancement . Questioned concerning the relations between Harrison and Blaine , Mr. Clarkson would say nothing . He was at the Capitol a short time today and talked with several Blaine men . Mr. Blaine did not return from New-York to-night .                     