@@673936

txt It is doubtful if the people of this city have been generally aware of the fact that the Fire Commissioners are accustomed to conduct their proceedings in executive session  --  that is to say , in secret . They have not . realized why it was that so little is heard about these proceedings and why they apparently excite so little interest , though the department is one of the most important branches of the municipal service . There is no reason in the nature of its functions why the meetings and ' doings of the Board of Fire Commissioners should not be as open to the public as those of any other , municipal department , and this secrecy is a habit , or a practice , that has grown up for no good purpose . It accounts for the fact that so little is known of what goes on in the Fire Department and why comparatively so little interest is taken in it . It enabled the old board to suppress the charges of Commissioner Gray against the head of the Bureau of Supplies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a " pull . " It led to the - Marshal 's office being tangled up in a conspiracy of incendiaries without any clear knowledge of how it happened on the part of the public . Now it appears that there are charges of fraud and blackmail in the Bureau of Combustibles , information regarding which is just leaking out . The Commissioners have been trying to keep the matter to themselves , just as their proceedings with regard to the Fire Marshal were kept in the dark until his removal upon allegations which the public did not fully understand . There is no doubt that a policy of secrecy is favorable to the growing up of abuses and scandals in the department , for there is no safeguard against such things like publicity . Commissioners who have designs . to conceal , or who wish to use the services Of the department to promote political or personal ends , would naturally favor doing everything in executive session , but those whose purpose ewas to reform the administration of the department and to insist upon honesty and efficiency in its bureaus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings . It would bring public opinion to the support of their efforts and make it easier to hold their subordinates to a sense of responsibility . The action of the present Commissioners on the question of keeping up this practice of secrecy will be taken as indicating their attitude toward the public in the performance of their duties . If they are in full sympathy with reform in administrative methods , they Will take the public into their confidence and get the confidence of the public in return .                     