@@673577

txt One of the most romantic marriages that have happened in this section took place to-day in the Church of the Sacred Heart , at Highland Falls , immediately after the graduation exercises were over . The groom was Lieut . Clarence E. Lang , cadet of the class of ' 94 , and the bride was a beautiful girl of eighteen , daughter of Commissary Sergt. William Kenkle , who is stationed here . Miss Kenkle was at the female seminary in New-Paltz until she was graduated . She returned to her father 's home , on the post , a few months ago , and there met Cadet Lang . It was a case of love at first sight . Stolen interviews were quickly discovered , by the authorities , who tried to stop them , but the lovers continued to meet . A Marriage between an officer and the daughter of an enlisted soldier is always unfavorably looked upon by army officers , but Cadet Lang was determined that nothing should stand between him and the girl of his choice . He determined that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Clarence E. Lang , West Point Cadet . and to-night they are on their wedding tour . They left West Point on the Albany boat with the other members of the furlough and graduating class . The groom and his best man , with the bride and bridesmaid , stepped into a closed carriage at 12:30 o'clock and drove to Highland Falls . Father C. G. O'Keefe , the pastor , was waiting to tie the knot . No person was in the church except the father and mother of the bride , and the contracting parties with their witnesses . The ceremony was quickly performed , and the party left for the boat . The bridesmaid was Miss Lizzie Callahan , daughter of ex-Assemblyman Callahan of New-York . The best man was Peter J. Lally . The bride was given away by her father . Lieut . Lang was formerly a cadet at the Naval Academy , but resigned , and after spending two years in business , entered the Military Academy , from which he was graduated to-day . Mrs. Lang 's father is not a poor man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a splendid army record , having been recommended for a commission in the army on account of exceptionally gallant bearing under fire , and most excellent personal character , in the Modoc campaign of 1873 . He was recommended for a certificate of merit in the Nez Perces campaign of 1873 . He was severely wounded at the battle of Clearwater , Idaho , in that year . Lieut. and Mrs. Lang will leave New York for Lake Champlain and the Yellowstone Park to-morrow . They will then proceed to the Pacific coast , after which Lieut . Lang will join his regiment , the Second Artillery , which is stationed in the East .                     