@@781342

txt The arrival of the gunboat Hawk a converted yacht , put the Flying Squadron this morning into a state of ferment and anticipation . She brought news that the Spanish squadron under Admiral Cervera , for which Commodore Schley is looking , was at Santiago de Cuba . Commodore Schley made immediate preparations to go in pursuit of the enemy , but as the ships were somewhat short of coal he had to wait in a state of great impatience while the battleship Iowa took on 500 tons and the other ships 250 tons each . This coaling was conducted with the aid of the collier Merrimac , which arrived at 8 o'clock this morning , in company with the gunboat Castine . The squadron is to leave this afternoon in a chase after the Spaniards , and it is hoped that Commodore Schley will find them bottled up in the harbor of Santiago . The Flying Squadron is now one of the strongest aggregations of fighting ships ever gathered together . It consists of the first-class armored cruiser Brooklyn , Commodore Schley 's flagship ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castine , and the torpedo boat Dupont . It has a plentiful supply of coal , and can stay for a long time at sea . The men are not only anxious , but eager to fight , and they expressed great satisfaction at learning the whereabouts of the enemy 's fleet . A close examination was made of the Harbor of Cienfuegos last night , but nothing was seen which . In Commodore Schley 's opinion , would warrant an attack . Some concern is felt for the Scorpion , which left here last night to take dispatches to the cruiser Minneapolis at Santiago . The dispatches of Commodore Schley are in cipher , and can not be read if captured . About noon the British ship Adula , bound from Kingston , Jamaica , with orders from United States Consul . Dent to bring off refugees from Cienfuegos , was hailed , and Capt . Walker said he had seen the Spanish fleet at Santiago de Cuba on the previous Thursday , but understood it was bound for Clem- , fuegos . The harbor , he said , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact mines . The Adula proceeded , and Commodore Schley was inclined to believe that the Spanish squadron had got behind the hills in a bend of the harbor , so that a thorough investigation will be made .. to-night . If the fleet is there it is caught like a rat in a. trap . If not , then Commodore Schley will go east . Still off Cienfuegos , The Flying Squadron was reinforced this morning by the addition of the cruiser Marblehead and the gunboat Eagle . It was still lying off the harbor , and the arrival of these two ships , both of which have been in this locality before , as is demonstrated by the shattered buildings on the coast , may assist in solving the question of the whereabouts of the Cape Verde fleet . The information given by the refugees Is to the effect that there are twenty-one mines laid in this channel , all contact mines . When they were originally laid the intention was to set them off by electricity , but there was some failure , and they were changed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are ' sixteen gunboats of the enemy in the harbor and many thousands of Spanish troops on shore . A clear view of the harbor is not obtainable from the American ships ; and it is possible that the Spanish fleet is far inside . This would be a much more advantageous place to land supplies and troops than Santiago . because of the fact that there is railroad connection with Havana , while Santiago is cut off by the insurgents . A strict censorship of news relating to the future movements of the squadron has been established by Commodore Schley , and information as to those movements is not known except to the Commodore in command . The cruiser Marblehead landed 3,000 rounds of ammunition for the insurgents today ( Tuesday ) and knocked down a blocksignal house of the enemy .                     