@@674124

txt By the tariff law now in force cotton ties  --  the bands of iron or steel used in baling cotton  --  were placed on the free list . Immediately after it became known that the Wilson Ways and Means Committee intended to make this change , the high-tariff organs began to be filled with protests long , loud , and deep . A great deal was said about the iniquity of this proposition by the Protective Tariff League and by prominent Republicans in Congress and elsewhere . Throughout the months during which the bill was pending it was asserted that if the protection given by the tariff to the manufacturers of the hoop or band iron used for cotton ties should be withdrawn , the country would be " flooded " with cotton ties from Europe and the domestic industry would be blotted out . But the " flood " did not come , and now it is admitted by high-tariff authorities that our manufacturers are selling " immense " quantities of American cotton ties in India ! The Cleveland ( Ohio ) Leader is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents the interests of Mr. MCKINLEY and his chief agent , Mr. HANNA . We find the following in The Leader of the 17th inst. : " Youngstown is not only supplying the market at Sheffield , England . with wash metal and furnishing incandescent lamps to Liverpool , but is also sending cotton ties to India . One of the large iron and steel companies is making a shipment of cotton ties upon an order received from Bombay , and expects others to follow . The ties will be used in harvesting the cotton crops in India . " On the following day The Cleveland ( Ohio ) World , edited by ROBERT P. PonTER , formerly Superintendent of the Census , and an extreme protectionist of the school , published the following dispatch , under the head line " An Immense Order for Iron Being Shipped from Youngstown to Bombay " : " YouNosmowx , Ohio , March 17 . ? The Union Iron and Steel Company is running on one of the largest orders of finished iron ever shipped from this valley . The order is from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An immense amount of cotton ties have already been shipped , but this will form but a small part of the order . Every package sent out will be marked ' Made in the United States . ' " So it appears that the " flood " is running the other way . The , duty having been removed , our cotton tie factories have not been compelled to go out of business , but are underselling the cottontie manufacturers of England and Germany and Belgium in the distant foreign market of India , where they must compete with these manufacturers on even terms , so far as tariff handicaps are cono cerned , and must also overcome some disadvantage due to the cost of transportation . The freight charges on cotton ties from Ohio to tide water by rail , and thence by water to Bombay , must be higher than the charges on similar shipments to Bombay from England or Belgium . Such transactions prove , oPcourse , that no duty on cotton ties is needed here for any legitimate purpose , for if our manufacturers can undersell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without tariff protection , they can much more easily without such protection undersell them here at home . And the official reports show that the ? value of the foreign cotton ties imported into this country during the fiscal year 1895 ( ten months of the new tariff ) was only $120 . It was in Youngstown that an agent of the American . Protective Tariff League Was recently stationed for some weeks , collecting money from the manufacturers to be used for MCKINLEY and against Mort.Tox in this State . It was to the alleged needs of this same cotton-tie factory i in ' Youngstown that MclCusrLE-x- pointed w- lien he urged that thereishould be im-                     