@@674959

txt " The investigating committee named by the President will investigate the past management of the camps . I am looking to the present and future only . " ? Secretary ALGER . In truth , Mr. Secretary , your present and your future must be fairer to your eye than your past . That way lie the horrors and the hideous things that have made the American people detest and abhor you . Did you read the death roll of the Seventy-first Regiment published in THE Trams of Tuesday morning ? All told , the regiment lost ninety-two men , only fifteen from wounds , but seventyseven from disease . That is a ghastly record . It is your record . It shows that one Alger is many times more deadly than all the Spaniards in Santiago . For the climate of Cuba you are not responsible . But you are responsible , you and the President , your close partner in that horrible debauchery of pull and politics that filled the Quartermaster and Commissary Departments with the perfectly incompetent sons of influential fathers , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and supplies , and the bungling and blunders in transportation that killed most of these men . And the Seventy-first is only one regiment among scores that can show like results of your awful work . Ah , Mr. Secretary , you gave to many favored sons grand titles that they will bear through life . ? But there are hundreds of mothers and wives in this land who nurse a lifelong sorrow and mourn their dead , needlessly dead , because you intrusted the duty of caring for their health and comfort to the youthful and untried civilian sons of your political friends . For this needless suffering and death and woe you are responsible , cold , cunning , ruthless political intriguer that you are . This is your past . It is a grim past . The innocent observer contemplates it with horror and sympathy that give deep pain . As the guilty author of these sorrows you can not contemplate it at all . You are " looking to the present and the future only . " How consoling and delightful is the prospect there ! Except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about  --  and we are not sure that you mind that at all  --  everything is lovely before you . You possess the undiminished confidence of your chief and the full power of your office . You can punish Gen. MILES or any other officer or soldier who dares expose your miserable incompetency and monstrous official crimes . With the favor and collusion of the President , advantages you have hitherto fully enjoyed , you can indulge to any extent your taste for dirty political schemes . Think of the old cronies you can reward and the new cronies you can make by the use of patronage ! Perhaps you can mix some business with your politics . That would n't displease you a bit . Happy man ! You seem to be just at the beginning of a career that may yet carry you to , unsounded depths of official prostitution . Why should you look back ? But the President ? There is a man who has eminent need to look both ways . ALGER is sheltered , but the people can lay their hands heavily on President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of the remnant and fag end of the dozen or more men he has bidden to this task so incompatible with self-respect , will do him nothing but harm . Already its members are called not his investigators but his apologists ? his whitewashers . The past plagues him beyond all endurance . The present is full of irritations . The future teems with grave perils that confront him already . He can not look anywhere without seeing things that blister . The people are beginning to fear that the lack of courage is not the main trouble with their President . They are becoming convinced that he lacks the capacity of indignation at a great public crime .                     