@@672772

txt So far as the responsibility under the law of the Hon. JAMES W. WADSWORTH for his share in soliciting political contributions from Federal office holders is concerned , we do not see that he has helped his case materially by resigning the Treasurership of the Republican State Committee . We have no wish to make it especially uncomfortable for Mr. WADSWORTH . We do not doubt that his course in this matter from the beginning was taken without much thought , and that he is personally quite incapable of trying to extort money for his party by intimidation or by any illegal methodsif he stopped long enough to see that they were illegal . Probably he has an idea , based on the experience of Gen. " NEEIEsnail " M. Cuirris , who was Treasurer of thesState Committee , and was convicted of " receiving " money for political purposes , that his own offense consisted in his action as Treasurer , and was practically wiped out by his resignation as Treasurer . But if a man of Mr. Wspsworern 's intelligence and standing , a member-elect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorance of the laws which even the humblest citizen is assumed to know , it is worth while to point out what the facts really are , and to emphasize the purpose and effect of the statute . Gen. CURTIS was indicted and convicted , before the passage of the civil service law , under the statute of 1876 , which forbade any executive officer or employe of the Government from requesting , giving to , or receiving from any other any money or property for political purposes . The law applied only to those employes not appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . Gen. CURTIS was employed as an expert in certain customs matters . He happened to be the Treasurer of the State Committee , and actually to have received money from certain persons of the class embraced within the law . But the law is now very much more stringent and comprehensive . We have already cited the provisions of the act of Jan. 16 , 1883 , which cover Mr. WADSWORTH 'S case . They specify the office he political purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being iu any manner concerned in soliciting or receiving such subscriptions . Now the circular letter sent out Sept. 25 , and undoubtedly addressed to Federal employes , opens in the following terms : " Dear sir : The Republicau State Committee respectfully invites from you such contribution as you may be willing to make toward defraying the legitimate and . necessary expenses of the important campaign now in progress in this State . " There is no denying that this is solicitation of contributions for political purposes , that it is solicitation avowedly not by the Treasurer alone , bat by the Republican State Committee , and that every member of that committee is directly or indirectly eoncernedin the act of solicitation . We see no reason to doubt that Mr. WADSWORTH , while he remains a member of the committee by which such a circular is issued , whether signed by him or by any one else , is guilty of a violation of the law , and that it is the duty of the District Attorney of the United States to secure his indictment and trial , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishment . We have entire respect for Mr. WADSWORTH personally , as we had for Gen. CURTIS . But the law , which is a wise and necessary one , should be enforced - with even greater severity in the ease of precisely this class of offenders , because it is their violation of the law that is the greater offense against the principle of the law . It is really an outrageous thing that public servants , employed in duties rendered to the whole people , including all parties , should be subjected to solicitation of money for the support of any party by men whose position does or can give them any possible influence over the fortunes of these servants . Such solicitation is essentially hostile to the independence of the public service and to the dignity , impartiality , and purity of the Government . It is not a matter for mere police regulation . It involves a most important principle . The enforcement of the law is required as an assertion of the supreme authority of the Nation and an absolute condemnation of the usurped authority of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more conspicuous the position of an offender who is called to account , the more wholesome and complete will be the vindication of the law and the principle .                     