@@672368

txt The State Convention of the anti-Prohibition Republicans , held here to-day , proved to be not only a large but a very interesting gathering . Over twenty counties were represented by 171 delegates , among whom were many Republicans who have been prominent in the party counsels in the past , The primary object of the convention was to farther protest against a blind infatuation for Dronibition , which the originators of this conference believe has resulted in the election of a Democratic Governor , and which threatens to permanently give the State into the control of the Democratic Party . The representation today , wIlle coming from many interior counties , was largely confined to the river counties - which were strongly Republican before the prohibitory policy was adopted . but in which She Dereoerats are now so largely in the ascendant that the Republican organization is about extinct . Thus Scott County , which rave 2.500 majority for Garfield and 5,900 for Boles , sent up a delegation of 14 ) . Des Moines , Lee , wid Clinton , formerly strongly Republican , but now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is in those counties where the liquor traffic is unrestrained that the crushing effect of prohibition is felt the most , The " settled policy , " as the last Republican platform called the prohibition question , has not only Wiped out the control of the liquor traffic in these counties , but it has well-nigh extinguished the Republican Party as well . One of the expected arrivals to-day was exGov . Kirkwood , but illness in his family kept him home . tie sent however , a letter In full sympathy with the object of the convention , in which he expressed the opinion that those who passed the present law and those who now sustain it have made a grievous mistake . " Personally , " the Governor says , " I am in favor of local option and high license with stringent regulations . I raver this policy , because I believe it will better promote the public welfare than the present law does , but some of our prohibition friends say . if such a change snail be made in the present law . the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , that looks to me very much like an attefiipt at bulldozing , and the Republican States never took kindly to that mode of argument . They do not seem to be ' buils2that way . ' The policy has been pursued for some years by extreme Prohibitionists in Republican States that have not adopted prohibition , and is now threatened here . It has not won in the past , and I think will not in the future . " The reading of this letter was loudly applauded . J. N. M. Collins or Keokuk , until a year ago a strong Prohibitionist , was chosen permanent Chairman . The Committee on Resolutions submitted a report declaring allegiance to the platform of 1888 , recognizing the liquor traffic as requiring regulation . but insisting that the object of such regulation Shall be to mitigate the evils of intemperance ; declaring that prohibition does not accomplish this , and should , therefore , be abandoned . Tbe resolutions declare against resubmissidn , and state that there is but one course to pursue , which is to rigorously exclude from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the Legislature at full liberty to act with respect to it as his judgment may direct . The General Assembly is therefore asked to amend the law so as to give the choice of license or prohibition to each counties as prefer either way , and it is insisted that future platforms be so constructed that all Republicans can stand honestly upon them and assist in restoring the party to complete supremacy in the State . The magnitude , temper , and-spirit of the convention hi causing the Republioan Prohibitionists a good deal of uneasiness .                     