@@672794

txt Chairman Neal of the Democratic Executive Committee seems to have changed his views as to the plurality claimed for CampbolL Figures are meeting an astonishing out at the hands of the Democratic estimate exports . This would appear to be the result of information received to-day from the outposts , and indicates in a measure tho position from a Democratic standpoint . From a plurality of 11,000 claimed by Chairman Neal Saturday . he now gives Campbell , as the result of a revised estimate , a plurality of 4,300 . He gives this . however , as the minimum , and states that it is impossible for the Republicans to out Campbell 's plurality below these figures . Speaking of the probable result In Hamilton County . Chairman Neal conceded that 's plurality would be 3,000 . Chairman Hahn of the Republican committee Biwa he has no revised estimate to make , and that his former figures of 19,000 to 21.000 plurality for l't.loKinley stand . He still insists this is a fair estimate , and that the result will show it to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certainty . Robert Watohon , formerly Secretary of the United Mine Workers of America , and now Inspector of Workshops in Pennsylvania , was in this city to-day and predicted the election of Campbell . He bases this prediction on the fact that Campbell wilt draw very heavily from the miner vote of the state and the wage earners generally . There is undoubtedly much truth in the statement regarding Campbell 's p'opularity with the mining element , as the fact has been demonstrated in several instances during the campaign . There is very little betting on the result . The Republicans are offering even money on a plurality of 10,000 for , with very few takers . Democrats are making no betting propositions . While there is no reason at this time to change the prediction of 's election , there is an element of uncertainty that induces a fear ? in the minds of the managers of both parties . The vote of the wage earners and the farmers is the unsolved problem in connection with the election , and , aided ? by the secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the rural districts andthe strong manufacturing centres . From these the Democrats must necessarily make heavy gains in order to have any show of success . Campbell must go to Hamilton County with not less than a clear plurality of 8,000 , and even then there is a possibility of his defeat . Briefly stated , the election is the most uncertain one ever held in Ohio , and the estimates of both parties are largely guesswork . The People 's Party is without organization , and its strength is estimated at from 25,000 to 75,000.                     