@@675391

txt W. J. BRYAN does not perceive the remarkable change that has come over the South . The men of the Southern States used to be absorbed in politics . They are now occupied with business . The real leaders there are not the politicians , but the creative men of the new industrial era . Live newspapers and live men at the South are discussing new cotton mills , new coal and iron mines , new steel plants , and new business undertakings of all kinds a good deal more than they are discussing politics . These new leaders have the industrial future of the South in their hands . That gives them a great influence in the politics of the present . They have the interests , and they see that the South has the interests , that business men and progressive communities have everywhere . They do not want to stand still . They must Move ahead with the rest of the world . They are moving ahead and they are moving away from BRYAN as fast as their enlightened minds . can carry them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and influential business men of the South The Manufacturers ' Record offered an opportunity to express their views on expansion . Almost without exception they declared that 1n should hold the new territory we have acquired , that our island possessions would give a great impulse to our commerce and that the position which the ownership of the Philippines gives us in the Pacific must be maintained for the important aid it will afford in extending our trade with China . These leaders of the industries and the thought of the South can not stand on the same platform with W. 3 . BRYAN . He declares for " anti-imperialism . " He believes , or insists , that we must ? scuttle out of the Philippines . He would give up everything we have taken . The leading men of affairs in the South are dead against him on that question . They have little or nothing to say about him or his issues . " Possibly some of them are not yet ready to part company with him on silver . But it is perfectly plain that the dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support of men who differ with him altogether on the live issue of expansion . A direct challenge of public sentiment has just been issued by Chief Justice DAVID L. SNODGRASS of the Supreme Court of Tennessee . He announces his candidacy for the Senate of the United States . He shares BRYAN 'S hostile feeling toward trusts , but he is an expansionist and favors the policy of holding the islands we took from Spain . If Judge SNODGRASS 'S principles commend themselves to the people of Tennessee , how can BRYAN hope to gain their confidence and support with principles antagonistic to those of the Judge ? It is to be presumed that Judge SNODGRASS knows the sentiment of the people of his own State . The Senatorship is a great prize . He would not be so foolish as to make a contest for the place upon a platform of expansion if he did not believe that it was acceptable to the voters and their representatives in the Legislature . A Southern man who is in favor of giving up our new territory ought to have his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceive at once that the interests of the South , its progress , and its prosperity will be powerfully promoted by the new commercial currents set in motion by the establishment of these outposts . The great issues in the South to-day are an isthmian canal and the development of the cotton trade with the Far East                     