@@674089

txt Thomas P. Bayard , the American Ambassador . had a half-hour in ' terview at the Foreign Office this afternoon with Lord Salisbury . He declines to say anything relative to the subject of the interview . FLAMES LN A SPICE MILL . Crampton Brothers ' Factory on the East Side Damaged  --  Nearby Tenants Move Out Their Furniture . The seven-story factory of Crampton Brothers , drug and spice manufacturers , which for the past thirty years has stood where Rutgers Garden used to be in the days when the lower east side was an aristocratic residential district , was badly damaged early , last night by fire . William Trautweddle , the night watchman , discovered the fire on the top floor of the mill while making a tour of the building a few minutes after S o'clock , and notified a policeman of the Madison Street Station . An alarm was turned in , and a few minutes later the firemen arrived to find the flames burning fiercely among the drug grinding mills on the seventh ? floor . In spite of their efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spread downward to the floor below . Second and third alarms were sounded in rapid succession . The mill is numbered 2 , 4 , and 6 on Rutgers Street . To the worth . and partly on Rutgers Street , is a long line of shabby tenement houses , known in the neighborhood as " Penitentiary Row . " The mill overtops these by three stories , and the tenants of the row , fearing an explosion among the drugs which rumor had it were stored in the mill , excitedly hustled their furniture to the sidewalk and made preparations for a hasty flitting . An hour 's work on the part of the firemen , however , got the flames under control , and settled all chance of an explosion in favor of the neighbors . Chief Bonner estimated the damage done by fire and water at 825,000. and his estimate was confirmed later by Eugene Cramp-ton , one of the members of the firm , who was communicated with at his residence , 1,307 Pacific Avenue , Brooklyn . Mr. Cramp- ton , said that the firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fire could not be learned . Set a Water Tank Afire . A man passing the nine-story office building at 3 and 5 Waverley Place , at o'clock last night , noticed smoke and flames coming from the top floor and turned in a fire alarm . The firemen discovered that the water tank on the roof of the building had been accidentally set on fire by plumbers , who had been attempting to thaw out the frozen pipes . They carried up a single line of hose , and extinguished the flames , with a loss of $100 to the owner , J. D. Williams , a real estate broker .                     