@@674021

txt Edward Lauterbach , Chairman of the Republican County Committee , one of the Republican " big four " of thee State , said yesterday that he was in favor of procuring legislation necessary for the consolidation of New-York and Brooklyn as soon as the text Legislature met at Albany . " I have always been a strong supporter of the plan to consolidate the two cities , " said Yr . Lauterbach to a reporter for THE NEW-YORE TIMES . " I think the separation of the area covered by New-York and Brooklyn into two municipalities is very injurious to the material interests of all the citizens living on either side of the East River . " Some newspapers have written a lot of : tuff about the growth of my feeling in favor of consolidation since Rooseveltism became an issue in this city . My attitude has not changed since Roosevelt 's name became known here . " I have property interests in both New York and Brooklyn , and have , in addition , a share in the ownership of the Brooklyn Elevated railways . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages which would accrue from its completion . " These advantages must be plain to any one who thinks about it . The mere trademark value of the name New-York would be of great benefit to Brooklyn manufacturers who sell their wares in other Darts of the country . Both the small and large owners of real estate in Brooklyn would profit by the union of the two cities . The transportation facilities would be so much improved as a direct consequence of consolidation that the East River would cease to be a barrier between them . " I believe that where every part of a terta:n area has all its chief interests in common those interests should be fostered and administered by a single form of government . Community of interest demands a common government wherever it is practicable to give it " Tkrnen New-York and Brooklyn are united under a sikgle administration there will be an immense saving in the auditing , executive . and supply departments . And , with less cost to the taxpayers , there will come increased efficiency , because greater responsibilities will demand first-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many cases . " " What procedure would you adopt to consolidate the cities ? " was asked of Mr. Lauterbach . " I think that as soon as the Legislature Meets a bill ought to be introduced giving power either to the present Greater New York Commission or to a new commission framed on similar lines to employ counsel to frame a charter for the government of the united cities , " he replied . " This work , I imagine , could be done in time to submit the charter prepared to the Legislature before its final adjournment in Stay . The Legislature would then enact the charter into a statute , and the whole thing would be done . " " Then you do not favor referring the charter to the vote of the people interested for acceptance or rejection ? " " Certainly not . The matter of consolidation has already been submitted to a popular vote , which was recorded in its favor . It only remains for the Legislature , as in its wisdom it nay see fit , to . carry out the popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Consolidation Commission are excellently prepared by their past labors to give assistance of the greatest value in preparing a charter which will provide for every emergency of moment that may afterward arise . " " Do you think that the union should take place on a single day , or do you think consolidation should come by degrees , such as Le-st uniting the Health Departments , then the Police Departments , and so on ? " was asked . " I think the charter ought to fix a day when consolidation shall be complete and final , " was Mr. Lauterbach 's answer . " Owing to a clause in the Constitution adopted last year , Mayor Strong must hold office until the expiration of his term . But certain powers could be delegated to him by the terms of the charter  --  he could be given a general headship , for example and , as the operation of the clause in the Constitution applies only to Mayor Strong , and not to his successors , nnr to any other city officer not elected before Jan. 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Then you do not think it would be ad- I vlsable to consolidate , say , the police force of the total area under a commission appointed by the Governor or the Legislature ? " asked the reporter . " There are some objections to such a course , " replied Mr. Lauterbach , speaking slowly . " which I think will prevent any step of this kind from being taken . Popular sentiment in this city , you know , is not in favor of Albany rule . " " Have you considered the political side of this question ? " asked the reporter . " Not deeply , " replied Mr. Lauterbach , with great promptness . " Consolidatiot has always appealed to me in its economic rather than in its political aspect I believe there are some Dem-ocrats across the Bridge , as well as here . Mr. Stranahan , I believe , ha 's used one very striking argument in favor of consolidation , from the political side . He says that thousands of good citizens have all their business interests in New-York , while they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no votes in New-York , where the active part of their lives is passed , while they have no inducement to east their ' , rotes : n Brooklyn because they have not time to thoroughly inform themselves as to its affairs . Thus New-York loses the moderating force of a great body of conservative citizens , and Brooklyn gains little by their residence there " One thing I may say , and that is , if the excise issue is taken out of politics , as I hope and believe it will be by the next Legislature the Republicans have a good chance of victory at the polls in 1897 . At the rate at which Republican sentiment is growing , I think that either or both of the two cities will soon have a clear Republican majority of the enters . " Mr. Lauterbach then alluded to the defeat of the charter introduced at the last session of the Legislature as being due to the failure of one man , Senator Lamy of Erie County , to vote in its favor . No allusion was made by him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was elected because he was in favoz of consolidation , but timed . to vote for it , because . it was he w a. , told that his hopes of re-election depended on his not voting for it . It is true , as Mr. Lauterbach stated , that only one vote was needed to pass the charter bill . However , the bill was killed through Senator Bradley 's refusal to vote for it . and the Senator is politically dead with it .                     