@@675266

txt Delegates to the . anti-Goebel State Convention of Bryan Deinocrats. are pouring into town on every train . The convention will be called to Order in the Chautauqua Auditorium tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock by Major P. P. Johnston , Chairman of the Democratic State Central .. Committee prior to the re . cent Louisville ' convention , provided he is well enough to get he from Buffalo Lithia SPringt . This afternoon a . conference was held by leading delegates . from twenty counties , and it was decided . that a full State ticket should be nominated , for the reason that Goebel and his entire ticket were named by fraudulent methods , and the party is in no wise bound to respect its mandates . Col : Tom Turner- of Montgomery County , the man who called the first anti-Goebel meeting in the State , said in conference that he wanted ? to offer a resolution in the convention asking all the new nominees to withdraw provided Mr. Goebel and the men on his ticket withdrew , and then to call another convention and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kentucky could agree , - thus making the State safely Democratic . Re declared he did not think the Goebel - Men would ? accept the proposition , but . he wanted to place the blame for the election of aRepublican State ticket on them , for he sees no chance for the Democrats to win ehohld the three tickets remain in the field . Letters and'telegrams from every county in the State say . large delegations will be here , and the Reception Committee is preparing to care for 2,000 visitors all told . Several . special trains will be required to bring them , and - all the regular trains tonight are crowded . No slate has ? been made up . Ramsey Washington , a Newport attorney , has been favorably mentioned for permanent Chairman . John C. Droeg , a wealthy ironmaster of Covington , has been mentioned as good timber for Treasurer . Col. Tom Turner of Montgomery County has been spoken of for Attorney General . The delegates already here come from widely separated portions of the State , and they all tell a , similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ districts and counties . They . say the disaffection is among that element of the Democratic Party of Kentucky which can be neither ? bought- nor bulldozed , and that every man who has sr far made up his mind to vote against Goebel will do so though the heavens fall . They declare neither Bryan . nor Blackburn can influ ( - nce them to vote for Goebel . The opposition is not only growing in vei1 ume but in earnestness . The leaders of the opposition are happy to-night . Many of them think Goebel will withdraw after he sees the strength developed in to-morrow 's convention .                     