@@672430

txt The decision to delay the assignment of this year 's graduates from the Military Academy until Congress acts finally on the Artillery bill shows how much the War Department is counting on that measure . There is reason , too , for this policy . The House passed more than three months ago the bill increasing the number of artillery regiments from five to seven . That measure would cause the promotion of more than fifty artillery officers a full grade and the corresponding advancement of a still larger number along the path toward the grade ahead . It would also call for the filling of more than a score of new vacancies in the grade of Second . Lieutenant . It is evident , therefore , why a delay in the assignment of this year 's West Point graduates should be made . But the Military Committee of the Senate has reported an amendment to this House bill which , if sustained by Congress and made a law , would add about ten times as many Second Lieutenancies in the infantry as those created by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnishing a great number of promotions . This infantry measure , which is the Ma nderson or ThreeBattalion bill , has for a long time been urged . strongly , and , we believe , has been in former years passed by the Senate . The twelve-company organization is no doubt the proper one for this arm , as for the cavalry and the artillery . The advantage in manoeuvre of having three battalions , consisting of four companies each , has often been dwelt upon , as has also the advantage of uniformity in organization throughout the line . But this change would require the addition of two Majors to each infantry regiment , or fifty in all . Then there would be two additional companies fer each regiment , or fifty new companies . There would be , in short , over 300 promotions of a full grade , and in addition 200 new vacancies would be made in the grade of Second Lieutenant . With the possibility of this bill becoming a law , there is a still greater need of delaying the West Point assignments , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , there may be some apprehension lest the original bill should be too heavily handicapped by this amendment for passage at the present session . It is urged that this addition of seventyfour companies and batteries could not be judiciously made without an . increase in the enlisted strength of the army . It would require from 3,000 to 5,000 additional men to give companies of even reasonable enlisted strength . Hitherto Congress has steadily resisted any such increase , although it can hardly be expected that with our population . and resources growing so fast the army will always remain at the point in numbers fixed many years ago . It is especially clear that with the new forts and their armament there must be a greater number of artillerymen . Gen. SCHOFIELD estimates that the war garrisons of these defenses would require 87,204 men . But in time of peace , of course , there would be no such necessity , so that an addition of 5,000 men would be enough for the proposed reorganization both of the infantry and the artillery . Taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of the enlisted . men , the additional annual expense of all sorts would probably go above $2,000,000 . This consideration and the reluctance of many Congressmen to increase the enlisted . force unless some immediate necessity can be shown , have revived the old project of manning only two out of three battalions in each regiment . This project is founded on the fact that there are always many company officers and . others detailed . for staff duty , for the instruction of colleges and other purposes , besides many who are unfit for duty and awaiting retirement , or who are absent on leave . But a modification of the reserved battalion idea has been recently proposed . in the House . It consists in allowing the President , or , in other words , the War Department , to consolidate the enlisted men of any regiment into such a number of companies as the number of officers present for duty may warrant . It is urged that this would be an improvement on the reserve battalion system , since it would substitute for a hard-and-fast rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in each arm of the service . It is thought , also , by some Congressmen , that by commissioning officers hereafter in their arm of the service instead of in a particular regiment , they can be easily sent wherever they are most needed , and that by authorizing the War Department to transfer enlisted . men freely from one arm of the service to another , all necessity for an increase in the enlisted . force would be avoided . Under one plan or another the artillery and infantry changes will probably be pushed , and as much of either or both secured as is found practicable .                     