@@674489

txt Those were very interesting as well as I very vigorous remarks which Dr. RAINsFont ) made from the pulpit of Old Trinity on Tuesday . The gist of them we take to be , not merely that Trinity is fortunate in having an endowment which dispenses her ministry from paying overmuch attention to " the pews , " but also that it would be fortunate for the community if a. like system prevailed generally . This is a very large question , and , moreover , it is entirely an academic question . The position of Trinity is exceptional in that the little colonial settlement in which she had her origin has become a great modern city . The endowments which were expected to support a minister in merely decent comfort have in fact , by the growth of New York , become equal not only to maintaining a considerable number of churches and a great staff of clergy , but also to bestowing bountiful benefactions upon institutions of religion , learning , and charity that are not part of the parish . But this was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contrary , when peace was made between England and Holland on the basis ? of the " uti possidetis " and New Amsterdam was traded off for Surinam in South America , the Dutch were esteemed to have very much the better of the bargain . That New Amsterdam would become one of the great cities of the world and that Surinam would remain in 1597 of no more importance than it was in 1 ( 374 did not occur to anybody concerned , and yet it is because of the growth of New York that the endowment of Trinity has become a great estate . Certainly it can not be referred to any providence or wisdom on the part of anybody concerned in the original endowment . Still less can it be supposed that the modern millionaires are going to endow churches for the express purpose of rendering them independent of the millionaires , which seems to be what the rector of St. George 's recommends . His argument from the entirely unexpected and fortuitous prosperity and success of Trinity seems to be an argument in favor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed to the American or voluntary system . Of course , Dr. RAINSFORD knows perfectly that there is not the slightest chance of any endowment of churches in this country by the State  --  that is , by the people acting in their corporate capacity . The advantages to which he refers are advantages which can be obtained here only , as indeed he intimated , by the voluntary action of rich men in endowing churches in quarters in which their own immediate interests do not lie and in which churches will not meet the spiritual needs of themselves or their families . And this kind of benefaction he recommends to rich men , if we understand his suggestions , as a kind of police measure in order to protect their possessions elsewhere from the . assaults of hostile mobs . The appeal is not likely to be potent for several good reasons . There is no rich man anywhere more generous than the American rich man , but his benefactions are commonly directed to the supplying of those needs of his less fortunate neighbors about the urgency of which there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals , for example , and even to libraries , from which he can not expect to derive any personal benefit . But the benefits of the establishment of churches in the tenement-house districts are too remote and shadowy to appeal to him very strongly . He thinks that in these things the American or " voluntary principle " should apply , and that if the people for whose benefit a church is projected do not show a willingness to defray at least a share of the expense of it they thereby show that the establishment of it would do them no good . We venture to think that they are largely in the right . As to Dr. RamsPORD 'S subsidiary arguments for the maintenance of free churches in the poorer quarters , it seems to us that his own very honorable career in New York supplies the refutation of them . He took charge of St. George 's when it was on the verge of being abandoned by the " up-town movement , " and he has converted it into a living power . In the interval he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pews " nor to have debarred himself from free speech through fear of what his millionaires might say . Moreover , his work has not been allowed to languish for want of money . Given a zealous and hard-working rector , and he Will not fail of support on account of the absence of endowment . On the other hand , the assurance of zeal and industry is exactly what is lacking in the case of a church maintained by endowments.                     