@@781082

txt A Manhattan-Third Avenue traffic agreee ment of the most comprehensive and im-portant character was announced yesterday , in official statements from President George . ' Gould for Manhattan and President Elias and Edward Lauterbacb for Third Avenue and President E. A. Maher for the-Union Railway Company . The present ara rangement , according to a sentence in Mr. Gould 's exposition of the plan , is likely to be supplemented by the joint use of power . houses and " an even closer consolidation of the two systems , " The agreement goes into effect not later than May 1 , and it involves the entire Third Avenue system and the Manhattan Railway system . The scheme of comity of interest comprehends a general city transfer system . at the rate of 3 cents between Manhattan and surface service . At this rate S cents covers the cost of travel by the allied systems from any down-town point to Yonkers , on the Hudson River , and New Rochelle , - on the Sound , and intermediate points . STATEMENT OF MANHATTAN . This official statement for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued by Charlet A. Gardiner of Davies , Stone &; Auerbach : " A traffic agreement , to take effect not . later than May 1 , 1899 , has been entered into between the Manhattan Elevated System and the Third Avenue Railway System , comprising the Third Avenue Railroad , the Dry Dock. , East Broadway , and Battery Railroad , the Forty-second Street , Ma.nhattanville and St. Nicholas Avenue Railroad . and the - Union Railway lines , which will furnish cross-town transfers to the ale-. vated railways at Canal Street , Grand Street , Forty-second Street , One Hundred and Tenth Street , One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street , and One Hundred and Thirty-fifth Street , and at all the streets in the Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth Wards where connection is made between the Suburban Elevated and the lines of the Union Railway Company , for a transfer of *3 cents . " Passengers will also be able to transfer at all Third Avenue elevated stations between the City Hail and One Hundred and Seventy-seventh Street to the surface cars beneath , and continue their journey to intermediate sunsets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The new scheme will connect the upper Tenth Avenue cable line and also the Amsterdam Avenue and Boulevard lines with the lower west side be mesas of the elevated railroads at One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street . Sixty-sixth Street , and Forty-second Street . " The west side , served ley the Sixth and Ninth Avenue trains , it is expected , will produce a large volume of travel , particularly on Sundays , for transfer to One Hundred and ' thirty - fifth Street and Eighth Avenue to the Union Railway Company 's trolley lines running ecross the efacilson Avenue Bridge through the park system - " of the Borough of the Bronx . and betiveen , Yonkers on the Hudson River and . New : Rochelle on the Sound , for cents : " It is expressly provided that-the 8-cent fare shall apply to express as well as local trains . " PRESIDENT GOULD 'S VIEWS . President Goul , i said that the following statement Covered all he cared to say on the subject because of the complete tie-tails in the official presentment of the plan : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ add greatly to the capacity of the elevated system to serve the public , and also largely increase our business . " We not only practically extend the eles vated system to Yonkers and New Rochelle , but by cross-town lines we secure direct connection with the Pennsylvania Railroad at Desbrosses and Cortlandt Streets , as well as other important ferries on the east and west side . This is one of the changes we intend to work out by degrees in connection with the change of motive power and the enlargement and improvement of the elevated roads . " A strong point in the plan is that it takes effect and will produce results to all concerned at once . We are also at work on the question of joint power houses and an even closer consolidation of the two systems . " Vice President Alfred Skitt said that he did not care to discuss a subject that had been so ably set forth officially , and that he could not discuss financial details . " And where do Rapid Transit and Metropolitan Street Railway come in now ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have not yet figured out , " he replied . Treasurer D. W. McWilliams 's views were not ascertained , MR . ELIAS ON THE AGREEMENT . I Albert J. Elias , President of the Third Avenue Railroad Company , said of the merging of interests : " The traffic agreement between the Manhattan Railway and the system of surface railways owned and controlled by the Third Avenue Railroad is one that will be better appreciated the more it is understood bythe traveling public . Its possibilities are enormous , as a brief consideration of the existing conditions of street railway business in New Tort : will disclose . " Last year the elevated and surface street railwayw in the Boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx carried about 020,000,000 passengers . Of these the elevated roads carried 185,000,000 and the surface roads 435,000,000 , including transfers . It is a surprising fact that more than one-quarter of the whole number of surface railway passengers in 1898 were carried on transfers . " Less than twenty years ago , that is to say , in 1880 , all the surface roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads 01,000,000 passengers . Last year the transfers amounted to nearly as much as the whole street surface business of the city in 18Se ? . and nearly twice as much as the whole.elee vated railway business in that year . S ? ne " Yet the transfer business has beeri:11X operation only a few years . and Is ' tically still in its infancy . That it will ad ' vance with tremendous striaes under : the proposed arrangement between the elevated and Third Avenue Company is certain . ADVANTAGES IN THE BRONX . " The advantages of this agreement to the traveling public will probably be moreeaPe parent in the Borough of the Bronx , where , the Third Avenue Railroad owns a system of street railways covering nearly all of-the principal streets , and which extends beyond the city limits to Yonkers . Mount Vernon , New Rochelle. and other towns . " This system above the Harlem River-i:C the present time is still in the process of . extension and construction , but when cora , plete will consist of nearly 200 miles of d01.1- : ble-track @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will doubtless amount te-halfe , a million passengers daily . - " With the installation of electricity upon the elevated and the lines of the Third-Avenue Railroad , the capacity of the combined railroads will be immediately Increased more than twofold , and with the improvements and betterments already planned for prompt undertaking , there will be provided for the traveling public through the united efforts of these two great railway systems a scheme for supplying rapid transit broad enough to cover the possibilae ties of the need for many years to come . " , MR . LAUTERBACH 'S STATEMENT . Edward Lauterbach of counsel for and of the Directorate of the surface systems fdr-. ; nished a dictated interview on the subject of the alliance with Manhattan , in whi.dh he said : deleted paragraph The Union Railway is now being oper-ated electrically , and the other lines of the Third Avenue system are in process of ' , change to the underground trolley system , Which will soon be completed .  --  ALLIANCE LONG CONTEMPLATED . " The Manhattan Company has just secured the capital necessary for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general improvement of its road , ' and for the operation of express trains going about forty miles an hour . deleted paragraph " Enormous as will be the immediate ad , vantage to the territory traversed by the - Forty-second Street . Manhattanville , and St. Nicholas Avenue Railway . and great as will be the general conJenience secured by the a- contemplated arrangement in every section of the city , of course the greatest benefit will accrue to those residing in the Borough of the Bronx . " The Third Avenue Company has been ' most urgent in insisting that the express services of the elevated railway shall be .. made subject to the terms of the transfer arraegement , so that those living at great distance from the City Hall shall secure the advantages sought to be obtained by the contract . ? Of course , the right to transfer will not be limited to the single change from the elevated to the connecting surface road , but will be secured to passengers on all connecting lines on the Third Avenue system . " It is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now 15 cents in some instances . as for example , to Glen Island . to Hastings Line , and other important places of popular resort , and 10 cents in all cases , will enormously increase the travel upon both systems . " The advantages to accrue are at least equal , and it seems to me in most respects greatly superior . to those that could be derived from transfers from the underground railway , and this is entirely irrespective of the point that in one case the benefit is immediate and in the other remote . " How much further the unison of interests between the two systems will be carried , after this first important step shall have been taken , can only be surmised , but immediate economies to the advantage of both companies will certainly be realized in the joint use of power houses . now in process of construction and contemplated to be erected . " UNION RAILWAY 'S FUTURE Edward A. Maher , President of the Union Railway Company , discussed the agreement between the elevated and surface interests from a trans-Harlem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made with the Manhattan Railway Company , the advantage to the people north of the Harlem River will be very great . By north of the Harlem River I mean to include all the territory of West Farms . Westchester Village . rnionport . William 's Bridge . South Mount Vernon . Mount Vernon . Pelham . North Pelham , Pelham Manor , and New Rochelle . " In each of the above places the Union Railway system is now in operation . This connection will enable the Union Railway Company to carry passengers from Mount Vernon . Yonkers , New Rochelle. and all the territory south of that . to the terminus of the elevated road at Tremont. or to an : - extensions that the elevated may make along its lines . " It will be of particular advantage within I very short time to the people in the above territory , as soon as the Union Railway Company will have built its double ' : rack line to Webster Avenue . which will onnect Its tracks on the White Plains Road , and there a direct connection to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BUILD UP THE BRONX . " By this arrangement , and by the addi:lanai proposed express trains which I understand the Manhattan Company will operate under this agreement , passengers may get mien the cars of the Union Railway Company at New Rochelle , Mount Vernon , or Yonkers. and be carried through to the Battery or the City Hall , for a fare of S cents . " The advantage to the territory north of the Harlem will also be very great , as the improved transit facilities and cheap fares will build up that entire portion of the city very rapidly , and no doubt a class of dwellings which will be occupied by people who make it a practice to ride in surface railway cars . I can see a very great future for that territory , and also a very great future for the railway lines of the Union Company " Another connection which will be advantageous will be the proposed extension of the Union Railway line from its present terminus at High Bridge along Sedgwick Avenue and Bailey Avenue , and connect with the lines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By this route . as also by the proposed ' extension upon Jerome Avenue , passengers will be carried from Yonkers over these two lines to Connect with the elevated road at Tremont. and over the Macomb 's Dam Bridge to the elevated structure at One Hundred and Fifty-fifth Street , on the west side , for a fare of S cents . SURPRISE IN WALL STREET . Few in Wall Street were in the secret of the negotiations that culminated in the elevated and surface traffic agreement . The news came half an hour after the Stock Exchange closed , and while nearly all the brokers who did not know of the real Manhattan deal were discussing explanations of the rise in the stock and Manhattan receipts . The truth had the effect of light- ning out of a clear sky . When the facts were known the general verdict was " No wonder ' L ' stock went up . " The second thought , or . rather , suggestion , was , " This is a roundabout way of imitating Brooklyn Rapid Transit . Instead of beginning with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The end is nearer in sight with the present arrangement than It would have been with the other . " The financial elements of the Manhattan and Third Avenue systems are on a vast scale . Manhattan 's capitalization Is now $48,000,000. including the 818,000,000 electric equipment and betterment issue . and it has about $40,000,000 of funded debt . It has a little more than 36 miles of double-track road in the city and 334 locomotives and 1,150 cars . Its passenger service in 1S57-8 was 180 ; 260,000 . The capitalization of the entire Third Avenue system end the Union Railway " Company is over S1S.500.000 , with about 812,500.000 funded debt . Third Avenue stock amounts to 812.000,000. but it Is to be incrsed to 615,000,000 from time to time to provide for the new sub-trolley equipment . The lines have 107 miles of track . Alexander E. Orr , President of the Board of Rapid Transit Commissioners , said when seen last night that he had not read the announcement of the agreement made beItween. the Manhattan and Third Avenue Companies . He said hP did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying out of the tunnel scheme until he had informed himself thoroughly on the adetans of the agreement . Herbert H. Vreeland . President of the " Metropolitan Street Railway Company , said 5that-he had heard of the Manhattan Railway Company's. agreement with the Third a avenue system . He had no comment to Offer . " We do n't own any stock in those surface lines , " said he .                     