@@673842

txt Edward Brush , Secretary of the Consolidated Kansas City Smelting and Refining Company , who is a recognized authority on all matters pertaining to silver , talked most ir. ? . er. =tingly to a reporter for The New-York ' Times ti esterday afternoon on the recent rise in silver , its causes , and the probable future of the metal . He said : " I have been interested in reading the views of the several persons whom The Times interviewed yesterday in regard to the present situation of the silver market From our point of view , at least , this subject can not be treated accurately and exhaustively without going back to the source of supply . " The mining of silver , in this country particularly , was greatly stimulated by not only the high price immediately resulting from the passage of the Sherman bill , but also by the confirmed opinion of the mining industry , and the entire population of the Western States , that the power of the United States Government and people was to be exerted from that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future had as much to with the stimulated production that continued , even with much lower prices , and in fact , probably more than the high prices themselves . " The opposite has been the result since the repeal of the Sherman bill . All confidence on the part of the public that the value of silver would be restored has been shattered , and the prospector has from sheer force of circumstances been obliged to bring upon the market prospects of gold and copper mines , rather than silver mines . The situation for the last year in regard to mines , therefore , has been that no new mines have been discovered . Many really good mines have finally been obliged to close , and other well-paying mines are taking out only their richest ore , and the life of such mines is hardly problematical . The experience of almost any one you can meet will prove that the continued existence of mines is very precarious . " During the last year the number of tons of ore brought to the smelters of Colorado , which State turns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , was only 50 per cent . of the tonnage received during 1893 . The silver product of the country , however , was reduced only about 25 per cent. , showing that the ore mined was only the rich ores . " Much used to be said in regard to the cost per ounce for mining silver . The product was supposed to be regulated and it was supposed that it would remain permanent at such an amount as was produced finally at the figure which was found to be the average cost This method of reasoning is entirely erroneous . The mine always starts as a prospect , and that prospect is PvActly what the word indicates . The prospector and the capitalist have got to have faith that if the prospect proves successful their profits will be large , or they will not go further with the venture . Instead of a mine , it will remain still a prospect and not a producer . " The lack of confidence in the stability of silver has , therefore , resulted in a decrease of production , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still continuing , and , I predict , will not space even with better prices , until the confidence in the continued demand for silver is restored , thus allowing the prospector to again entice the investor and capitalist , and further until such prospects can be developed into new and promising mines . " There is some difference of opinion as to the actual amount of silver produced during each of the past few years , but the subject of production and consumption is studied in order to arrive at their effect upon values . The value of silver is made by the world 's market in London , and statistics of importation and exportation are so accurate thit the amount of silver placed upon the world 's market can be ascertained quite exactly independent of any other consideration . " These figures show that the United Stales exported and sold to the United Cox:Waned on . Page a.                     