@@672912

txt The supplementary papers regarding the negotiations respecting the fisheries on the Atlantic coast now in progress between Newfoundland and the United States , transmitted by Lord Stanley to the House of Commons to-night , confirm the rumor last night that there were negotiations under progreas between the ancient colony and the American Government of which the Canadian public knew nothing . The return consists of sixty-one folios of matter . The first return , dated March 7 , rehearses that the Privy Council have had under consideration a telegram , dated Nov. 21 , 1891 , from the Governor of Newfoundland , with reference to the restrictions on the export of bait , The situation between Newfoundland and Canada is reviewed at length , the period extending from Feb. 3 , 1887 . Sir Robert Thorburn 's actions and Sir William Whiteway 's promise at the conference in London in 1890 , to do what he could to meet the difficulty when the report of the commission of inquiry had been received , which Canada holds has not been fulfilled any more than his express recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Canada , are rehearsed . Tho first return says : " In conclusion , the Government of Canada desire to observe that the opinion held by Sir itobert Thor-burn at the time of the negotiations for the Bait act was of a different character to the views which appear to actuate the Newfoundland authorities . at present , respecting ' the application of the Bait act to Canadians and the discriminations against Canada in favor of the United States . in his letter to the Colonial Office of the 27th of April , 1887 , Sir Robert says in relation to the request of the Canadian Government that ? the assent to the Bait act should ho delayed until Canadian opinion had been expressed relative to its interpretation . " ? I feel constrained to say that such opinion is at entire variance with the spirit and intention of the act , and , foaling certain that such is the case , I waive consideration of the question how far the Government of Canada , or , indeed , any Government save that of het Majesty , has any richt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature of Newfoundland to make such laws as it may deem proper for the regulation of its own internal attain ; and the conservation of its property rights which are not affected by treats , obligation , por in their operation under the proposed act interfering differentially with the privileges of any portion of her Majesty 's subjects . " The Minister of Marine and Fisheries could not eloso this report without e. , : pressing the hope that , in the light of dispatches subsea went to the foregoing reference , a further discussion of the points above may be unnecessary . The first dispatch attached is a copy of this code telegram of Nov. 21 , 1801 , from the Governor of Newfoundland to the Governor General : ? ? Referring to your telegram of Nov. 11 , restrictions of export of bait fisheries , my Government regrets action of Canadian Government in opposition to Newfoundland 's proposed convention with United States of America , and the persistence of Canadian fishermen in supplying the French with bait , to the injury of this colony , compels Newfoundland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herring . " On March 7 the Committee of the Privy Council had had under consideration a report , dated March -1 , from the Minister of Marine and Fisheries having reference to statements that American fishermen were permitted by Newfoundland to fish within the three-mile limit from which they are excluded , under the convention of 1818 . The committee , on the recommendation of the Minister , advises that Lord Stanley forward a copy of the report to Lord Knutsford , Colonial Secretary , for theinformation of her Majesty 's 4overnment . Then follows the Hon. C. H. Tupper 's report of March 4 , on which this action was taken . It sets forth that the Cape Ann Advertiser of Gloucester , Mass. , of Nov. 20 , 1891 , stated that American fishermen wore allowed by Newfoundland to fish within the territorial limit . While at the time it was not known that any Official permission had been formally granted to the United States to enjoy the famous fisheries of that island , it was probable it was accomplished by non-intervention on the part of the authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on American boats are cited Sir James Winter , formerly At : torney General of Newfoundland , was communicated with and confirmed the above , Lord Stanley 's attention is called to the fact that Newfoundland imposes heavy license fees upon Canadian fishing vessels on her coasts and in her harbors for the privilege of purchasing bait supplies , which hitherto they had enforced in common with Newfoundlanders respectively on the coast of the Dominion and of the colonies of Newfoundland . Against this treatment , which placed her on a footing with foreign na , tions , Canada remonstrated without success . L Further on the report says ; " If the present arrangement under review be carried out the United States nshermon will be placed in the enviable position of not only posseeslug all the privileges devolving upon the N ewfoandlaid fishermen themselves , but will no assisted by the action of the Newfoundland authorities in maintaining a position much more favorable as regards the tariff of their own country . This can not fail to give them an undue advantage in competition not only over the hampered operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . " It points out that American fishermen are under the anti-Bait act on precisely the amuse footing as Canadians . It asks the Newfoundland Government to justify the action pursued toward Canada . Canada 's action in asking the Imperial Government fully to inquire Into the probable effect or Newfoundland 's propbsed eonvention with the United States was , it is contended , mot directed against Newfoundland , but solely in the Interests of British rights in America as defined by the convention of 1818 . Canada , it is held , has . in all her dealings with the United States , fully advised Newfoundland as to negotiations and in the treaties of 1854 , 1871 , and 1888 , the consent of Newfoundland was made to their ratification . Newfoundland has , however , departed from this rule . Appended to the report are soveral documents . There Is a protest from the Canadian authorities addressed to Lord Knutsford , which says : a , - ; " They call attention to the fact which appeared at the recent conference with Blaine at Washington that tariff discrimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extended trade arrangements between the United States and Canada broke off . This being in accordance with inetructious of her Majesty 's Government , they can not suppose her Majesty 's Government will approve a convention by which the United States and Newfoundland will discriminate against Canada , as the draft of the Nowtonniand convention enables either or both to do . Canada can only obtain similar terms to those of Newfoundland by agreeing to discrimination , while having the same advantages to offer . "                     