@@673986

txt The hasty action of the Good Governmerit Club Convention is not likely to prove a serious obstacle to those who are intent upon effecting an anti-Tammany combination in this city , but in their effort to bring this about upon the lines of last year 's arrangement they will do well to consider the great change that has taken place in the situation since then . They have by no means the same conditions to deal with , Last year the whole community had been aroused by the revelations of the Lexow investigation . Municipal reform was the uppermost thought in all minds . A Mayor was to be elected under the new Constitution , and legislation was to be expected establishing the Government of New-York on a new basis of " home rule " and of non-partisanship in administration . The Committee of Seventy was the product of an uprising of public sentiment , and it took the initiative on a platform of municipal reform on those very lines . It brought various political organizations , including the regular Republican organization , together upon that platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , after conference with committees representing the organizations . The result was such measure of success as we have seen . The situation now is wholly different . There is no such aroused state of feeling . This may be due in part to such reform as has been accomplished , and , in part , it may be due to the lack of completeness in fulfilling the promise of a year ago . The Republican factor in the combination gave only partial support to the efforts of the reform Mayor , and there was a conspicuous failure of the Legislature to meet the hopes of the people . The lack of aroused feeling may be further due to the fact that there are not the same interests at stake now . There are but two county offices to be filled , those of County Clerk and Register , which Tammany incumbents have continued to hold . These have been rated as political offices , having " patronage " at their disposal , and they are at stake , but public interest is not greatly excited in regard to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the attitude of the Republican organization . Last year it was not controlled by PLATT , and it accepted the platform of the Committee of Seventy and its ticket , only insisting that the candidate for Mayor should be a Republican , and not insisting upon making the selection . This year it is controlled by PLATT and those associated with him in party management , and ' they are the very men who refused to support municipal reform after the reform Mayor came into office , and who defeated the most important home-rule legislation asked for . They are making it plain that they propose to enter no combination without claiming for their party the only two local administrative offices to be filled , and naming the men who shall be candidates for them . This would make the question one of control by the Tammany machine or the Platt machine , and on that issue no reform interest can be worked up . A combination which took in the Platt machine and gave the offices of County Clerk and Register to it might be an anti-Tammany combination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal reform combination , and it would not command much independent support . But it might serve PLATT 'S wider purposes . Its ticket might become that of the regular Republican County Convention , and , as such , go into the Republican column on the official ballot , and it might be entitled to go into no other column containing the names of candidates for State offices . It might thereby help PLATT to " carry the State " and to control the next Legislature , even though it did not defeat Tammany in the local field , about which PLATT would care much less . Anti-Tammany Democrats could not afford to go into such a combination unless they , too , had a full column on the official ballot , including the Democratic candidates for State offices , and for that they would have to nominate those candidates by certificate to be filed with the Secretary of State at least twenty days before the election . While the people are not aroused in the general cause of municipal ' reform as they were last year . they are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue-in the demand for local option on the subject of Sunday liquor selling . They know that Republican success in the State and Republican control of the Legislature will mean the defeat of municipal home rule in general and of local option in particular , and with many of them that will seem more important than anything at stake in the judiciary and county offices . All these things will have to be taken into account in endeavoring to form a combination in any sense like that of last year . The situation to be dealt with and the conditions that surround it have entirely changed . Mr. FLINDERS PETRIE read a very remarkable paper on " Civilization " before the British Association at its recent meet-. ing . Had he been a politician seeking the votes of the uncivilized races , and bent upon " arraigning " their opponents , he could not more vigorously and more tellingly have performed his self-allotted task . He asserted , in effect , that the methods by which civilized nations have undertaken to advance the uncivilized , among whom they have settled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are ill adapted and inadequate to that end , and that if the end could successfully be attained , it would not , in the greater number of cases , be of real benefit to the uncivilized . On the contrary , these races , according to Mr. PETRIE , have been fitted by nature and the slow effect of their actual environment , over long periods of time , for the life they were living when the civilized races came upon them , and whatever happiness and general well-being they are capable of depends upon the continuance of past conditions , or , at least , upon very slow and gradual and even limited changes . Under the influences that have actually been brought to bear , the uncivilized races have either been enfeebled and nearly or quite extinguished , or their character has been changed for the worse . Mr. PETRIE does not set forth definitely his view of what should be done about a state of things which , as he describes it , is certainly discouraging and even appalling , but it is a logical inference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uncivilized lands , since it is pursuing , by ruinous methods , a futile purpose . There is a great deal of truth in the general view taken by this able and wellinformed writer , but his paper is novel rather in the skill and vivacity with which his view is presented than in the view itself . To our mind he errs in not taking into consideration the effects of civilization on races which it has neither extinguished nor enfeebled , in failing to realize the enormous period of time that must elapse before even an approximately just judgment can be formed of the whole question , and , particularly , in assuming that the action of civilized races upon uncivilized is a matter of deliberate will , based upon definite motives , of which a desire for the improvement of the uncivilized is a conscious and powerful one . To take the last-mentioned consideration first . We might concede that the net result of the contact of barbarism with civilization , or of lower with higher civilization , is as disastrous as Mr. PETRIE finds ' it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materially to check it . Unquestionably the philanthropist and the missionary have their part , and often a noble part , in the invasion of such countries as Africa is , and India and Japan were , but it is clearly a subordinate part , and , relatively to the total force exerted , it is an insignificant part . Such movements have their source , their essential motive , in the universal desire of gain . The conquest of . India was begun and made possible by a trading company . The entry , to Japan was forced in the interest of commerce . The resistieSEI energies of the white races were turned first toward Africa by the lust of gain through the terribly cruel trade in slaves . The settlement of the Atlantic coast of North America , with one bright exception , was due to " adventurers " who were after riches and nothing else . And operations of this kind , now being begun or extended , are practically in the same spirit . They are more humanely pursued , for the whole white race has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ races is more considered , for the same reason . But the animating and essential purpose is gain , and this controls , and must control , the ultimate course . Nor is this necessarily a materialist , much less a pessimist , view . The course of history , if it does not prove , does strongly tend to sustain , the proposition that the profitable extension of . commerce is most rapid and permanent in the degree that peace and order and honesty and justice prevail . As men learn to believe in this proposition , these elements of commercial success will accompany the invasion or progressive occupation of uncivilized lands . The case of India is in point . Whatever may be said of the earlier history of the British occupation , no one will deny that it has been steadily advancing in these fundamental elements . of civilization , and that British trade has prospered in proportion . The British have found by hard experience that order and justice  --  whatever other motives they might have for maintaining and exercising them  --  were the conditions of prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British civilization on India to-day is the gradual spread in the minds of the native population of a sense at once of the value and the practicability of justice and order . If , apart from this larger consideration , we turn to the history of the contact of a higher with a lower civilization in the various regions where it has taken place , there are some striking contradictions of Mr. PETRIE 'S general view . The earlier stages of African slavery would , taken by themselves , seem strongly to sustain it , but the later developments refute it . The Africans brought from utter barbarism among more or less civilized peoples , b not been extinguished , and , in this country , where the movement was most extensive , they , as a race , have not suffered , but have greatly gained . They are to-day one-eighth of the population of the United States , and , contrary to all predictions , they have increased fully tie per cent . since emancipation . Their condition is immeasurably better than it would have been had they remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectually , been raised by civilization . A very different case . but one which even more strongly opposes Mr. PETRIE 's view , is that of the Japanese . They have been brought , at first violently , in contact with a civilization strongly opposed to their own , which at first they violently resisted . But they have ended by appropriating it . They are in many extraordinary and important ways Europeanized . They have modified , to the point of revolution , their Government , their commerce , their interior organization , and , finally , their attitude toward other nations . Clearly they have not failed in their purposes . They are neither extinct nor in the way of extinction . These are a few of the reasons why it does not seem to us that the civilized races who have pushed their fortunes , and with them the influence of their example and ideal , in the regions held by peoples of different and generally lower civilization , are called upon either hopelessly to condemn themselves for the results of their action , or to despair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in contact . The story of the past and the true account of the present are not altogether bright or without stains of cruel evil , but the course of events does not appear to us to have been from bad to worse , but the contrary , with , on the whole , a better outlook ahead .                     