@@781113

txt About all that the foreign war ships in Rio Harbor find to do just now is to protect the merchant vessels of their respective Governments from the intermittent firing of the Government forts and the insurgent ships . Important commercial interests are being constantly exposed to injury , much to the anxiety of the masters of vessels . The commander of the United States fleet has shared with other commanders the anxiety to mitigate as far as possible the dangers from the badly handled guns of da . Game 's fleet . It is Understood that the chief interest In the dispatches recently received by Secretary Herbert from Capt . Picking was In his request for instructions , required under a new state of affairs . President Peixoto some time ago made an agreement by which , in consideration of his refusal to erect batteries at certain points in or near the city , the guns of da Gama 's vessels should not be directed toward those parts of the city . Da Gama 's farces have discovered , or say they have discovered , that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masked hatteries in the prohibited section and is prepared to open upon da Gama 's fleet from those batteries . The discovery of these batteries by da . Gama has been followed by a protest from the insurgent Admiral and a threat to open fire upon the masked batteries . To this , it is understood , the commanders of foreign vessels having interests to protect have remonstrated . The rebels are dis- posed to ignore the protest and to open fire at the risk of damage to American , British , and other merchant vessels that are anchored in line between the insurgent Ships and the batteries of Peixoto . It is this situation that has led Capt . Picking to ask for instructions . What response the Navy and State Departments have made can not be ascertained in detail , but it is not believed that if the goad offices of the fleet commander can be exerted effectually da Gama will have any occasion for resenting the disregard by Peixoto of the agreement ' with Mello . The probability is that , to protect commercial vessels and foreign interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have been erected in positions that may draw the fire of the rebels in suoh a way as to endanger foreign property . Great confidence is reposed in Capt . Picking 's energy and discretion . As has been said in these dispatches , the Navy and State Departments have relied almost exclusively for correct and frequent ' information upon Capt . Picking , and up to this time he has fully justified all the confidence that has been placed In him . It goes without sayting that this conclusion leaves much to be desired in the diplamatte rePresenta.tarve of the Government . The situation is stiffened , and It becomes more so as the condition of the Insurgents becomes more critical .                     