@@673901

txt We suggested on the 2d inst. that the murderous attack upon a group of Consular officers at Jiddah , Arabia , on the 30th ult. , might have been due to the sanitary regulations recently enforced there and at Mecca by the Turkish International Council of Health in response to the demands of the European powers . It will be recalled that the British Vice Consul was shot and stabbed to death , and that the British Consul , the Russian Consul , and the Secretary of the French Consulate were severely wounded . We had described , on the 31st ult. , the extensive system of sanitary inspection and supervision by which the council hoped to prevent the transmission of Asiatic cholera from the Hedjilz , or holy district , to European countries . It now appears that these sanitary regulations really were the cause of the murderous assault upon the Consular representatives of Great Britain , France , and Russia . Dispatches of the 5th inst. from Constantinople contained the following explanation : " The Bedouins are dissatisfied with the quarantine measures which the Turhish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instance of the powers , in order to prevent the introduction of cholera at the northern ports by the return of infected pilgrims from that place . In fact , it is believed that these sanitary measures were the real cause of the attack upon the Consuls . The pilgrims have looked upon the new orders as an unwarranted interference upon the part of Europeans with their religious customs , and it is feared that the so-called holy men are exciting the pilgrims against the Europeans , believing that their old-time privileges and profits will be swept away if the march of sanitation is not stopped . The pilgrims are violently opposed to the erection of the sanitary barracks outside of Jiddah , preferring to crowd together in their usual dirty fashion in the slums of the city and in the filthy camps which they have been accustomed to use . " As we remarked on the 2d inst. , " this attempt to accomplish sanitary reform undoubtedly has been regarded by the pilgrims and by the inhabitants as unwarranted interference with and an expression of contempt for their religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the fanatics have destroyed the new cholera hospital at Jiddah and compelled the European inhabitants to take refuge on the ships in the harbor . The enforcement of these sanitary regulations  --  which were planned at the last International Sanitary Conference , in which the United States took part ? is a matter of great importance to the whole civilized , world . This country and all other countries in the two Americas are directly interested , for whenever cholera has come to the western shores of the Atlantic it has been brought from Europe , after it . had been introduced into Europe from India . The disease has never reached America by crossing the Pacific . There are three routes by which cholera has moved westward from India to Europe  --  one through Persia to the Caspian ports and into Russia ; another from the holy places at the head of the Persian Gulf through Asia Minor ; the third from India to Mecca and the other holy places of the Arabian Red Sea coast , by water , and thence to Eastern Mediterranean ports and towns in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their homes from the centres of dissemination in the holy district . The route last mentioned is the most dangerous of the three , and the one by which Europe has been most frequently menaced or infected . Cholera , carried westward by these three routes and always by Mohammedan pilgrims journeying from India to the holy places on or near the Arabian peninsula , and by other pilgrims returning northward or westward from the same holy places , has taken millions of lives in Europe  --  with a large number in the Americas  --  and has caused enormous pecuniary losses by the derangement or paralysis of trade . Europe now pro , poses to cleanse the foul half-way house in Arabia and to subject the pilgrims to reasonable sanitary supervision which will not only tend to protect the civilized world , but also save the lives of the ignorant fanatics themselves . The pilgrims and the inhabitants of Arabia strive to thwart this beneficent purpose by force , and it is quite probable that the Sultan is in sympathy with them . Their ignorance and religious fanaticism preclude any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanitary methods . To disinfect the foul holy places where they crowd together to observe religious customs , even while manY of them are dying of the pestilential disease , is in their belief to profane them . Hospitals are Christian ' devices which they can not tolerate . They are not restrained by fear of fatal illness- , for they are taught that those - who die in the holy district while engaged in a pilgrimage have a quick and great reward in the future life . In all probability this great sanitary problem can be solved only by a prompt and persistent application of force by the powers , with or without the aid of the Sultan . The needed force should be used now , and this country may well give to this sanitary campaign at least its moral support .                     