@@781561

txt " His Absent Boy , " a farcical comedy with three acts , three authors , and some " colloquial embellishments , " whatever they may be , was presented at the Garden Theatre last evening . There were a great many people in the house  --  genial , kindly people , ready to laugh often and to applaud heartily , even though what they saw and heard was not either the funniest or the most novel piece of nonsense ever put upon a stage . That is a very sensible mental attitude to assume toward farcical comedies that appear during the latter months of the dramatic season , for " about this time , " as the almanacs say , one can with confidence look out for plays that failed , for one reason or another , to get a hearing during the Fall and Winter . This is not saying that the plays that bloom in the Spring are rarely or never pleasing objects to contemplate ; it is only a method of intimating that the Garden Theatre audience must have been composed of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went there with no exaggerated expectations , and made the best of what was provided for their amusement . It was not at all difficult , however , to find merits in " His Absent Boy . " The German original , " Der Rabenvater , " has had a long and successful run in Berlin , no doubt for good reasons . The work of adaptation has been done with care and skill , at least so far as the dialogue is concerned , and if Mr. Neuman had only been brave enough to credit American playgoers with the ability to catch a point with speed and ease , the ingenious story he has translated and localized for them might probably enough have made a much more decided hit than it did . But he failed to show that courage , and as a result every situation ? in the play is so drawn out , so emphasized and explained . over and over again , that the patience of more than a few among the auditors was rather severely tried . Possibly this fault can be remedied , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about , even a little ; and yet the idea on which " His Absent Boy " is based has enough of inherent humor to make one mildly desirous of seeing it worked out with proper speed and vigor . For a husband to invent a child , born of an early and unfortunate marriage , simply for the purpose of securing a more liberal allowance from his rich wife , is , of course , an expedient likely to produce comical misunderstandings and mistakes as to identity as soon as the wife insists on seeing the convenient myth . And those seen last night were funny . tls a matter of theory , but somehow many of them did not seem funny as a matter of fact . , The trouble seemed to be due almost entirely to the undue prolongation of every scene and episode . This was almost entirely the adapter 's fault , for the actors did their part considerably better than fairly well . Perhaps the most interesting part of the performance , as a performance , was the work done by Miss Katherine Grey as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided ideas as to whom she wanted to marry , and when . Miss Grey 's large , soulful eyes and her advanced New-England school realism produced a startling but by no means unpleasant effect in the midst of a wildly farcical play . Miss Isabelle Coe played a serious-minded wife with effect , and Miss Harriet Sterling won instant applause for the energy and accuracy of her simulation of the woman that should go with the most advanced of bicycle garments . Frederic Bond , Frank Tannehill. and Max Figman all had prominent roles and gave them , perhaps , as good treatment as they deserved . Willie Pennie Frederic Bond Edward Burney Frank Tannehill . Jr Col. McKay Charles Harbury Jack McKay , his son , an energetic wooer . Max Figman Mrs. Pennie Isabelle Coe Nita Pennie Katherine Grey Mrs. Burney ... Harriet Sterling Mrs. McKay Mrs. Louts ? Eldridge Maggie P ulina Willard " THE LITTLE DUKE " AT ABBEY 'S . Lillian Russell Appears Once More in the Guise of a Young Man . On the occasion of Miss Lillian Russell 's emergence from a sack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " it - was remarked in this journal that exhibitions of this singer had become inevitably periodical . It may be said now that these exhibitions have become cyclical . " Teres atque rOtUndUS " are the words in which Virgil describes a genial man , and , with a slight alteration in the termination of the second adjective , the quotation would apply to Miss Russell as she appeared last night at Abbey 's Theatre , when " Le Petit Duc " was revived . It may be remembered that Meilhac and Hal  --  vy wrote the original book of this operetta , but it was reserved for Mr. Max Freeman to make such a remarkable adaptation of that book as the one heard last evening . The merry jests which Mr. Freeman interjected into the text werc ; mostly of the vintage of 1885. and the French which he offered was pronounced by members of the company with an accent of despair . However , most of those present went from curiosity . They were anxious to see Miss Russell in the habiliments of the male sex . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escaping that , except by closing one 's eyes . It was impossible to avoid remembering Lady Jane 's description of herself : " Not pretty  --  massive . " Miss Russell 's exhibition of herself was generous and convincing . Beyond that there is little to be said of her performance . She wore shining satin and dazzling diamonds , and she spoke her lines with her old familiar air of utter unbelief in their reality . As for her singing , it may be said in extenuation that she was evidently suffering from a cold . But that would hardly excuse her remarkable garglings and pinchings and explosions . Let it be recorded , in short , that she has never done anything worse . As the Duchess , Miss Aleen Burke was sufficiently timid and unconvincing . Mr. Richie Ling , as Captain De Montelandry , sang passably and said " Comprenney vous " many times with a table d'hôte accent . Mr. T. W. Herbert was not particularly funny as Frimousse , but no one ever was , and so he can not be blamed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inspiring production . Notes of the Stage . ? E. H. Sothern returned to New-Yorlke yesterday , and opened a week 's season at the Harlem Opera House last night , reviving " The Prisoner of Zenda , " in which he has done a remarkable business through the country . The fact that the play has been on view at the Lyceum for several weeks did not prevent the assemblage of a large audience , and Mr. Sothern was vigorously applauded for his excellent work in his dual role . ? Kathryn Kidder began an engagement at Palmer 's Theatre last night , reviving Mme. Sans-Gene. " before a large and enthusiastic audience . Her acting in this play has been seen here before , and has been fully appreciated . The cast of the play this season is very strong . and includes Augustus Cook , in his original part of Napoleon ; Wallace Shaw , Robert Droller , Dora Goldthwaite , and Agnes Irving . ? At the Grand Opera House last night " The Fatal Card , " an English melodrama , was presented for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hitherto had a long run in this city , and the size of the audience last night and its indications of approval seem to- show that the piece has duplicated its original success here . It will be presented during this week only . ? " Madame " was transferred front Palmer 's Theatre to Daly 's last night , and a large audience saw its first production at the latter house . The play is somewhat better staged than it was at Palmer 's , but with this exception it is the same attraction . Rose Coghlan does some very strong work in the title role , and the performance generally is very good . Madeleine Bonton replaced Amy Busby in the part of Priscilla Bellamy last night , and did excellent work . ? The Olympia Theatre was reopened last night with the presentation of " The Strange Adventures of Miss Brown . " by John R. Rogers 's comedians . The farce is an old one in this city , but it is very funny , and a large audience greeted the actors at the Olympia . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clara Morris began a week 's engagement at the Fourteenth Street Theatre last night , appearing in her wellknown character of Camille . A large audience was present and applauded the actress vigorously . She will present Article 47 " to-night . ? On account of a lack of rehearsals , it was found impracticable to produce " The Law of the Land " at the American Theatre last evening , and the production was postponed until to-night , when tickets purchased for yesterday will be accepted at the door . ? A change was made in the cast of " A House of Cards , " Sydney Rosenfeld 'S neW comedy , at the Fifth Avenue Theatre , last night . Henriette Crossman retired , and hei part in the play was taken by Edythe Chapman , who acquitted herself with great credit .                     