@@781407

txt The Madrid correspondent of The Standard says : " The Carlist agitation is assuming proportions in many of the northern provinceS which may serve as a fresh argument for action on the part of the Government . " The civil and military authorities , acting under the instructions of the Ministers of the Interior and of War , are closely watching the movements of Carlist emissaries , who are frequently flitting about the old haunts of Carlism , coming to Madrid , going to Brussels , Bayonne , and Pau to report the results of their propaganda and preparations . " Special attention is being given to the Pyrenneeo.n frontier , where smugglers on both sides and the French Legitimists are lending a willing hand . The authorities are convinced that arms and war stores have been introduced , and that the Carlists have been supplied with money from abroad . " The Marquis de Cerralbo , the chief lieutenant of Don Carlos , and the Carlist Senators and Deputies , together with the Carlist newspapers , affect , however , a. patriotic indignation at the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - war was over and until the conditions of peace fur-. nished a pretext for justifying such action in the eyes of the nation and of the Vatican . " The position of the Carlists is somewhat peculiar . The leaders have certainly thus far endeavored to keep their rural adherents and the local juntas quiet , but they are beginning to feel that these will slip away , especially as the more impatient elements find favor with the son and wife of the pretender . " Representations have been made against the presence of Don Carlos in Brussels , where Don Jaimo will soon join him . The Spanish Consuls in the south of France have been instructed to watch the Carlists and their sympathizers , with a view . of claiming a more strict surveillance on the part of the French frontier authorities . " The Madrid correspondent of The- Daily News , who believes that the activity of the Carlists in the northern provinces is the real reason for suspending- the constitutional guarantees and proclaiming a state of siege , says : Some of , . the Ministers assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prepare the country for a movement in his favor , above all , to raise armed bands to be ready when the time comes for tha King to ' get back his own . ' " The Carlists , it is said , have lately been supplied with funds from an unknown source . Don Carlos is not , as has been asserted , thinking of abdicating in favor of his son , Don Jaimo , but , urged on by his wife , is said to be ready to take prompt ac-tion . " The Madrid correspondent of The Daily Chronicle says : " The issuance of the royal decree suspending the constitutional guarantee and virtually proclaiming a state of siege , is evidently intended to check Carlism . The Carlist organ El Correo Espanol was prohibited to-day for the publication of an insulting article . " CORTINA TALKS OF DON CARLOS . He Believes the Spanish Pretender Is Now on English Soil . Rafael Diez de la Cortina , who- is said to have charge of Don Carlos 's interests in the United States , received a cable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon leave Belgium for England . Sefior . Cortina said last night ' that he had every reason to believe that Don Carlos is now on English soil . He added that the move was due to the circumstances which accompany Don Carlos 's stay in several foreign countries , the facts being that wherever Carlos stops abroad his hotel be-comes the meeting place of many of his Spanish followers , whom the people take for conspirators . This , coupled with the desire of the Queen Regent to get Carlos further from home , has resulted in King Leopold 's giving Carlos to understand that he Was not Wanted , which , in effect , is equivalent to expulsion . ' I do not know , " said Senor Cortina , " - what methods Don Carlos will pursue when peace is arranged . He may not attempt to gain the throne , though his taking control will be the only thing to save Spain from ruin . With Carlos at her head , she would regain her old prosperity and power , and had he ruled during this war it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carlos is a stateamarr and a soldier , able to weld the Spanish to a unit , to govern them , and lead them in war . All I can tell you is that Carlos has gone to England for quiet , and that he has not , or will not , try to encourage any Carlist disturbances in the Spanish provinces . Carlos is not that kind of man .                     