@@673983

txt Considerable prominence has been given to the sentimental side of the notable events which have occurred in the South during the last few days , but not too much . There can be no doubt that they have had a decided influence in developing and promoting good feeling between the North and the South , Making every allowance for momentary enthusiasm and the spirit of the occasion , there must be from such events , such speeches and such personal expressions of good will a lasting residuum of better feeling between the sections . But these events have a business side which is scarcely less interesting than the sentimental side . The splendid manner in which the National Encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic was handled at Louisville , the broad hospitality and public spirit shown by the citizens of Chattanooga. and the magnificent display of private and nubile enterprise evinced In the auspicious opening of the Atlanta Exposition have each and all been a fine revelation of the commercial spirit of the new South . No Northern city ever spent money more liberally or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louisville did , nor was the National en , campment ever handled better . Considering its resources and facilities , It is evident the progressive City of Chattanooga has acquitted itself most credit , ably in entertaining the large crowds who have visited that city during the last few days . And what praise can be too great for a city which , only two months after the closing of the World 's Fair at Chicago , and in the midst of a period of unprecedented business depression , had the nerve to inaugurate a movement for an exposition which , now that it is open , is deservedly attracting visitors from all parts or the United States and from other countries ' : There may be other cities that would have dared to do this , but Atlanta is the only one that did , and the success that has crowned her effort places her among the most enterprising cities of the country . But the benefits of the exposition will not be confined to that city alone . They will be shared by the entire South . The Manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their views on this subject . GOV . Greenhalge of Massachusetts ' says : " The exposition will prove greatly beneficial , attracting attention more prominently than ever before to the vast resources of the South . " Gov . Woodbury or Vermont is of opinion that " there is probably no section of our country which presents a more inviting field for capital and labor , when judiciously invested , than the cotton States. - Other representative men from different sections of the country express similar opinions , and all unite in praising Atlanta ler bravely launching an enterprise which is sure to prove so beneficial to the South . Thus the business side as well as the sentimental side of these notable events affords an interesting revelation of the spirit of the new South . It is a spirit which the North may well emulate , and in which it must excel if it would retain its commercial supremacy .                     