@@673451

txt The disturbance which Admiral Benham 's conduct at Rio has caused in the British bosom finds natural expression through its organ , The London Times . Our British contemporary , it seems , has been greatly puzzled by our relations , naval and diplomatic , to the monarchical insurrection against Peixoto 's Government . It declares that the conduct of our Government hags been " vacillating , " and when it sees Admiral Benham taking-a course of action somewhat more aggressive than was pursued by Capt . Picking , it declares that the Brazilian question is " obscured , " because Picking also seemed to be acting with the approval of the Washington authorities . The British mind , it seems , is still disturbed with doubts as to " how far Admiral Benham has the sanction of his official superiors . " Secretary Herbert 's dispatch to the Admiral , approving everything he has done , transmitted yesterday , will clear up these doubts and obscurities . The London Times and that class of English people for which it speaks have pursued precisely the same course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursued toward the States which took up arms against the United States Government thirty years ago . The Times itself has greedily swallowed every falsified news report that the audacity of its correspondent on board da . Gama 's flagship has ventured to concoct , and its tone has been one of sympathy and comfort for the insurgents and the monarchical party which is behind them . A great house engaged in the manufacture of war material in England has refused to furnish the goods it manufactures to Peixoto 's Government , but British " neutrality " did nut prevent two naval officers in Rio harbor from engaging in the work of manufacturing torpedoes for the insurgents . This business was discovered by the loyal forces , who promptly and very properly dropped a shell and blew them up at their work . This is only one of numerous instances where subjects of Great Britain have passed quite beyond the neutral line , but the Republic of Brazil will probably ask for a reckoning of these scores when the insurrection has been quelled . Admiral Benham 's course makes da Gama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , to interfere in any manner with American ships , even those carrying what is ordinarily considered contraband of war . This point seems to have occurred to Minister Thompson , who has just waked up and come down from Petropolis , and has made himself manifest by sending a dispatch to the State Department . Our Admiral 's determination to maintain an open port by the use of musketry and one pounders , if necessary , is , of course , a decided advantage for the Brazilian Government , and even The London Times will be able to see that this advantage is likely to become decisive now that the action which confers it has the express approval of the Federal Government at Washington .                     