@@674886

txt SANTIAGO , July ** ill-feeling produced among the Cubans by Gen. Shafter 's latest orders in Santiago culminated this morning ih a serious rupture between Gen. Shatter and Gen. Garcia . As aeconsequence Gen. Garcia has withdrawn with his army from the outskirts of Santiago to the interior , taking the road to Jiguani , which is fifty miles notheast of Santiago . He first held a council of his officers , and tendered to Gen. Gomez , the Cuban Commander ' in Chief , his resignation as Commander of the Cuban Army of the East . A special courier was sent to Gen Gomez 's headquarters carrying the resignation . Gen. Garcia also sent the following letter to Gen. Shaftert " Sir : On May 12 the Government of the Republic of Cuba ordered me as commander of the Cuban Army in the East to co-operate with the American Army , following the plans and obeying the orders of its commander . I have done my best , Sir , to fulfill the wishes of my Government , and I have been until now one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your orders and instructions as far as my powers have allowed me to do it . " The City of Santiago surrendered to the American Army , and news of that important event was given to me by persons entirely foreign to your staff . I have not been honored with a single word from yourself informing me about the negotiations for peace or the terms of the capitulation by the Spaniards . The important ceremony of the surrender of the Spanish Army and the taking possession of the city by yourself took place later on , and I only knew of both events by public reports . " I was neither honored , Sir , with a kind word from you inviting myself or any officer of my staff to represent the Cuban Army on that memorable occasion . " " I know that you have left in power at Santiago the same Spanish authorities that for three years I hail fought as enemies of the independence of Cuba . I beg to say that these authorities have never been elected at Santiago by the residents of the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain . " I would agree , Sir , that the army under your command should have taken possession of the city , the garrison , and the forts . I would give my warm co-operation to any measure you may have deemed best under America. ) military law to hold the city for your army , and to preserve public order until the time comes to fulfill the solemn pledge of the people of the United States to establish in Cuba a free and independent Government . But when the question arises of appointing authorities in Santiago de Cuba , under the peculiar circumstances of our thirty years ' strife against the Spanish rule , I can not see but with the deepest regret that such authorities are not elected by the Cuban people , but are the same ones selected by the Queen of Spain , and hence the ministers to defend against the Cubans the Spanish sovereignty . " A rumor , too absurd to be believed , General , ascribes the reason of your mease ures and of the orders forbidding my army to enter Santiago to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . Sir , to protest against even the shadow of such an idea . We are not savages , ignoring the rules of civilized warfare . We are a poor , ragged army , as ragged and as poor as was the army of your forefathers in their noble war for independence , but , as did the heroes of Saratoga and Yorktown , we respect too deeply our cause to disgrace it with barbarism and cowardice . " In view of all these reasons I sincerely regret to be unable to fulfill any longer the orders of my Government . and therefore I have tendered to-day to the Commander in Chief of the Cuban Army , Major Gen. Maximo Gomez , my resignation as commander of this section of our army . " Awaiting his resolution , I withdraw my forces to the interior . Very respectfully yours , CALIXTO GARCIA . " Gem Shafter will return a formal answer to the Cuban leader 's letter .                     