@@673998

txt Now that the attitude of this country with relation to the boundary dispute between Great Britain and Venezuela has been made known to the British Foreign Office , popular interest in the outcome of the controversy is increasing . The cable dispatch from London referred to in these dispatches last night bore out the assertion previously made that Secretary Olney 's last dispatch on the subject was calculated to develop the British position . The editorial in The London Times which declares that it is begging the question to assume that the British claim is for fresh territory , and that the British claim rests wholly upon the vindication of Great Britain 's original right , is regarded in Washington as significant of the reply which Lord Salisbury will make to Secretary 01-ney 's note . It should be borne in mind that Lord Salisbury has long been opposed to the plans submitted by Venezuela for bringing the boundary dispute to a head . The Schomburgk line , which has frequently been referred to in connection with British aggressions in Venezuela , was run in 1840 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work without the knowledge or concurrence of Venezuela . This line allots to Great Britain not only the entire Atlantic coast between the Essequibo and the Orinoco , but also a large section of fertile country in the interior , of which Holland , from which Great Britain secured title to British Guiana , never laid claim . Several years after Schomburgk 's line had been run the British Government , under the Aberdeen Administration , disclaimed any intention to occupy this territory , or to claim the Schomburgk line as a possible boundary . Lord Aberdeen explained to the Venezuelan Government that " the so-called Schomburgk line " was never designed to be other than " merely tentative , " or for convenience in future negotiations . He then proposed a conventional boundary line , which , though very disadvantageous to Venezuela , in that it would have deprived her of an immense territory which rightfully belongs to her , would probably have been accepted as a compromise but for the conditions imposed . Aberdeen said that his Government was disposed to cede to Venezuela the territory indicated on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portion of it to a third power . As this involved an acknowledgment of territorial rights in Guiana , which Great Britain did not possess , it had to be rejected . In 1890 Lord Salisbury , then the English Premier , claimed not only all the territory within the old Schomburgk line , but a vast region far beyond it . He ignored the proposition once made by Lord Aberdeen , and declared that the Essequibo could not be considered as a possible boundary . Subsequently the British took formal possession of the territory within ? the Schomburgk line . This led to the severance in 1887 of diplomatic relations between Great Britain and Venezuela . Lord Salisbury , it is believed here , has not changed his views concerning the territory in question . If he shall accept the recommendation of Secretary Olney that the entire question be submitted to arbitration , it will be due to his belief that the United States means to thrust the Monroe doctrine into the controversy and stand by it to the bitter end . At the State Department there is little hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the British contention as indicated in The London Times 's editorial , that the monroe doctrine is not involved , and therefore will not be discussed , shall not be permitted to stand . It is probable that some time will elapse before Lord Salisbury 's reply to Secretary Olney 's note is received . There is much commendation here of the course of the Administration and an absence of suggestion that it is desirous of avoiding the logical consequence of that course . It is certain that if no conclusion is reached before Congress assembles that body will take action designed to strengthen the position of the President .                     