@@673425

txt In so far as the judgment of the Ways and Means Committee can affect the question of taxation of individual incomes , it has been expressed , and in favor of the tax That was the decision in the meeting held late this afternoon . Net incomes of $4,000 or over , whether of corporations or individuals , are to be subject to a tax of 2 per cent This decision has not been reached without long consideration Since the Revenue bill was reported the majority members a the Ways and Means Committee have almost constantly discussed it . It was soon ascertained that upon a division there would be a majority of one or two in favor of a tax on individual incomes But there were so many arguments urged against the application of such a tax that it seemed possible to avoid it . The increase of the whisky tax , it was maintained , would secure , with much greater promptness , and at less expense , a larger revenue than the income tax , and it would not subject the party to complaints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The suggestion that the law would be unfair In that any tax on incomes which did not apply to all incomes would create a speciallyprotected class , entitled to greater consideration because it contributed an exclusive degree of support to the Government. , was urged by Mr. Cockran with energy . He did not lose sight of the fact , too , that the application of a rule of taxation never before resorted to except in time of war , when money must be raised to maintain great armies , could scarcely popularize the party resorting to it , except in those sections of the country in which the number of persons likely to be affected by the tax would be comparatively small . When the committee acted to-day on this very important question Messrs . , Turner , Whi-'ng , Bryan , Bynum , and Tarsneywere favorable to the proposition to put a tax of 2 per cent on all net incomes of individuals and corporations of $4,000 and above that amount . The members voting against it were Messrs . Wilson , Montgomery , Cockran , Stevens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the principle of an income tax on individuals , but he does not believe that the people are now prepared to accept such a tax or that it Is a wise party policy to attempt to apply it . Mr. Stevens is convinced that it will be an error for the party to adopt the tax , and Mr. Cockran is disposed to regard the plan as one doomed to public condemnation if it should happen to be approved by the Congress . Having decided to tax corporate and individual incomes , the committee knew that there would still be a lack of revenue . Without opposition it was agreed to increase the tax on whisky 10 cents a gallon , as recommended by Secretary Carlisle , and to make the increased tax applicable to all Whisky in bond at the time of the passage of the act The whisky producers of Kentucky were granted the tirlini for which they asked . The period within which whisky must be withdrawn and the tax paid was extended from three to eight years . This proposition has already provoked much comment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it or themselves subject to harsh criticism . They do not regard it as a stark of favor to the whisky producers of Kentucky , and they insist that it can not be so regarded by the Whisky Trust . for the trust deals in whisky , or in the basis of whisky , to be made to be disposed of at once , within a day or an hour after it has been distilled . The slight increase in the tax , it is insisted , will not hasten or check withdrawals for consumption to a marked extent , except just before the time the act is to become effective . Besides deciding to impose the income tax and the increased tax on whisky , the committee decided to fix the tax on playing cards at 2 cents per pack . This brings the tae below the price of the cheapest of mrds , and yet will provide a considerable income for the Government . There is doubt among members of the committee as to whether this scheme of internal taxation will be sufficient , with the customs revenue bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Breckinridge was asked to-night What provision the Ways and Means Committee expected to make for the Treasury , to remove any a nviety that the Administration might feel in the face of a reduced balance . He answered that , so far as he was aware , there was no proposition of that sort under consideration . He did not know that there was any immediate necessity for extending aid to the Treasury , and he was inclined to believe that the methods and sources of revenue about to be provided by the Ways and Means Committee would serve to relieve the Secretary of the Treasury of any anxiety he might feel . If , however , it bea-ama apparent that sufficient revenue could not be soon derived under the bills so far proposed , it would take but a few days to furnish the Secretary of the Treasury with power to issue and sell bonds in sufficient amount to enable him to supply any deficiency that might appear to be imminent This opinion , as representing the views of the majority of Democrats , would appear to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill in order to pass a bill giving the Secretary of the Treasury authority to sell bonds were unfounded , and that legislation granting that authority to Secretary Carlisle is to be postponed until the necessity for a bond issue shall appear to be greater than it now is . As a rule , the men who favor the income tax for individuals are just as strong in opposition to a bond issue as they are in advocacy of the income taxes . The decision about the income tax was riot reached without strenuous opposition from the Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee , who have all along opposed it , on the ground that it was not only unwise and unnecessary , but unsafe also . The majority having decided , the Democrats . who were outvoted , will yield to the power of numbers , and the Democrats in the committee will act as a unit in making the report agreed upon to-day . While there was no change of the sugar schedule in the meeting to-day , and the bill remains as it was reported , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five-twentieths of 1 cent a pound on refined sugar , it is the general opinion that the House will abolish all bounties and put a tax of three-quarters of a cent a pound on all sugar , raw and refined . The rlouse may even go to 1 cent a pound on all sugars ; but , if it does not , there Is not much doubt that it will limit the tax to three-quarters of a cent , with the expectation and belief that the Senate will complete the job by making the tax an even cent It seems that the House Democrats can not avoid believing that , whatever figure : hey leave the tax at , it will be increased somewhat in the Senate , and , as there is opposition to having the tax made greater than a cent , it is considered abvtsable to keep within the figure that the Senate is understood to have agreed upon as the lowest it will take .                     