@@673465

txt John Carlin , a bookbinder at 48 Broad Street , remained at his place of business last night to finish some work . Because he did so , his stock was set afire , and three alarms were sounded . Mr. Carlin occupies a part of the fourth floor , with P. G. Wilmarth , shirt manufacturer , and William Ward . a priner . About 10 o'clock Mr. Carlin was ruling blank sheets of paper . He sent Maggie Dougherty , an assistant , to get some material . She went into another room with a lamp and stumbled . The lamp fell on paper stock and set it afire . Mr. Carlin tried to extinguish the flames , and was burned about the hands and arms . He aroused the janitor , James Batsberry , and his wife , and gave the alarm . The fire was prevented from spreading beyond the fourth floor , and it was under control in short time . Mr. Carlin 's damage is about $2,500 , covered by insurance . Escaped Arrest by Dying . United States Marshal Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which yesterday arrived from Haiti . He had been sent to that country to arrest Absconder Huntington , who was wanted in Cincinnati for the embezzlement of $20,000 . The officer failed to get extradition papers , and tried to entrap Huntington into going on board en American steamship . He was on the point of succeeding , when Huntington suddenly died . Henry attended his funeral and read the funeral rites over the man 's grave . Burglars Rob and Then Burn . HUNTINGDON , Penn. , Feb. 12 . ? Burglars this morning entered J. M. Laird 's hardware store here and secured a large quantity of pocketknives and revolvers . In leaving the store they set fire to the basement of the building , in which were stored gunpowder and various oils . In subduing the flames the firemen were subjected to the greatest danger from bursting oil barrels , - kegs of powder , and hundreds of rifle cartridges that exploded from the heat . The store is wrecked and the stock is badly damaged . Archbishop Corrigan Goes to Florida . ArchbLshop Corrigan sailed yesterday for Jacksonville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line . He was accompanied to the steamer by several Catholic clergymen . While in Florida he will live with his brother , Dr. Joseph Corrigan , who owns a large orange plantation near Tampa . The Archbishop 's brother , the Rev. George W. Corrigan , pastor of St. Agnes 's Church at Paterson . N. J. , will also be one of the party . Archbishop Carrigan will return in a month . Opoiratlives sh Nistits , LAWRENCE , Mass. , Feb. ** strike of the operatives of the Washington Mills on account of a proposed reduction in wages is now on . Agent Chapin regards the mat ' ter as more of a shutdown than a strike . He says the mill officials will wait a week or two , pending action by the operatives . Then , if they refuse to return to work , the mill will shut down indefinitely .                     