@@781860

txt ? Major Gen. Pierce M. B. Young having resigned his position as commander of the ( teor eta Division of the United Confederate Veteran . because of his appointment as United States Minister to Guatemala , Gen. John B. Gordon , Commander In Chief of the association , announces that Gen. Clement A. Evans has been appointed to serve in his stead . Gen. Gordon , in the same order , urges den . Evans to hasten the formation of camps . The general organize . ton covers the United States , and now has enrolled about 350 camps . It is non-political and non-sectional. is designed to promote the comradeship of those who served in the Southern army and navy during the war of the rebellion , and to look altar the needs of those suffering from poverty or illness . ? Gen. James Longstreet of Georgia hail Written a vigorous reply to the letter of Gen. Dabney IL Maury of New-Orleans. charging him in effect with too great alacrity in accept . ing the situation politically after the war . Gen. Longstreet incidentally says : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1867 . I asked a number of Confederates it they thought tt possible IA elect a Southern man President in 1868 . Ali Concurred that it would not be . Then I asked of all of the Northern men whom they would prefer for the next President . They decided in favor of Gen. Grant . Then I proposed that we organize a ' Grant Club . ' which was declined ? . this a year and more before the nomination . and when Gen. Grant was thought to be it Democrat . " ? Mies Constance Mackenzie . daughter of the late Dr. R. Shelton Mackenzie . Is Director of the Public Kindergartens of Philadelphia . She shows a peculiar aptitude for the work , and 19 devoting her life to it with an enthusiasm that wins success . A friend ease of her that her home influences were unusually broad and cosmopolitan , her mother being a German and he s father by birth Irish , by parentage Scotch , by ' education English , and by affiliation American . ? The venerable Rev. William C. Crawford of Alvarado @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 2d day of March , 1836 , signed the declaration of Texan Independence . Gen. Samuel Houston , the first constitutional President of the Republic elected by the people . was inaugurated Oat. f22 , 1836 , the first Texan Congress having convened at Co lumbia on th ( third day ' of that month . ? Ex-Gov . George C. Perkins , the newly-ap ' pointed United States Senator from California . Is going through a siege of dinner parties and banquets in San Francisco that threatens *her ' onghly to ruin his digestion before he gets to , Washington . ? Congressman William S. " Tolman of Indiana has been making a tour of the county seats of his district to get an insight into the feelings of his constituents on the financial situation be , fore the assembling of Congress In special session .                     