@@781338

txt This was one of the most exciting days in the history of surf bathing at this place . There was a tremendous crowd on the beach , and more than 20,000 bathers entered the surf between 8 o'clock this morning and 8 this evening . Fully 120,000 visitors arrived here during the day and last night . The sea was very rough and the bathers had an exciting time . The sight of bathers being hurled exhausted upon the strand became a common one during the day , and it was only when the life savers had an exceptionally hard task that much excitement was caused . To-night the guards are completely worn out . They report thirty actual rescues to-day , while they responded to at least four times as many false alarms . Some of the responses were exciting . One young woman from Philadelphia was car-ried 200 yards beyond the life lines before the guards reached her . She was completely exhausted , and it was two hours before she recovered . There was at least one person drowned , and it is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taswell , a visitor from Princeton , Ind. , was caught in the surf and carried beyond his depth before the life Savers could reach him . It is supposed that he lost his breath and could do nail-ing to save himself . His body was recovered . One venturesome man was seen to go down well out from the life lines , and the guards could find no trace of him . There are two sets of clothing in bathing houses to-night , which have not been called for , One is supposed to belong to the man seen to go down , and the other to some one carried away by the undertow and drowned without making any outcry . The Hell Gate Republican Club had its annual outing yesterday . The club- had engaged a steamboat and two barges to convey their members and guests to Sylvan Beach , N. J. Before the hour of starting more than 1,000 persons had assembled at the foot of Ninety-first Street and East River . When the steamboat and barges arrived it was found that one of the barges had sprung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the downtown pier , where she started . As many of the excursionists as possible were accommodated on the steamboat , and the available barge . while those remaining had'to wait for the arrival of a seaworthy barge . The substitute did not start until 1 o'clock , and by that time many of the excursionists had gone home . Arthur Thompson , a prominent member of the Clifton Boat Club , while rowing in a shell in the lower bay yesterday afternoon , struck a sunken obstruction off South Beach . A hole was stove through his boat . and he just succeeded in reaching shoal water when it sank . He went down in water up to his neck , but freed himself from the boat and reached the beach dragging his boat with him .                     