@@674580

txt Will not some of the pugnacious brethren who are hustling about with chips on - their shoulders , eager for a war with Japan , Spain , or any other nation , pause to reflect for a moment ? It is admitted that Spain has not very many battleships , but it is conceded that she has some ; and as for Japan , she has a few and is soon going to have some more . Now , of course , all good Americans believe that at the end of a naval war with either of these nations they would not have so many battleships or cruisers while our naval list would be increased by the addition of some names which would be neither English nor Indian , and which some of our statesmen could not pronounce . But there is a chance that , in the course of what Mr. CONAN DOYLE 'S Sir Nigel Loring would have called " the debate , " some one of the heavy shells hurled through the atmosphere by the fiery Sraniards or the methodical Japanese might hit one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " - outside the armor belt . Now in that case there would be a hole in the outer casing of a , six-million-dollar battleship and . a considerable derangement of her internal organization . She would not necessarily be sent to the historic locker of Mr. Davy Jones , but she would certainly require the operation of naval surgeons . For all surgical operations an operating table is needed , and when the subject Le a battleship the necessary table is a dry dock . But at the present moment the United States is without a dry dock capable of accommodating one of her first-class battleships . The Indiana has been sent to Halifax , a British colonial port , to be docked , cleaned , and painted , and there is every likelihood that the Massachusetts and Iowa will have to follow her . The big dock at the Brooklyn Navy Yard is undergoing repairs and may not be ready for occupancy for a year , and there is not another dock on the Atlantic coast which can receive one of these ships . If we were really on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , such a condition would be alarming , for docks fit to receive battleships can not be built in a few days . But even in the piping times of peace such a state of affairs is painfully humiliating . It certainly must cause smiles in the heart of London , and no doubt it produces a cheerful feeling at Madrid and Yokohama .. It is a condition that should not be allowed to continue . The dry dock at New York is not enough ; there should be at least two others , on the Atlantic coast . The present inutility of the dock at this port is the only argument necessary to demonStrate this . ' The Navy Department is fully aware of the need of more docking facilities , but Congxress has not given the subject the attention which it imperatively demands .                     