@@781241

txt The Fine Arts ' Federation of this city has resolved to draw up a petition asking the Senate of the United States to take some immediate action in regard to the bill now pending for the preservation of the Palisades . The artists have been deliberating about the ways and means of aiding in the fight for preserving the Palisades , and they have finally decided upon their action . Russell Sturgis , the President of the Federation , spoke enthusiastically and at great length about the matter last night . " The top and the edges at least must be preserved , " he said . " else the erection of many beautiful residences and hotels already planned will be prevented . If necessary , we shall employ counsel to go to Washington and urge the Senate to pass the bill before any further destruction takes place . " A dispatch from San Antonio , Texas , printed yesterday , set forth ' that while Battery F , Third United States Artillery , was firing a salute at Fort Sam Houston on Tuesday . in commemoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule . a cannon burst and instantly killed Private George A. Parkhurst. a nephew of the Rev. Dr. Parkhurst of this city . When the dispatch was shown to Dr. Parkhurst by a reporter for THE NEW-YORK TIMES , he said he had no knowledge of the man said to be his nephew . The doctor said : " The dispatch gave me some concern at first , for I have a nephew in the South , but as he is only twelve years old I hardly think that he has enlisted in the army . " Coroner Castor has been advised that a strenuous effort will be-made to have the sentence of H. H. Holmes commuted to life imprisonment . He has received a telegram asking him to g3 to Ph lalelphia and lake the records of the Pretzel child inquest with him . Another telegram ordered the payment of $75 to him with which to pay his expenses to Philadelphia . He will leave in a day or two for that city , and will take all the testimony in the case of the Pietzel boy with him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , says that the Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania , who is President of the Board of Pardons , is opposed to capital punishment . He thinks an effort will be made to secure a commutation . Major H. P. Stacpole of Albany . President of the National Guard Association of New-York State , to-day appointed as the committee on the Gen. Josiah Porter memorial the following : Brig . Gen. Robert Shaw Oliver , Third Brigade ; Lieut . Col. Charles H. Luscomb , Thirteenth Regiment , Brooklyn ; Capt . William M. Kirby , Second Separate Company , Auburn ; Capt . David Wilson , Second Battery , New-York City , and Capt . William M. Dunnel , Chaplain of the Twenty-second Regiment , New-York City .                     