@@673031

txt Tolerably full returns from the State , including all the towns that have telegraphic communication . indicate that Cleaves , the Republican candidate for Governor , has been elected by a very much reduced plurality , compared with that of the last election , in 1890 . The Democratic gains have been mostly in the large towns , the result of the tariff question and of the Democratic proposition to repeal the Constitutional amendment prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors . All four Republican Congressmen are re-elected , but all by reduced majorities . Reed has about 1,500 , against 4,800 two years ago . In Portland his majority has fallen from 1.527 to 176 . Tho Democrats in Cumberland , Kennebec , Penobscot , and Androscoggin Counties have elected part of their county tickets , and in Knox and Waldo the whole . In Cumber - land the Democratic Sheriff certainly , and the County Attorney probably , are elected . The Democrats gain largely in the Legislature , some fifty members in the House , and probably six in the Senate . Speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading Democratic paper in the State , says editorially : At this writing the returns show Democratic gains in almost every part of the State . Mr. Cleaves 's majority for Governor will be comparatively very smalL Carry the news to the National Democratic Committee and to all other Democrat 's the country over . Owing to the length of time required to count the votes under the Australian system , the returns have been coming in more slowly than under the old system . Up to the hour of this writing , nearly midnight . but sufficient information has been received to show that there has been a revolution in the old Pine Tree State Mr. Cleaves , the Republican candidate for Governor , is elected , but by a majority smaller than the most sanguine Democrat hoped for . In every part of the state the Democrats have made a good fight , and the results will inspire them with a courage and zeal for the future that they naturally enough have not had for years . We congratulate our fellow-Democrats throughout the State on the star of hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political firmament ? ? In 1890 Thomas B. Reed carried this city by 1,572 plurality , but yesterday , according to figures at this hour , he carried it by a plurality of only 176. a decrease of 1,396 votes . What a falling off was that , fellow-countrymen wonder the ex-Czar felt ' tired ' last night . " The Republican papers admit a large reduction in the Republican plurality for Governor and Congressman Reed . but claim that the comparison with the figures two years ago is misleading . The Australian ballot was tried in Maine for the first time this year and has worked to general satisfaction . The elections have been quiet and unusually orderly . The percentage of defective ballots promises to be surprisingly small . It is admitted that the new ballot law has worked to the advantage of the Democrats . Returns are coming in very slowly owing to unfamiliarity with new ballot , and an extensive cutting by voters . The greatest interest In this city centres in the contest between Cram ( Rep. ) for Sheriff , who has rigidly enforced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years , and Swett . ( Dent. , ) who has openly avowed himself a " let-up " man . The result will show the sentiment regarding this particular law . A close contest in the city gives Swett about 400 majority . but the indications are that Cram will be elected by a small majority .                     