@@673988

txt The proceedings of the public meeting in Chicago , called to express sympathy with the Cuban insurgents and to demand the recognition of their belligerency , have a queer and unaccountable appearance . Of course , the great majority of Americans sympathize with the Cubans , would like to see them attain their independence , and would like to have their own Government recognize the insurgents as belligerents so soon as the facts required such a recognition , provided the recognition would do the insurgents any good . Most of us are mentioning to each other every day or two how very ill the Cubans have been treated , how outrageous and inhuman is the avowed feeling of the Spanish Government in respect to them , and how we hope they will succeed in freeing the island from the Spanish domination . But this sympathy does not go the length of " hiring halls " or of any other form of expenditure . And yet such a demonstration would be much more natural in New-York than in Chicago , which has no direct commercial relations with Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antipathy to the Spaniards might be expected to be more acute . The inference seems to be fair enough that the hall was hired and the incidental expenses of the meeting defrayed by representatives of the Cuban insurgents , who desired to elicit some more imposing demonstration than is furnished by articles in newspapers . So far as the expression of sympathy with the Cuban insurgents goes , there is no fault to be found with the meeting . Such an expression is so safe and popular that it was made a " plank " of in one or both of the platforms in this State . But the specific object of the meeting was to bring about action by our Government . An express demand was made in the resolutions that our Government should " recognize the rights of the Cuban revolutionists as belligerents as soon as possible on being so requested by competent Cuban authority , in accordance with international law . " This is a different and much more serious matter . Spain , of course , maintains that the insurrection is merely a continuous riot by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is an organization , comprehending or representing the inhabitants of Cuba , and of sufficient importance to be recognized as a belligerent power . Now , whether it is entitled to this recognition or not is a question the answer to which depends upon certain conditions that are fairly well understood " in accordance with international law . " It must , : in the first place , be understood that a Goverzinient does not recognize in surgents as belligerents for their own sake , but for the sake of its own people who may have occasion to do business with them . The principles upon which recognition should be granted are very pertinently laid down in one of DANA 'S notes on WHEATox 's treatise : " Where a parent Government is sdeking to subdue an insurrection by municipal force and the insurgents claim a political nationality and belligerent rights which the parent Government does not concede , a recognition by a foreign State of full belligerent rights , if not justified by necessity , is a gratuitous demonstration of moral support to the rebellion and of censure upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question are various , and far more decisive where there are maritime law and commercial relations with foreigners . Among the tests are the existence of a de facto political organization of the insurgents sufficient in character , population , anti resources to constitute , if left to itself , a State among the nations reasonably capable of discharging the duties of a State . " This appears to be quite decisive of the present case . Cuba has no political organization which would , if left to itself , constitute a State . It has nothing that can be called . a Government ; it has no capital , it has no seaport. , We have no means of holding anybody but Spain responsible for anything that the insurgents may do . If our people transact any business with the island , they can and must transact it under the Spanish Government , and there is no seaport of the island over which the authority of that Government does not extend . Plainly it is not in our own interest that we need to recognize the belligerency of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it except in our own interest . International law does not pro , vide for the recognition of an aspiration . When the Cubans obtain such a tie facto Government as the Confederates had in 1861 , we shall be compelled to act as England and France then acted . Until then we can give them nothing but our sympathy . Moreover , our premature recognition of their belligerency would do them no good , but , contrariwise , positive harm . If we recognized the existence of a state of war between Cuba and Spain , the agents of the Spanish Government would have the right to call upon our Government to prevent the shipment to the enemies of Spain ' of arms , munitions , or any other contraband of war . At present Cubans are entitled to buy arms and munitions of war in our markets , to ship them , and to carry them to Cuba without danger of detention or molestation until they are actually within Cuban waters , when it is a question of skill between the master of the vessel and the Spanish Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our Government can not without a breach of its obligations recognize the belligerency. of the Cubans at the present stage of their contest ; and no sensible Cuban will demand or desire such a recognition .                     