@@781530

txt In an Italian version of " La Femme de Claude , " a three-act drama by the yonuger Dumas , the actress whose marvelous powers of expression have already , in five other rt.les , five tithes excited New-York audiences to an admiration limited only by their ability to follow in an alien tongue the minute gradations through which her stupendous effects are atWeed , gave last night at the Fifth Avenue Theatre one more proof that her art is limitless . that her methods are perfection , and that few indeed are the names to be written before hers in the history of the world 's stage . Of the bearers of those few names some had , and the others have , that ultimate and elemental something in whose presence analysis falls and which men have agreed to call genius . In the acting of Eteenora Dime it is possible , by closeness of attention , long enough maintained , to see with more or less exactness just what part of the whole effect is the result Of facial mobility controlled by a keenly alert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a voice better than melodious , and to see the share borne by gesture and dross min the illusions of a stage competently set and peopled . These elements and their like are too many for setting down late at night , but added together they make explicable all that was seen . Possibly there was more to see . possibly It remains to be revealed . If so , another name must be added to the shining list . Cesarina is a woman of the kind for which the English language has no adjective exactly applicable . " Wicked " only half describes her , " coarse " is well enough as far as it goes , while " unrefined " and " plebeian " suggest themselves only to be rejected . She has been , before the play begins , an unfaithful wife ; during its progress , she intimates to a waiting-woman , with something of pleasurable appreciation , the baseness of which she has been , and still feels herself to be capable ; to save the remnants of her reputation and to revenge her husband 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she robs him of the invention on which both depend , making use , in carrying out her plot , of a boyish lover for whom she cares nothing , and through all this she somehow manages to retain a trace of the spectator 's sympathy . It is a strange picture , whose repulsiveness still attracts . Every shade of its meaning . every harsh and every terrible element in the woman 's nature , were made visible last night . She had one side to show the maid , another for her graceless lover , another for the priggish husband , and a fourth for the villainous agent of the rival gun company . And at the end , when she falls , shot through the heart , and dies without a motion or a sound , though to deny the justice of her fate is impossible , yet there remains a thrill of pity for the woman . If this were not so , the play would be unendurable . Its long harangues on the art of war , the tribes of Israel , the existence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , Ia . Only an artist like this one could justify dragging it from fast settling oblivion . It gave Ifignor Ando an absolutely unresponsive part . To Signora Solazzi , as the maid , came the opportunity to show herself a not unworthy foil for the star 's clear gloamings. and - Signor Maztonti found in it an amusing ride of the kind absurdly called " character , " but that was all . The play 's immorality is of a kind that makes the often-lamented exhibitions of scantily-clad women seem childlike innocence in comparison . It is a play where vice is real and virtue empty sentiment . The fast-settling oblivion to which reference has already been made should have another chance at it .                     