@@781499

txt The announcement that the Brazilian and Argentine Republics have agreed to act in concert in resisting the British claims to the Island of Trinidad , 561 miles off the coast of Brazil , on the one hand , and to the Falkland Islands , 250 miles from the coast of Argentina , on the other , Is not an unexpected outcome of the existing situation . The making of it , however , makes . it worth while to explain upon how very different a footing the claim of Brazil to Trinidad stands from that of Argentina to the Falkland Islands . The claim of Brazil to Trinidad is complete and perfect . The claim of Great Britain is entitled to no consideration whatever . The British seizure of the i ? 1-and was a mere act of power , founded upon the convenience of a British promoter of submarine telegraphs , and with no justification whatever . After the seizure was made the Brazilian Government remonstrated and set a trap for the British Ministry , into which it promptly fell . By setting forth the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inheritor of Portugal , it induced the British Government to state its own claim , which was that a British force took possession of the island in 1700 and found no " evidence of Portuguese possession . " Having thus elicited a statement of the British claim , Senhor CARVALHO proceeded to destroy it by declaring that " the title of 1700 , InVoked by Lord SALISlaurix , is rOfili  --  d equally by anterior and by subsequent facts , " and by citing the order of the British Admiralty in 1784 for the evacuation of the island by the British force and its surrender to Portugal as the rightful owner . The case in favor of Brazil and against Great Britain is thus put beyond gues-Great tion . On the other hand , the claim of Great Britain to the Falkland Islands is as clear as the claim of Brazil to Trinidad . The dispute over the title to these islands came very near bringing about a war between Spain and England in 1761 , after Capt . ByRox 's seizure of them " upon the ground of prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender of the Spanish claim in 1761 . In 1820 Buenos Ayres claimed them , not under the Spanish title , but as derelict islands , and formed a settlement which was broken up by the United States man-of-war Lexington in 1831 . This action was made the basis of a claim by Argentina against the United States , and it was this claim which President CLEVELAND , in his message of 1885 , " in view of the ample justification for the act of the Lexington and the derelict condition of the islands before and after their alleged occupation , " dismissed as " wholly groundless . " In 1833 the British resumed possession of the islands , which have ever since been administered as a Crown colony , and which have a population of 1,789 , all British subjects except 123 . It will be seen that the Argentine claim to the Falkland Islands is of no more validity than the British claim to Trinidad . . It will be seen also that it is not only incompatible with , but opposed to , the Brazilian claim . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery and recognized by other nations does not lapse by the mere omission to make use of the property affected by it . The Argentine contention is that it does so lapse , and that a temporary and intercaiary occupation , such as Argentina had of the Falkland Islands , and as Great Britain has lately had of Trinidad , confers a permanent title against prior ownership and subsequent and permanent occupation . It is plain that these two contentions are irreconcilable , and that fact makes very surprising the announcement that the two republics concerned have resolved to make common cause of the irreconcilable claims .                     