@@673496

txt The American flag was hauled down from the staff on the Town Hall here this afternoon and the green flag of Ireland hoisted in its place . The incident caused excitement and came near ending in a riot . The national colors were put up early this morning by Janitor Walsh . About 1 o'clock , as the local fire companies turned out to parade in honor of the day , the janitor was noticed on the roof of the building unfastening the halyards of the flagstaff . He had a big green flag under one arm . Those who saw him supposed he was going to put up the Irish emblem with the Stars and Stripes . His actions did not attract particular attention until some one noticed that the green flag was flying alone on the staff . s The exclamations of surprise that followed this discovery resulted in the parade being deserted and an angry crowd gathering around the Town Hall . Some of the men threatened to force an entrance into the building and restore the national colors . When the janitor reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded an explanation of his remarkable act . The crowd insisted that he at once replace the Stars and Stripes . The janitor was badly scared . He showed an order from Andrew , President of the village , and who has recently been appointed Postmaster here , directing him to change the flags . This was a surprise to the assemblage , which cried : " Shame ! Shame ! " It soon became known throughout the village who was responsible for the change of flags , and the crowd about the Town Hall was greatly augmented , and kept up the cry of " Shame ! " It was due to the coolness of some of those present that the men did not break into the building and tear down the green flax . The incident resulted in the parade being broken up . The firemen and members of the Irish society gathered in the vicinity of the Town Hall and joined in condemning the action of the Village President . The Irishmen , still wearing their green decorations , were particularly demonstrative , and denounced the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was responsible for the flags being changed . He admitted that he had ordered the Irish flag put up on some public building , however . There is only one such building in the village , and , of course , his directions were carried out . The Board of Trustees is composed of three members . The others , Philip P. Scott , and John Renchan , say that they were not consulted in the matter . As they comprise a majority of the board , Mr. must assume all the responsibility for the act . He is a real estate dealer , and has lived here a long time . The green flag that replaced the Stars and Stripes was fifteen feet long and ten feet wide . No one could be found who could tell where the flag came from .                     