@@672926

txt The Rev. Henry H. Hudson delivered his farewell sermon last night at the Trinity Baptist Church , in East Fifty-first Street . Mr. Hudson chose as his texts numerous passages in the different Epistles beginning with the word " finally . " There were about ten of these , and some of them led to very sharp and saroastio remarks on " bitterness , " " fault-finding , " and other bad feelings supposed to exist in the congregation of Trinity Baptist Church . At the end , however , soon after comparing certain anonymous persons to " buzzards seeking after carrion , " Mr. Hudson bade the flock a pathetio farewell . He said that he had been kindly treated and he loved them one and all . He begged them to pray for him and his family . There was only one woman who cried . She was in the choir in front of the whole congregation . Mr. Hudson says his resignation is simply due to non-success in his work with that particular congregation . He thinks another man in his place will do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods or Its fair Sunday school teachers to win the Mongolian to Christianity . Several weeks ago two of the young women attached to the school married their Chinese pupils . Miss Lizzie Fields became Mrs. T. L. Wing , and Miss Philbrook became Mrs. Wo Sing . Both husbands are interested in the purification of personal linen as a line of business . They live in Brooklyn , and thither their brides have gone with them . Mr. Hudson performed both ceremonies , and he has a high opinion of the young men to whom the teachers are married . A cause of dissatisfaction among the congregation was the allotting of individual Sunday school teachers to each pupil and of giving a " spread " every Sunday after class hours at which nearly thirty Chinamen were entertained . Members of the congregation objecting , the spread " was discontinued , and a number of professing Christian Chinamen went back to Joss and the temple in Mott Street . Mr. Hudson said that the rumors were greatly exaggerated about the Sunday school teachers and their pupils . The two women who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added . The election for delegates to the Republican State Convention , which was held throughout the State yesterday , was attended by some disorder in this city , and marked the preliminaries of what promises to be a lively fight against the continued rule of the Higgins wing of the Republican Party here . There was not an anti-Higgins fight all over the city , as the State Convention , in view of the general acquiescence of Delaware Republicans in the renomination of President Harrison , does not form an issue upon which the lines can be sharply drawn . but there was sufficient feeling manifested to indicate more bitter contests when the legislative primaries are held , later in the campaign . In the three wards where contesting delegate tickets were run , the Higgins candidates won easily , but the feeling was more intense than was indicated by the poll of votes , and resulted in several spirited rows . One of these , between Letter Carrier Sylvanus , an ardent Higgins advocate , and County Constable Brown , led to a battle as Republican headquarters after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assaulted by Brown and two other constables and brutally beaten . A feature of the contest was the fight made by some of the leading colored politicians to elect a delegate pledged to the support of a colored man as delegate to the Minneapolis Convention . The issue was forced in the Fifth Ward , a Biggins stronghold . but the result was a crushing defeat , by a vote of 210 to 41 . There will be about fifty colored delegates in the State Convention , however , and the fight will be renewed when the convention assembles at Dover next Thursday . This is the first determined fight the negro voters have made for their political recognition , and they propose to keep it up throughout the campaign . Saturday morning Postmaster Daniel F. Stewart , one of the leaders of the Higgins forces , issued an address to the employes of the Post Office , directing their attention to the civil service regulations prohibiting the interference of Federal employes in political primaries . In the afternoon , Postmaster Stewart was elected a delegate to the State Convention from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a colleague , while the employes of the Post Office and Federal officials generally were conspicuous throughout the city for their eager work at the polls .                     