@@674788

txt Both houses of Congress have adjourned until Monday . Nothing will be done until the Democrats have agreed upon their policy with reference to financial measures , and as to what this policy will be nothing definite is yet known . There is yet a chance , then , for the Democratic leaders to retrieve the great blunder made in the House , and , though we confess that there is very little reason to hope that they will take that chance , it is well to point it out to them In their opposition to a long-time loan they have perfectly good ground to stand upon . There is no more sense in imposing upon the country a bond issue for a large amount at the present time than there would be for a rich company to mortgage its real estate to meet a temporary increase in operating expenses . It is , of course , within the range of possibility that the war may be long and costly and involve us in difficulties that we do not now foresee , but all the probabilities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attending it will be for the preparation that should have been made and paid for long ago . It is absurd to resort to bonds if the war is to be short , and it is highly imprudent to do so now , when it may turn out to be a long war . In that case we should keep the credit of the Government in reserve . Let the Democrats stick to their opposition to a large bond issue , but let them also propose a practical substitute scheme . One-year Treasury certificates up to a proper amount , to be determined by the responsible heads of departments , should be authorized . This is necessary in order that the Administration may have complete and immediate command of all the resources required for any emergency , small or great . This having been done , taxation should be levied that can be relied upon to yield , over and above any probable deficit in the ordinary revenue , say one-half of the amount of the short loans authorized . This would give the-Government ample means for present needs , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconvenes in December . It is probable that the taxes proposed by the House bill will yield some $30,000,000 above the current deficit . This amount should . be increased to at least $50,000,000 . There are several ways in which that can be done , such as a tax on railway tickets or a duty on tea and coffee . If the Senate Democrats have the sense to propose these they may save their party from the disastrous consequences of the hopeless error of their fellows in the House . If , on the other hand , they adhere to the preposterous notions about an income tax , ( for Which the Constitution must be amended , ) coining the " seigniorage , " or issuing paper money , they will make the disaster certain and-just                     