@@673771

txt Austria-Hungary has now added her formal protest to that of Germany against the exaction of the discriminating duty of 1-10 of a cent a pound on sugar imported from countries that pay a bounty on sugar exports . This new protest , like that of the German Government , is based upon the claim that the imposition of such a duty is a violation of treaty agreements . The soundness of this claim is admitted by our own Government , and the President has earnestly recommended that the duty should be repealed . This protest clearly foreshadows the adoption by Austria-Hungary of the retaliatory policy which , as exhibited by Germany , Denmark , Belgium , and France , has already inflicted serious injury upon our export trade in cattle , beef , and other products . Our dispatches say : " From the similarity in wording between the latest protest and that of the German Ambassador , it is evident that the two countries are acting in concert in the matter , and ' it seems probable that Austria will still further follow Germany 's lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States . " That the exaction of this discriminating duty was the real cause of Germany 's exhibition of commercial hostility is plainly shown by the interview with Dr. Barth , a prominent member of the Reichstag , which was published Saturday . " Dr. Barth said that he had repeatedly proved himself a friend of the Americans , and he desired to emphasize the fact that there was no difference in opinion among all the German political parties that the American Government was now wrong . He hoped for the sake of both countries that the tax would be repealed , the more so , he said , inasmuch as the Agrarians had seized the opportunity to attempt to force the German Government to resort to retaliatory measures . " The statements of the German Ambassador in this country to the Secretary of State and to certain Senators also show clearly that the duty is the cause of all the trouble . Senators have been told by him that his Government is " very greatly concerned " about this tax , and he has expressed a fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complications . The Continental countries have this year an exceptionally large surplus of raw sugar to be sold abroad . The crop estimates and comparisons of Licht 's Circular have been published as follows : The entire European crop this season exceeds that of last season by 20 per Cent. , and the excess in Germany is 24 Per cent . Our imports of raw sugar l'runi . Germany last year were valued at nearly $16,000,001 ) . The repeal of this discriminating duty is prevented ' solely by the opposition of the Republican Senators . Dr.Barth says that the attitude of our " Government " is wrong . The Executive branch of our Government urges that the duty should be repealed ; the Democratic majority in the House has voted to repeal it ; three-quarters of the Democrats in the Senate are readYand , anxious to repeal it ; nothhigh bars . the way except the refusal the Republican Senators to permit a vote to be taken , or even to discuss the question . Why do they refuse ? Simply because the Gorman-Aldrich alliance of last session , made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in existence . To serve the private interests represented by Mr. Aldrich and some of his associates and by Mr. Gorman and his little group of followers on the Democratic side , all of the Republican Senators persist in voting for the Sugar Trust , knowing that their course has already affected seriously their country 's export trade In food products and that it promises to inflict irreparable injury upon that trade .                     