@@675119

txt Is it possible that Gov . ROOSEVELT is the victim of misplaced confidence in . PLATT ? He trusted PLATT a good deal during the canvass , which was but natural , since PLATT had caused or permitted him to be nominated . Since he took the Governor 's chair he has often consulted PLATT . The machine boss and the reform Governor seemed to be getting on very well together . But the boss is not standing by the Governor in the war that has broken out at Albany . There is rebellion in the Senate . The Civil Service bill , in which the Governor is deeply interested , which he has endeavored to perfect , and which he would make every honorable effort to get passed , will probably fail . The Police bill , in support of which he made a public argument , has succumbed to a caucus bolt . It is reported that no important bill which Gov . ROOSEVELT favors can become a law . The Governor 's foes make no concealment of their hostility or of their identity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken an open stand against him . We do not say that these Senators are working with a common motive for a common purpose . But for one reason or another they have opposed bills favored by the Governor , and as the Republicans have only a bare Majority in the Senate they control the situation . But PLATT controls them . The newspaper statement that . " he and ROOSEVELT and ODELL are working in perfect harmony " lacks the verification of circumstance and probability . The further statement that the mutinous Senators are to be punished for their insubordination makes us still more suspicious . And PLATT is going to Florida to-morrow , leaving the Governor to fight it out . Mr. PLATT was honorably bound to support Gov . ROOSEVELT with his best advice and the full power of his control over the Legislature . We do not think there is any doubt that he could bring the insubordinate Senators into line if he wished to do so . The explanation has been offered that these Senators were supporters of Bnack and that their present attitude is due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusing him a renomination . That is a foolish theory of politics . Practical statesmen do not let the desire for revenge stand in the way of their bread and butter . BLACK Will never be in a position to reward these men for their fidelity . They know that PLATT can both reward and punish . If the threats now uttered against them came to them direct from PLATT we think they would begin to exhibit great zeal for the Governor 's bills . it The result of the war is a dead-lock at : Albany . No good bills of the Governor can escape the uplifted axes of the Senatorial mutineers . No bad bill of theirs can pass the Governor 's veto . The session will be barren , save for petty matters and routine legislation , This city is in sore need of a rapid-transit system . The bill authorizing its construction can not be passed so long as the war continues . , The failure of PLATT 'S Legislature and the Governor to agree brings the legislative department of the State Government to a standstill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party is incapable of exercising the powers intrusted to it at the last election by the people . If the ultimate responsibility for the paralysis of the Legislature rests with Mr. PLATT , it would be interesting to know whither his policy is leading the Republican Party in the State of New York and what role he intends to play in the next National Convention .                     