@@673089

txt The annual report of the Children 's Aid Society is always interesting and suggest'ive , and that just made public , which is the fortieth of the series , shows gratifying progress in the society 's excellent work . While the work is constantly extending , the field is almost unlimited and . there is always need of increased appliances and facilities for carrying it on . For the statistics of the good . work for the past year we refer the reader to a summary of the report given elsewhere . The lodging houses serve the purpose not only of giving shelter and food , but the more important one of bringing homeless boys and girls out of the streets at night and affording them for the time being wholesome surroundings . The nominal charge that is made cultivates the sentiment of self-dependence and thrift , and . influences are brought to bear which give encouragement to efforts to work out of sordid surroundings and become useful members of society . But it is the schools of the society which probably do the most good . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorant foreigners pour every year , there are thousands of children who do not even get the benefits of the public schools , but those institutions are ill adapted to some of their needs . They require provisions specially adapted to their condition , and influences which can not be furnished in schools intended for the general education of all classes of children . Many of them have the English language to learn , and need to be trained in habits of cleanliness and industry and the practice of the ordinary social virtues . The Children's.Aid Society can deal with them with much better effect than the public , schools could do , even if they could all be brought into the latter . One of the best features of its day and evening schools is the industrial training that is afforded , preparing the boys and girls directly for a life of self-support . The society does not confine itself to teaching those who come to it or are brought to it , and then leave them to look out for themselves . It helps thousands every year to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city many who have been prepared to make themselves useful . It desires now to establish a new kind of training school , one that shall prepare boys for farm work . It has endeavored for many years to place boys in homes in the country and has sent Many to live upon farms in the West , but they have been compelled . to go without experience or training in the work they are expected to do . If the society can have a farm school somewhere near the city it can obviously add materially to the preparation of these city boys for country life . The appeal for aid in establishing the farm school is one that ought to elicit a generous response . There is an economic as well as a philanthropic side to this work for the community . It is in a large measure a work of moral and . social salvation for poor children who would otherwise be neglected . It saves thousands from lives of degradation and puts them on the road to usefulness and respectability . It also saves them from lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burdens of every civilized community . It costs far less per year to take these children in hand and give them the care and training that will make them useful and respectable than it does to support paupers and criminals . The report refers to the very significant decrease in the last thirty years in the number of commitments for vagrancy and in the prevalence ) of " juvenile delinquency " in this city , and there is no doubt that the improvement is in no small measure due to the society 's work . It does goodignot only to the poor children and to the community at large , but to those who furnish support to its work . It affords scope to a sentiment of philanthropy and enables it to find expression and exercise , which is of itself an ennobling influence . There could hardly be a more useful agency for enabling those who desire to do , something for the poor and unfortunate , with an assurance that what they-bestow will be economically and effectively ap- ? plied. and will bear fruits that can be seen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year not only evidence of its efforts and its expenditures , but substantial evidence of practical results that far outweigh the cost . The Children 's Aid Society is liberally supported , but there As much more that it can do with ampler means .                     