@@672736

txt Though E. Barksdale , the Democrat Sub-Treasury candidate for the United States Senate against Senator George , le still conducting a vigorous campaign , assisted by Clark Lewis . the Alliance eandidate for Walthall 's place , and says he thinks he has good prospects of being successful , the contest is generally conceded to be practioally settled . The result to date stands : George and Walthall , 65 votes , and Barksdale , 22 . Lewis has only about half as many votes as Barksdale . The Legislature on joint ballot has 178 votes , 90 are required to elect , so it will be seen that George and Walthall lack only 25 of having the requisite number . The counties that have not yet acted have 91 votes , and to give Barksdale every doubtful county still leaves him lacking 20 or 80 votes of election . In the last few days George and Walthall have carried several purely agricultural counties that Barksdale 's friends were confidently counting on . The only set-back that George has received in the last few days was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having carried it by about 400 majority . The result there was not wholly unexpected , as a fierce and bitter light was made against George . Had this county spoken earlier it might have been worth a good deal to Barksdale , but it comes too late to be of much assistance . Lewis had never had any prospect of being elected . Barksdale is securing much of his support purely on personal grounds . He has a big following in the State , and many of his friends believe he would have made a much stronger race had ho kept off the Sub-Treasury plank . The result clearly demonstrates the fact that even a majority of the farmers do not indorse the Sub-Treasury bill . Walthall is being run without his consent . His letter saying he did not want the position again seems to have made people stronger for him than ever . lie has taken no personal stock in the campaign and has not made a speech . Many yet believe he will decline the honor when tendered him , but the yrevailing impression is that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home of Barksdale , holds its primary election on the 18th inst. , and George 's followers are exerting themselves greatly to carry it as an offset to the action of George 's county . The prominent speakers are Congressmen Hooker and Allen . Barksdale is making a vigorous canvass , assisted by several lesser lights . So far , Barksdale seems to have the inside track in this county , but many predict that George will carry It by a good majority .                     