@@781659

txt Let us suppose that Mr. CUTTING and Mr. QUIGG , MIS . LAROCQUE and Mr. GIBBS , Mr. PINE and Mr. GRUBER were met in some convenient and neutral place of assembly for conference about a union of forces . Mr. QUIGG would draw a horrible picture of the evils of Tammany government , and appeal with moving eloquence for the amalgamation of all the antiTammany organizations . Mr. CUTTING would thereupon announce that as the Citizens ' Union had irrevocably deter-mined to nominate SETH Low it was quite willing to confer . That would be a Sine beginning . The situation would be like that of a board of arbitrators meeting to settle a damage care . The representatives of the claimant , after expressing their joy at the prospect of an amicable settlement , might announce that they had reached the conclusion , to which they would adhere , that their man must have $75 damages ; as to the other details they would agree to anything reasonable . A conference in which one of the parties is bound by predetermined conditions does not give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part . But let us suppose that QUIGG accepts Low . What else is there to confer about ? The other places on the ticket , of course . Mr. CUTTING and Mr. LAROCQUE have played that game with PLATT 'S men before . They know the opening , the middle , and the end of the game . The end thereof is that reformers and honorable men are compelled to give their approval and indorsement to the nomination for office of some of the dirtiest little runt politicians in this town . They are asked to say to their neighbors and townsmen : " These are all good men . Vote them into offices of trust and power . We have chosen them . You must take them on our recommendation . " If conferees of the Citizens ' Union once enter upon this business they must carry it through . If PLATT 'S candidate for Controller or County Clerk or Register or Sheriff is too disreputable for their acceptance and they withdraw , they will be charged with the responsibility of the failure to unite . If they reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' of bad faith , and with considerable justice . Mr. CUTTING , Mr. LAROCQUE , and Mr. PINE , and the other active men of the Citizens ' Union will not be swerved from the straight path by all the senseless talk about conference . They have said So , , and it is fortunate that they are of that firm and sagacious mind . The Low Candidacy is as hateful as poison to PLATT . But he will take Low if he can make up the rest of the slate and secure the immense advantage of the Citizens ' Union indorsement thereon . What a noble showing PLATT 'S Candidates would make on the ballot under the beautiful reform emblem of the Citizens ' Union !                     