@@675000

txt The attitude of Senator GORMAN of Maryland on the acquisition of the Philippines is significant . It is purely that of a politician , and indicates what may be the course of the Democratic Party on the larger question of which this is now a conspicuous part . Of course , it is quite possible that the Senator may take a different view when a treaty shall have been framed and it becomes his duty to vote for or against giving to it the approval of the Senate . He has shown at various times a definite and rather high sense of responsibility in such matters , quite superior to mere partisanship . He did so in the legislation of last Spring , and his speeches on the war measures were distinctly better in spirit and broader in view than those of the average Senator of either party . They gave the impression that he sincerely desired to do what was best for the whole country , and they were quite free from the petty and passionate feeling which some of his Democratic colleagues betrayed . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a treaty before him and the information which ought to be given to the Senate when a treaty is submitted , and which is now sadly wanting , may adopt a different tone from that in which he indulges in a pre-election speech in his own State . But it is the view of the politician which he now takes that is peculiarly interesting . He may fairly be assumed to be taking the view that he thinks will be most popular , and along the lines of which his party may with greatest safety try to meet its rival . This view is clearly anti-expansionist . He appeals not only to the reason but to the prejudices of his people and to their prejudices of race . He points to the introduction into the political and industrial life of the United States of an inferior alien race whom he compares unfavorably to the negroes of the South . He does not dwell on any obligations we may have assumed by treaty or by military operations , or on any change in our political methods and ideals . He ignores the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplation of the Southern Democrats a picture of a degraded , stunted swarm of Asiatics with whom we shall have to deal . No one who knows the Southern people can doubt that this appeal , should it be made general in behalf of the Democratic Party and become an election cry , would have a very considerable effect . Of the same nature will be the effect of the appeal upon the laboring classes who have been and still are so strongly opposed to imported labor . And on the same side may be found also those interested in sugar growing . either the cane or beet , and the tobacco growers . If matters should take such a course that a vote of the country shall become possible on this issue , the opinions of politicians on either side may undergo surprising changes .                     