@@673179

txt The confirmation of the members of the Cabinet by no means pats the machinery of the executive departments into full working order , but it does put the appointing power into a state of efficiency . Several hundreds of thousands of American citizens who have , or who consider themselves to have , " claims " are now enabled to precipitate themselves upon the Administration . Under a really organized civil and diplomatic service the offices to be filled would be those in which it was necessary or desirable that the incumbents should be in political sympathy with the Administration , and would amount perhaps to a hundredth part of those that must now be filled by the displacement of the incompetent or the offensive partisan At the same time , there is reason to hope that modest merit will be preferred , when detected , to immodest demerit , and it may be suggested to office seekers that mere importunity may not only inflict great weariness upon the heads of departments and the President , but may very possibly defeat its own purpose . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of President CLEVFT Axn 's Cabinet appointments . and it would have been rather strange if there had been , for it could have been justified on no conceivable ground . It took but fifteen minutes to confirm the whole Cabinet , and . the Senate adjourned until next Thursday without doing much of anything else . To-day there is to be a , caucus of Democratic Senators and the work of arranging committees will be taken up , and the extensive " patronage " of the Senate will be attended to . The Democrats will meet no obstruction whatever in organizing the Senate , and the minority will have o be content with such favors as:precedent courtesy may allot to it . It is a long ime since the Democratic Party has had control of the Senate , and it will be a new experience for some of the conspicuous Republican statesmen to be relegated to subordinate places on the committees in the conduct of legislation . The suggestion that the Victoria seal hunters will be encouraged by the absence of available American war ships this year to raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What they are most concerned with is probably not the mere liability to seizure , but the peril of punishment by their own authorities on being turned over for that purpose , and this peril was made very clear to them at the end of . the last season by the action of the British Columbia courts . Besides , there is no reason whatever to expect a lack of adequate police force in Bering Sea this year . All the revenue cutters hitherto engaged in that duty are still available , and in some former years they have performed it alone . Only one of our war ships so employed last year has since come to the Atlantic , although another one is now on duty at Honolulu . But there are half a dozen vessels on the Pacific and Asiatic stations that could be used for that purpose . The orders to the naval vessels for patrol duty were , not issued last year until about the let of - May , and there will be plenty of time to prepare for it this year . The seal hunters will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian side of the sea than ours . The silver output of Colorado was in ? . creased last year by 3,000,000 ounces , in spite of the low price of the metal , owing to the discovery of new mines in which large quantities of silver are produced at a very low cost . The most profitable . of these mines are at Creede . Recent : reports from the Creede district show that the shipments of ore from these mines are larger than ever . The value of the ore shipped from Creede in February is estimated to have been $850,000 . If production shall continue at this rate , the output of this camp will be very much larger this year than it was in 1892 . The low price of silver has no effect upon the production of the metal in mines-where the cost ranges between 15 and 40 cents an ounce . The opening of the fine new-Charities ? Building , at the corner of Fourth Avenue and Twenty-second Street , is an event of peculiar interest . The structure is to afford headquarters for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only greatly facilitate their co-operation with one another , but will stimulate their support by the public . Everybody will know where to go to learn how best to contribute to the relief of the destitute and unfortunate , and will find it easy to make contributions intelligently . Such a headquarters can not fail to be eminently useful and beneficent , and its provision by a generous and public-. spirited citizen was an act of charity that . will make the charity of all other citizens more effective for the time to come . Mr. JOHN S. KENNEDY 'S philanthropic serviceto the community is deserving of hearty recognition .                     