@@674102

txt The Canal Boat Owners ' Association is making a fight for the passage of the bill providing foot State elevators at Buffalo and New-York . The Springweiler bill provides for the construction at a cost of $170,000 of six floating elevators for the exclusive use of the State , two at Buffalo and four at this port , for the transfer of grain from lake vessel to boat and from boat to seagoing vessel , at a charge not exceeding one-fourth of a cent per bushel for each complete transfer , to be paid by the owner or consignee of the cargo . This is not because there are not elevators enough , for there are several times as many as there is any use for , but they are said to be all in a combination controlled by the railroads . A law was passed several years ago regulating the charge for elevating grain , but this is evaded by making charges for storage when there is no storage and for incidental service of one kind or another which is not rendered . The boatmen declare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or $250 for the transfer of 100,000 bushels , will be in excess of the cost , but the charges now are more than four times that amount , of which about two-fifths are declared to be illegal . It is claimed that the tax upon canal traffic by elevator monopolies at each end of the water route , under control of railroads , is what has been strangling that traffic , and as a consequence diverting the export grain trade from New York . It is admitted that a profitable rate for railroad transportation is reached at 8 mills per ton per mile , but the canal boatmen say that 2 mills per ton per mile is a good paying rate for them . And yet they have been losing ground in the competition , and they declare it is on account of discrimination against their cargoes by the elevators . It was stated in resolutions adopted at a public meeting recently by the Boat Owners ' Association that the receipts of grain in New-York by canal had fallen from 347,289 bushels in 1880 to only 14,690,100 bushels in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grain from this port had decreased from 115,064,166 to 45,731,125 bushels . This decline has been accompanied by a constant increase in the exportation of grain from Philadelphia , Baltimore , and Newport News , where terminal charges are much less than they are here . If these representations are true  --  and nobody ventures to deny them  --  the expenditure of millions of dollars by the State to enlarge and improve the Erie Canal , in order that the carrying capacity of the boats may be ? increased and the cost of transportation may be lessened , should be accompanied by measures for raising the elevator embargo by which the waterway is throttled at both ends . It ought not to be necessary to have State elevators to accomplish this , but if it is necessary , the elevators should by all means be provided .                     