@@674533

txt Brooklyn was the birthplace and cradle of home rule for cities . The charter secured for that city fifteen years ago gave to the Chief Executive the absolutely independent power to select the head of each of the important departments of the City Government . This was essentially home rule , because it gave to the voters of the city the choice of one agent in whose hands was lodged the control of the bulk of the city business . This agent became their representative , and when he was faithful , vigilant , and courageous the Public opinion back of him was respected at Albany . During the period since the adoption of this charter the city has had at least two Mayors of exceptional strength and influence . Under Mr. Low and under Mr. SCIIIEREN the home rule provided by the charter yielded its best fruits , and the best was very much beyond what any other system had ever given . Under other Mayors the result has been indifferent or bad . In every case , however , it has been just as good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really wished . Brooklyn now enters the municipality of New York already the most important element of the consolidated city , after the old New York , and with rich possibilities of growth and advancement . So far as local advantage goes , her people have plainly the better of us . So far as the joint and mutual advantage is concerned , her people will get their full share . Will they contribute also their share ? That is the question which every Brooklyn man should ask himself , and especially every one who has worked in the past for good government . What has been done in Brooklyn for good government has been due wholly to the principle of separation of city affairs from party politics . What can be done in Greater New York must be got by the same principle . If the men who have done such good work in Brooklyn will now labor for the same end in cordial unity with like-minded men in New York they can accomplish as much more as the field is broader and more fertile . Without their co-operation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between S HEEFLA N and , between Tammany Hall and Willoughby Street . We shall have and Brooklyn will have something as much worse than GILROY or CHAPIN as the union of the evil forces represented by each can make it . It is Brooklyn 's opportunity , and every opportunity brings with it a duty .                     