@@675103

txt It can not be said that Mr. Ca.knizEns , the Chief Justice of Samoa , has made clear the grounds of his decision that MALEETOA . TANI 'S , and not MATAAFA , was the King " duly elected according to the laws and customs of Samoa , " whom tho Berlin Treaty requires . The long statement from him published last week , which is elaborate and minute upon many points , was very slight and unsatisfactory upon this crucial point . Americans who have paid any attention to Samoan affairs have for years believed that MA TAAPA was the real King of Samoa , and had been so even while the powers were maintaining a puppet on the throne . Why did Mr. CHAMBERS reject the real King in favor of another puppet ? It is now suggested that the choice of MATAAFA would have been insulting to Germany . . It is true that in ** time Germany objected to MATAAFA , but his objections were not incorporated in the treaty . When the German representatives on the ground avowed their willingness to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " volenti non fit injuria " applied . The Chief Justice has not enabled Englishmen or Americans to defend his decision . But it does not in the /east follow that if the Chief Justice was in the wrong the German Consul and the President of the Municipal Council were in the right . The curious assumption that they were right if he was wrong vitiates the discussion of the subject in the German press . It was to the Chief Justice , and not to them , that the decision was confided by the treaty . If it was manifestly incorrect , their business plainly was to submit under protest , and to notify the powers of the ground of their protest , whereupon the erring Chief Justice could and would have been recalled , and his decision overruled by his successor . Instead of doing this , the German representatives , or rather the representative of Germany and the German who equally represented the three powers , instigated , proclaimed , and began to carry out a revolution , which they were prevented from executing only by the force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans put themselves wholly and hopelessly in the wrong and compelled their own Government to disavow the proceedings of its Consul , as it will doubtless do as soon as an official statement of the case is in the possession of the signatory-powers .. It is only after this has been done that an injustice mitted by the Chief Justice , in a platter distinctly within his jurisdiction , can be corrected . Such a correction , if shown to be needed , will doubtless follow in due course . It is to be borne in mind , however , that it must be corrected by the consent of all three powers , for though Mr. CHAMBERS happens to be an American citizen , he is officially no more the agent of the United States than of Great Britain or of Germany .                     