@@673000

txt " Coal to Philadelphia was to be cheaper than ever before , " said . the Philadelphia Pros a few days ago in a mournful and complaining paragraph addressed to the Anthracite Coal Trust . Our neighbor in the City of Brotherly Love was disturbed by rumors that " the grand and beneficent achievement " of Mr. and his associates would soon be brought to the attention of the people of that city under conditions which had . not been predicted by the Philadelphia journals . It sough to remind the managers of the , Trust of their promises , which were that the prices of coal to consumers in that city should be lower " than ever before , " and . that less fortunate persons in other States should . be taxed to offset this reduction and to increase the fortunes of philanthropists who hold . watered railroad stock . Since the Trust was thus mournfully rebuked , the first step toward " equalizing " prices in Philadelphia has been taken . Beginning yesterday , the schedule price of coal for Philadelphia was increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance of about 50 cents in the retail trade , because there had already been an increase of 30 or 35 cents in actual wholesale prices since Jan. 1 , due to the strict enforcement of the old schedule , which was undersold before the organization of the Trust . It is noticeable that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company , in spite of President ROBERTS 'S professed. opposition to the Trust and . its methods , joins the Trust in making this advance , just as it joined . Mr. ? and his associates some months ago in making a change which advanced the price of anthracite in all Western markets . But our friends in Philadelphia , as they contemplate the perfidy and . ingratitude of the philanthropists whom they have delighted . to honor , may find . some consolation in that " equalizing " of prices which has commended . " the grand and beneficent achievement " to consumers of anthracite in other places . In order that they may not be deprived . of all the satisfaction which the official figures can give we publish once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced since Jan. 1 at tidewater points : We sympathize with our contemporaries in Philadelphia . They have lost confidence in certain persons whom they esteemed. so highly that a considerable part of their editorial space was given up every day for about two months to a defense of the philanthropy of these gentlemen , to ridicule of the protests of unenlightened journals in this city , and to appeals by which the Governor and the Attorney General of their State were urged to stand . aside and let the good . work go on . If there was any journal in Philadelphia that did not for weeks most warmly commend this Trust and . call upon the people of that town to enjoy what was called the " kicking " of New-York , New-England , and the West , it escaped our attention . Indeed . the slightest unfavorable comment concerning the Trust was regarded " by our contemporaries in Philadelphia as an unpardonable sin . Loyalty to the city required every citizen to help on the good work by which consumers of ? coal in all other places were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices were to be lower " than ever before . " It is hard . for our contemporaries to turn the bright picture to the wall . We suggest that in these days of gloom they should send . to Washington for Mr. JOHN WANAAtARER and induce him to address the people upon the cheering subject of profits in the " anthracite deal . " He can easily convince an audience that at least one resident of Philadelphia has made a good thing out of all this philanthropy.                     