@@675368

txt Since the death of Senator Hayward of Nebraska there has been a revival of the talk about William J. Bryan 's possible appointment to this place . It is pointed out that Mr. Bryan has broken all his engagements without apparent reason , and gone into retreat , so that he could not be accused of influencing Gov . Poynter if the latter should appoint him . G. M. Hitchcock will , however , be the Senator from Nebraska , unless the authorities on the politics of that State are widely astray . There is no doubt that if Mr. Bryan chose to put himself forward as a candidate Gov . Poynter would name him , but he has not done this , and the Governor is known to favor Hitchcock . There is only one other person whose name has been mentioned , and he is ex-Senator William V. Allen . The Populist Party would prefer the appointment of Allen , and he would be willing to accept , but it is said by those who are in a position to know that the Governor will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recently been elected by the people to a judicial office . The real reason is , however , that Mr. Allen is persona non grata to Gov . Poynter . With Mr. Bryan out of the way , this leaves only Mr. Hitchcock . He is editor of The Omaha World-Herald . He is a Democrat , but he has always advocated the fusion movement in Nebraska , and his appointment is urged on the ground that it would tend to harmonize the Democrats , Populists , and Silver Republicans . Mr. Bryan a reasons for not becoming a Senator at this time are easily understood . A new Legislature will meet to elect his successor in not , immediately after the Presidential election . If he should be appointed now and should not be elected President , he will have to stand for re-election to the Senate then , and it would be simpler to wait till then and run for the full term . On the other hand , if he is to be elected President , a few troublous months in the Senate prior to his election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by curbing his ambition for a year he will be in no danger of crippling his pOlitical chances by Senatorial mistakes . A conshieration which probably has no weight with Mr. Bryan , but which is coupled with every mention of his candidacy here , is that no man has ever been elected President while serving in the United States Senate , from which there has grown up a superstition that nobody ever will be .                     