@@672420

txt The Farmers ' Alliance of Minnesota , through the medium of its Executive Board , which consists largely of Republicans , to-day Mimed a pronunciaraento in which a most remarkable attack is made upon corporations and upon the Supreme Court of the United States . The address is substantially as follows : " The Executive Committee of the State Farmers ' Alliance has called a delegate meeting of the alliance to be held July 16 for the consideration of several grave questions . For many years great aggregations of capital have combined to absorb the wealth of the Nation . Railroad Com . panies have issued millions of dollars ' paid watered stock , on which the people have paid Interest in enhanced passenger and freight rates . Recently a committee appointed by the United States Senate to investigate the Union and Central Pacifie Railroads reported favorably a proposition to refund their bonds at a nominal rate of interest and allow them more than a century to pay them . These roads were built with the people 's money and presented to their present owners . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was elected to the Senate as the ohaluplon of the people . and who won i opular support by a lecture on ' Modern Feudalism , now by him wholly repudiated . " Very recently a United States Judge invaded a sovereign State , accompanied by an assassin who murdered a citizen of that State . The Supreme Court shielded the assassin , declaring that in such cases the law- of the State against murder was of no avail . The State of New-York condemned a murderer to death according to a law enacted by its Legislature . A Judge of the United States Supreme Court declared that a State could not punish its own murderers except by permission and in the manner prescribed by a Federal Court . The State of Minnesota created a Railroad Commission to stand between the people and the roads to prevent the latter from ? exacting exorbitant rates . These roads are the creation of the State and hold their charters from the State ; yet the same Supreme Court has decided that these creations are greater than their creator , and that the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is given by the autocratic tribunal of the American Republic . " In the case of the law prohibiting the sale of dressed beef , which the State Legislature passed to protect the public health , this same court charged the Legislature of this State with insincerity and lying . The Dred Scott decision made the name of Taney infamous , for the reason " that it made slavery national and compelled free men to become slave catchers . Those Judges aspire to even a greater sublimity of infamy , because their decisions contemplate the enslavement of the whole American people . " A long series of other indictments is made in the document , illustrating the present unequal and unjust system of taxation , the growth of trusts , the injustice of railroad transportation , the corrupting power of money in politics , the wicked demonetization of silver , the shrinkage of the currency . the monstrous growth of the protection evil and class legislation in the bill , where " proteadon hat gone mad , " and in the advance of prohibitive duties . The address closes with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to send delegates to the convention , in order to take such action as may free the people from the de ' moralizing influences of boodle , and to put up a ticket which will receive the support of the intelligent and patriotic voters of the State .                     