@@781262

txt Several of the policemen attached to the Bow Street Station who were suspended for refusing to go on duty because of the transfer to another district of s.Bow Street constable who had taken a prominent part in the movement to improve the condition of the police , were to-day dismissed from the force . The constable who was transferred attempted to make a farewell address to his comrades in the station house to-day , btrtwas ordered to desist by an Inspector . A disorderly scene followed the giving of the order . The assembled constables ejected the . inspector from the room in which they were gathered . He was then seized by some of the men and thrown over a balustrade and narrowly escaped being killed . While Inspector Hanson was parading a number of men in the yard a heavy spittoon was thrown at him from a window . The raissileziarrowly missed hitting him in the head . This afternoon Chief of Police Bradford had a conference with the Bow Street officials . He afterward summoned before him singly the men who had refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the force . The men of the Bozo Street station house were indignant . They alleged that only a portion of the number of men who refused to do duty were dismissed . They all went to the street and the news of the dismissals spread rapidly . Policemen in aratorm and civilian clothing assembled and special messages were telegraphed to all the other police divisions . Delegates from the other divisions rasachedBow Street later in the day . The constables telegraphed to Home Secretary Matthews as follows : " At a meeting on Saturday it was resolved that you be respeotfully asked to reply to-day to the moderate demands of our petition . If the answer is in the affirmative a disastrous strike will be avoided . All the divisions await your reply , and trust that all the men who have Deen suspended will be reinstated . " This dispatch was signed by delegates from twenty-one divisions . ' Ills statedthatairEdward Bradford , the new Chief of Police , has adopted an unusual mode of procedure . Ordinarily , reports of offenses against discipline are submitted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cases are to be settled . But now , it is alleged , such cases are handled hastily , and the men are not given a fair opportunity to make explanations . There is much uneasiness among merchants en the Strand and other West End . streets . Tradesmen are guarding reelr shops , and in the banks the clerks will remain all night to protect the property of their employers . In anticipation of a strike , a riotous mob of roughs blocked up Bow Street and vicinity this evening , preventing the constables from reaching the station . The crowd becoming turbulent , mounted olii cers endeavored to clear a passage and were received with hoots and pelted with bags of flour , sticks , &c.; In one instance the constables had to rescue a fellow-officer who was attacked by the crowd . At 9 o'clock the Prince of Wales , escorted by the Life Guards , arrived at the Opera House . The crowd thickr erred , and the turbulence continued until a late hour . A few persons were slightly injured . The majority of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughfares were better policed than usual , owing to the draughting of roan from suburban divisions to meet an emergency . The Prince and Princess of Wales and daughters left the theatre at 11:30 o'clock and were loudly cheered , the crowd singing , " He 's a Jolly Good Fellow . " Further draughts of Life Guards arrived to preservaorder . A tavern which was closed inconsequence of the excitement was ' wrecked by the mob , and the windows of other taverns were broken . At midnight the crowd was undiminished , and the hooting was unabated . A steady rain was falling . Reports from all the suburbs state that all of the night police are on duty .                     