@@674582

txt The trolley lines /will probably be running across the Brooklyn Bridge by the end of the year and the cars of the elevated roads ought to be making continuous trips by midsummer next year , and probably by Spring . The contracts made by the Bridge Trustees with the various roads are attacked in some quarters as " giving away the bridge . " The charge does not seem to us to be warranted . It is ? true that the companies get the use of the bridge , but the term is limited to ten years , the work . of laying their rails and providing convenient approaches and elevators for passengers is done at their expense , and they get no added fare for the trip across the bridge . Their profit must . be wholly in the increase of travel , in return for which those who use both bridge and railway lines get the transport on the bridge free . Undoubtedly the companies expect considerable profit . We hope , for the advantage of the people of both cities , that they . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact measure of the general advantage . If , after ten years , it be found.that the profit is large enough to admit of - competition that will justify reducing it , the option is open to the Trustees . The latter , as the board is now constituted , are not likely to have been seriously misled in this matter . They are still less likely to have betrayed their trust . The Brooklyn Eagle very pertinently calls attention to one obvious drawback to this plan . It makes the bridge far less useful for vehicles , reducing the possible tra.ifieby at least one-half and driving the other half with whatever increase may come to the ferries . Nevertheless , we think the change is for the greatest good of the greater number . The situation , according to The Eagle , makes an " all-railway " bridge a necessity in the near future . If that proves to be the case , such a bridge , or some equivalent improvement , will be undertaken . With the proposed change in the present bridge , the building of the new East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Long Island Railroad , we have evidence of how the real needs of the people can be recognized and their satisfaction provided for . To those who can recall how stupendous , an enterprise the building of the present bridge seemed thirty years ago the change and progress are very plain and great . The Eagle , by the way , may recall with satisfaction that the possibilities of the future were seen by no one more clearly or more cogently presented than by Mr. THOMAS KINSELLA , then editor of that journal .                     