@@673958

txt In another column appears an appeal in behalf of the Armenian subjects of Turkey . It is issued by an American committee , which is acting in concert with that formed in England to raise funds and save these wretched victims of Moslem fanaticism from starving to death during the months that must intervene before the slowly acting powers can force the Porte to undertake long-needed reforms . The names appended to this appeal carry assurance that any contributions Americans may make will be judiciously expended , and , whatever variances of opinion may exist as to wha , t really caused these massacres in the Sassoun district , there is no doubt that thousands of Armenians are wandering , naked and hungry , over that devastated plain , and must succumb to the hardships of the approaching Winter unless immediate help is given them . Dr. Kimball 's letter gives details of the situation not before published , and outlines the plan of relief , which seems to be a very practical and commendable one . The other letters and telegrams furnish further proof that instant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be saved from extermination . While it is impossible to sustain entirely the view taken by Mr. John Maloy of Hoboken , that as he has served six months in jail for stealing $2.01 , he has well earned the money , and should be allowed to spend it for any proper purpose he may select , yet there are elements of grandeur certain andeur in his contention . The police of that city , which is , we understand , one of New-York 's most interesting though not most beautiful suburbs , were battlly justified in treating Mr. Maloy with contumely and acorn when he went to Headquarters and demanded the inconsiderable fruits of his enterprising venture , nor should they have advised him to consult a physician as to the best remedy for hyperotrophy of what is colloquially known as " the nerve of him . " The gentleman 's nervous system is probably all right . Moral astigmatism seems a more likely diagnosis of his case , with consequent disability to distinguish between the meaning of words like " mine " and " thine . " The complaint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it attract much attention in psychiatric circles , and the police of Hoboken have , we fear , put themselves down very nearly to the level of Dr. Max Nordau by their attempt to exploit Mr. Maloy as a phenomenon of these times .                     