@@673268

txt Charles W. Dayton , who on July 1 will formally enter on the duties of Postmaster of this city , will go to Washington to-day for a conference with Postmaster General Bissell . Mr. Dayton will take with him a large valise filled with memoranda bearing on the postal service of New-York , which he proposes to lay before his chief . " The New-York Post Office needs a thorough reorganization , " said Mr. Dpytott yesterday to a reporter for THE NEW-YORIC TIMES . " It has been running in a rut for the last thirty years . The Government . works slowly , and I am going to submit suggestions at once regarding what I consider to be needed reforms . " I have devoted . much time since the notification of my appointment to studying postal affairs , and I am convinced . that many radical changes are needed . " " Will you remove many of the present Post Office officials 1 " asked the reporter . " No ; I will do nothing until I have familiarized myself with the men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will not disturb . " I have no wish but to promote the efficiency of the service ; competent men in the Post Office have only become so by ' long experience wish their work . Besides , 90 per cent . of the 3,000 places in the Post Office come under the operation of the civil service law , so that I could not remove them if I would . " The other 10 per cent . include the more important offices , and in time I may make changes that will result in the most responsible places being filled by men of my own choosing . " Some of the men in the Post Office handle millions of dollars . I will be responsible for them , and I would feel safer to have men there that I know . " " Have you had many applications for positions ! " " Oh ! yes , indeed . " said Mr. Dayton , " and from all over the country , though , of course , they come principally from New York . They range from applications for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is a natural outcome of the case and I have no complaint to make on that score . " " What is done with the applications ! " " I turn them over to the proper persons , and they are answered and preserved ! ' When asked for the number of applications he had received Mr. Dayton said they were not as numerous as the positions in the Post Office  --  in other words , less than 3,000 . " I shall commence on June 30 , " - said Mr. Dayton , " to take an inventory of the entire stock in the Post Office . I shall have several men there to represent me , and Mr. Van Cott will have others to look out for his interests . There will also be a Government Inspector on hand . " The inventory will include stamps , stationery , furniture , and everything else in the place . The work will probably take all night , and the next day I shall formally assume charge . " " What suggestions will you make to Postmaster General Bissell ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak of them , " replied Mr. Dayton , " as I may not be able to bring about all the changes I desire . I shall recommend for one thing , however , an improvement in the condition of the basement . It is now very badly ventilated and insufferably hot . " The building is not nearly large enough for the double purpose of Court . ( louse and . Post Office , and vet I do not see how we can , got more room , for the courts require all the space they have . " When Mr. Dayton was asked whether he favored the project to move the Post Office up town , he refrained from committing himself .                     