@@675155

txt The Chicago River , about which so many jests have been made , distinguished itself late last night by catching fire . The greasy water floating into it from the Kinzie Street sewer , near the bridge of that street . was set ablaze by a lighted cigar dropped from a passing car , and in a moment a sheet of flame arose from the surface of the water . The flames spread to the docks and bridge , and also to the Northwestern Railway bridge , a few feet away . The fire boats and land engines were called , but before the flames were quenched both bridges were damaged to the extent of 55,000 . Engineer Ritter said there had been several fires on the river , and he believed they were caused by oil emptied into the sewers by gashouse employes . The Kinzie Street bridge was wrecked , and will have to be replaced with a new one . YOUNGEST COLLEGE PRESIDENT John Henry MacCracken , son of Henry M. MacCracken , Chancellor of New York University , enjoys the distinction of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in the world . The newly elected college President has for the past three years been Assistant Professor of Philosophy at New York University . He left last week for Germany , where he will spend the Summer . Chancellor MacCracken yesterday morning received a telegram from the Trustees of Westminster ' College , Fulton , Mo .. stating that his son had been elected President of the college at a meeting held on Monday . Chancellor MacCracken at once cabled the information to his son at Southampton , and said that he had no doubt he would accept the position . Prof. MacCracken has just passed his twenty-fourth year . He was graduated from New York University in 1804 , and stood at the head of his class . He was awarded the Bennet Prize in Political Science and the Charles Butler Fellowship in Philosophy . He then went to Germany to study , but returned to this city three years ago to accept the Assistant Professorship in Philosophy in the university of which his father is Chancellor . BRYAN 'S SUBJECT TO-NIGHT . The Workingmen 's Dollar Dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As at the other dollar feast , William Jennings Bryan will be the guest of honor . Mr. Bryan sometime ago accepted an invitation to speak and announced that his subject would be " Thomas Jefferson . " His address , he said , would be an academj is effort , and would be absolutely nonpartisan in its character . Last night , however , the Secretary of the Dinner Committee stated that Mr. Bryan would respond to the toast " All Government Derives Its Power from the Consent of the Governed . " In view- of Mr. Bryan 's utterances on the Philippine question , it is believed that his speech of to-night will be another attack on the Administration 's policy in the Far East , with perhaps the partisan features of his address at the Chicago Platform dinner last Saturday night omitted . The other speakers and their subjects are : " Municipal Ownership of Public Franchises , " Mayor Samuel M. Jones of Toledo . " What a Just Economic System Would Do for Women , " Charlotte Perkins Stetson . " The Foes Which Beset Movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Edward . " The Practical Adjustment of Social Problems , " N. 0 . Nelson of St. Louis . Mr. Bryan 's speech will be the last on the programme . The committee has had considerable trouble in persuading men of prominence to accept places as Vice Presidents . Among those who have declined are R. Fulton Cutting , Bishop Potter . the Rev. Dr. Felix Adler , and William Dean Howells . Mr. Cutting objected to some of the men chosen for Vice Presidents as being too radical in their views , and Mr. Howells declined because he could see no good resulting from the affair . The following letter was received last night from Mr. Howells " I feel honored by the wish of - he workingmen to have me one of the Vice Presidents of their Jefferson dinner because my heart is with those who work for their living with their hands ; but I fail to see anything useful or helpful for labor in this affair , and I regret that I can not accept the place offered . " Among those who have accepted places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernest H. Crosby , and Samuel Gompers . Among the guests will be 0 . H. P. Belmont , Justice William J. Gaynor , and Congressman William Sulzer . John Brisben Walker editor of The Cosmopolitan , will preside at the affair .                     