@@673303

txt Dr. A. W. Wheeler , the United States Marine Hospital Surgeon who was recently sent abroad by the Treasury Department to examine into the sanitary condition of the ports where emigrants are embarked for this country , yesterday sent the following communication to Dr. Benner , Commissioner of Emigration : In reply to your letter of this date asking my opinion as to the probability of an epidemic of cholera appearing in the ports whence emigration usually comes to us , I have to state that the outlook I consider to ho most favorable at all except Mediterranean ports . At Hamburg , whence we get a large number of people , and which was , as you remember , visited by cholera last year , there has at yet been no recurrence or the disease , which It was greatly feared there would be . The city authorities have done , and are still doing , everything in their power to prevent its introduction from abroad and to suppress it should it appear . At an edormous expense , all water in the city now is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chance of escaping the disease Improves so far as Northern ports are concerned . " With regard to the Mediterroan ports . It may be said that aporadio eases of cholera appear in Marseilles and Naples almost every year , and the presence in those cities of a few oases does not by any means indicate that an epidemic will follow . " Since the last epidemic at Naples the sanitary condition of the city has been greatly improved ; tirst , by the introduction of water from a mountain lake situated tifty mites in the interior ? the water being of great purity and brought underground to Naples . An active municipality is also alive to the dangers of the commerce of Naples in the event of an epidemic of cholera and will use every effort to suppress the disease should it appear . " You will therefore see that I am inclined to be very hopeful regarding any serious outbreak of cholera in foreign ports this season . and do not anticipate any marked diminution of immigration from that cause . " Dr. Wheeler has resumed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Immigration Bureau , from which he was relieved when he was sent abroad . He visited all the principal ports of embarkation and made careful inquiry into their sanitary conditions .                     