@@674327

txt The British steamer Memphis , Capt . Williams , which sailed from Montreal Nov. 4 for Bristol , was wrecked in Dunlough Bay , near Mizen Head , on the south coast of Ireland , last night , and ten of those on board of her lost their lives . The Memphis struck at 10 o'clock last night during the prevalence of a dense fog . At the time of the accident the steamer was proceeding cautiously , blowing her whistle continuously and keeping a sharp lookout for the Mizen Head and Brow Head lights , which the thickness of the weather prevented her from making out . As soon as she struck the rocks the vessel began to fill , and rockets were immediately fired for the purpose of summoning assistance from the shore . Three of the ship 's boats were at once lowered , but one of them was shattered by being dashed against the side of the steamer , and two of its occupants were drowned . The others succeeded in reaching the rocks along the shore , but five of them wet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to render them the slightest assistance . Those of the crew who had taken to the rigging soon after the steamer struck experienced an awful night . They were constantly drenched by the heavy seas which washed over them , and some of them , after a. hard fight for their lives , dropped from their places and were carried away . The rockets sent up by the steamer 's crew were seen by the coast guard , but the latter were unable to communicate with the shipwrecked men until after daybreak , when all who remained in the rigging were taken off by means of a line conveyed to the steamer by the rocket apparatus of the life savers . The rescued persons immediately upon reaching the shore were taken to various farmhouses in the vicinity . where they were kindly cared fqr by the inmates . Many of them were almost naked , but were supplied with sufficient clothing to enable them to proceed to Crookhaven , at which place most of them are now . The steamer is a total wreck , and much of her cargo is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of salvage . All of the survivors pay a high tribute to Capt . Williams for his efforts to secure the safety of those on board the vessel . The Memphis was 3,191 tons ' register , 345 feet lont , 41 feet beam , and 26 feet depth of hold . She was built at Belfast , Ireland , In 1890 , and was owned by the African Steamship Company of London .                     