@@674472

txt The grave situation in the East was the topic of discussion in diplomatic and official circles here to-day . The possibility of war between Turkey and Greece has been thought probes ble for some time , but the official announce . ment that a state of war exists served to quicken the interest with which the troubles between the two countries has been watched . In dip lomatie circles , particularly , where the possibilities of a general conflict in Europe are always regarded as more or less imminent , if any of the powers become engaged in war , the situation was deeply considered . Among officials of the United States who expressed any opinion at all , the sentiment seemed general that war between Turkey and Greece is no matter in which this Government can in any way become involved ; that what few citizens of the United States reside in the countries are in the cities , where they are not liable to be molested ; and that the only course for this Country to maintain is one of strict neutrality . Opinions vary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer of the navy inclined to the belief that fighting would continue for a short time , until the powers of Europe decide that hostilities have proceeded far enough , when they would step in and put it to an end . If any advices were received in this city to-day from the representatives of the Government in Turkey or in Greece they could not be obtained to-night . Secretary Sherman had one dispatch from Minister Terrell , at Constantinople . It was in the State Department cipher , however , and had no been translated . During the day the Secretary had a call from the Turkish Minister , who remained with him a short time . The Secretary declined to say what had transpired between them . It is customary when a state of war has been declared or hostilities exist for the Minister of the Government interested to notify the Government to which he is accredited of such a condition of affairs , and presumably that is what took the Min. later to the S.aeretary 's house . Secretary Sherman reiterated to-night the statements he made to The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of War , Turkey and Greece were so far from us that It was a matter which concerned the United States but little . The strictest neutrality . he declared , must be preserved . The Secretary had no fearbut that the citizens of the United States would be amply protected . Very few of them are in the countries at war , and most of them are in the Cities of Constantinople and Athens . Mustapha Bey , the Turkish Minister , said to-night that he had not received any further dispatches from his Government relating to the troubles there . He is expecting word , however , at any time , as he probably will be kept fully informed of what is taking place . The Minister to-night expresed himself as regretting that things should have come to the present pass . Turkey , he declared , is for peace  --  peace on honorable terms  --  and does not seek war . with any nation . The actions of the Grecians , he asserted , had made the step - taken by his Government a perfectly prop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and by the actions of her soldiers hat , Precipitated the conflict that now seemed imminent . Her soldiers had invaded Crete , which was Turkish teritory , and had crossed the frontiers on the mainland . He expressed himself as having no doubt of the outcome , and that Turkey would be triumphant in the war if it should be formally declared . Baron von Thielrnann , the German Am ? bass.ador , declares that the intrusting of Turkish subleets in Athens to the protection of the German Minister has no similecance whatever . It does not mean , lie , says , that there Is any alliance between the German and Turkish Governments in the present states as has been intimated in some quai tere but is simply a friendly act that is ci.stornary in times when diplomatic negotiations between nations are suspended . He pointed out that during the time that diplomatic negotiations were suspended between Great Britain and Venezuela . as a result of the bounary trouble , the citizens of Great . Britain ! in Venezuela were intrusted to the protection of the German Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia and Turkey the Russian subjects of Turkey . were intrusted to the protection of the German Minister , and the Ambassador added there were no alliances between the countries . 1'p to this time there has been , so far as could be learned , no consultation with regard to reinforcing the fleet of the United States in Mediterranean waters . Should the presence of ships of war of foreign nations be required in Turkish or Grecian waters to protect ' , heir citizens , as a result of the impending conflicts , the United States could assemble a formidable fleet , if necessary . In the Mediterranean squadron at this time the Navy Deeertreent has four ships  --  the cruiser San Frei-wise ? , the flagship on the station ; the triple-screw cruiser Minneapolis , and the cruiser Cincinnati , all modern vessels of high type , and the small gunboat Bancroft . The Detroit is on her way to the Mediterranean , from the China station , and now probably is somewhere near the Red Sea . Another addition to the fleet will soon be made by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join the European station . Other vessels that might be used for service in Europe , if necessary , are the Montgomery , Marblehead , Maine , and Texas , all of which are now on the Atlantic coast . The opinion exists . however , that the presence of any number of war vessels will not be necessary .                     