@@674882

txt To-night it looks as if at least two-thirds of the troops at Camp . Thomas are to be ordered to Puerto Rico under Gen. Brooke . The movement will begin to-morrow morning . when the Second Brigade of the First Division , First Corps , commanded by Brig . Gen. Haines , will leave for Newport News , This brigade received marching orders a few minutes before 6 o'clock this evening . The regiments of the brigade are the Fourth Ohio , Third Illoinois , and Fourth Pennsylvania . The order to move was greeted with the wildest enthusiasm . The regiments of the brigade joined in yells of frantic delight , and the regimental bands discoursed National airs . This brigade is the only organization that will leave the park to-morrow , but if there is not a sudden change in the plans as they are understood here to-night , the entire First Corps will follow , the different brigades going out as rapidly as transportation can be arranged . But for lack of transportation the reserve hospital corps , the reserve ambulance company , four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been oraered out to-morrow . The batteries are A of Illinois . B of Pennsylvania , A of Missouri , and the , Twenty-seventh Indiana . They will , however follow not later than Saturday , and by that time the art rangements will have been completed for a steady movement day by day until the entire force is off . While Gen. Brooke in person had nothing to give out for publication , one of the most prominent and best posted officers of the First Corps , admitted that it was the purpose to move the entire corps , which numbers about 36,000 officers and men . The regiments of the First Corps are : Fifth Illinois , Third Wisconsin , First Kentucky , Third Illinois , Fourth Pennsylvania , Fourth Ohio , Sixteenth Pennsylvania , Second Wisconsin , Third Kentucky , Thirty-first Michigan . Sixteenth Indiana , First Georgia , Sixth Ohio , One Hundred and Fifty-eighth Indiana , First West Virginia , Second Ohio , First Pennsylvania , Fourteenth Minnesota. , Twelfth Minnesota , First South Carolina , Fifth Pennsylvania , Eighth Massachusetts , Twenty-first Kansas , Twelfth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First New Hampshire . At headquarters this afternoon there was general activity among the officers who are to go with Gen. Brooke . Most of them completed the work of packing their baggage and getting everything ready for an early departure . It is not definitely known to-night when Gen. Brooke and his staff will start . Gen. Brooke will be succeeded in command at Camp Thomas by Major Gen. J. F. Wade , who is at press it in command of the Third Corps.                     