@@781111

txt At 8 o'clock this morning 1,200 people assembled in the Town Hall in Provinoetown to see and hear Gov . RusselL He irrived at that extremely bleak spot last night On a special train . This morning , after speeches by his Excellently and a few others , the special train started for Boston . It was then 9:20 o'clock . Over 1,000 people wont to the station to see the crowd safely aboard the richly decorated Pullman oar . Mr. Henry C. Thatcher , a wealthy and respected Cape Cod citizen . who is running for Congress in the Thirteenth District , was the author of this novel and ingenious campaigning scheme . The success which attended it was phenomenal Tho Governor and his party made really a triumphal journey through the quaint old Cape . People of all conditions and shades of opinion were out to see him , vehicles of every style and character were pressed into the service to convey eager sightseers to the points along the route where stops had been advertised . Weather-beaten fishermen , with their wives and children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor . The first stop was made at Truro . On the train sped to Welltleet . Orleans , Ban Brewster , Eastham , Harwich , Dennis . Barnstable . Sandwich , Bourne , Wareham , Tremont , Middleborough , and Brockton . At every station crowds pressed around the Governor and shook his hand . Many former Republicans expressed their determination to vote for him . At Brockton 10,000 people were on the streets and in the hall to which the Governor and party were driven on the arrival of the special . Speeches of the most spirited sort wore delivered by Gov . Russell , Gen. Patrick A. Collins of Boston , C. 5 . Hamlin of Brookline. and Lee Merriweather of St. Louie . The hall was packed to its capacity , and the enthusiasm was unbounded . The other speeches , except that at Provincetown , were delivered from the rear platform of the Pullman oar . At nearly every station bouquets of flowers were sent in by lady sympathizers , and when the special reached Boston the drawingroom car was a regular floral chamber . Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He attacked his opponent vigorously on his refusal to discuss State issues . The outlook for Lis election has grown brighter and brighter within the last twenty-four hours . His plurality may be set down at about 4,500 or 5,000 from present appearances . The Republican committee claim only 5,000 for Haile , and they do not make this claim with any heart or courage . This indicates the loss of the State . Their canvass shows no such figures . Tho experimental trip on the Cape was a mat enterprise . its novelty attracted much attention , and its results can not fall to be large and enbstantiaL Undoubtedly this method of campaigning will be adopted generally in the future , and it will bo extremely popular . No better way of reaching the people of a section can be : ound . The endurance and determination of the Governor were displayed in his making fourteen open-air speeches and two in balls to-day , beside five short addresses at rallies in and tround Boston this evening . The Cape district has been stirred up . and it ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coupled with the popularity of Air . Thatcher among his neighbors. can not fail to reduce the Republican plurality to the vanishing point . Unless the BUMS fail , there will be surprises for the party managers in the vote of the returns from the region made famous by Sally Pratt McLean .                     