@@672698

txt There has not been a more curious or more striking illustration than is presented by the project of a statue to MARY MORRIS HAMILTON SCHUYLER of the extent to which has been carried not merely the violation but the denial of the right of privacy . It is about a month since we printed the letter of Mr. PIULIP SCHUYLEn , as the representative of her family , requesting , most courteously and respectfully , that the project should be abandoned . To this letter it does not appear that Mr. SCHUYLER has yet received any direct reply . It is explained . however . that Mrs. ELIZABETH THOMPSON , the President of the Woman 's Memorial Fund . Association , to whom his letter was addressed , has since been very ill . This explanation , if it be true , releases Mrs. THOMPSON from any responsibility in the premises , but it by no means releases the Woman 's Memorial ' Fund Association . which is the author and promoter of the project . For it seems that the project is still going on under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed by Mr. SCHUYLER 'S letter it will be killed because his letter has prevented further subscriptions to the fund , and not because it has appealed with success to the sense of propriety of the promoters and custodians of the fund . It is scarcely necessary for a family which remonstrates against the paying of public honors to its dead to give any reasons for its remonstrance . The more expression of a feeling on the subject is esteemed by civilized people to be decisive . Nevertheless , Mr. SCHUYLER did give reasons , and perfectly conclusive reasons they were . It was proposed to erect a statue to Mrs. SCHUYLER as " the typical philanthropist , " and he declared that she , " though taking her part , with others , in the philanthropic work of her day , is in no sense the typical philanthropist , ' and to place her iu such a position is to invite criticism of a sort which has already been made in the press . " As THE Tistas has pointed out on other occasions , the very first requisite to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commemorated shall have been a public character and shall already be generally known by name to the community in which the commemoration is proposed . It is not the office of a statue to rescue forgotten or neglected merit from obscurity . The claims of any candidate for this distinction are a quite legitimate Subject for public criticism . But no civilized person can imagine without complete sympathy the feelings of the surviving members of a family , one of whose deceased members is proposed for this distinction , over the public discussion of the claim of that member , especially if it be a woman , when they themselves have never thought of making such a claim in her behalf . Nor is it possible for such a person to consider without deep disrespect the conduct of an association which disregards these feelings and announces its intention to go on and build a statue notwithstanding the apathy and ignorance of the general public and the opposition of the persons most warmly interested , and who are entitled to be first consulted . About the other person toward whom the commemorative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out there is no question of this kind . There is , indeed , a question of propriety involved in this project also , but it is quite a different question , being the question of the propriety of commemorating a living person by a public effigy . If the managers of the World 's Fair conclude to waive this objection they will very likely find on their hands a puzzling Pantheon of effigies modeled more or less directly for advertising purposes . But Miss ANTHONY is , at least , eminently a public character . and has never throughout her career acted upon EMERSON 'S advice to " seek the shade and find wisdom in neglect . " There is no reason to doubt that she would be entirely willing to be commemorated as the " typical reformer " ; but that is no reason at ? all for building a statue to a lady who would doubtless object , if she were living , and whose family object for hor , now that she is dead , to her being commemorated as " the typical philanthropist . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the indecency involved in its action is doubtless due to the belief of its members in the extreme blessedness of notoriety . Persons who are imbued with this belief find it very difficult to acknowledge that everybody else is not of their mind , and would not be gratified by being made conspicuous . There are a good many persons left in the world , however , to whom notoriety is distasteful , and undeserved celebrity entirely repulsive . Incredible as their mental attitude may be to notoriety hunters , such people have rights that even the Woman 's Memorial Fund Association is bound to respect . It is likely that the subscriptions to the fund for a statue to Mrs. SCHUYLER will henceforth languish . At least they will be very queer persons who subscribe to such a fund in the face of Mr. SCHUYLER 'S letter . None the lees is the Woman 's Memorial Fund Association to be discommended for persisting in its indecorous project .                     