@@675313

txt Ex-State Senator C J. Bronston of this city , who has been a warm supporter and friend of J. C. S. Blackburn , bolted Goebel this afternoon . He had lust read the correspondence between Goebel and ex-Secretary Carlisle . which showed Goebel was trying to make Carlisle a Presidential possibility , while he was pretending to work for Blackburn . In a published statement issued this evening , and addressed to Blackburn , Bronston says in part : " I have just read the letter of Mr. Goebel to Mr. Carlisle of date May 23 , 1896 and knowing me as you do , it is scarcely necessary for me to say I can not now speak for Mr. Goebel on any condition . To do so would be a gross violation of all self-respect and a sacrifice of all personal honor , and , in my humble judgment , disloyal to the best interests of the Democratic Party . Recalling as I do the memorable contest in the General Assembly of Kentucky in the Spring of 1896 , and especially the treachery to you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its candidate , of Mr. Carlisle and his followers , I am simply horrified at being forced to know that Mr. Goebel , with whom I was so intimately and constantly associated , was then harboring the intent , immediately upon the adjournment of the Legislature , and while your race was still pending and the cause for which we were so desperately fighting was still held in the balance , to at once rush into the arms of its bitterest foe and unite with him in making your success and the principles embodied in your race impossible . I will not indulge the presumption of even suggesting to you and your associates that all self-respect , party pride , and personal honor demand that Mr. Goebel 's name should by the party organization be stricken from the ticket and a loyal , upright , honest Democrat and true man put in his place . Upon your conscience and judgment that responsibility must rest . Yet if you . as the recognized leader of Democracy in the State , and the Hon. W. J. Bryan . as the leader thereof in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially to you , my loyalty is attested by devotion and self-sacrifice without limit , still insist that the Democratic Party shall become particeps criminis to such perfidy , I as an humble member thereof , can not concur by indorsing such indisputable treachery - and dishonesty , although still intending to maintain loyally and faithfully the best interests of that party and strive to insure its future success . " As Bronston is one of the most powerful young Democrats In the State . this bolt is believed to mean another nail in Goebel 's coffin .                     