@@673003

txt The Fifth Avenue Hotel was buzzing with Republican politicians last night and the Hoffman House with Democratic leaders . One of the foremost Republican leaders , Thomas C. Platt , was missing . He was enjoying the cool breezes of Coney Island . He know , however , that Mr. Harrison , the Republican candidate for President , in the pursuance of his policy to control the Republioaz  --  National Committee and alltits details , was determined to make peace at all cost with the Republican leaders in this State , and he left to his lieutenants the responsibility of looking out for overtures . The Republican headquarters consequently overflowed with Republican statesmen . William Brookfield , Chairman of the State Committee ; John S. Kenyon. the Secretary ; Judge Jacob M. Patterson , Job E. Hedges of the Republican State League , Dwight Lawrence , ex-Coileotor J. Sleet Fassett , carrying several cruets filled with the essence of harmony ; John E. Milholland , James A. Blanchard , James Fastidious Burke , the precocious " prodigy " of Mat Quay ; John Reisenweber , Barney Biglin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and statesmen dropped in at headquarters to make reports and proffer advice . The one great criticism from a Republican standpoint was that President Harrison was undertaking too much in presuming to dictate the details of his campaign ; the second , which took the form of a suggestion , was that New York State would be lost to the party unless the demands of Thomas C. Platt were appeased . From persons in the confidence of Mr. Harrison the statement was repeatedly made that the Administration could get along without Platt , and that the ticket could win even with his opposition . But Mr. Platt 's followers argued differently . Their claims were put forward on a strictly business basis . Unless Mr. Harrison made a dietinot bargain to permit Mr. Platt to control and regulate the Federal patronage in this State it was threatened that the active Republicans in the State would lie on their oars and permit the Democrats to carry the State by a majority running from 15,000 to 50,000 . The Executive Committee of the National Committee will meet to-morrow . In the words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the organization to be perfected . Five of the members are already here , namely , Chairman Carter , Secretary Louis E. McComas . Treasurer Cornelius N. Bliss , James S. Clarkson , and Samuel Fessenden . None of the members who were seen last night was prepared to say what business - would be transacted , but more than one said that Republican prospects would be improved if President Harrison would lift his hands from the committee 's work and permit it to go about its duties in its own - way . The Democratic National Committee was cheered yesterday by the presence of ExSecretary of the Navy William C. Whitney and Chairman William F. Harrity , who were together fn. conference for an hour and a half . Mr. Harrity , who had registered at the Fifth Avenue Hotel , wont to Long Branch In the course of the afternoon , and at 7 o'clock returned to New-York , registering at the Hoffman House . The Campaign Committee will meet on Thursday , after which Chairman Harrity will announce his Advisory Committee . Mr. Fassett was at the Fifth Avenue Hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , and his personal appearance is greatly benefitted . Mr. Fassett had very little to say for publication . He had been away on a yachting expedition , he said , and knew very little of the political situation . There sailed away on the Fra Diavolo yesterday the David B. Hill picnic party . The Fra Diavele is owned by Edward Stokes , and the party aboard is composed of David 13 . Hill , Col. John S. MeEwen . James W. Ridgway of Brooklyn , James W. Hinckley of Poughkeepsie , and Railroad Commissioner Sam Beardsley . The Demooratio State Committee will meet at the Hoffman House Friday evening at 8 o'clock . The committee will discuss , for one thing , the policy of the party as to nominating the two Justices of the Court of Appeals . It has been pretty well decided that Judge Maynard of ballotstealing fame will not appear as a candidate . Should the better sense of the Democratic Party prevail Judge Charles Andrews , the senior member of the court , a Republican , will bo nominated for Chief Justice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Maynard will be chosen as the successor to Judge Andrews , receiving the indorsement of the Republicans . Democrats of all shades of opinion recognize the fact that the nomination of Maynard in any capacity will be ruinous to the party . Three distinguished Pennsylvania Republicans attracted the attention of their fellow party men at the Fifth Avenue Hotel last evening . Chris Magee , Dr. Magee , and George H. Welshous , the President , Treasurer , and editor of the Pittsburg Times Company . In the language of Mr. Chris Magee , their visit was not at all connected with politics , but merely for the purpose of giving a send-off to members of their family who were to sail for Europe to-day .                     