@@674295

txt Bishop POTTER has a most happy faculty of touching forcibly and clearly upon the prominent topics of the day , and his annual diocesan address is a model in this regard . In regard to the question of Church unity , as brought up by the Pope 's repudiation of the Anglican orders , he appeals to those older symbols antedating the specific councils of the Roman Catholic Church , and pleads for a return to them as furnishing the only substantial basis for true Church unity . As to any speedy achievement of this Much desired end the Bishop seems somewhat pessimistic , and fears that its advocates may have to suspend for a time their efforts and wait for a day of better promise . In commenting upon the Pope 's answer we have already expressed the opinion that there is such a thing as Christian union , even where there can not be organic Church unity , and furthermore that such union , leaving room for diversity of opinion and even of practice in minor matters , is far more valuable than a unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are not at all pessimistic , and point as a basis for optimism to a summary given in our columns to-day of work now being done in this city by a company of men representing every Protestant denomination , to which Roman Catholics and members of the Orthodox Greek Church have been invited and in which there is no reason why they should not share . The Federation of Christian Workers is based upon the idea that the Church has to do with everything that affects man , not merely his spiritual and moral , but his educational , his social , his economic , his sanitary , condition . It believes that a thoroughgoing Christian man will not only be devout and moral , but will be more likely to improve intellectually , hold a better position socially , be more industrious and thus more successful in business , be cleaner and thus more healthy ; in fact , be in every respect a better citizen than the man who is not imbued with the Christian idea . This belief in itself is nothing new . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Church for centuries . Whatever new there is lies in the method by which it is proposed to secure the end desired . That method is simply cordial Christian co-operation and fellowship . Without raising a single question as to the validity of orders or the apostolicity of Church organization , recognizing each other as loyal to the spirit of CHRIST , and as holding an official position in some part of the great Church of CHRIST , a number of men have joined in an effort to guide the energies of the several communities of Christian believers into active labor for the souls and bodies of their fellow-men . No one is asked by any other to waive or even hide any portion of his personal conviction or preference . Each is at perfect freedom to baptize as he pleases , to administer the sacrament as he chooses . Not that these are looked upon as unimportant , but that they are regarded as means to an end , not the end itself . The end is the building up of the best Christian life in individual men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a better influence on any one family or community , then he should be the one to exert that influence . If a Baptist , Lutheran , Methodist , or Presbyterian can reach the end most effectively , then they should be called upon . This Federation of Christian Workers is a good thing . It will do good to thousands who stand in need of its help . It will do good in bringing together men of diverse habits of thought and action , but animated by a common purpose , and show them that they agree far more than they differ and that they can work together even when they can not think together , and that is the true basis of Christian union .                     