@@674342

txt Prof. Benjamin Apt harp Gould , the distinguished astronomer , died at his residence in Cambridge Thursday , at the age of seventy-two . He was preparing to leave the house is the evening when he fell down stairs and received injuries from which he died two hours later . Prof. Gould was born in Boston Sept. 27 , 1824 , of a gifted family . His father was the late Benjamin Apthorp Gould , and his mother was Lucretia Dana Goddard . While most celebrated as an astronomer , he aided in the advancement of human progress in many other directions , and his fame will live in published works in more than the one field in which he was pre-eminent . He was a member of the Royal Astronomical Society of London , of the French Academy of Sciences , of the Academy of St. Petersburg , . of the American Academy of Science , and of many other distinguished bodies . Prof. Gould showed indications of the genius which afterward distinguished him in his childhood , being a good reader when three years old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family an entertaining and instructive lecture on electricity which he had written himself . He stood high at the Boston Latin School , where he prepared for college , taking the Franklin Gold Medal . He was graduated from Harvard when nineteen years old . He was then appointed master of the Roxbury Latin School , but resigned the position at the end of a year to study in European universities . During the four years of this work he formed lifelong friendships with several eminent European scientists . He had devoted much of his attention to astronomy , and on returing to America was employed by the Government for the astronomical determination of the geodetic stations of the United States Coast Survey . He was among the first to determine differences in longitude by the use of electricity . He was one of the founders and masters of the School of American Astronomy , and published , from 1847 to 1861 , at his own expense , the first astronomical journal issued In this country , discontinuing it at the breaking out of the war . He organized the Dudley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal clock compensated for barometric variations . He also devised the clock which gave the time signals to this city , and his new meridian circle is used in all observatories . It is to the influence of the scientific precision of his methods that numerous observatories which have been established in this country since the beginning of his career are on a par with those of the Old World . Upon invitation of the Argentine Republic , Prof. Gould founded an observatory at Cordova in 1870- ' 72 , and it was while there that he published his new " Uranometry of the Sou tnei n Heavens . " He found as many variable stars visible to the naked eye as have yet been discovered in the northern heavens . While at Cordova he took 108,000 observations of southern zones , and at about the same time made a second series of determinations involving 110,000 meridian observations between the equator and the south pole . in other fields than the science of pure astronomy Prof. Gould was known as the author of an exhaustive work of 400 quarto pages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men from the poirt of view of statistical anthropology , and also the results of experiments upon 1,300,000 soldiers made with a view of determining growth between the ages of fifteen and fifty . Prof. Gould threw a flood of light upon the climate and climatic conditions of South America . He established , in 1872 , a chain of meteorological stations from the tropics to Terra del Fuego and from the Andes to the Atlantic , which are still maintained . He published a work on the climate of Buenos Ayres .                     