@@675374

txt His Majesty Rex has conferred upon Admiral George Dewey and his wife a patent of nobility , making them Duke and Duchess of Manila , and has invited them to participate in the splendors of his carnival celebration next February . The invitation and the patent of nobility sent through Lord Bathurst , Lord High Chamberlain , were beautifully engraved on parchment and handsomely framed . A reply has been received from the newly created Duke of Manila , acknowledging the honors conferred upon him , and stating that he will take pleasure in obeying the royal commands if occasion permits . Not only Rex , but the entire City of New Orleans will rejoice if the Duke finds himself able to be present during the carnival week . The people of the South admire the hero of Manila , and will flock from all points to see him . His Majesty , appreciating this fact , knew that he could not confer nobility upon any one whom his people would be more delighted to honor , and that the Admiral 's presence would alone make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The letter of Lord Bathurst was as follows : " Capital City of New Orleans , ' Carnival Palaces , ' Nov. 18 , 1899 . " Admiral George Dewey , Washington : " Greeting ! The household of his Majesty the King of the Carnival , the Dukes of the realm , and the Krewe of Karnival Court desiring to contribute their royal courtesies to the distinguished American who has challenged the admiration of the world by achievements in the Far East . do therefore create and ordain Admiral George Dewey Duke of Manila , and evidence this behest by royal , punt bearing the sign manual and seal of his Majesty , and do invest his grace with the decoration of St. Rex ; all of which accompany these presents . " It is their further pleasure that his Grace and the Duchess will visit the capital City of New Orleans during the approaching carnival , ( Feb. 27 , 1900 , ) to participate in its pleasures and view its brilliant pageants , while receiving the distinguished consideration of the citizens , which will be proudly extended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the hope that the hospitality of the Carnival City thus extended may be accepted . " Accept profound consideration . " BATHURS'T , " Lord High Chamberlain . " Admiral Dewey 's reply is as follows : " Office of the Admiral , 1747 Rhode Island Avenue , Washington , Dec. 1 , 1899 . " Right Hon. Lord Bathurst , Lord High Chamberlain of His Majesty , Rex , King of the Carnival , New Orleans , La. : " Admiral and Mrs. Dewey present their homage to his Majesty and thanks for the distinguished honor he has done them in bestowing upon them the titles of Duke and Duchess of Manila , also for the decorations of St. Rex sent the Admiral . " The Duke and Duchess of Manila will have much pleasure in obeying the royal commands to visit the Capital City of New Orleans on Feb. 27 , 1900 , if circumstances permit . "                     