@@673840

txt During the recent session of the New-Hampshire Legislature there was passed a comprehensive bill designed to suppress tuberculosis in the dairy herds of the State . The bill had been carefully prepared , and it was thoroughly and very intelligently discussed . The expediency and necessity of the proposed legislation were so clearly shown and fully realized that there was substantially no opposition to the passage of the measure . We referred to the bill some time ago , after it had been sent to the Governor . The Legislature finally adjourned last Friday , the 29th ult. , at an hour which had been previously determined by joint resolution . A few minutes before the hour arrived , Gov . Busiel announced that he had not signed seventeen of the bills which had been sent to him , one of these being the tuberculosis bill , while among the others were several needed measures designed to improve the public school system . Before the legislators had recovered from their surprise , the two houses were adjourned for one year and nine months . Reports from Concord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and indignation . The tuberculosis bill and a majority , if not all , of the other unsigned measures , would have been passed over his veto if he had returned them to the Legislature with his disapproval at a time when that course could have been taken . But even when it was impossible to consider them again he did not condescend to give any reasons for withholding his signature . After adjournment , however , he remarked that he had been moved by a desire to serve the best interests of the State . We are not familiar with the merits of the other lost bills , but we are confident that the members of the Legislature were right in holding that the best interests of the State urgently required the passage and enforcement of this measure for the purification of the milk and meat supply . It would have been worth many times the appropriation which the Governor saved .                     