@@672832

txt The remarks of the Governor upon the std , ject of university extension may prorerly and profitably be considered in connection with the complaint of the Superintendent of Public Instruction touching the lil , ra ? ies of the district schools . It appears that the state Las paid out during the last hit years some zji:3,000,000 for the Purchase of libraries . This fund , however , has been so misappropriated by tic school officers of the districts that there is very little to show for it . Forty rears ago the dh:triet libraries numbered over l , 600 , Mt ) volumes . La:At year the number was less than half that , although in the interval 2.000,0410 had been appropriated for the purchase of books , anti most of it spent was to relieve the local tat:payers of charges for the payment of teachers and the like , which they ought to have assumed . Manifestly this is a grievous state of things , and it is not at all creditable to the State that it should not have been amended 1 ? : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially urgent because of the connection of this subject with that of university extension in which a general interest has arisen . Gov . FLOWER 'S objections to State . aid for that project or to a committal of the State to responsibility for it are iu the main well taken . But the district school library offers a means bywhich the State can properly aid the movement , and none the less powerfully because indirectly . According to CARLYLE 'S famous saving , " the true university of our time is a collection of books . " In his addresi at Edinburth the author of the saying expanded it by declaring that the library was the centre of the university , and the chief value of the express teaching of the university was that it enabled the students to use the library . " What the university- has mainly done , what I found the university did for me , was that it enabled me to read in various languages and various sciences , so that I could go into the books that treated of those things and gradually make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a correct statement of the function of a university , much inure is it a correct statement of the function of . univer5ity extension , the object of which is to enable People to repair the defects of their schooling after they have engaged in the actual work of life , and when colleges are not accessible to them . The teaching must in the main be confined to advice beforehand and examination afterward , both conducted in writing , for the people who are able to attend courses of lectures and to receive direct instruction must repair for that purpose to centres of population , and . this , by the nature of the case , the majority of those who feel the defects of their education and wish to repair them are precluded from clang . For their needs the machinery that already exists in this State is admirably adapted if only it be rightly used . By the theory of its institution , the " ' University " of New-York is not a teaching body , but an examining body . The . statute creating the Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power to confer degrees , and apparently the colleges under its supervision which have this same power exercise it as a power delegated by the Regents . By the nature of its constitution the board is eminently fitted to take charge of university extension .. The laying out of courses of study beforehand and the issue afterward of certificates of proficiency , which might take the form of Bachelors ' ? degrees upon proof of au equivalent for the study for which colleges are authorized to confer those degrees , are distinctly within Ji the province of the Regents . The apparatus of instruction is " a collection of books . " and here also the method of acquiriug it is provided by the existing laws authorizing the formation of district libraries and extending to them the aid of the State . This aid has been diverted and frittered away mainly because the amount of the annual appropriation when divided by the number of school districts becomes absurdly small . But the law already allows for the consolidation of district libraries , and the requirement of " university extension " simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collection of the books he needs . If the districts were consolidated for this purpose so as to divide by ten the number of district libraries now authorized , no student need be more than a few miles from a library . With such a consolidation the existing appropriation would amount to a substantial sum , enough , at least , to make needful annual additions to a library already established . Moreover , the selection of books should be made by the Regents or by the Superintendent under their direction , and not remitted , as now , to the school officers of the several districts . The appropriation should be delivered , that is to say , not in money . but in books , and thus could not be diverted . A small . w ell-chosen library of reference could thus be accumulated in every township in the State , while the incorporated cities and villages could safely be left to the public spirit of their own inhabitants . The existence of something like a thousand of these " centres of civilization " throughout the State of Now-York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view , while the nominal existence of 12,000 district libraries is of very little value . There would be no opposition to doubling the appropriation now authorized if there were a guarantee that it would be honestly and intelligently spent . Such a guarantee the proposal we have outlined seems to furnish , and to provide also an aid to " university extension " which the State may wisely and legitimately extend .                     