@@674369

txt The Cameron Cuba resolution will not pass Congress . Cameron will be fortunate if he gets it through the Senate . The sentiment against it is too strong for its friends to get it passed in the two months remaining of this session . If the Senate were governed by the rules which obtain in the House . the friends of the measure , being influential members , could rush the resolution through , for the presiding officer is in favor of it . Should the resolution get through the Senate , it will find Speaker Reed and the Foreign Affairs Committee in the way in the House . Unless the situation in Cuba changes materially in favor of the insurgents the Speaker and Foreign Affairs Committee will remain in the resolution 's path to March 4 , if necessary . There is still some Ill feeling among certain Senators and Representatives over Secretary Olney 's statement Saturday , and some sharp things will probably be said in both houses . But the preponderance of authority is now in Mr. Olney 's favor , and , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . The probability is that the present conditions in Cuba will remain till the Spring , and this prospect is deemed so strong here to-day that the highest authorities unite in pronouncing the Cameron resolution as good as dead . Opinion among the shrewdest habitu ? s of Congress favors the idea that the jingoes in that body have once more let the Administration gee . the better of them . Like the maddened bull , the jingo element had its horns poised for a charge upon the question of Cuban recognition , when Secretary Olney diverted its attention to an issue which for the moment seems twice as large . There will undoubtedly be a large crop of resolutions , such as those of Bacon ( Ga .. ) and Vest , ( Mo. , ) forthcoming before the Cameron resolution is out of the way , and the fight will be on the two lines concurren tly . " Divide and conquer " is evidently the Administration 's plan of campaign . Mr. Chilton of Texas plainly differs from his colleague as to the distance the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's resolutions  --  one introduced last session and the other this session  --  both direct the President to seize Cuba and plant an army there to hold it till Spain grants independence to the insurgent republic . Mr. Chilton introduced to-day , and announced that he would call it up later for con- ? consideration , a resolution very much like Mr. Hill 's , recognizing a state of war in Cuba , and the belligerency of the two parties , and declaring the neutrality of our Government . Debate over a substitute may be indefinitely prolonged , like a debate over an original measure , so that the Senate is in for a whole session 's work at least .                     