@@674273

txt The day before the election in Vermont the silverites declared that a Republican majority of less than 20,000 would be construed as a distinct gain by the advocates of free coinage . Now that the majority approaches 40,000 the white-metal leaders say that no significance whatever attaches to the elebtion . Chairman Faulkner of the Democratic Congressional Committee said to-day that he did not believe a single Democratic meeting had been held in the State . " I did not get an application for literature from that State until last Wednesday , " said he , " and I am certain that not fifty letters have passed between here and that State . We made no attempt to carry the State , while the Republicans have spent lots of money and have exerted every energy to win . I am told that a house-to-house canvass was made by prominent Republicans . The only wonder to me , s that the Democrats had the heart to vote at all . " Mr. Faulkner and his associates choose to ignore the fact that the voters of Vermont had full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief one in the minds of the Vermonters . It is the opinion of unprejudiced persons here that the overwhelming Republican victory is a distinct disaster to the silver cause which will have its effect in the campaign . Chairman Babcock of the Republican Congressional Committee expressed himself to-day as follows : " The election is a fair expression of the sentiment of the people . It points strongly and plainly to what the balance of the country will do in November . It is a repudiation of the wild fallacies expounded at the Chicago Convention , and is a ringing notice served that the people of the country do not propose to have their country dishonored . " Vermont is a thermometer to the rest of the country . Two years ago , after the elections held in Vermont , Maine , and Oregon , I predicted the result that followed . I now make the prediction that the balance of the country will follow Vermont 's lead . Silver has received a serious blow . " Too much stress can not be laid on the fact that the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-England and would make itself felt in the elections in those States . It now can be seen whether the farmers were affected by the craze . The enormous Republican gain and the enormous Democratic loss can not fail to make an impression on the balance of the country . " Senator Warren of Wyoming , who reached Washington to-day , says the silver tide in the West is receding , and that it will be checked in enough States to prevent the Democrats from realizing their hope of capturing a solid West . " We will carry Wyoming , South Dakota , and Nebraska , " said Senator Warren ; " we also will get some of the coast States . I am free to admit that the Presidential race is nobody 's yet , but I am confident that the work the Republicans are doing will be so effective that will be elected by a large majority . " Wyoming is surrounded by the wildest of the silver States , but most of the prominent Republicans there have stood firm , and will not " buck . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican nominees , and it is said that not more than a half dc.zen Republicans of State reputation have bolted the ticket . Senator Pritchard of North Carolina said to-day that would carry the " old North State " against all combinations . The two North Carolina Senators are on opposite sides of the political fence this year , each working earnestly for success . Pritchard says the silver sentiment in the State is subsiding .                     