@@673232

txt Advices from Honolulu up to May 4 are as follows : The Hawaiian Republic proposition has not been materially promoted during the past week . The projectors say they have concluded it is best to wait and see - what the United States intends to do . The Spreckels boom for a republic has also , apparently , come to a standstill . A meeting of planters was held . on April 25 , at which Spreckels explained his ideas in detail and offered for adoption a communication to President Cleveland opposing annexation because of the difficulties it would place in the way of obtaining the cheap labor necessary to plantation - work . The communication was referred to a committee , and at a meeting on April 27 was shelved . Some of the planters present declared themselves ready to concede anything to secure annexation . A convention of the Hawaiian Patriotic League , which was probably the first of the kind ever held in the islands , assembled on May 1 , there being about fifty delegates present from all the islands . Joseph Nawahi presided , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object of the convention was to frame a memorial to Commissioner Blount which should be expressive of the native wishes in the matter of government . President Nawahi made a patriotic speech , in the course of which he said , although a few Hawaiians were in favor of annexation , yet " GOd is merciful enough to bring such erring ones into the fold again . We have no home but Hawaii . We have no right to barter away the country which we are building up for our children . " Petitions from country distriots for the perpetuation of monarchy , opposing annexation , for the perpetuation of independence , and to continue the Hawaiian flag as the flag of Hawaii were presented . and a committee was appointed to draw up in secret session a resolution to the United States Commission . The memoral was presented to Mr. Blount on May 2 . A delegation from the Maui Annexation Club called on Mr. Blount May 1 to assure him that the annexation sentiment was growing in favor among the natives as well as the foreigners on the Island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event of annexation , the natives would expect to become voters , the Chairman replied in the affirmative . The Advisory Council , headed by Vice President Damon , also called on Commissioner Blount a few days ago . Replying to their address he said : " I came here to examine into the state of the country , and must therefore confine myself to my duties . I have of necessity interviewed a great many people , and have accumulated a largo Quantity of material , but as yet have not gone very deeply into ** and figures connected with the islands . This , however . I intend to accomplish later on . The shortness of time at my disposal has necessitated my meeting individuals as I can arrange for them . In other words . I must husband my time and condense my work . " ' The natives of the-other islands are exceedingly desirous that the Commissioner should pay them a visit , and it is not to be questioned that his reception by them would exceed that given any personage except the Queen . Commissioner Blount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip . To a member of the Supreme Bench he said a few days ago : " I can not want to go to the other islands . I have taken considerable responsibility upon myself in lowering the American flag , and I want to remain here so that I could order troops ashore in case of any trouble . " The situation here may be summed up this way : The provisional Government believes itself strong enough to quell any internal disturbance and maintain itself in authority . The Minister of Finance states that means for carrying on the Government are ample . The annexation sentiment is quietly strengthening , but the delay in the settlement of the question is having a telling effect on business interests that desire to expand or invite capital . British Minister Wodehouse has written his Government asking that the cruiser Hyacinthe , remain at this station until the pending political troubles are settled . The Goirernment has been revising the sedition and treason laws . At a recent meeting Councilor Emmuth introduced a resolution declaring that any agitation for the restoration of the ox-Queen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which this Government has been organized , is hereby declared to come within the meaning of the Sedition act , passed by these Councils Jan. 30 of this year , and the Police Department is hereby instructed to proceed against all persons making themselves liable under this act . A long discussion followed , and the resolution , which had been much censured by the opposition press , was referred to the the Executive Council . The United States ship Adams arrived April 26 and the Mohican started for home . Admiral Skerrett transferred his Hag to the Boston May 1 . The Mohican was saluted as she passed out by all the cruisers in port except the Japanese cruiser Naniwa.                     