@@673680

txt Could n't the Seventy trust Col. Strong ? Have they so little faith in him that they can not accept his word without his bond ? At the conference meeting where Col. Strong was put in nomination Mr. Beaman read the following resolution , which had been adopted by the full Committee of Seventy : " Resolved , That , under the existing . circumstances , it is the sense of this committee that the head of the ticket should be a Republican , provided that , before his nomination by this committee is made public , he shall accept the platform already adopted , and give his pledge in writing that he will , if elected , perform the duties of his office on a strictly non-partisan basis . " That is the way slippery customers are dealt with , Honorable gentlemen ought not to be so treated . But the affront was put not merely upon Col. Strong but upon the Republican organization , for it will be observed that the requirement of the " pledge in writing " is inserted as a corollary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ticket should be a Republican . " The acceptance of a Republican at the head of the ticket was made contingent upon his giving a pledge in writing . Col. Strong instantly and meekly gave the pledge . " If elected , " he declares in his letter to Chairman Larocque , " I shall make all appointments without regard to party lines " ; and he further promised that the affairs of the Government should be administered " in the interest of good government , and - absolutely non-partisan . " The grammar is a trifle misty , but the Colonel 's self-abasement is complete . Possibly his great desire for the office may have made him insensible to the humiliation the committee put upon him . At Harrisburg once in a State Convention of the Republicans of Pennsylvania a good man who had been nominated for Governor by the party boss declared in his speech of acceptance : " I have given pledges to no living man . " But there was a great revolt in the party that year , and the unpledged candidate of the boss was defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the moment of receiving a nomination make a very slight impression upon the popular mind . We believe Col. Strong thinks he is sincere , but his whole political record , what there is of it , is one of ardent Republicanism . He is all partisanship . Our neighbor the Sta.ats-Zeitung declares that he would fall an easy prey to the politicians who have put him forward . Men far more resolute than Col. Strong . have bowed the knee to Thomas C. Platt . The Colonel is a candidate for Mayor to-day because Mr. Platt so ordered . He is doubtless a very satisfactory candidate for his own party , but there is nothing in his political record , his personality , or in the circumstances of his nomination that gives . him the slightest claim upon the vote of any Democrat or non-partisan municipal reformer .                     