@@672604

txt The great contest has been narrowed down to-day . The nominas Lions are over , and less than a week will tell the tale . Dispatches from all over the Dominion show that the Liberals did their part well yesterday . The news from every Province is such as to encourage all the sister Provinces . The tire of enthusiasm burns in the hearts of Liberals everywhere . The victory can hardly fall to he theirs , and should It fall to them it will follow one of the grandest campaigns , ao far as the Liberals are concerned , that the Dominion has ever seen . The Liberals have very effectually succeedee during the past few days in rebutting the chargos of treason and disloyalty brought against them by the Conseratives . The French Canadian habitants , as well as the Ontario farmers and the Nova Scotia fishermen , are beginning to see that the question is not one of loyalty , but a purely economic issue . The Liberal leaders . if anything , have surpassed the Tories in their professions of devotion and loyalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the day , will bring thousands of wavering voters into the Liberal ranks . Speaking at Toronto last night on the question of loyalty , the Hon. Oliver Mowat declared that he was glad to perceive how kindly the audience received any allusion made to British connection and loyalty . He felt he was among fellow-Britons ; he was among fellow-loyalists . " We favored , " he said , " with all our hearts every measure that was intended to improve our own country and advance the material welfare of our own people . We loved our own nation better than any other . If we compared our own country , with its institutions . its Government , Its legislation , with the institutions , Government , and legislation of any other country of the same period , our country bad shown itself a country of which its people might well be proud . It had tree Institutions , free laws , and the achievements of its people in science . in art , in literature , and In everything else were worthy of a grand people , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaker rejoiced at the general feeling of loyalty , but he warned them to take care that they were not misled by pretenses on tile part of those who wanted to hold power for themselves and keep up monopolies . If he talked a good deal about loyality it was because it was the one great plank in the platform of the other side . He declared that he had far more confidence in the loyalty of the Liberal leaders than in that of the Conservative . leaders , for the latter as was well known , bad manifested their disloyalty even to the extreme of signing au annexation manifesto . In this connection , Mr. Mowat explained how the Governor General had been induced to grant the present dissolution by having the ease falsely represented to him by his advisors and asked his audience what they thought of the loyalty of those who would thus deceive the Queen 's representative . Not only were the reasons for the dissolution a mere pretense , but there were strong reasons against a dissolution , of which he mentioned particularly the redistribution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise that there should he no election until after the lists had been revised . Sir Richard Cartwright , the Ontario lieutenant of the Liberal leader , is doing good work in his province for the cause of reciprocity . He has convinced the farmers that they have everything to gain and nothing to lose by closer trade relations with the United States . In his speech at Ingersoll last night ho stated that according to the late census one-fifth of the citizens of the United States were of Canadian birth  --  people who lrad been largely driven over there by the ruinous policy of the present Conservative Government . Ho deprecated the attempts of the Conservative Party to breed discord between this country and the States , and said that he was a Canadian by birth and had a truly loyal regard for the English flag , but claimed that it would be decidedly to our advantage to conciliate the people of the United States , and that the friendship of that country would be of incalculable benefit to both those countries and the British Empire . Dealing with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two countries , he pointed out how much it would Os to the advantage of Ontario to have comparative free intercourse in trade , and how important it was to be on friendly terms with our cousins across the line . He repudiated the commercial union proposals of Mr. Winian , although he bad done many things for the benefit of Canada . The speaker denounced the cry of the Conservatives that we would be driven to direct taxation , and pointed out how the revenue would be raised , and quoted from his speech three years ago to show that the Liberal policy on this question was then what it Is now  --  to make an equitable division of the taxpaying power and remove the burden from the shoulders of the people and the wage earner , and the laborer and the farmer and to place a fair share of It where it could best be borne . Sir Richard next proceeded to show how the extra $4,000,000 that the Government claimed as a surplus had been unjustly taken out of the people 's pockets through excessive duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great portion of the revenue could be saved by economies in various departments of the Go ve.rnrnent where great extravagance was now carried on , and that a great deal more revenue might be raised by an Increase of theexoise duties on whisky and beer , as the United States excise duties on those liquors was twice as much per head as ours . He contended that the farmers would save both the tariff tax they have to pay as imposed by the bill on goods imported , and also the tariff they have to pay into the Dominion Treasury on the same articles , and that most of the articles consumed by the poorer classes were taxed about three times as high as were luxuries for the wealthy . Knowing the nincent wealth of the natural resources in the country and the skill and intelligence of our mechanics , the speaker claimed that we ' were fully able to ** compete with any nation of the earth .                     