@@673565

txt It might be worth somebody 's while to make a book tracing - the influence of the weather on the world 's history . I can remember in a vague way during the ten years of these dispatches numerous important events which dragged in , as a necessary part of their narration , an explanation by reference to current meteorological conditions . Doubtless if the thing were systematically studied , a striking scientific relation might be established . For example , just now we are some thirty days advanced in a period wherein rain has fallen every day ; frosts have blighted and hailstorms destroyed untold crops , and the skies have presented one uniform suicidal canopy of steel-colored clouds . When we last saw the sun , some months ago , Europe was a phenomenally peaceful , happy family , with marriage bells ringing and long-estranged sovereigns falling on each other 's necks ; universal disarmament and the millennium were the staple topics of hopeful and happy discourse . To-day this beatific picture seems a remote Arcadian vision , and the existing scene exhibits the ethics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shelter at breakfast time . There have not been so many simultaneous quarrels on foot in Europe for a decade as are now taxing the energies of the Continental newsgatherers . Bulgaria is the Ireland of the Continent . You may be tired to death of the subject , but you have got to continue to hear about it . It holds the field against all rivals ' and imitators as a danger point par excellence in Old World affairs . Nobody forgets that the last shots fired in the international conflict in Europe were from Bulgarian rifles , and during the past eight years as vast armaments have piled up and militarism has extended its iron grasp upon human life , everybody has been agreed that when the great war eventually came , nine out of ten chances of igniting the spark would be struck in Bulgaria . At intervals , when people have talked of the chance that war would never come at all , their temporary confidence has always been based on the fact that Stambuloff and Ferdinand seemed to be ruling so securely and sensibly in Bulgaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops are firing on Stambuloff 's police in the streets of Sofia . The latest telegrams are all coming through Belgrade , which is a notoriously lying hole , and it is impossible to gather from them more than the general fact that Bulgaria is in a state of excitement , and probably of turmoil . Even this is enough to make all Europe turn eastward an apprehensive ear . " Cherchez la femme ! " So long as Ferdinand remained a bachelor he and Stambuloff got on perfectly together , and worked harmoniously and effectively to keep little Bulgaria on safe and progressive lines . But this Coburg could not keep the dynastic itch out of his mind , and instead of wedding some daughter of an Eastern mediatized house who would have understood the situation , he hit on a Bourbon Princess , granddaughter of Bomba , daughter of that Parmese Duke who is the custodian of the family 's most cherished obstinacies and mediaeval cranks . This lady came to Sofia , and , in this bustling democratic modern clapboard town , proceeded to give herself the airs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am told , on account of his finger nails ! Stambuloff haughtily declined to be manicured , and the strife began . Ten months ago I-mentioned stories of a split between Ferdinand and his Minister , even then regarded as threatening and ascribed wholly to the aggravating influence of this Bourbon wife . When the son , Boris , was born last January the proud father went quite off his head . Since then he has done little else but prowl about Europe , with his mother and his wife out ahead as scouts , trying by all sorts of intrigues to secure royal recognitions of his throne and dynasty , and especially begging for help to induce the Czar to be friendly with him . To attain this end he was willing , to swallow any rebuffs and eat any amount of humble pie . We had the spectacle at the recent wedding festivities in Coburg of his hanging about incognito in the neighborhood , hoping that the Czarowitch would relent and allow him to come in and join the family reunion . This spectacle made ' the Bulgarians tired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They desired no Court recognitions from any quarter , least of all in the form of contemptuous patronage from the Czar . Stambuloff reflected their attitude ideally by taking advantage of Ferdinand 's absence tuft hunting to negotiate arrangements with Turkey , by which the entire Bulgarian position about schools was conceded and an alliance cemented with the Porte which meant really that the Bulgarians are recognized as the eventual heirs to Constantinople . On his return , Ferdinand viewed this achievement , not as a tremendous advantage to Bulgaria , but as a thing likely to render the Czar still more implacable in the matter of recognition . He scolded Stambuloff for doing it . Stambuloff threw his resignation in his face , and the obvious sequel to this was fisticuffs in the street , with certain consequent disorder , which the Bulgarian censor of telegraphs politely but firmly declines to allow us to know about . Outside interest centres , of course , upon the possibility that this upheaval may provoke Russian intervention . Up to yesterday the consensus of diplomatic opin -- ion leaned to the notion that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk about the impossibility of Russia 's remaining an idle spectator of anarchy in a Slav country which she has liberated and watered with Russian blood this optimistic view has weakened . It is accepted generally that Russia desires to play a waiting game till the Infantry has all got a new rifle , which will be eighteen months or more . On the other hand , any vigorous campaign of the Pan-Slavist agitators in the principality might easily repeat the experience of 1877 and drag the matter forward quite beyond the control of the Czar . This is the danger , and it is a genuine one . This violent overture to the reopening of the Eastern question lends grave importance to the fact that an open quarrel has broken out between Austria and Hungary , and that the whole constitutional fabric binding them together may be set afire any day . This fight has been brought about , as these dispatches have traced from week to week , by a deliberate intrigue of Vatican politicians ; but it could never have reached this menacing stage if not for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austrians in treating his funeral train like the passage of a criminal convoy . This put the whole of the Hungarian people into the temper described in English vernacular as " cocky . " When the question arose of making the Hungarian House of Lords accept the Civil Marriage bill , which had been twice passed by immense majorities in the Commons , the Liberal Premier Wekerle took the whole nation into his confidence and explained that the way to do it was to have the Emperor appoint a lot of new Liberal peers . From this to a loud popular assertion that the Emperor must do this was only a step . The Emperor was annoyed at being thus taken for a constitutional dummy , like the English monarch , and the clerical and aristocratic Court circles adroitly fanned this annoyance into a flame of refusal . This has thrown all Hungary into transports of rage and defiance . There is talk of the Ban of Croatia , who is a very - good sort of fellow in ordinary times , trying to form another Liberal Ministry ; but in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a place which cools readily if once heated , and all the signs point to her being backed in this crisis by a solid national sentiment . Besides these two flaring demonstrations in the East , the Anglo-Congo grievance of the French politicians has shrunk to very small potatoes indeed . It is still being talked about in the Paris press , and formal debate on it is set down for Thursday . But these other affairs are so much bigger and more genuine that nobody now expects it to amount to anything . It is in the nature of things that France should draw back and lie low the moment the other large animals begin to walk around , and this is what she will do now . Dupuy 's Premiership is treated as a too fragile thing to be even talked about above a whisper . The new Ministry could have been beaten on the very first day if those hostile to it had seen any profit in knocking it over , and it will remain in office on sufferance only just so long as this indecision of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Simon says that the oppression of the executive under the Empire has been changed into the oppression of the Chamber now , and that the latter is much more irresponsible and dangerous in time of national stress than the other . In England the pressure of objurgatory conversation en the weather has excluded most other topics . It is said in the Parliamentary lobbies that an arrangement has been reached in the Opposition camp by which , in case of the Government 's defeat , a coalition Cabinet will be formed , with Devonshire as Premier , and Chamberlain , James , and Goschen taking portfolios . There seems less prospect just now of this contingency arising . The Ministry is scraping slowly along over the shoals With ' no water to spare , but no imminent dangers are in view . Although , by tacit consent , newspaper discussion on the subject has ceased , India continues to furnish a. gloomily dark background for men 's thoughts . Native Indian papers arriving each week show a unanimity of disaffection which , The Times admits , has never been equaled since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a grievance which calls forth the loudest protests ; but compulsory vaccination and a threat of interference with the opium ' business and a host of other things are cited as overtaxing the patience and loyalty of the Indian people . According to the Anglo-Indian press , certain blatant missionaries have done enormous mischief by insults to.the Hindu religion , accounts of which are being spread widely by emissaries among the native peasantry . Old residents in scores of widely-separated districts are constantly warning the Government that what is going on now is simply the Spring of 1867 over again . Sentence of the Sicilian Deputy de Felice-Guiffrida to 18 years ' imprisonment for a purely political propaganda of a sort which our labor leaders regard as weakkneed in the extreme , has sent a thrill of amazed indignation throughout Liberal Italy . Various popular riots in protest , involving collisions with troops , are reported . Crispi 's virtual dictatorship seems for the moment strong enough to crush out anything like organized resistance ; but it is obvious that this can not go on much longer . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon any nation for longer than to bridge a temporary emergency . Over 20,000 people turned out in Madrid for the funeral of Espartero , the toreador who was killed last Sunday in a bullfight there . The train ' which bore his remains to his native place , Seville , was received there by a throng estimated at 50,000 . Hardly any other Spaniard of this generation has been thus honored in death . It paints a sinister picture of the modern Spanish character to read that , though this national hero was gored open and killed by the first bull on ithe programme , and carried off to receive extreme unction , and the corpse laid in front of the altar in a chapel adjoining the inclosure , the 8,000 people present insisted on having the remaining five bulls of the corrida duly killed in their turn , before they would leave the inclosure . Espartero had been dead two hours when the savage performance ended . American jokes unduly strain the insular apprehension at the best of times ; but Hiram Maxim surely has lived here long enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a month of evil weather as we ' have been having . Whether he even intended a joke at all is still a matter of much mystery . But he got a lot of solemn old Generals and Colonels and other military big-wigs down to his factory in Kent yesterday on a promise of showing them a cuirass even more bullet proof than that of the German tailor Dowd  --  a million-dollar invention , the secret of which he would sell for $2 ! Then he fooled about with other things , made them long quizzical speeches , and showed them only a partial , unsatisfactory test , until they all rose , snorting with rage , and departed , shaking their fists and filling the air with sulphurous fumes . One reporter who staid describes some very remarkable experiments , which seem to indicate a bona-fide cuirass ; but all the others who trooped out with the wrathful officers shout to-day for Maxim 's blood ! To-day I learn that W. W. Astor has within the week contracted to pay R. L. Stevenson ? 2,850 for the complete serial rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not yet written . I understand that it is intended exclusively for The Pall Mall Magazine , which has certainly scored heavily by George Meredith 's delicious " Lord Ormont " and his " Aminta . " H. F.                     