@@673898

txt Gov . Altgeld is a professional revolutionist , and he is doing what he can now to get up an insurrection in the Democratic Party . His convention at Springfield , Ill. , on Wednesday was the first open step , the outcome of a previous conspiracy . It was in no sense representative and it was not imposing . The Governor can not be very well satisfied with it , for he tried to disown it in advance ; but it was his convention plainly enough , and at the close Altgeld addressed it in a very violent harangue . The Governor is a man whom it is easy to ridicule , for he is extravagant , inconsequent , and vain ; he is one whom it is natural to denounce , for his policy as an executive officer is dangerous and his motives are not good . But he is a man of ability , of energy , of boundless ambition , and without scruple . He is quite indifferent to the opinion of the class with which he is associated . Formerly a Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wealth , a large owner of real estate , grasping and pitiless in his dealings , he habitually abuses capitalists and courts the favor of the poorer class . Reputed to be decent and abstemious in his private life , his political associations are with men of the worst social type , and his publicly expressed sympathies are with criminals . As he cares nothing for the judgment of respectable persons , aittl cares for the ignorant and poor only as he can use them , while betraying them , he enjoys advantages which self-respecting men do not wish . In so far he is dangerous , and it is , therefore , a public duty to expose him and his treachery to the party which he essays to lead . Altgeld and his colleagues in the convention are bent on breaking up the Democratic Party . Their professed financial doctrine ? in which we do not for a moment think that they believe ? is not Democratic , but is opposed to every declaration ever made , every law ever passed , every policy ever adopted by the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is monometallism . They profess to advocate a double standard , but they seek a single standard . Their plan is intended to deprive the country of the use of gold , to drive it out , and leave us to the sole employment of silver , made legal tender at a value twice that of silver in the market . Nor do they stop at that . They say : " Resolved , That we are in favor of the use of both gold and silver as the standard motley of the United States , and demand the free and unlimited coinage of both metals at the ratio of 16 to 1 , without waiting for the action of any other nation , and that such coins shall be a legal tender for all debts , both public and private , and that all contracts hereafter executed for the payment of money , whether in gold , silver , or coin , may be discharged by any money which is by law a legal tender . " In other words , they would make it the law that 50 cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which the borrower has definitely and expressly promised to pay in gold , if the promise be made after the passage of the law . It is said that Altgeld , like his American congener Stewart , has a lot of money loaned on gold contracts . These he and his convention would protect from repudiation , but none " hereafter " made . They might as well ask for a law compelling a man who had bought wheat to accept oats , or one who had contracted for potatoes to accept acorns . Quite apart from the plain injustice of such a law , it could never be enforced . It would simply destroy the market for potatoes , wheat , and gold , and would make none for acorns , oats , or silver . For the theory of bimetallism  --  that is , for universal coinage by all the great commercial nations of silver and gold at a common ratio  --  there are arguments worthy of consideration . Whether the experiment would succeed or not , the Government of the United States is pledged to try it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberty to advocate it , as Republicans are , for both parties are committed to it . And the Democratic Party is also committed to the use of silver as money , provided it can be kept at par with gold , but not otherwise . The Altgeld party scorn such limitations . They want the independent coinage of fifty-cent silver dollars , nothing less and nothing else . And they Press this demand , not to strengthen the Democratic Party , but to weaken it by dividing it . They should be met on that ground . They should be firmly opposed at every step . Illinois Democracy is not of that sort , and it is the bounden duty of its leaders to demonstrate it beyond all dispute .                     