@@673721

txt We have received a document bearing the following title : " Demands of Organized Labor for the Free Coinage of Silver and the Restoration of the Money of the Constitution . " It is signed , apparently by authority , by the Presidents of eight labor organizations , including the Knights of Labor , the Federation of Labor , the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen , and the United Mine Workers . Et recommends the adoption of the following resolution : " We demand of the present Congress the Immediate return to the money of the Constitution as established by our fathers , by restoring the free and unlimited coinage of both gold and silver at the present ratio of 16 to 1 , the coins of both metals to be equally full legal tender for all debts , public and private , as before the fraudulent demonetization of silver in 1S73 . " We also condemn the increase of the national debt in time of peace , and the use of interest-bearing bonds at any time . " The document is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been Made in the various organizations to carry out this recommendation or with what success . Hut we would say , with the utmost earnestness to every workingman , that if this demand were granted , if what these leaders ask for were done , the harm to . workingmen would be far beyond everything that they have suffered in the last two years . And we are confident that any workingman , with common sense , who will think out how such a plan would work for him will see how this harm would come . For what is asked is simply this  --  that workingmen shall be compelled by law to take a silver coin worth fifty cents for one dollar . WoZkingmen are the chief creditor class of the country . They have owing to them at the close of every week a far larger amount of money than any other single class in the community . If Silver is to be coined for every one who wishes to . have it coined at the ratio of 16 to 1 into legal-tender coins , atly ettPloYO'r can take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silver dollars , and when he offers his workmen their wages in these dollars he will be discharged from his debt . Practically the workingmen are the only ones who can thus be cheated . Business men , large dealers , bankers , and capitalists can make their contracts payable in gold . The workingman can not do that . He could not afford to . He must take what the law says he must take . At the same time he can not force any one else to take such money , because , as a rule , he spends his money in small purchases , and no one can be forced to sell for silver . These are very simple facts , but they are facts , and there is no getting around them .                     