@@675183

txt The remarks of Capt . REBEIIR-PASCHWIPE , the German Naval Attache at Washington , printed in yesterday 's TIMES , about the education of naval officers , must have been received by our readers , especially by our naval readers , with an interest not unmingled with astonishment . It should be said at once that they were not only most intelligent , but most friendly . Of course there is nothing in either of those aspects of theta to excite astonishment , though enough to excite high interest . What will have excited the astonishment of American naval officers was to be told by a German that . they were in the way to be overeducated , or too technically educated . That is the very last complaint that we should have expected to hear from that quarter . We should have expected to hear it from other quarters , from those old sea-dogs in MARRyAT 's novels , for example , who are always complaining that " . the service is going to the devil . " The latest and'greatest of these officers , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of WELLINGTON , who maintained to the last that ' there was great danger that British ? ill , ceps would be overeducated . To hear something like this from the lips of a Modern German ofEcer  --  ii enough to take one 's breath away . For it is the precise distinction of the Germans , in the modern competition , that they put more stress than any other people on exact knowledge and complete theoretical equipment , and less upon those qualities which can not . be taught , or can be taught only indirectly . The Duke of WELLINGTON again indicated these in the remark , now almost too familiar to be quoted , about the battle of Waterloo having been won upon the playing fields of Eton and Harrow . It Is in fact surprising to find a contemporaneous German agreeing with him , for the Germans haver got on very well indeed by sticking to the necessity of a more complete technical preparation than their competitors . In many branches of industry they have even obtained a clear lead . by the greater minuteness and exactitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something in what our friendly German critic says , surprising as it may be to find him saying it . When the shore parade of 1892 took place in New York , the British bluejackets so clearly carried off the honors of the occasion that a disgusted American naval officer ascribed their superiority to the fact that our own sailors were commanded by a lot of scientists . " It is needless to say that this ? critic was both " of the old school " and that he had not been graduated with honors in his time . To hear his sentiments echoed by our later critic is the more surprising that our later critic is not only a German but a German naval officer . The German Navy , being a creation of yesterday , has not , like the Germa.n Army , its own traditions to oppose to the sway of theory . It has no traditions , and is itself the product of pure theory . Young as we are as a Nation , compared with Germany , or rather with Prussia , our naval tradition is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some day find ourselves at a disadvantage in a naval conflict because our officers are overburdened with technical information , but it is unimaginable and contrary to the nature of things that it should be reserved for Germany to give the United States that particular lesson                     