@@672886

txt The storm clouds which have been gathering upon the political horizon of Great Britain since the opening of the present session of Parliament are beginning to spit fire . Apparently , we shall have the downpour very soon . Already are the more sensible among the independent Tories holding themselves poised and ready for a run to get out of the wet . Yesterday 's defeat of Balfour in the House of Commons would have meant nothing at all a year ago . To-day it is everywhere regarded as a portent of coming tempest of triple importance . The character of the iucident illustrates very well the.kind and scope of calamity which has overtaken Toryism in England . The question was raised , in a wholly nonpolitical spirit , whether three Tory Directors in the East Africa Company ought to have voted last week for a bill granting the company a subsidy for a survey of a railway . Of these three members , Sir John Puleston and Burdett-Coutts are closely connected with America . There is no shadow of a personal imputation in the issue raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very seriously , but very amiably , discussing with much gravity the advisability of establishing a precedent of some kind by general arrangement . When Balfour got up there was no earthly reason to doubt that he could have that majority for any intelligent decision which , in his capacity as leader of the House , he might suggest . It pleased him , however , to treat the affair with a series of flippant sneers at parliamentary institutions and an entire lack of a sense of responsibility . One would have thought it the speech of an undergraduate , anxious to show his smartness and dexterity in defending some impossible proposition , rather than that of a serious First Lord of the Treasury ! The result was that a score or more of disgusted Conservatives walked out . Eighteen went into the lobby against Balfour and other Ministers , and the Government received a knock-down blow ! To-day no commentator on either side of the party line pretends to see in this episode anything but a personal revolt against the trifling and incompetent leadership of the Nephew of his Uncle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this light and to declare that if it happens again he will resign his position . Chances are distinctly in favor of something far worse happening next time . The open mutineers-of yesterday 's demonstration embrace some of the most solid and influential members of the Tory Party , and their silent sympathizers are also representative men . There is some talk , moreover , that three gentlemen whose vote was yesterday in substance censuaed will mark their sense of the fashion in which Balfour gave them and their party away by resigning their seats . Even without this complication the disorder and bad feeling inside the Tory ranks has reached a critical stage . Unless some miracle is worked at an extremely short notice , Balfour is likely to find himself openly humiliated in the presence of the enemy by his own followers . I dwell at length upon this , because it throws a most interesting light upon a larger subject . A year ago Arthur Balfour was undoubtedly the most powerful man in the Tory Party . No Conservative meeting could be held anywhere which did not save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Every reactional orator , no matter how prosy all his other utterances were , was sure of rapturous applause when he declared that in Balfour the Tories had a young chief who was going to throw Burke , Palmerston , Peel , and the Pitts combined into the shade ! All this wild adulation was professedly due to nothing else in the world save for the way in which for five years Balfour had sneered at and insulted the Irish members , backed up by every- vicious form of Irish misgovernment and jauntily put the screws of coercion on an " inferior race " like the Irish . This was why the Tories howled themselves hoarse with acclamation of Balfour . They had never seen anything finer than the languid air of insolence with which he called the Irish members liars and knaves across the floor of the House , twitted them with their poverty and lack of university training , and laughed at their objections to being treated as felons after he had imprisoned them for their politics . All Torydom was . convulsed with admiration for the man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rabble " ; but when Balfour , released ' from Irish office , climbed up to the position of leader of the House , what a than ge was there ! Tories had been vastly tickled with his studied impertinence of manner and the persistent neglect of his duties , with his little feminine meannesses of speech and argument , so long as they were used in order to injure and enrage the Irish . It became a very different matter when these accomplishments were devoted to the leadership of themselves in revolt against Balfour . To-day it means only that theTories find themselves unable to stand ' even the diluted and softened form of treatment which a year ago they cheered to the echo when it was tried upon the Irish . There is something exquisitely British in all this . Of course , this angry commotion inside the Tory Party has been largely intensified by the perception of the way in which everything outside is sweeping against them . What I cabled last Saturday midnight about the prodigious Radical triumph in London , enthusiastic as it may have seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserves . This demonstration that a , democratic platform can early a large majority of metropolitan votes with it would not be such a wonderful thing if it only swelled the estimates of the Liberal majority in the next House of Commons , that already promises to be too big for comfort  --  like that other majority just now running amuck in Washington  --  but the grounds upon which the London victory was won make it clear that in the renewed fights which every one foresees , after the Lords have thrown out Gladstone 's Home Rule bill , London may be increasingly relied upon for support . And this is of tremendous importance . London was really carried by appeals to the hatred of- the present land system and of the great metropolitan landlords like the Dukes of Westminster , Bedford , and Portland . It is obvious that when the Liberals lock horns with the Lords over the Irish question this injustice of ground rents can not be kept out . When a combat with the aristocracy comes in real earnest , there will be an instinctive popular echo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ! "  --  and " Let a heavier indictment be pressed against the Peers as the institution is more solid " will be London 's response . How completely Parnellism has been snowed under in rural Ireland showed itself yesterday by the unopposed election of Thomas Healy for North Wexford to fill the vacancy caused by John Redmond 's resignation . This is interesting in more ways than one . It is not remarkable that there was no opposition candidate , because that is true of , most other districts of Ireland ; but the choice of candidate is worth noting . Thomas is the elder brother of Timothy and of Maurice Healy , and is a quiet , commonplace little country lawyer , who did n't want to go to Parliament at all . He is a poor man with a large family , and did his best to escape the honor thus thrust upon him . His brothers also discouraged the idea strenuously , not only for his own sake . but because they naturally felt that his election would create a feeling that they were trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the voters of North Wexford set a stubborn face . They had Tim Hea/y 's brother among them , and if he had been blind , deaf , and dumb they still would have insisted on sending him to replace Redmond . Pathetic accounts come from the Riviera to-night of the woeful change which has been wrought since New Year 's in the appearance and spirits of the Princess of Wales . We shall never see her again as London used to know her . The whole world is familiar with the marvelous way in which she kept her comeliness and grace of youth years after her daughters were grown women . Not Adelina Patti herself had such a command over the secret of beauty preserved . Decade followed decade and left no mark of advancing age upon her lovely face and trim figure . But they say now that the poor lady has been literally broken by sorrow . Whoa she comes among us again it will be as an old woman . The Prince of Wales , too , has grown very gray and sad-faced and  --  walks about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowed head . Nothing is known of their plans , but it seems taken for granted that they will not return to n ngland before Autumn . British Court circles are confronted by the prospect of a renewed period of mourning for the Grand Duke of Hesse , whom nobody expects will recover . There is a whimsical paradox in the fact that , whereas English royalty was sharply criticised in England on account of this Hessian son-in-law , he in turn used to be extremely unpopular among his own subjects because of his English connection . I suppose there is no other town on the Continent where Englishpeople are so curiously disliked as in Darmstadt . The late Princess Alice was , perhaps , the most gifted of all the children of Albert and Victoria . but she did not embrace among her talents that of making herself beloved . In fact , she could have given points even to her elder sister , now the Empress Frederick , in what James M. Whistler calls the " gentle art of making enemies . " I know several young Englishmen who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stories they tell of the outrageous way they were supported by her in behaving make me wonder that the native population did not rise and massacre them in cold blood . Every public and private interest in Darmstadt was steadily subordinated to the wishes and convenience of the English colony . If any royalties arrived or departed , none but English was allowed inside the station to witness the spectacle . The State opera was kept waiting seventy minutes each Sunday evening because the principal performers had first to sing in the English chapel . The public grounds where citizens walked and . the garrison paraded daily were closed to both because the Engglish students desired it for a cricket field . So it went as long as Princess Alice lived , and it can be readily understood that her husband has been more popular since her death than he was before . Darmstadt has no English students now , and desires none . It could even survive without those periodical descents which the royal mother-inlaw with her retinue of hated islanders or Battenbergs still makes on the Grand Duke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been a notable man or even a very valuable ruler , but he was a patriotic German when the fatherland most needed patriots , and he will be pleasantly remembered in Hesse . The strike of the Midland and other colliery workers for the purpose of limiting the output and raising the price of coal began this morning . When to this is added the strike of the Durham miners for increased wages we have the stupendous total of 400 , - 000 men refusing to work . Since 1879 there have been five advances of either 5 or 10 per cent . in colliery wages , making a total ' of 35 per cent . In the face ' of this fact business is exceptionally poor , and the weather of unheard-of severity . This disturbance makes people very angry , and the trouble - will assume another form on Monday , when the big fleet of vessels now on the way from Antwerp with Belgian coal shall arrive and be blocked by the refusal of the dock laborers to unload them . It is difficult to foresee more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trades unions thus play one an- other 's game against the consumers and promise to be an engrossing topic . It is the feeling all over England that during the coming week coal prices will rise ; they are already unprecedentedly high . They have not advanced further to-day , simply because a great number of industrial establishments in the north , which have been running for a month at no profit merely to give employment , have now damped their tires and thus heavily reduced the demand for coal . . The London Times for the past few years has been conducted on such spitefully onesided lines that it amazes one to find it today editorially thanking Labouchere for the pains he took to secure the prosecution and punishment of old Morland , the Oxford tutor who blackmailed young aristocratic students through the medium of a hypothetical young widow . The Times praises his zeal , ingenuity , and courage in tracking out and crushing a whole series of social Pests , of whom Morland was only the latest . When one reflects that it is to Labouchbre more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due , this eulogy is calculated to make one sit up and rub one 's eyes . Men are asking one another what it means , and wondering if the Times , seeing the handwriting on the wall , is getting ready to flop when Gladstone comes in with his huge majority after the next election . Of late . years we have lost sight of the fact that the historic attitude of the Times is that of a supporter of the Government . Conceivably the managers of the paper have remembered this and are preparing to crosstack . The incident of the Salvation Army getting a local act repealed under which the Eastbourne authorities and the mob were able to persecute them has called attention to the fact that Roman Catholics are still forbidden in English law to go in procession outside their churches with robed priests , crucifixes , or other emblems . Catholic priests appearing in their robes beyond the church door or outside a private house where they are celebrating mass are liable to imprisonment . This strange survival from the days of Catholic penal laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is unlikely that there will be any strenuous demand to abolish it . A discovery is reported at Helsingfors of an ancient chest , containing a. lot . of curious pieces of iron machinery with a mass of parchments , the latter being a treatise on the possibility of applying steam to mechanics , while the machinery is a very tolerable approximation of the steam engine of a century ago . Both iron work and documents purport to have been made by Sager , the famous abbot of St. Denis and administrator under two Kings of France in the twelfth century . Great interest will , of course , attach to the investigation of the authenticity of these antique remains . If they really are Seger 's , he will have a new distinction as antedating all the other pioneers of steam application by hundreds of years . Prof. Blackie , that astonishing octogenarian , has an article in one of the magazinesthis week with a lot of odd reminiscences of distinguished people . Of course he includes Carlyle . Nobody writes now about anything he remembers without bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both men . One Sunday evening Blackie was calling at Chelsea . Carlyle talked on for hours , refusing to allow others to got in a word edgewise . Mrs. Carlyle had something she especially wanted to say and was almost tearful because she found no chance . Blackie at last went over and grabbed Carlyle by the shoulders and shook him fiercely , crying : " Let your wife speak , you monster ! " But Carlyle would n't all the same . Mme. Guile Valda was the principal soloist at the opening of the Philharmonic concert on Thursday night , singing two of Mozart 's arias and winning great applause . She is to be the feature of the St. Patrick 's Day concert in the vast Albert Hall and has a sheaf full of later engagements if her recently-recovered health holds out . The friends of the late Sir Morell Mackenzie are bestirring themselves - to raise a fund to erect some permanent memorial to him in the shape of an addition to his Golden Square Throat Hospital . Many of these friends are in America , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Co. have arranged to receive subscriptions .                     