@@673323

txt This majority will doubtless be increased by the supplementary election , according to the universal law by which one political victory begets , or at lease facilitates another . The result in France is likely to be what it would be here upon the one-third of the States which voted in November if the other two-thirds were " October States . " Some of the contest : will be interesting on personal grounds . but the political result . of the supplementary elections will be of no importance . The conciliatory disposition manifested on both sides makes it likely that the " incident " of Gigues-Alortes will soon be closed . The Italian case was more or less weakened by the fact that the mobs of several Italian cities took their redress into their own hands and proceeded to commit upon French residents the very outrages of which they had to complain when committed by Frenchmen upon Italians resident in France . It seems odd that the first apology should have come from Italy when the first offense came from France . But the promptness of Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mob , and in removing Roman officials , makes the Italian demand for reparation for the original offense all the stronger . The French Government has already promised the removal of the indiscreet Mayor of Aignes-Itiortes , and it will doubtless consent to pay an indemnity for the massacred Italians , especially since Italy has already offered reparation for the destruction done to French property in Italy , though this did not include any loss of life . It is noteworthy that the excitement seems to have been much greater in Italy than in France , a fact probably due to the existence in France of another form of excitement in the shape of the elections . The house of Representatives having manifested a laudable curiosity as to the exact Treasury operations under the Shernian eel , Mr. CAULISLE yesterday sent them a full statement . The Commander in Chief of the Grand A riny of the Republic asserted last week at a meeting of veterans that " there is not a man on the pension rolls to-day who was n't placed there honestly and just as the penFion laws required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that he is unacquainted with the history of the wholesale frauds perpetrated by VAN LEUVEN , the pension attorney doing business in Iowa , Minnesota , and certain other Western States , which the Pension Bureau has had under examination for some weeks , and concerning which Commissioner LOCIIREN gave a statement to the press yesterday . In this instance , as in the case of the frauds in Virginia , scores , and probably hundreds of veterans were placed on the rolls dishonestly and fraudulently , although it appears that in many cases the applicants themselves may fairly be regarded as innocent . Even if nothing be said about the thousands of pensions issued unlawfully by RAUM under his Order No. 164 , such notorious frauds as those committed by VAN LETSVEN should not be ignored by a Commander in Chief of the Grand Army . The reports of the savings banks of this State for the year ending on the 30th of June show that they were still increasing in the number of depositors and the amount of deposits . The total number of open accounts on June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July , 1892 , an increase of 65,709 . The amount due depositors had increased by more than twenty -- seven millions , or from $610,560,031 to $642,931,377 . The only unfavorable indication in the reports was in a reduction of some $5.750,000 in the surplus account , due doubtless to diminished income from investments without a corresponding diminution in interest payments . But , as they still hold a surplus over their liabilities of more than $84,000 , - 000 , they are in a position to resist a much greater strain than has yet been put upon them or is likely to be put upon them . The announcement that the reballoting in France for the seats not filled by the election of Sunday will take place Sept. 9 would be of great interest if the control of the Legislature were in doubt .                     