@@674874

txt A persistent effort is being made in quarters conspicuously close to the Secretary of War to belittle the significance of Gen. Miles 's presence at Santiago , and to deny that he is there in the exercise of the full and proper functions of the General commanding the army . The local newspapers , which draw their inspiration direct from the Secretary , say that Gen. Miles will " remain at Santiago in an advisory capacity , even though he is the superior officer of Gen. Shafter , " and that " Gen. Miles has not taken and will not take charge of the operations now being conducted against Santiago . Whatever credit , " they continue , " is to be derived from the capture of that town , if it results from the prosecution of the present plan of operations by Gen. Shafter , will redound to that officer , for Gen. Miles has expressly declared that he does not assume the conduct of these operations . " These utterances are accepted as being Secretary Alger 's view of Gen. Miles 's status . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could to prevent Gen. Miles from going to Cuba , it is not considered surprising that he should make a special . ef- fort to minimize the meaning and importance of his presence there . The Secretary of War has all along shown a keen desire to preserve the glory of . the Santiago campaign for Gen.- Shatter , who- is- a . Michigan man and the personal choice of the Secretary , and  --  the pains he is taking to let the public know that-Gen .. Miles is not to have a commanding part in the performance provokes less comment than it might have done under other circumstances . Being the superior of Gen. Miles , Secretary Alger ? must be supposed to know what- his authority at Santiago is . According ' to the ' law , and the opinion of military experts here , Gen. Miles must be in command at Santiago unless the President has by sl3e cial orders made him subordinate for the time to Gen. Shafter . Section 122 of the Articles of War is as follows : " If upon marches , ' guards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happen to Join or do duty together , the officer highest in rank of the line of the army , marine corps , or militia by commission , there on duty or in quarters , shall command the whole and give orders for what is needful for the service , unless otherwise specially directed by the President according to the nature of the case . " According to this , unless the President* has given orders to the contrary , Gen. Miles would necessarily take command when he arrives where the army is , he being superior in rank to Gen. Shatter . Either Miles must command Shatter or Shatter must command Miles . Nobody who knows Gen. Miles believes for a moment that he went to Santiago with a secret order in his pocket making him subordinate to Gen. Shatter while there If he did not do that he must be in command . There can be ? ro such thing as his remaining there in an " advisory capacity . " Gen. Shatter will retain his place as Major General commanding the Fifth Army Corps . He will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second in command to Miles and subject to orders from him . Before leaving Washington Gen. Miles said distinctly that he was going to the front to take command of the army . He laughed at the idea of the General commanding the army visiting it as a sightseer goes to a fair . He recognized that the only thing that would prevent his being in command when he got to Santiago was an order from the President relieving him from command of the army . Had he received that order he would not have gone to Santiago at all .                     