@@674219

txt It seems to be settled that MAURICE GRAU will succeed to the post of grand opera impresario In London , left vacant by the death of Sir AUGUSTUS HARRIS . From the artistic point of view , Mr. GRAU is a much abler man than his predecessor . lie knows the history of impresarioship and has an intelligent and sympathetic knowledge of music . Much of the delicate work of management , if not all of it , has been left to his care during the administration of Messrs . ABBEY &; GRAU in our own Opera House . He has been the producer and the pacifier , and always an acutely sensitive critic of his own work and that of the artists engaged by him . But Mr. ABBEY has planned and looked after the finances . His name and fame , his personal magnetism , have made the firm strong and carried it safely through dangerous crises . If It is true that he will take care of the Covent Garden Opera hereafter , Mr. GRAU will not have the benefit of Mr. ABBEY 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The arrangement will surely be beneficial to New-York operagoers . The London season begins in May and ends with July . It is likely that hereafter the companies in the two capitals will be practically identical , and that scenery , dresses , and properties made for Covent Garden Theatre can be used in the Metropolitan Opera House and vice versa . As for the vocal and dramatic ensembles , London will be the gainer . ABBEY &; GRAU have given much better casts to great works than London has had lately . What wheat has been to the big States of the Middle West , sugar to Louisiana , and the orange to Florida , the potato has been to Long Island . The Suffolk County farmers who can clearly trace their lineage back three centuries , and are apt to plow their cornfields so carelessly that the furrows are distressingly crooked , give more time and energy to the cultivation of the potato than they do to caring for the prize cattle of which they are justly proud . The potato is not inexpensive in the growing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sadly overworked , and patent fertilizers cost money . Asparagus , melons , and small fruits could be raised more profitably . But the Suffolk County men have been as true to the potato of their fathers as to the American flag and the memory of ABRAHAM LINCOLN . The result has been an oversupply of potatoes . The market has refused them , and the stock has called for more variety in its food , and turned away from potatoes with a feeling of satiety . Summer boarders will not live entirely on potatoes . The Long Island farmer is in much the same position as the great wheat grower of the West . Yet he has not yet been heard to howl for " cheaper money . " Indeed , there is reason to hope that he will sensibly turn his attention to other and more profitable crops .                     