@@672860

txt That often-promised letter from Blaine , in which he is supposed to decline the nomination for President , is out . Since the day , now some months gone . when he is said to have ' written a letter withdrawing from the attempt to secure the nomination , and Intimating his desire to see Harrison renominated , which letter was treated by his personal friends as a missive that had been penned by the hand of a man so weaktilted in body and mind by disease that the letter was not entitled to be regarded as a conclusive utterance , and was appropriated and destroyed instead of being sent to its destination , Mr. Blaine has been reported to be about " to decline . " To-night Mr. Clarkson , who has been chosen as the medium of publication , gives out the following : WauaernearoaaFeb. 6 , 3.892 . J. S aurkson , Cliairmait ' , of 11w Reoub , tic= National Committee : MY DEAR SIR : I am not a candidate for the Presidency , and my name will not go before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement in due season . To those who have tendered me their support I owe sincere thanks and am most grateful for their confidence . They will , I am sure , make earnest effort In the approaching contest , which Is rendered specially important by reason of the industrial and financial policies of the Go verrunent being at stake . The popular decision of these issues is of great moment and will be of far-reaching consequence . Very sincerely yours , JAMES G. BLAflaE . It is probable that he has discovered , what almost all Republicans have long ago found oat. that Harrison has the lead in the-race. and that he will probably be unopposed at Minneapolis . Republicans and Democrats who have been watching the-actions of Blaine and Harrison for a year or more have repeatedly asserted that since the time when Blaine was taken sick timing the Bering Sea controversy last Spring . bad conspicuously while the Chilean matter was under consideration , Harrison was constantly tripping Blaine up and appropriating all the points that the Secretary of State had exg oted to turn to his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions of the two from a vantage ground , says that Harrison has beaten Blaine at every turn and has demonstrated either that Blaine was a very shallow politician or that Harrison was a very shrewd one . Harrison 's sharpness seems to have been found out generally , for it has been perfectly plain to everybody that he has been gaining hold - while Blaine was losing ground , and that , it there was anything left at all of the Blaine boom when the convention was held , it would be made up exclusively of disgruntled place-seekers who have been led to believe by Blaine that they were rejected because they were Blaine men . " We can win , " said a confident Republican to-day . " even with Harrisoa . " This was his beginning . " The Democrats , " he continued , " with their accustomed foolishness . are making it impossible to nominate Cleveland . If they can not win with Cleveland they can not win at all . If they nominate Hill the party will be beaten as badly as it was with McClellan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they could carry the South with any candidate . and their chances in the North would be inoraesed so ranch by Cleveland 's nomination that I wonder that there should be any power in this Hill movement In alter the obviously proper course of the national Democracy . I hear something about Whitney as the compromise candidate . Well , if they think that Whitney is any more powerful as a drawing card than Cleveland , let them try it against us With Whitney . I fancy that we could take care of that nomination without frying out much fat " Whatever of embarrassment there may be In the passage of a Silver bill , the Democrats appear very likely bo compelled to face it . The conference last night at the house of Mr. Bland , at which it was resolved to report a Free Silver bill from the Coinage Committee , is accepted as the indication of the purpose of the majority , and a striking comment upon Mr. Harter 's reporter confidence that conservatism would prevaiL The bill will go to the Senate after It has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body , probably by the aid of the Western silver Senators of the Republican faith . It will be vetoed by the President . The result will be to raise Harrison in the estimation of all sound-money men in the East . He is already disliked by the silver men of the West Harrison knows that the veto of a freecoinage bill , even if it is passed by the help of the Republicans in the senate , will insure the Republicans the States of Iowa and Wisconsin beyond any doubt , unless the Democrats take Cleveland and his silver views , and make their fight back on the ground that the Democrats seem to have partly abandoned . The Blaine letter seems to have surprised the members of the Cabinet of Mr. Harrison more than it has anybody else in Washington Only the substance of the letter has been learned by most of those who have heard of It . But to the men who have taken the trouble to ascertain its contents it is regarded as so poor a piece of composition as almost to instify the suspicion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Blaine was not formerly accustomed to expressing himself so larziely and imperfectly . He talks about the important issues before the party . but he does not indicate the party . He forgets that there is an Administration , and that the head of it is a candidate for the Presidency , which Mr. Blaine says he is not . When he refers to his friends and expresses his belief that they will work for something , he fails to say what that something will . be . Not until thb letter has been published and been read carefully by the politicians will it be possible to learn what is really thought of it . The general impression to-night is that it does not exclude Blaine from the nomination . If he intends that it shall , he will probably have to do as he did in 1888 and write a second declination to explain his first .                     