@@672721

txt It is pretty generally conceded to-night that there is little fear that blood will have to be shed in the mining region . Gov . Buchanan reached the city this morning from Nashville , and as soon as he had breakfasted began his work to smooth the tangled skein . He first called his militia officers into his consultation room and listened to their reports . Later on prominent citizens of Knoxville and friends of the Governor were admitted . The Governor listened to all suggestions , evidently wanting the fullest possible discussion of the situation in all its aspects . At 3 o'clock this afternoon , by appointment , he met the committee of the miners and the commission of five named by the miners . The session lasted for several hours , and at the end ho announced his . decision He stated that before he loft Nashville he had decided to call an extra session of the Legislature , and had already made a call for an election to fill vacancies in that body . In his call for a special session he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system be modified , it not repealed . In the meanwhile , pending the election , the convicts must be returned to the ? Briceville mines from which they have been evicted , If the minors agree not to molest them until such time as the Legislature may act the militia will be sent home . The committee from the miners , although having power to act , concluded that the decision of the Governor should be laid officially before the miners as a whole , and the Governor was so informed . The committee will leave here for Coal Creek early in the morning . A mass meeting of miners will beheld at 11 o'clock , immediately upon its arrival , and the matter will be definitely decided . The committee will return to-morrow afternoon at 5:45 o'clock to notify the Governor of the result . Those best acquainted with the mountain people believe that the miners will be willing to leave the matter to the Legislature , and will give the required promises . If they do not , the convicts wUl be returned to Coal Creek , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to guarantee protection to property and the safe working of the convicts , the United States will be called upon for a force of regulars . To-morrow is anxiously awaited by Gov . Buchanan He is interested hi it as no other man can be , for many of the best lawyers believe that in calling out the militia he has exceeded his power . The Constitution of the State is very plainly against him . Whe clause relating to the militia is : " The militia shall not be called into service except In cases of rebellion or invasion , and then only when the General Assembly shall declare by law that the public safety requires it . "                     