@@672903

txt The bill of Mr. PEEL providing that all Indians who have received ten years/ education at Government expense shall be citizens of the United States aims to open . one more way to the goal which the rod . mau has before him . There are various other ways , of which the most important at present is the acceptance of individual laud allotments . The Severalty act of 1887 expressly conferred citizenship on all Indians who had already received allotmeats , and it was found that no fewer than 10,122 Indians thereby became our fellowcitizens . It also gave citizenship to all who had voluntarily taken up their residence apart from their tribes and adopted the habits of civilized life ; but exactly how many were thus admitted does not appear . It is known , however , that the continuation of allotments under the act of 1887 has taken in thousands of other Indians . Patents had been issued to 2,897 of them at the date of the last report of Commissioner MORGAN , and allotments awaiting patents had been made to 3,650 others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just about to be opened . It was also found that 3,072 members of various tribes had by special laws and treaties become citizens before the passage of the Allotment act . We are accordingly entitled to believe that there are about 20,000 Indians who have become or will soon become citizens . Again , a special method of acquiring citizenship hag by still more recent legislation been offered to the five civilized tribes and the smaller ones of the Quapaw Agency , occupying what is now , since the establishment of Oklahoma , the Indian Territory . Any member of these tribes or nations may apply for citizenship to the United States court in the Indian Territory , and as a protecting measure it is declared that such Indians " do not forfeit or lose any rights or privileges they enjoy or are entitled to as members of the tribe or nation to which they belong . " Still , it does not now seem likely that this statute will be called much into operation . The live civilized tribes seem likely to remain in their present political condition until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , have their own system of representative government , with a Congress or Legislature of two houses , and their judiciary and code of written laws . They also hold and insist upon agreements of the United States Government by which no Territorial or State authority is to be placed over them . Still , the day can hardly be very distant , it would seem , before these tribes become incorporated in some form into our political system , perhaps being specially allowed to send a Delegate to Congress . The question may sometimes occur whether the declaration of the fourteenth amendment that " all persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside " does not make the Indians citizens . The language is certainly sweeping , but the Supreme Court has decided that the phrase " subject to the jurisdiction thereof " excludes the members of the Indian tribes , who have an " alien and dependent condition " not like that of citizens . Besides , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to their population , " excluding Indians not taxed . " That Congress held this view was shown by its statute of 1866 , which expressly declared that " all persons born in the United States and not subject to any foreign power , excluding Indians not taxed , are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States . " Perhaps there might bo a point as to the influence of taxation on citizenship under this law , but practically the Indians do not claim citizenship on that ground , as they would hardly need to do now with the other means of acquiring it if wanted . While education by the Government in the Indian schools has been established much longer than the ten years referred to in Mr. PEEL 'S bill , perhaps there might not be many cases yet of so prolonged a tuition , although they maybe looked for more frequently hereafter . Education is certainly a good foundation for citizenship , but just now it does not figure much in our methods , and underthe present plans we are making Indians citizens quite fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and care now exercised by the government ; and when it is considered how incompetent many of them are to take care of themselves , and how readily their ignorance and thriftlessness could make them victims to the unscrupulous , it is evident that education has still a great preliminary work to do for them . The exemption of their allotment lauds both from transfer and taxation for many years is one admirable safeguard , without which it might well be feared that even the Allotment act was extending citizenship too rapidly . However , sooner or later they will all be absorbed in our political system , and the stages of assimilation will doubtless go on more and more rapidly .                     