@@674075

txt The postal-card canvass that Is going on in Brooklyn in favor of the " side-door policy " shows the extent to which the minds of a certain class of people have been perverted by that policy . The President of a so-called Citizens ' League is having these cards distributed through the brewers and saloon keepers , to be finally sent to Mayor WURSTER . Each card expresses approval of the " administration of ex-Mayor SCHIEREN as to his excise policy " and begs of the present Mayor " an equally liberal interpretation of the law . " There is in this a cheerful recognition of the fact that the side-door policy was the policy of SCHIEREN 'S administration , notwithstanding the hypocritical pretense that the law was enforced in his day in Brooklyn , and it leaves no doubt as to what is expected of Mayor WITRSTER . The phrase " liberal interpretation of the law , " instead of evasion or disregard of the law , " is one of the signs of the perverted judgment which that policy has produced . There is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are contending for the maintenance of the present law and those who are demanding local option on the Sunday selling question recognize alike what the law means and what it was intended to accomplish . None of them has any doubt about it . The law specifically and distinctly prohibits all liquor selling by licensed saloon keepers on Sunday . It does not prohibit letting people into saloons by the front door or selling liquor to persons entering that way . It prohibits selling it at all to anybody in saloons on Sunday . It makes no distinction as to the extent or manner of carrying on the business . It simply forbids it to be carried on during that day of the week . That is the way it was understood by those who made the law . That is the way it is understood by those who favor its maintenance and by those who demand its enforcement , ane that is the way it is understood by those who advocate a change in the law . If it is not so understood by those who desire to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral sense and their reasoning Powers have been so perverted that they are incapable of admitting that to be true which they do not like . There is no question of what the law means or what its purpose is , but Only a question whether it shall be obeyed - or disobeyed : So far as Mayor WURSTER is concerned , it is a question whether he Will see that the laws , are . faithfully exeeuted-ur whether he will allow ' one of them : to be ' diregarded .. because ' a ) considerable number of persons do not like to submit to it . This is one of the pernicious effects of tolerating the policy of evasion so long . It has so demoralized the law-abiding sentiment that people openly demand that a certain provision , the meaning and purpose of which are really beyond all doubt , shall not be enforced by the authorities whose sworn duty it is to see that it is enforced . When such a perversion of sentiment is fostered there is no knowing where it will stop . It may lead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the way of a considerable number of people  --  those engaged in a strike or a boycott for instance ? shall be so " interpreted " as not to apply to such people . The spirit of complete anarchy springs froirn just such a mental perversion and is cultivated by side-door policies . The fault is primarily with the law itself , which is imposed upon communities whose conditions it does not fit and whose sentiment does not sustain it , and the radical remedy is a change in the law . But that does not justify a policy of evasion or non-enforcement or avert the evil consequences of such policy . Submission to law as law should be inculcated as the most effective means of securing its adaptation to existing conditions and to the sentiment that is called upon to support it .                     