@@781289

txt An entirely innocent use of Paris green and his inability to speak caused John Ditmar , a deaf mute of 235 North Tenth Street , Brooklyn , a bad , surprising , and demoraliz ing quarter of an hour yesterday , and resulted in the innermost recesses of his nature being searched with a stomach pump engineered by an enthusiastic surgeon and directed by a philanthropic policeman . Ditmar had been using paris green to destroy insects on his premises . When he went on the street he forgot to , brush his clothes . As he was walking on Bedford Avenue , Policeman O'Connor saw the poison sprinkled on the man 's waistcoat and coat and suspected suicide . He seized Ditmar by the collar and pointed to the greenish dust . The astoniphed Ditmar began to work his fingers to spell " bugs . " O'Connor accepted this demonstration as an incipient convulsion , and proceeded to rush his captive to the station . Ditmar wiggled his fingers faster and faster , and hung back as best he could , He also waved his hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general public and he did his involuntary canter . When they reached the station Ditmar was scared half to death . He was working both hands and his face and rolling his eyes . This looked like more convulsions , and a. hurry call was sent for an ambulance . Dr. Reidel of the Eastern District Hospital responded on the run . He went right at Ditmar , who was more indignant than ever when he found an emetic forced down his throat , and became frantic when he was jerked on his back by a squad of policemen and a stomach pump was introduced into his system and operated at double pressure . He fought manfully for his life , but in vain . He could not understand what was being done to him or what it was being done for . The surgeon pumped and the emetic attended to business faithfully and Ditmar at last resigned himself to the new method of assassination . They got about everything else except poison out of him . He lay back exhausted , but continued to wiggle feeble protests on his fingers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to watch the performance , suddenly recognized the sign language and shouted : " Stop the pump ! " As the surgeon paused Ditmar , feeling some cessation of the process of depletion , sat up and spelled faster . Then somebody who could read his fingers interpreted . He was begging to be spared . The surgeon packed up his instruments and left disgusted . He was not , however , so much disgusted as was Ditmar , In fact the feeling of disgust was the only thing Ditmar had inside of him at that time . The police gave him a strong stimulant , but he said things on his fingers to O'Connor which it is as well that that officer could not comprehend .                     