@@672577

txt Dr. GALLINGER is United States Senatorelect from New-Hampshire . He is a politician of great experience and considerable success , though looking back over his long ? career in that State we infer that he would say , if he were pressed , that his successes have not been so many- as his failures . Since , however , the latest of his successes has brought him within sight of a seat in the Senate , he may be pardoned for thinking that it outweighs many failures , and also that it gives him a certain authority in the politics of his party . At any rate , he takes the responsibility of giving advice . The Doctor and Senator-elect has chosen civil service reform as a matter on which he thinks his counsel is required . He does " not think much " of it . From the way he talks he has only too plainly not thought of it - at all . If he had , it would have occurred to him that his party , by every form of pledge known to politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the extension of that reform . Time and again , in the most explicit and emphatic manner , it has defined , with completeness and accuracy , the principle of the reform and declared its purpose to adhere to it . In 1884 the resolutions of the Republican National Convention contained the clearest and most comprehensive statement of the essence of the reform up to that time made in any platform . In 18 ' 88 these resolutions were specifically'reindorsed and made even more unqualified . In Mr. HARRISON 'S letter of acceptance a pledge was given to execute the promise of the convention . and even more than that . In the last session of Congress Mr. M0KINLEY , the recognized Republican leader in the House , declared that - if the Republican Party were committed to anything , it was to civil service reform . " Under the circumstances , with these facts with which it may be presumed a United States Senator-elect must be familiar , it is a little surprising to find Dr. GALLINGER talking as if the reform of the civil service in accordance - with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open question on which the party needs his opinion . It is plain that the party needs no opinion , either his or that of any one else , and is not in a position to discuss the subject . The only possible effect that can be produced by an anti-reform address from so prominent a party man as a United States Son-. ator-elect must be assumed to be is to reveal the fact that in his opinion the promises of his party are in intent false , that they were not meant to be fulfilled , but only meant to deceive those who might be foolish enough to believe them . So far as Dr. GALLINGER 'S speech is accepted and indorsed , or even tolerated by his party , it is as disgraceful to it as it is to him . As a mere matter of argument , the Doctor 's statements and reasoning are stale . They have all been made over and over again . The party has heard them years since much more forcibly and skillfully put than he has , the wit to put them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as either worthless or impertinent , and has placed itself on record repeatedly as committed to what the Doctor tardily undertakes to oppose . Yet we regret to say that when these worn-out sneers and sophistries were retailed to the Middlesex Republican Club on Saturday they met with some applause . It was natural , also , that when . the speaker , in closing the address of which these were a part , mentioned NT- Ety .. /Ltmo as a possible candidate for the Presidency , the applause was loud and long continued . Probably no man In the party could stand on a platform of repudiation of civil service reform with more perfect grace and propriety than Mr. BLAINE  --  unless we except Mr. Lummox.                     