@@674324

txt Mr. PARSONS , the engineer for the Rapid Transit Commission , followed strictly the resolution adopted on the Gth of August in reporting upon routes and a general plan for rapid-transit roads . The resolution limited him to a plan involving a cost of not more than $30,000,000 , and required him to begin at a terminus at or near the Post Office under the City Hall Park and follow the line of Park Row , Elm Street , and Fourth Avenue to the Grand Central Station , dividing the system there into east and west branches , the former to proceed on the line of Park Avenue and over private property to the Harlem River and beyond , and the latter through Forty-second Street and the Boulevard to a point above One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street . It required a four-track road from the City Hall Park to Forty-second Street and two-track roads above that line , with provision for adding a third track when it could be advantageously done , and for extensions from both the southern and the northern termini and the expansion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Within these limitations Mr. PARSONS appears to have done as well as could be done . There is no question about the desirability of the central underground line from the Grand Central Station to the City Hall Park , and it ought to be extended , with two tracks at least , down Broadway to Bowling Green , for that is a very important section to be reached by any rapid-transit system . It contains many people during the day who desire to get up town at night and few of whom would go to the Post Office for a train . Broadway being now out of the question for the main , trunk of the system , Elm Street affords the best route , and it is a great advantage that this street is about to be widened and so extended as to be continuous with Fourth Avenue . Not only will that be an advantage to the work of construction , but this route makes possible a close estimate of cost , which will come far within the city 's Constitutional debt limit and obviate the objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Above Forty-second Street the problem is not so clearly solved . To complete an underground system , east and west side routes will be necessary , and the one plainly available for the west side is through Broadway and the Boulevard , where underground construction will not be difficult or very costly . There is a large district to be provided for and to be developed below One Hundred and Thirty-fifth Street , but it would not be long before an extension further north would be desirable . On the east side the matter is more complicated and embarrassing . Besides the present four-track railroad providing for the trains of three companies , haying stations at Harlem and above the river , there are now two elevated lines on the east side , and there are objections to underground construction in the low ground above the present tunnel . Mr. PARSONS proposes an elevated road deflecting westward to Lenox Avenue or near it , running through a section above the Park now poorly provided with transit facilities and connecting with the central section beyond the Harlem River . The system thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would cover the area- now developed and in pressing need of rapid-transit , facilities , and it could be readily extended as the area of development and pressing need was enlarged . It comes well within the authorized limit of cost without encroaching upon the city 's ability to provide by the issue of bonds for other requirements of municipal growth . Moreover , it promises the only mode of relief from congested population and overburdened lines of travel that seems at present to , be available .                     