@@674624

txt John Meyers , who has served about one-fourth of a term of seven years in the State prison here for burglary , made an attempt to escape today , and almost succeeded . His cell was on the top tier in the west wing of the prison . To effect his escape he cut through the wall of the cell and made an opening sufficiently large to permit his body to pass through . This task occupied his leisure time for several weeks . When he emerged from his cell he was in a. loft above the cells . The roof of the prison was a few feet above . After getting through the wall he worked more easily at making a hole in the roof , for the keepers on their rounds could look in his cell and see him apparently asleep in his bunk . He had fashioned a model of a head out of bread which he had saved from the table . The exterior of this was covered with manilla paper in such a manner that it looked natural in the halt light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wall in such a manner that there appeared to be a body in the bunk Last night Meyers was ready to depart . The hole in the roof was ready to break through , and he prepared to go . He found , however , that the searchlight which flashes in all parts of the prison yard and along the walls every few seconds would not give him the time needed . If he emerged upon the roof it would be but a few seconds before the light would reveal him . He , therefore , closed the hole in the roof and returned to his cell , determined to make the attempt in the daylight , when the walls would not be so carefully guarded . After dinner to-day , when the nrisoners went to their cells . he discarded his prison suit and donned a suit he had made for himself . During the Summer the convicts are allowed a lightweignt blue woolen blanket as a covering . He had secured an extra one of these , and rad cut it up and made for himself a pair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The suit was rather rough looking , but would have enabled him to get out of the city without attracting attention . He made his way out of the prison , and had succeeded In reaching the top of the wall surrounding the yard without being discovered , when he was seen by Deputy Keeper Rhinehardt . Meyers did not see the keeper , and was about to leap to the ground outside when he looked down and saw the keeper 's revolver pointed at his face . He dropped hack into the yard and was returned to the prison . In his bunk was found the dummy arranged as usual , so that he would not have been missed until the supper hours                     