@@781527

txt The Liliputians added another to their long list of successes at the Thalia Theatre last night in the presentation for the first time in this country of the musical comedy , " The Dwarf 's Wedding . " The work partakes largely of the form of an operetta , and is plentifully interspersed with ballet divertissements . As it was shown at the Thalia , it commended itself to the seekers after amusement pure and simple and to the lovers of bright and sparkling music well sung by both principals and chorus . The subject matter of the libretto Is chielly made up of folklore , and the plot has to deal with one of the mythical legends the scene of which was the Court of Peter the Great . There is a comical Intermingling of midgets and full-grown people , and timuelng complications are the result . The score of Mesers . Emil Christian ! and Victor Flollaendar is not remarkable for originality of themes , but the composers disclose a happy faculty for adaptation , and the familiar melodies which they have wedded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be whistled and sung by the common people , and this is perhaps the best evidence of successful appreciation of the popular taste . The management of the theatre has staged the production with uncommon riohnees , and the soveral tableaus find groupings are of exceptional effectiveness . Iu the three hours occupied by the performance there is not so much as a single dull moment , and the great audience which crowded the Thalia , in every part last night was kept in an almost continual state of hilarity . It is proposed to begin on Nov. 1 the publication of a monthly periodical to be Called the Charities Review , which will be devoted to the discussion of social and economic questions and to the consideration of subjects of special interest to active workers and students in the field of charities . It will contain , besides papers on the principles and methods or orgautted charity , accounts or successful experiments in improving social conditions , reviews or works on social and economic subjects , and cumweuts on current events of interest . The Review will also represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . It will be published Taring eight months of the year , under the auspices of the Charity OrganizeDon , Society by the Critic Company , 52 und 54 Lafayette Place . to which remittances should be made and communications reLitlfig to the business department be addressed , Coinniunications relating to the editorial department should be addressed to the editor , 21 University Place , New-York . Tao subscription price will be $1 per annum.                     