@@675047

txt Chicago has become the chief battle ground in the contest betwe , - ? the Sugar Trust and the Arbuckles and the Doeschers , its powerful rivals . The eircumscrinees leading up to the recent cut are these : Arbuckle Brothers and the Doeschers own sugar refineries on the Atlantic seaboard that have a daily capacity of 5.000 and 3,500 barrels respectively . Both plants were started less than six months ago , and both invaded Chicago with their goods early in the Fall . The trust was ready for them . In September , seeing th-A rival goods were to be offered , its representatives visited the jobbing trade and suggested that a contract be signed by which any amount of sugar up to a stated quantity might be purchased by the jobber at a given price , and that a low one . This was to cut the ground from under the trust 's xivals. but the proposition was made only to its factors . The latter are all the wholesale grocers except two or three whose arrangement with the trust provides for a rebate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be made periodically . The Arbuckles and Doeschers , when they entered the Chicago market , made a cut in prices . It did not bring the expected increase in sales , as the jobbers were able under their contracts to draw on the trust for sugar at the same prices . The contracts began expiring a short time ago . Before the date was reached the trust 's representatives approached the factors and extended the agreement . When the Arbuckles and Doeschers found this out they . on Wednesday last , announced a cut to 5.20 cents , and coupled with it the notice they would do business with the retail trade . This has been followed up . The local houses of the Arbuckles and the Doeschers were bombarded with business . Salesmen for the jobbers and wholesalers came in to report th ' market was taken away from the trust . and that all the retailers in Chicago were dealing with the opposition . No attempt was made to meet the price , but there was possibly a reason for this . A meeting of the Sugar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until to-day , when it is expected the trust price will be announced . One year ago the difference between the prices of raw and refined sugars was about $1.25 . Yesterday it was 35 cents , a shrinkage of 90 cents a hundred pounds , or nearly $3 per barrel . If the Sugar Trust 's output is 10.000 barrels a day , a little figuring will give a fairly approximate idea of the vast sum the fight has cost . Within the last week or two fifteen carloads of beet sugar have a. - rived in Chicago , the first to reach this market .. This sugar was sold below the trust price , and it is said arrangements art . making to handle the output of a half dozen factories built and building in the nearby States . All these features create a situation which well-informed men in the trade aid pointed to the conclusion that the war would be fought out in this market 