@@674209

txt It is a pity that Gov . ALTGELD was not born on American soil so that he could be the nominee of the free-silver party for President of the United States . He is their logical candidate , as he is their actual leader . He simply carries out rigidly the principle on which the movement is based and asks at every chance for all that is demanded by the spirit of that movement . His theory is that those who for any reason have less than they wish shall by any means within their control take from those that have more . In practice he does not stop with the right of those who have less , but insists on the right of those who want anything to take from those who have it , even if the latter are the poorer . This is the vital principle of the free-silver movement . Its avowed purpose is to give more to the farmers an .1 others who are in debt , but its necessary operation will be to make the vast multitude of wage earners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in the amount owing to them in the country  --  tak , : less than their due . ALTGELD is the natural leader of such a movement , because he combines fanaticism with cunning . He is , so far as his ideas are to be gathered from his acts and speeches , a genuine European " Red , " doubled with an astute , unscrupulous American politician . He has the hatred of the former for orderly government based on justice and law ; he has the latter 's lust of power , however obtained . His mind is saturated with the ideas of German Socialism of the type that would prostitute all governmental authority to the advantage of the multitude , and his heart is hot with the passionate ambition to be himself the agent of that authority . With his ardent professed sympathy with the poor and unfortunate he has managed to reconcile the accumulation of a fortune , in the getting of which he has had the advantage of the system 431 orderly and law-enforcing Government at which he rails . He has , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of consistency so far as to seek to divide with others less lucky than himself or to accept that reduction of debts due him which he would enforce on others by his currency plan . The energy which his fanaticism and ambition inspire in him is increased by the personal hatred he bears toward President CLEVELAND , who dared to use the law-enforcing power of the Federal Executive against the protest of the Governor of Illinois . - When riot and blooshed were unchecked in that State , not because the Governor could not , but because he would r ot , suppress them , and the firm hand Cif the President intervened , ALTGELD felt that he was out raged and insulted . He is of that peculiarly dangerous habit of mind which accepts authority . not as a trust , but as a personal possession , to use , suppress , or abuse as suits the possessor . Having decided in that famous case to abuse his authority , it was an unpardonable affront that a higher power should perform the duty he had determined not to perform . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he had no other motive for advocating free silver , it would be quite enough that Mr. CLEVELAND opposes it . With these combined motives ALTGELD is bound to lead the movement , and the fact that it must disrupt the Democratic Party is of no account to him . He cares nothing for the party save as it serves his ends . He has no sympathy with its higher aims , no loyalty to either its principles or its spirit , no pride in its past , no regard for its future . There are free-silver leaders who will chafe under the leadership of this foreign-born demagogue and adventurer . Such men as Mr. Borns or Mr. BLAND or Senator:Torrias of Arks-mat can have little respect for his Ideas and still less for his character . ' However wrong-headed they may be on the silver question , they are American Democrats , imbued with loyalty to the institutions of their country , law abiding , loving justice , and meaning to do right , : But , though ; theli - , may:despite4tTo-nr.ps ; chnracter , an test his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis- aalso of Altgeldism . Once ' grant that the arbitrary exercise of the legislative power can make 50 cents legal tender for a dollar of honest debt and thereit no limit consistently to be put on that power . If the law can authorize partial theft , it can authorize any infringement of right . All will depend on the men who happen to control the Government , and the control of the Governnient ' Will become the coveted prize for all the restless , greedy , conscienceless Altgelds of the land . It is not Americanism . It is not Democracy . And if the convention at Chicago shall set it up for the party , the party will , for the time , disband rather than bow to it .                     