@@673475

txt The State of NewIrork has been asked to contribute to a. private enterprise in this city in which some of the most prominent lobbyists , politicians , and office holders are financially interested . Thousands of dollars are asked under the guise of an amendment to the Executive act for printing a lot of rubbish in the " State paper , " thepublication of which is of no earthly importance or consequence to any one except the printer who gets paid for it . A bill has been introduced in the Senate providing for this . It was presented by Senator Donaldson . and is now in the hands of the Judiciary Committee . If that committee ever lets it get out alive there may be further bills in the same general line presented , for they are ready , and political influences are at work to increase the scope of this bunko game . A few Republicans and Democrats have entered into an alliance , by which the Democratic and Republican ends of the State Government are to be reached in the attempt to secure a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which opens up this field of enterprise is short , and the vicious portion of it reads thus : Section 73 . The Secretary of State , Controller , and Treasurer shall , on or before the 1st day of January in each year , designate a daily newspaper , published in the City of Albany . to be known as the State paper , in which shall be published , during the following year , all appointments of Special Terms , Circuit Courts , Courts of Oyer and Terminer , and General Terms of the Supreme Court : the rules of practice adopted from time to time by the Justices of the Supreme Court and the Judges of the Court of Appeals , resolutions and Mils introduced in the Legislature . the laws of the State , and notices and advertisements required to be published in a newspaper by the Atrorney General . the Superintendent of Insurance , the Superintendent of nor kro , or in actions against foreign corporations . The publication of such notices and advertisements shall be additional to their publication in other newspapers . This act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills introduced into the Assembly in a State paper is so utterly absurd that it exposes the scheme . There are , at an average session of the Legislature , about 1,800 bills introduced in the Assembly , and about SOO or 900 in the Senate . This is a total of , say , 2.600 as the inside limit . These eelate to almost every conceivable subject , ' - om proposed amendments to the Constitu-en to the width of a highway in some obscure town in St. Lawrence County . They are printed in the usual bill form for the benefit of the men who will be called on to vote for or against them , and they make a mass of waste paper which is bulky . Less than a quarter of these ever become laws . A large proportion never get out of the committee to which they are referred . Many are duplicates , introduced in the two branches of the Legislature to secure more speedy consideration by the two bodies . It is the proposition of the bill of Senator Donaldson to pay- for printing all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany Argus , which is edited by William Speer . He has at times done reporting for newspapers and at times been one of the lobby here . He knows the value of the job which he is asking the State to give him . If it were Mr. Speer alone who owned " the State paper " and was thus asking the State to do him the favor of ordering a lot of worthless advertising at current rates , nobody would pay much attention to the proposition further than to laugh at him for thus attempting to play the part of " bunko steerer , " and to see to it that his measure sleeps forever in the committee . Mr. Speer would be harmless if he were alone , but " the State paper " Is by no means his . There are men whose names have been associated with this bill of Senator Donaldson 's which make it a dangerous thing for the taxpayers . The paper is the Democratic organ . Anthony M. Brady , Eugene Woods , the king of the lobby , and Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the paper . If it were necessary for the prosperity of the property that this " bunko " bill become a law , they could bring influence to bear which might result in the success of the " game " and a State scandal . For the publication of all these bills as introduced and the other matter which is spoken of in the bill , it is estimated the expense would annually amount to about $100,000 . The benefits would be to the taxpayers nothing , to the legislators nothing , to the State paper a good percentage of profit . All of the scheme , however , has not come to the surface vet . Another measure is in process of incubation , by which the State may further be compelled to contribute to the profits of the " State paper . " The second proposition is that the State paper shall also be paid for printing in full the debates at the coming Constitutional Convention . These will be printed in the official reports of the convention under provisions already existing . It is hard to see just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own stock in the State paper by the publication of the report daily . The members of the convention will doubtless rely on the official report for such information as they desire of what is said and done . If these reports were printed in the Statepaper , they would be brought witem reach of those few citizens of Albany who subscribe for the paper . The proposition now is that the State should pay for this . It is estimated that fully $75,000 would be required at the hands of the taxpayers if this scheme for securing advertising went through . That the present " State paper " is a Democratic organ , while the Legislature is Republican , has not been allowed to interfere with the projection of the scheme to secure State aid . The officers who name the State paper are now Republican , and next year they can easily name the Republican paper here as the beneficiary , and $75,000 worth of advertising with a State Treasury warrant behind it is worth just as much to a Republican paper as it is to a Democratic paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican State Committee . is the editor of the Republican paper which might be the beneficiary of this clever bunko game . Just at present he is counted as favorable to the measure , and his influence with the Republican Legislature is counted on to secure favorable action . Both parties are thus supposed properly to be under the influence , " and the taxpayers may whistle . The second bill is ready to be introduced this week . The utter uselessness of the printing proposed and the possibilities of a scandalous incident bemuse of those who are behind the papers interested have caused much talk on the part of those who have examined into the bald-faced scheme to secure advertising for which the people are to be taxed .                     