@@674118

txt The Morning Post tomorrow will publish a dispatch from Paris saying that the decision of the British Government to take part in the Soudan expedition has caused great surprise . The painful impression in Government circles has been intensified by the decision , inasmuch as it was hoped that the recent efforts to remove the causes of friction between France and Great Britain would lead to durable and friendly relations between the two powers . The present decision is likely to embitter the French against the British . The alleged necessity of the expedition is viewed with skepticism . Numerous dispatches have been exchanged with the Foreign Offices of the European powers , especially Russia . A semi-official bulletin , embodying the substance of the interview between M. Berthelot , the Foreign Minister , and Lord Dufferin , the British Ambassador , caused a sensation in the Chamber of Deputies , owing to an allusion it contained to the " , serious consequences of the step taken by the British Government . The attitude that ultimately will be taken by the Government is not known . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to be out of the question to push matters to extremes . , ' The Daily News will to-morrew pu.611 sh a dispatch from Paris which says , referring to the semi-official bulletin of the interview of M , Berthelot with Lord Dufferin : " This note , a la Olney , has aroused strong press enthusiasm . ' If M. Berthelot should submit a patriotic order of the day to the Chamber of Deputies it would be carried unanimously , no matter what its terms might be . " The danger of the situation lies in the ignorance of a majority of the Deputies of foreign affairs . M. Berthelot knows more on this subject than the whole Chamber together . I believe that his influence will restrain the Deputies . I dread to think what might happen with a warlike Foreign Minister . " The Standard 's Paris correspondent dwells upon the sensation caused by the semi-official bulletin . He says that inquiries lead to the belief that the threat of M. Berthelot forcibly to thwart the expedition was not intended . The difficulty turns upon obtaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ Egyptian money for meeting the expenses of the expedition . The Standard says that France and Russia will refuse to sanction the expenditure for this purpose , and that , as a. result , the money will have to be found elsewhere , or the expedition abandoned .                     