@@674434

txt A special from down the coast states that Walter Ralston , connected with the Smithsonian Institution at Washington , has caught the python that has terrorized the natives around Black Key , a ten-milesaround sand spit , covered with mangroves , fifty miles below Rockledge . Some weeks ago the story was told of this big serpent , the report being that a ship carrying a circus had been wrecked there , and that this big python had escaped . Ralston , hearing of it , determined to secure the reptile . Starting from here two weeks ago , he went down the coast , and at New River secured Indian guides . He states that he found it difficult to get them , as they were all afraid of this particular key and its lone inhabitant , whom every one feared . Landing at the Key they started to hunt for their prey . At noon of the second day he was seen coiled up on the carcass of a small doe that he had caught . As Ralston approached , the snake lifted up its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ralston boldly approached the reptile and attempted to put a bag over its head . This irritated the snake , and it struck at him , its curved fangs catching in his coat . Its big tall coiled around him quick as lightning , and in a moment he was.squeezed to a tree , where he was being slowly crushed to death . He called his guides ; but they had fled . Tighter and tighter became the serpent 's coils , and the imprisoned man thought his last hour had come . One of the Indians , however , plucked up courage , and running up caught hold of the serpent 's tail and tried to get Ralston released . He succeeded in unwinding a portion , and his companions coming up they managed to release Ralston . He was about half dead by this time . They carried him out of the reach of the now thoroughly enraged serpent . After an hour 's rest they again tackled it . This time the two Indians plucked up courage to engage its attention for a moment , and Ralston , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canvas bag . Then the fun began . For an hour the big python whipped , around , the men hanging . on to it like grim ? death . Finally the snake became - exhausted , and Ralston slipped coils of rope around it and bound it tightly . It was a task to take the game to the - boat - -  . - it was over thirty-three feet long and weighed 117 pounds . Its head was like a bucket in size , and it had long , cruel-lOoking fangs . .. Ralston.th-inks this is not the real original snake , but a smaller one , as he saw traces of a much larger one . The natives tell of a big one . seen there over 75 feet in length , and big as a barrel . Two stories are told and vouched for of parties going there to hunt and disappearing . Indians can be hired to go there only by the payment of a big price .                     