@@673313

txt It is by no means clear that Russia will suffer more than Germany , as some persons Bay , on account of the sudden increase of Germany 's tariff duties on all Russian products by 50 per cent . Germany does not in any year produce enough grain to supply the wants of her people . According to the latest reports of the best European authorities , this year 's wheat crop in Germany will show a decrease of 16,000,000 bushels when compared with the crop of last year , while there will be a shortage of 34,000,000 bushels in the German crop of rye . Russia commonly has a large surplus of grain , and Germany is the natural market for it . This year it is reported that in the southern provinces of Russia there is promise of a fair crop of wheat and a large crop of rye . The greater part of the exportable surplus of rye would naturally go to Germany , where large quantities of this grain are consumed . by the people . While Russia may suffer on account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prohibitory , the people of Germany will be subjected to greater injury . Already the price of grain in Germany has " advanced notably , " we are told . So far as supplies of rye are concerned , consumers in Germany will probably be forced to resort to Russia for the greater part of the quantity required , and this tariff war will largely increase the cost of it . The imposition of the higher duty will tend to increase the demand in Germany for American wheat , for if the importation of this grain from Russia is prevented . Germany must look to the United States , India , and South America for what is needed . This tariff war is the result of the failure of negotiations for a convention in which it was proposed that concessions should be made by both countries . Russia was to grant to Germany the tariff concessions which had been granted to France . and in return Germany was to reduce the duties on Russian products to the rates specified in her conventions with Austria and Italy . Such an agreement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground that it would tend to lower the selling price of their grain , and . it appears that their influence was strong enough to cause the German Government to reject the terms of it , upon the pretext that the concessions proposed by Russia veers pat salloient . Thereupon . Russia , in violation of an understanding that negotiations were to be continued , gave notice that her maximum tariff would be imposed on all products of Germany , and Germany at once responded with an addition of 60 per cent . to the existing high tariff on the products of Russia , the change to take effect at once . In the last year Russia has modified the rates of transportation in that country with the purpose of facilitating the movement of grain into Germany . Under the old rates the grain grower in a central province found it more to his advantage to send his grain to the Black Sea port of Odessa , even if it wore to be carried to the interior of Germany , than to the northern port of Libau . For this reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Black Sea and the Mediterranean and then around to Hamburg . Under the new regulations , which will be in force on Aug. 13 , the Russian grain grower will not be restrained from sending his products to the natural and most accessible port . But under the new tariff conditions these regulations will be worth very little to the exporter . The producer in Russia will lose something on account of this interference with the natural movement of products , but those who will suffer most are the consumers in Germany , the plain people . They will pay the greater part of the cost of this exhibition of                     