@@674830

txt Gen. Miles last Tuesday ' sent a dispatch from Tampa to Gen. Ludington , the Quartermaster General ; Gen. Aiken , the Commissary General , and Gen. Flagler , Chief of Ordnance , saying that the condition of affairs at that place was simply terrible , and Charging them individually and collectively with gross inefficiency . Gen. Miles complained especially of the scarcity of supplies and equipment of all sorts that were available for the use of the soldiers , while the railroad cars containing these goods were stretched for miles along the road without anything to indicate where any particular class of freight could be found . He held the chiefs of these three departments of the army directly and personally responsible for the wretched management displayed in the failure to make arrangements in the beginning for the proper handling and distribution of the freight as fast as it arrived . It is said that the General 's dispatch was particularly severe in its language . The three Generals whom be rebuked joined in a collective note of reply , which was telegraphed Tuesday night . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , which made it mandatory upon them to advertise for bids for ten days before entering into contracts . That Taw was in existence at the time of the outbreak of the war , but was subsequently repealed . The result of this correspondence may be the appointment of a board of inquiry , at which Gens . Ludington , FlagIer , and Aiken will be on the defensive . It is possible that this may be deferred until after the expeditions to CUba and Puerto Rico have been dispatched . But the matter will ? undoubtedly be pursued further . Gen. Miles is not likely to allow it to . drop . In the meantime Gen. Miles 's action and his sharp words ? have had a wonderful effect in removing the congestion of freight in the neighborhood of Tampa , and reports received to-day indicate that the railroad tracks are being rapidly cleared . An indication of the condition of affairs there before Gen. Miles arrived on the scene Was given to-day by Gen. Greely , who said that the cars loaded with freight for the Tampa camp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his officers spent twenty-four hours looking for a particular carload of equipment that had been sent to hini . A part of the balloon equipment destined for the Cuban expedition , Gen. Greely said , occupied thirty days in making the journey from New York to the Rama at Tanaka , .                     