@@675040

txt TER on the same subject . Gen. SHATTER 'S testimony , however , was limited to the few staff officers whose conduct he had an opportunity of'personally observing . Gen. MERRITT 'S is more comprehensive . He says of the civilian staff officers in his command that they were- " good officers , intelligent , anxious to learn and to work . " Of course , this does not mean , and Gen. MERRITT was careful not to say , that the civilians ' were , even at the end of the Manila campaign , which was almost more astoundingly lucky than the Santiago vampaign , the equals of officers regularly trained to their business . And , indeed , we suspect that the superior showing of the volunteers at the Philippines was in great part due to Gen. MErcaiTt 's method , which he described , of training the officers of the line as well as of the staff by having them . attend a school kept , so to speak , by the regular officers . He does not say so , but we presume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that the Volunteer officers were far more competent when they disembarked at Manila than when they embarked at San Francisco . But these testimonies would be very much misinterpreted if they were taken to justify the expansion of the regular army four-fold without taking strict precautions for the competency of the great body of officers to be added to the army . Both Gen. MERRITT and Gen. SHAF-TER , we are quite sure , would reject such an interpretation of their testimony . The British Army was for a. very long time officered by men appointed by favor and promoted by purchase . One result of the practice is illustrated by KINGLAXE 'S remark upon the battle of Balaclava that it was intolerable that a brigade of British cavalry should be commanded by so incompetent a man as Lord CARDIGAN . Another is illustrated by CARLYLE ' s remark upon the battle of Fontenoy that " the English officers , it is evident , behaved in their usual manner , without knowledge of war or fear of death . " The most melancholy fact about the army bills now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce any guarantee , in the present or in the future , for the efficiency of the new officers to be added to the army , and every measure treats the appointments as so much " patronage . " , Not even a single member of Congress has shown himself to be appalled by a prospect which must appal every educated and competent officer . If these appointments are treated as patronage , the result will inevitably be , as we have said already , to degrade the standard of professional competency in the army . ATct.A. 1. - 12 Utt OFF I CFat S. One of the most interesting points in the very interesting testimony of Gen. MERRITT before the War Investigating Committee was his tribute to the civilian staff officers of his command . it is the more striking because it corroborates the testimony already given by Gen. SHAsteproduced                     