@@672878

txt The Alaskan situation seems now approximately what it was two years ago . England and the United States have agreed to arbitrate at some future day the entire dispute . No one can say how many months must pass before the arbitrators meet , listen , and decide , but it is notorious that such majestic bodies move slowly . Meanwhile there is ' an interval which raises some pretty questions of decorum . There is an old law upon our statute book which requires the President seasonably to warn poachers out of the " waters of Alaska " " within the dominion of the United States . " Her Majesty 's Government can not plead ignorance of that statute , for there has been a dispute about it heretofore . Therefore , when Lord SALISBURY , with whatever motive , delayed signing the treaty of arbitration , he must have been aware that , in the usual course of events , the President 's proclamation was to be expected , and that , failing an agreement to arbitrate , the United States would further proceed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'S duty to hasten the arbitration agreement I Or was it the duty of our Government , however annoyed by England 's dilatory policy , to proceed with deliberation However that may be decided , the fact is that the President this year issued his proclamation unusually early . In 1891 it was published on April 9 , in 1890 on March 25 , and in 1889 on March 23 . In 1892 it was published on Feb. 20 . The public has not yet been taken into the confidence of the Administration , but we assume that there were good reasons for this haste . We recall , for instance , that there was something more than the usual crop of reports about the plans of poachers preparing for the season . Very probably for this reason , or another , the President was advised to anticipate his usual action . However that may be . a President 's proclamation is something , we hope , which can not be treated as blank or waste paper , and its appearance in the controversy at an unusual time is an event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has been alleged , for instance , that Lord SALISBURY so marshaled his dates as to put the United States into a position where it would not venture to enforce its laws , pending arbitration . It seems to us that there is equal ground for insinuating that President HA.n.utsow  --  or Mr. BLA-uszE -- so managed his.dates as to put Lord . SALISBURY in a position where he would not dare to refuse a renewal of the Modus vivendi . We are reluctant to believe either , for " dare " is a dangerous game to play at , and we are not anxious to emulats those who choose to conduct serious affairs by imputations of motives . Insinuations and inferences aside , the fact is , however it became the fact , that there is no agreement regarding Bering Sea for the coming season and that the President has issued his proclamation and in due course presumably will follow it with the usual orders to revenue or naval officers , or both . This transfers to the deck of a ship , and to the decision of subordinates , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation when on June 14 , 1890 , Sir JULIAN informed Mr. BLAINE that her Majestes Government must hold the United States responsible for whatever might ensue from acts pursuant to such instructions . Our recollection is that that state of affairs was agreeable to nobody . The dead-lock was evaded then , and so , no doubt , it will be evaded now . Lord SALISBURY is provokingly slow , but , oti the other hand , Mr. HARRISON is a little hasty . Let each concede something .                     