@@674768

txt The Madrid correspondent of The Daily Mail , telegraphing at 10 o'clock last night , says : " During the day the outlook has become much worse , and very gloomy views are generally entertained . A few persons . more optimistic than the majority , trust that in a few days ' time the prevailing tension may he lessened . It is the general belief , however , that a rupture is imminent . " The Cabinet Council met at 4 o'clock this afternoon . The session lasted three hours . Senor Sagasta , the Premier , submitted a draft of the speech from the throne . Outline of the Speech . " The speech makes an appeal to the highest patriotism of the nation . It sum marizes the International problem and points out that Spain has always presented an accommodating front in everything which did not diminish her sovereignty , though she only agreed to grant a cessation of hostilities in Cuba when the Pope made his request and the powers joined in coun seling it . It appeals to the Spanish people to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , and to grant to the Government everything which may be necessary and urgent to defend the national honor and integrity . " I am informed that , although the speech is now definitely drawn up , it may still he modified ; but , in any case , Sefior Sagasta will to-morrow morning deliver it to the Queen Regent , who will open Parliament , accompanied by the King and the Infanta Isabel . The opening ceremony is expected to be of an exceedingly interesting nature in view of the crisis . " The Cabinet to-day discussed various dispatches relating to the Cuban question and the attitude of the United States . Sefior Moret , Secretary for the Colonies , read a dispatch from Gen. Blanco containing , unfavorable news with regard to the attitude of the Cuban rebels . It seems that when the American Senate commenced the discussion of and.azoted in favor of the recog nition of Cuban independence the rebels abandoned their intention of yielding to Spain In return for a broader measure of autonomy , and there is a general popular distrust here as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ News respecting the progress of events in America is anxiously awaited , but in any ease the Government will maintain a firm attitude and will act energetically . It is pointed out that weaknesses at the present time will he fraught with the utmost danger . The debate in the Spanish Chambers will be commenced either Saturday or Monday next . " Plan for Parliamentary Harmony . The Madrid correspondent of The Standard wires : " The Cabinet has decided that the Senate shell he presided over by Sefior Montero Rios. and the Congress ( the lower house of the Cortes ) will be presided over by Marquis ' Vega. d'Armijo . Senor Sagasta will give the various sections of the Parliamentary Opposition t share in the grand committees and among the Vice Presidents and Secretaries in both houses , his desire being to promote harmony between all Spanish parties in such critical circumstances , especially as grounds exist for apprehending nbetructien from extremists like the Carlists , the Republicans , and the friends of Wexler and Romero Robledo . Precedence will be given to ware and means and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been drawing up . " Amid the gloomy impressions prevailing there is still some hope entertained of an understanding being arrived at between the Cuban Autonomists and the Separatists on conditions acceptable to Spain . This exe , ? p r , rofound indignation which has been caused by the resolutions voted in the American Senate . disclaiming all design of annexation of the island with a view to encouraging the Cnbans to persevere in the struggle for independence and with a fur ther view to averting action by the European powers . Pacific Solution Deemed Impossible . The Times 's correspondent in Madrid tele-graphs : " It Is known in diplomatic circles here that European diplomacy is making a despairing effort to preserve peace . but nothing Is expected to come of it among those whose political forecasts are worth serious consideration I can not find any one in such quarters sanguine enough to believe that a pacific solution i.e still possible . " The successive moves in the complicated game of party politics at Washington are , of course , followed here with the keenest interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The outcome must be some form of intervention which Spain can not possibly admit . " It is a matter of comparative indifference to the Spanish people whether the policy of the United States is one of immediate annexation nr of liberation . it aims at least at the destruction of Spanish sovereignty in Cuba . Spain can not tamely give up her sovereign rights without a struggle . On that point all parties are agreed , and all are ready to sink their differences and to support the Government loyally in its defense of the National honor , With a clear perception of what the ultimate issue of the struggle must be . they remain firm in their resolve of resistance to the utmost , coute que coute. "                     