@@674765

txt While there is plenty of war talk both in Washington and Madrid , and the apparent expectation in bath capitals is that it will be necessary for the United States and Spain to settle the Cuban question by resort to arms , there also are expressions of hope for peace coming from persons high in authority in both countries . The delay in the response of Congress to the President 's request for direction is gratifying to members of Congress and others in Washington who continue , in spite of all discouragements , to cherish hope that war may be averted . From Madrid come reports that the heads of the Government say there is a probability of averting war , and Minister Woodford is reported as sharing this view . Correspondents of London papers report that the feeling in Madrid yesterday was less pessimistic than on the previous day , and in support of their statements point to a rise In Spanish fours . The President is reported as hopeful that war may be avoided through an agreement with Spain that she gradually will withdraw from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years , at the outside , abandon the island altogether . On both sides of the water there is talk of influences exerted and to be exerted by the European powers . It is alleged a naval demonstration was proposed by Austria to the other powers to back representations to this country of a desire that we should not go to war with Spain . It further is alleged that when this plan was broached to England she peremptorily declined to have anything to do with it , and by her refusal killed the project . Germany also , according to the report , ' declared against the plan . There is no evidence that any other of the powers , gave any encouragement to Austria . Whether the powers will make any representations to this country- is uncertain . Spain has sent a note to the powers justifying her position and arraigning this country , but so far as is known has had no reply indicating that if she goes to war with us she may expect help from those to whom she has appealed . Meanwhile this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this was an order from the War Department the effect of which will be to concentrate at four points in the South six regiments of cavalry , twenty-two regiments of Infantry , and the light batteries of five regiments of artillery .                     