@@672775

txt Telegrams from Liverpool , Blanchester , Glasgow . and other centres through out the kingdom testify to the profound sensation caused by the event everywhere among coustitamoies whore the Irish element is of itnportance , and the consensus of opinion is that it will increase the weight of the Irish vote . Prominent members of the Nationalist Party at Liverpool , upon being interviewed to-day declared that nothing can now eever The party at the next general election , and that they will make a clean sweep of all the Irish districts . Mr. Scott , the Liberal candidate for the Commons for East Manehester , in an interview today said that Englishmen and Irishmen alike would prefer to forget his miserable aberrations of the past few months . Parties and polities would now settle themselves apart from the disturbing element of Parnell 's powerful and restless perversity , and the split in the Irish party would be healed . The eeeretary of the Newcastle branch of the Parnellite League says that John Redmond will succeed to the leadership of the Yemenites and maintain the struggle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . when he ( Mr. Parnell ) remarked that he had a hard tight before him , but he felt sure of ultimately wincing . The Hon. Philip James Stanhope , member of Parliament for Wodnesbury , a Radical , in favor or borne rule for Ireland , in a speech which he delivered at Walsall to-night , made reference to the death of Mr. Parnell as follows : " The man . whatever his errors of the last few months have boon , did immense service for Ireland . the people of which country will always hold his name in brateful remembrance , and regret his untimely death . " The Right Hon. Sir William Tnaokerny Marriott . Judge Advooate General , Coasercativo member for Brighton . at a general meeting oi the Brighton Conservatives to-night , said : " though severely condemning the objects and methods of hir.l'aruell . I now say let him reel In peace , refraining to speak good or evil of him . " Mr. Arnold Morley , member of Parliament for East Nottingham , a Liberal and Homo Euler in speaking at Nottingham to-night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be the means of bringing the Irish nation into ant united hand . which would support the cause fol which the dead leader had struggled so nobly . He trusted that Irishmen would remember the services that Parnell had rendered to his country and forget the late unhappy Incidents . The Right Hon. . loseph Chamberlain , membez of Parliament for West Birmingham . when interviewed regarding Mr. Parnell 's death , enict that it might influence the Government to go to the country on the present legislation , but , he added , it was more likely that the Government would endeavor to pass the Irish Governments bill , with a fair prospect that It mind be done It the opposition would adopt ' Me same attitude toward this bill as it had done toward the English local election measure , bat it would ho . he thought , late in 18aa before the measure maid become law . In an interview to-day Mr. Justin McCarthy . Member of Parliament for Londonderry , and leader of the anti-Parnell faction Of tile Irian Parliamentary party , said that it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Parnell . Mr. McCarthy added . however , that he hoped It would lead to a complete reunion of all shades of opinion among Irishmen in general and in the Irish Parliamentary party in particular . Certainly it would not hinder the progress of autonomy , or , in other words , or the movement for the self-government of Ireland . Mr. McCarthy believed that all feeling of hostility to Mr. Paruell or of hostility between individual .. Members of theIrish Parliamentary party woniti be swallowed up and completely disappear the feeling of genuine and universal regret which was experienced among Irishmen at the death of Mr. Parcel ! .  - -  Three weeks ago , " Mr. McCarthy also said , " wo ( Ms. Parnell and myself ) had a long and ' friendly conference . This conference took : place at my house at Chelsea , and we mutually agreed to draw part of the Paris fund from the . bankers in the French capital in order to defray ' the expenses of registering which were in-I curred before the split in the party . Before she divorce proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I admired intensely . Mr. Par-. nell consulted me In regard to the lamentable manifesto , and I used all efforts In endeavoring to prevent him from issuing It to the public . My idea in trying to prevent him from so doing was that the issuance of the mmtlfesto would make his further leadership of the Irish party an utter Impossibility . " Mr. McCarthy said that those who followed Mr. Parnell 's leadership until the last moment had done so purely out of a spirit of personal ' devotion to the Irish . leader , adding : " With , the removal of his personality , our separation as a party ceases . Home rule does not depend any longer upon any one man . Mr. Parnell himeelf carried it to that point . His work , so far as it depended upon himself alone , was done . The cause stands now beyond the reach of danger of any kind . " The above is about the substance of what Mr. McCarthy said , but it was evident that he and the members of his party were deeply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling of animosity to the great Irish leader had sunk beneath the flood of sorrow caused try his sudden and untimely death .                     