@@674057

txt The annual message of Gov . MORTON is a plain statement of the condition of certain of the affairs of the State , and is peculiarly free from an aggressive or positive tone on any subject . Many matters are commended to the attention of the Legislature , with some general intimation of the proper policy to be pursued , but there is a singular lack of specific recommendations in most cases as to details or even the general features of legislation . In speaking of the need of completing the State system for the care of the insane by providing for taking in the institutions of this city in substantially the way proposed in the bill of last year , the Governor takes clear ground in an unobtrusive parenthesis upon a point . that provoked some criticism of Mayor STRONG la st year . Referring to last year 's bill , he remarks that the Mayor of New-York did not " act upon " it , ( " as required by the Constitution , " ) and therefore the measure " never came under Executive jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that little controversy . The Governor gives a brief statement of the report of the Prison Commission on the convict labor question , and commends the " detailed report and recommendations " to " thoughful attention " without presenting any views of his own . He makes some practical suggestions , the wisdom of which is obvious , regarding the care of insane criminals and the provisions of a special place for the confinement and execution of persons condemned to the penalty of death . In general but favorable terms he refers to the plan for improving the canals and takes occasion to commend " the administration of the canal system during the past year . " A subject upon which something more definite might have been expected is that of excise legislation , but the only thing with which he seemed to be impressed is the desirability of reducing the number of places at which intoxicating liquors are sold in this State . He does not say whether he would do this by high license or by a heavy ta , r , or by a direct limitation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special interest just now , that of relaxing qwq to ' say : There is of definiteness and of positiveness in , the slight reference to the Greater New York scheme . The Governor merely refer 's to the lack of legislative action last yea r a : i ; ti tht special interest of half the population of the State in the subject , and then recommends that - earnest and careful consideration be given to it , and " some conclusive action be taken " at the present sesr4lott . The message is characterized throughout by this non-committal tone with reference to subjects upon which there are differences of opinion , and is definite only regarding matters free from dispute . There is a total absence of criticism , and a general tone of easy satisfaction and hopefulness that is quite soothing . Mr. MonTON is certainly not engaged at present in stirring things up . ... ....                     