@@673948

txt The Democratic papers throughout this State are manifesting an almost unanimous desire that the course of the party from this time forward shall be governed by a. spirit of harmony that shall lead all men of Democratic principles and affiliations to forget the factional disputes that have divided and weakened the party , and with some sacrifices , if necessary , of personal ambition and factional pride , to unite for victory . There can be no doubt in the mind of any Democrat who has observed the course of the Republican Party in this State since it regained control that with broad , patriotic , and judicious effort the party naturally dominant and that has been for the most part careful and economical in administering the finances of the State can appeal to the voters with absolute confidence that it will be supported by a decisive majority . It is of small concern to the average Democratic voter whether this or that faction shall control in a locality , and the contentions of factions are most exasperating and disorganizing in their effects upon those remote from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the party was enjoying a series of comfortable victories , and factions were thriving upon the employment of political gin to maintain themselves , appeals for harmony fell upon deaf ears , division and disaffection crept into the organization , and defeat was made easy . As the time for holding the primary elections of delegates to the State Convention draws nearer , the press of the State , that has been wisely and effectively administering the counsel of harmony for several months , is urging more strenuously the necessity for proceeding upon a basis of equal justice to all Democrats , insisting that in the primaries all Democrats shall be consulted , that the call to action shall be one to which all Democrats will gladly respond , and the battle at the polls one in which each Democrat shall feel assured that he is necessary to his party 's success . The feeling that generally animates the State Democrats is fairly expressed in The Seneca Falls Reveille in a. recent issue : " The party trumpet , if its blast is to be heard and responded to by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The preservation and supremacy of Democratic principles and the success of the Democratic organization are the essential things to be considered at this time . They are above and beyond all personal considerations , all forms of procedure , and all technical rules of precedent and regularity . The voice of the party must be heard in whatever form or from whatever source it may come . The thousands of independent Democrats of the State , and the many separate and independent Democratic organizations in the several large cities , that have not heretofore been consulted , either in the choice of representatives in the State Conventions or the selection of candidates for State offices , should be consulted now andaccorded representation . The whole end and aim of Democratic leaders at this time should be directed tdward the broadest methods of conciliation and harmony . " Some concern is expressed by The Syracuse Courier about the policy to be adopted in the convention in dealing with the anti-Tammany Democrats and the Shepard Democracy of Kings County , and it insists that the determination to deal fairly with all Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of procedure that could be quoted to oppose efforts to produce good feeling and harmonious action . Those who recall the last convention will have no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that the prevalence of a just disposition toward vigorous and earnest factions might have produced a vastly different result at the polls . " The result last year was not a spontaneous rebuke to this policy ; it was the culmination of the resentment felt by Democrats who have been as well qualified to receive recognition from a Democratic convention as those who have hitherto refused it to them . If the change was not right , if its wisdom was not well founded . If events have not justified the inauguration of this policy . it would be surprising , not to say unnatural , to find such Democrats as ex-Gov . Flower and Senator Hill supporting it " There will be some talk about " surrendering " powers hitherto exercised in the State Convention . The Courier is right in declaring that there is no important principle at stake to be surrendered , and that the policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New-York City and Brooklyn shall be treated fairly according - to the desire they manifest to reach a just basis Of representation . This has a cheerful sound , and a chorus of this sort from the Democrats of New-York will save their opponents the trouble of speculating about the result of a campaign conducted by a party in this spirit .                     