@@674857

txt Everybody believes a great battle is imminent . With the Spanish and American advance posts almost close enough to see the whites of each other 's eyes , a collision may occur at any moment . The advance force of the American Army rests on this stream , with the City of Santiago de Cuba , four and one-half miles westward , In plain sight . Last night the outposts , consisting of two companies of the Seventh Infantry , under Major Coolidge , occupied positions at right angles to the road , guarding the crossing a. mile and a half beyond Sabanilla , where three regiments of Gen. Lawton 's division camped  --  the First , Fourth , and Seventeenth . The Eighth , Twenty-second , and Second Massachusetts , with the Rough Riders , Tenth Cavalry , and portions of several other regiments , were strung out behind them toward Juragua . About SOO Cubans , under Gen. Gonzales , were camped around Gen. Lawton 's headquarters , but less than fifty of them did scout duty last night . Gen. Wheeler to-day , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rough Riders , with dynamite guns , moved up to where Gen. Lawton 's outposts were last night , anti four batteries of the Third Artillery and four G-atling guns , with a special detail under Lieut . Parker , were brought up and planted on the brow of a hill overlooking the basin in which Santiago de Cuba lies . Not a shot was fired from the American side last night , though the front of the American line was not 2,800 yards from the intrenchments where the Spaniards proposed to combat the advance on Santiago de Cuba . Shots Heard During the Night . Three cannon shots were heard during the night . They seemed to come from the distant Spanish batteries , or perhaps seaward . The top of every hill and mountain north and east of Santiago is occupied by blockhouses , whence the Spaniards can view the movements of the American army as it advances beyond Sabanilla , while to the eastward of the city , gashing every knoll and bit of high ground , are Spanish intrenchments . ? The correspondent of the Associated Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line to-day , counted thirty-four of these intrenchments , completely fencing every approach to the city . The trenches have been dug as the conformation of the ground admitted . The ends of the trenches overlap where breaks in the line occur , thus securing comparatively safe retreat from rifle fire in case parts of the trenches are captured . Upon one of these works modern guns have been mounted . They can be plainly seen with the naked eye . Spies report that inside the intrenchments are four parallel lines of rifle pits , shoulder deep , and in front of them are marked ranges and several , rows of barbed-wire fence . No officer who has surveyed the field over which the advance must be made underestimates the task ahead of the Americans , although our boys still express the most contemptuous opinion of their adversaries . The general opinion is that more artillery will be ktecessary before it will be safe to attempt to make an assault upon the Spanish works , as the fire of the rifle pits must necessarily be deadly and sufficient to demoralize any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when halted by wire oh-struetions Regular Siege Hay Be Necessary . Some officers believe it will be necessary to lay a. regular siege to Santiago de Cuba and advance with a line of earthworks until the rifle pits can be shelled with shrapnel by the light artillery . These pieces have an effective shrapnel range of 2,800 yards , and the Mauser rifles in the hands of the Spaniards are sighted to 1,900 yards and they kill at 2,100 yards . However gratifying to the National pride is the careless attitude of our enlisted men , the grave fear remains that they may need a more severe lesson than the ambush of the Rough Riders before they realize the deadly possibilities of modern warfare , even in Spanish hands . The road over which the ordnance must be brought is densely lined by underbrush . Every yard is an artificial hedgerow , and the road to the base of supplies is in a similar state , but very little danger is apprehended of a flank attack , as it is evident Gen. Linares Is acting strictly on the defensive . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Guantanamo to effect a junction with him has left the Spanish commander so weak that it would be an act of insanity upon his part to attempt to assume the aggressive or to retreat . The problem now confronting the American Army is the transportation of supplies , for the roads to the front are still impassable for wagons , but are being improved . In the meantime the pack trains are being used . The first of these left Juragua last night and others left to-day . Completely Out of Rations . The officers and men are completely out of rations . Yesterday the Seventh received half rations , and to-day they received nothing . The boys are complaining bitterly , but are pacific on the assurance that the pack train will be here to-night . . Should a night attack occur , our soldiers would fare worse than did the marines at Guantanamo , as the attacking force here would not be at the disadvantage of having to charge uphill . The Cubans with the advance forces , in spite of the good behavior of their comrades at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they sit in the shade of their palm-thatched camps , and at night they smoke cigarettes and gorge on Uncle Sam 's rations , while in sight of them Uncle Sam 's boys , with empty stomachs and not a bit of tobacco for their pipes , build roads all day under the blazing sun and sleep on their rifles , under the starlit sky , at night . Deadly Spanish Bullets . The Spaniards are using brass-sheathed lead bullets , and the brass rips on touching and tears the flesh horribly , while the small brass splinters cause blood poisoning . They are practically explosive bullets , and are I used in their Remingtons . They also cut a small cross through the end of the Mauser bullet , so that it mushrooms , on striking , with a similar result .                     