@@673374

txt The purchasing clause of the law of 1890 Is no longer on the statute books . The repeal bill was signed by the President yesterday immediately on the adoption of the Senate amendment in the House . The Tote in the House , proportioned to the number present , was almost the same ' as on the Wilson bill , though not quite so heavy , lacking three votes of being two to one . But it was completely and absolutely decisive . That the strength of the bill now was not greater than in August is due to the fact that the House then responded so fully and faithfully to the wish of the people . The futile attempts at filibustering by a little band of the silver extremists only served to make them ridiculous , and were not shared in by the more sober men on teat side Now that the repeal bill is out of the way , it will become the duty of Congress to take up with . care and earnestness the question of revenue . The statement of the Treasury yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 for the past four months , or at the rate of $72,000,000 per year . Thisis a situation which , so soon as the regular session begins , will demand . immediate attention . All the ehariveters in the repeal drama played true to their roles to the very end . The House silver men resisted and filibustered . The repeal leaders were fittingly curt and snappish and drove the motion to concur ewer the bodies of the stupid and stubborn obstructionists . And the President signed the bill the moment he laid his hands on it . Now that the silver purchases have ceased and that inflation with the 52-cent dollar is discontinued , let business men and the people generally pluck np courage and get . to work . There is uo " want of confidence " now , and no occasion for any . The country a little stiff and : ore after its midsummer convulsions , and it will , of course , take a little lime to get into condition for fall days ' works . lint everybody should now go about his tasks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distrust or timidity . The first of January ought to see all the wheels turning . and the people everywhere active and prosperous . There is a prospect that the bill aut ) , torizing the construction of the great briiLte over the Hudson River will become a law before Congress adjourns . The opposition dating the extra session , which has been far from vigorous , has been directed almost solely against the provision allowing the construction of a pier in the river on the Jersey side . iN hich must be not less than *2,000 feet from that on the New York side . This - will greatly diminish the cost of the bridge , and thereby promote the raising of capital for it and its speedy completion . The claim that such a pier would be an obstruction to navigation is simply preposterous . Nobody pretend.sthat the East River Bridge obstructs navigation , though the traffic on the river between New-York and Brooklyn is greater than that on the river between New York and the New-Jersey shore , but its span is less than 1,600 feet and its height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hudson River Bridge is to be 2,200 feet . and the structure itself is to be 150 feet above high water . We can see no explanation of the claim that it will obstruct navigation except an interest in resurrecting a rival bridge scheme which has long scented to be dead . We feel certain that the Park Commissioners have made a serious mistake in insisting upon the plan for a speedway along the Harlem River which makes no provision for a walk on the river side . It is proposed virtually to exclude the people of the city from the privilege of using the rivet bank at a place where it is especially attractive for viewing regattas and . general rowing on the stream , and advantageous for landing and tying up boats . It is doubtful whether this can be legally done , if trouble is taken to test the question . But even if the action of the board is legally valid , it is unwise , and . will prove unpopular . It shows more regard for the wishes of the owners of fast horses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and wishes of the great mass of the people . It would have been entirely practicable to provide for both . It is very doubtful whether the people can he prevented from crossing the drive and occupying the river bank when there is anything to attract them there , and any effort to prevent them will probably cause trouble . Apart from other considerations , it is inexpedient to foster the feeling that public authority is exercised in disregard of popular rights , and thereby to provoke a spirit of defiance a public authority . By far the most significant fact in the fight against the ring in Brooklyn is the obtaining of proof of fraudulent registration on a large scale , with the measures taken promptly to punish the offenders . ' The work is in the hands of Mr. WuLiast J. GAYNOR , whose ability and determination are beyond all question , and before night to-day a beginning and a most impressive beginning of arrests and arraignments will be made . Happily for Brooklyn , the ring has only this year dared to try to lay its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts in which both . the People and the offenders against the people can and will get justice done . The stuff of which the ring is made , and that with which it carries out its vile purposes , can not stand against the visible terrors of the law , and a substantial number of alrests will practically put a stop to attempts at fraud . As we are firmly convinced that nothing but fraud can save the ring from utter overthrow , NVE1 now regard the triumph of the right as sure . Let every honest man see to it that he does all he can to make it complete and lasting .                     