@@674325

txt Fifteen years ago Senator PLATT resigned his seat in the Senate and returned to New-York in confidence that his course would be " vindicated " by a re-election . He resigned for no public reason whatever . No measure of his party , no policy of the Administration , then recently inaugurated , had compelled him to assume an independent position , or to seek a renewal of the commission he had received . He resigned because President GARFIELD had refused his dictation as to Federal appointments in this State . He had failed to secure " recognition . " He did not question the capability or the character of the men actually appointed ; he simply resented the fact that they were not " his " men . His greed had not been satisfied ; he had not had that free access to the trough to which , in his view , his position in the hierarchy of hog politics entitled him . He came home expecting that when he returned the Republican Party of the State would be at his back and the President would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally believed that he will return to the Senate next March . Then , as before , he will find a new President from Ohio whose nomination he opposed . He will undoubtedly seer . as he sought before , to dictate New-York appointments . He will use the same argument and persuasion , possibly the same threats . His ideals , his appetite , and his methods have not changed . Now , as then , his party is divided , and the machinery is in the hands of his faction . It will be impossible for Mr. MCKINLEY , as it was for Mr. GARFIELD , to distribute offices to suit either him or his rivals without making trouble . We can suggest to Mr. an alternative that will save him much annoyance , anxiety , and risk . Let him take the great body of appointments out of politics . Every Federal office in the State , with the possible exception of the District Attorneys , can , not only with safety , but with great advantage , be filled either by the retention of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or by selections absolutely indifferent to politics . If Mr. will adopt any of these methods , as the case requires , he can bid defiance to all factions and their leaders . And if Mr. PLATT should again get mad and resign on that ground , his own Legislature would not dare to send him back .                     