@@781127

txt Judge Dunn of the Circuit Court has ordered that a peremptory writ of mandamus be issued against Alexander Euston , President , and Arthur H. Rugg , Secretary , of the National Linseed Oil Company to compel them to allow James H. Barnard , a stockholder of the company , to examine the books of the corporation and take memoranda therefrom . The writ was petitioned for Aug. 26 by Mr. Barnard , who asserted that he owned fifty shares of the company 's stock , and had made several applications for permission to examine the records kept by the officers , in order that he might be able to vote understandingly at meetings of the stockholders . He said he was allowed to look at the books , but was refused permission to take notes from them . At a preliminary hearing Tuesday morn ' ing the attoaneys of the National Linseed Oil Company were given until this morning to file an answer to the petition . The answer set up that the books and records in question were in the custody of the Treasurer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President or Secretary . The answer was deemed insufficient , and the demurrer entered by Attorney William J. Strong , representing Mr. Barnard , was sustained , the Court ordering that the final order be prepared by the attorneys and presented at 2 o'clock in the afternoon . Attorney Frank P. Blair , representing the company , presented an appeal from the decision , which was entered , the bonds being set at $5,000 . Twenty days were allowed for the filing of the appeal . HORSE CRUSHED A. BOY 'S CHEST . Little Albert Berger Died a Half Hour Later in a Hospital . Four-year-old Albert Berger of 313 West One Hundred and Eighteenth Street , was run down by a team of horses at Eighth Avenue and One Hundred and Eighteenth Street last night and so badly injured that he died half an hour later in the Manhattan Hospital . The child and his mother were crossing the street . Mrs. Berger was wheeling a baby carriage , and could not pay much attention to the little boy . Before she could prevent him , he started to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of a team of horses attached to a piano wagon . One of the horses reared and came down with full force , one of its hoofs crushing the boy 's chest . The mother fainted at the sight . Both mother and child were taken to the Manhattan Hospital . When the boy died , Mrs. Berger was taken home . William Armstrong of 323 West Fortieth Street , driver of the wagon , was locked up in the West One Handled and Twenty-fifth Street Station .                     