@@675395

txt Mrs. A. B. Loomis of Aurora , Ill. , who was wanted by the police on a charge of bigamy , gave the officers who attempted to arrest her a battle and nearly lost her life by hiding in a well , standing on a ladder to her neck in the water . Mrs. Loomis had been traced to the village of Hamilton . a short distance from here , and was found residing at the home of Orson Beede . Constable Mooney , armed with a warrant , tried to arrest her . He went to the Beede house and was refused admission , although he told Beede his errand . The occupants of the house barricaded the doors and prepared to resist with guns . Mooney returned to the village , raised a posse , and armed them with revolvers from the village hardware store . He then returned to the house , but the occupants , seeing the posse approach . fled . The place was searched for Mrs. Loomis , but no trace of her could be found . It was thought she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a piece of carpet and discovered a trap door underneath . This he raised , and by the light of a lantern he could discern a black object on top of the water , which on investigation proved to be a human head . Mrs. Loomis was standing to her neck in water and her body was stiff with cold . When the officer approached she slipped from the ladder unconscious , and but for his timely arrival would inevitably have drowned . TWO WOMEN IN A RUNAWAY . Something frightened a team of horses which stood attached to a coach in Thirtyfourth Street , near Third Avenue , last night , and breaking away they ran west at high speed . Driver John O'Brien was thrown from his seat , but escaped with slight bruises . Two handsomely gowned young women were In the coach . They realized their peril almost instantly , and one of them managed to open the door . She jumped nut , falling heavily on her face . Her companion fell back in a swoon . The woman who jumped cut her face in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Ray of the East Thirty-fifth Street Station stopped the team near Lexington Avenue . The former was lightly hurt , one of the horses stepping on his foot . Both women declined to give their names or to accept medical assistance . The driver mounted his box as Quickly as ins team was returned to him and drove away . He gave his name , but would not disclose his address .                     