@@673562

txt The Grand Jury of this county has investigated certain sensational and palpably exaggerated charges against the management of the insane asylum on Ward 's Island , and found , as usual in such cases , that they were made up of grossly distorted and highly colored statements , which concealed , rather than disclosed , the facts . It is , nevertheless , well that the investigation was made , for it resulted in giving prominence and emphasis to what has long been known  --  that not sufficient money is allowed for the care of the insane in this city to make it what it ought to be . The fault is directly with the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , which always seems to be anxious to keep up an appearance of economy , with too little regard for the consequences where these do not appear to the public eye , as in the case of the island institutions . But the burden for the care of the indigent insane of the city is a heavy one , and must be still heavier if they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the city pays its full share in taxation for the care of the insane of the rest of the State , getting no benefit from its contribution . The State 's care is unquestionably better than that of the city , and it is also proportionately considerably more expensive . The remedy for the present state of things is to turn over the city asylums to the State system and get the share in its benefits that belongs to the people of this city in return for the taxes they pay for its support . There is something to be said , doubtless , in favor of the utilization of the " ridge " of the annexed district as a connecting link in the park system , and as a driveway offering opportunities for a highly picturesque treatment . But it does not follow that the city ought at present to take up the scheme of converting it to this use . There was some " actuality " about the project after it had been decided that a speedway should not be built in Central Park and before it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a happy issue out of that difficulty was furnished by the Mayor 's suggestion , which is now in course of execution , for a speedway along the west bank of the Harlem . There is no pressing reason why the city should now assume the additional expense of constructing the ridge parkway , or even of acquiring the land . As in the case of Morningside Park , the very circumstances that make the ridge eligible for a parkway tend to make it ineligible for ordinary use . The land may probably , for some years to come , be acquired as cheaply as it could be acquired now . and the municipal ' budget will be better able to bear the expense when no other new public works of importance are under consideration . The people who are now paying assessments on the land in question may be pardoned for wishing that the city might assume their burden at once . But the scheme will keep .                     