@@675041

txt The tone of Col. ROOSEVELT 'S latest utterance on expansion is admirable . We were of those who thought that he erred in putting forward this question in his canvass for the Governorship , and that it was not quite fair in him to intimate doubt as to the patriotism and civic courage of men who preferred Judge VAN Wycx , despite the Colonel 's views on expansion . But it is one of the characteristics of his mind that he generally becomes more deliberate and impartial the nearer he approaches responsibility . He does not now abate his enthusiasm for expansion or his confidence in its results , but he appears to feel much more keenly than any previous expression with which we are acquainted would indicate the tremendous obligations imposed upon us , and on every one of us . The substance of Col. ROOSEVELT 'S proposition , enforced and emphasized by a conspicuous concrete example , is in the following sentences : " Now , if we are going to administer the West Indian Islands that we have acquired and the Philippines in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our institutions , we must have them administered by Gen. Woods . We have got to make up our minds that we can send only our best men there ; that we must then leave them as largely unhampered as may be ; exact good results from them , but give them a large liberty in the methods of reaching those good results . " If we treat these islands as the spoil of the politician , we shall tread again the path which Spain has trod before , and we shall how ourselves infinitely more blameworthy than Spain , for we shall sin against the light seeing the light . " The case of Gen WOOD is peculiarly illuminating . He is a man of strong character , native talent , varied experience , and military training . His service at Santiago and in the formation and preparation of his regiment , as well as his previous career , made his qualities known to the Government . Being in the army and on the ground , it was convenient to detail him for the extraordinary duties that were presented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be called natural selection . To a considerable extent , especially until Congress shall have provided for some definite form of administration in our new dependencies , the Government will be able to find among the officers of the regular army , and from time to time among the best officers of the volunteer service , men of like fitness for the difficult task . How far the supply will hold out for the entire work as it develops can only be ascertained by experience . The essential point is that it is the plain duty . of the Government to provide a definite and well-considered and adequate system by which all its agents in the dependencies shall be of the same high character as Gen. WOOD . It must provide such a system in order , as Col. RoosEvELT says , that we may " send only our best men there . " The force of this proposition of Col. ROOSEVELT 'S is in the word " only . " He does not say , and we are sure that he does not mean , that it will be enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is most important that these shall be best filled  --  but that we shall send for ea ch pace , high or low , the best man we can get . This , as we have said , involves system . It can not be secured by the mere announcement of the Government that good men will be chosen . So long as the islands remain under military control , the problem will be relatively easy . The Executive can meet it by resolutely adhering to the high standard already adopted . But when the service is changed and extended , the Executive will find himself under intense and untiring pressure from those who desire to make the islands , in Col. RoosEvilair 'S stinging phrase , " the spoil of the politician . " It is against this pressure that a thorough system will be required . It is not a moment too soon to undertake the establishment of such a system . The central principle of it will be the thorough and impartial testing of capacity of every form . The object of the tests should be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to exclude rigidly political or personal favoritism For the establishment of such a system the President now possesses ample authority . He may assign the task to the Civil Service Commission , or he may select a special commission , to work with the aid of the Civil Service Commission . It ought not to be difficult to find in the departments men who have entered under the merit system , who are free from partisan prejudice , and who have the ability and experience to frame ' the plan required . But by whatever ' means he may proceed , the President will render a great and- indispensable , service to the country ins making it as certain as it can possibly be made that for the administration of our new pos1 sessions he " sends only the best men . "                     