@@674885

txt The tone of Gen. CALIXTO GARCIA 'S letter to Gen. SnAFTER is respectful , and , on the face of it , he would Seem to have some grounds of reasonable complaint . If it be true that he was left to learn of the surrender of Santiago from outside sources , and unless there are reasons which we do not as yet know why he did not receive the courtesy of an invitation to be present at the formal surrender , it would seem that Gen. SHAFTER bad committed an error of tact or judgment . On these points , of course , we =lust await the American commander 's explanation , but until that is . received : it is permitted to excuse the emotion shown by the veteran Cuban officer . But this is a matter of no very great import and it is plain that Gen. GARcites chief cause of resentment is that Spanish officials are allowed to continue to discharge their functions under the authority of the American General . As to this , he makes two points . One is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but are the same ones selected by the Queen of Spain the second ' is that they " are ministers to defend against the Cubans the Spanish sovereignty . " As to neither of these points is Gen. GARCIA 'S course justified . It must be plain to him that it would have been absurdly impracticable to hold an election at the present time for local officials . Neither would it be possible to place Americans in the local offices . what . he doubtless wished is that our General should have turned the offices over to the insurgents , and , practically , to MM .. But this would have involved some serious consequences , to say nothing of the fact that Gen. SHAFTER had no authority to take such a course . It would , : in effect , be recognizing what Gen. GARCIA . calls " the Government of the Republic of Cuba , " which our own Government has deliberately refused to do . Either the surrendered district had to be given up entirely , to the Cuban insurgents or left to be administered by them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second needlessly difficult and embarrassing .. Military supervision of the Spanish officials will be much easier and give much better results , and mainly for the reason  --  and here we come to Gen. GARCIA 'S second point  --  that they are not " ministers to defend against the Cubans Spanish sovereignty . " They be= come , on the contrary , what the Cubans would not like to be , agents of the United States in the performance of their necessary functions . They will be pledged and held to that obligation . Spanish sovereignty is , for the present , in Santiago , extinct . Spanish laws and their maehin. , . ery will be used to attend to the usual functions of daily life , but their authority derives not from the sovereignty of Spain but from the Government of the United States . It will be exercised , extended , curtailed , or changed as our Government , through the military commander , shall deem best . On this essential point Gen. GARCIA 'S conduct is foolish , or worse , The United States have undertaken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time and in the manner best suited to secure a just , efficient , and stable Government . In such a Government the insurgent leaders might well hope to have a considerable part , but they will deprive themselves of the chance if they are going to pursue the course entered on by Gen. GARCIA . That course betrays a desire to claim entire control of Cuba , to which they would have been entitled had they themselves driven the Spanish.frona the island , but which is , in the circumstances , preposterous . The " Government of the Republic of Cuba " can not change the course of events , or force the United States to omit the performance of a plain duty . They may , however , seriously compromise their own usefulness in the island which they have so Iong fought to liberate                     