@@781031

txt When a dispatch from Columbus was shown Mr. Hanna to-night announcing that Gov . Bushnell would appoint him United States Senator to fill Senator Sherman 's unexpired term , the National Chairman refused absolutely to discuss the matter . " I do n't doubt the authenticity of the telegram , " said he . " But I have n't received any official announcement from the Governor or any one else , so you will have to excuse me from discussing the matter , and I will say nothing until the official appointment does come . " Marcus Alonzo Hanna , Chairman of the Republican National Committee , who will be John Sherman 's successor in the United States Senate , is nearly sixty years of age , having been born in Columbiana County , Ohio , Sept. 24 , 1837 . He comes of a Quaker family , though he attends the Episcopalian Church almost exclusively , his wife being a , member of that church . Hanna received a very good education for a Western boy . He was graduated from the Cleveland High School , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve College at Hudson . He was a leader in his classes , as he has always been in business and polities . Mr. Hanna began his commercial career as a vessel owner and grocer , in company with his father . He gradually increased his business and possessions , until he became the owner of a great shipbuilding plant and iron any coal mines , besides having large railroad and real estate interests . He is said to be worth $5,000,000 . For many years he has been the most influential busineca man in Cleveland , and although it is not generally understood , he has been a power in politics since Garfield 's preliminary canvass for the Presidency . Mr. Hanna was among the first to recognize the availabiliw of both Garfield and McKinley for the Presidency , and in each case he was the power that gave direction and irresistible force to the movement which led up to the White House . He was not known to have political aspirations for himself until after McKinley 's election , whe 's the public was informed that Mr. Hanna purposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was supposed that he was to enter the Cabinet , but in time the fact developed that Mr. Sherman was to become Secretary of State , while Mr. Hanna would step into his place in the Senate if he could . Mr. Hanna has been a delegate to several of the National Republican Conventions , twice going in Sherman 's interests . He started the business men 's movement during Garfield 's campaign , which was a potent factor in the election . President Cleveland appointed Mr. Hanna one of the five Government Directors of the Union Pacific Railroad during his first term . Mrs. Hanna is recognized as a social leader .                     