@@674856

txt It is rumored that the Government has received a ? Iong dispatch from Cuba . announcing that a battle has occurred near Santiago de Cuba by , sea and land . Hamilton Fish , Jr , Hamilton Fish , Jr. , who was killed in yesterday 's fight near Santiago , was the son of Nicholas Fish , a nephew of Stuyvesant Fish , and a grandson of the late Hamilton Fish , Secretary of State under President Grant and at one time Governor of this State . He was about twenty-five years old , and the greater part of his life had been spent in athletics and other outdoor pursuits . He was a graduate of Columbia College , and rowed in the crew that won for his college at Poughkeepsie three years ago against Pennsylvania and Cornell . After leaving college he led the life of a man about town for a few years until his love of adventure led him to the plains of the West , where for a. time he pursued the life of a cowboy . He stood 6 feet 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid specimen of young manhood . HIS fighting qualities and reckless daring frequently came to the surface throughout his career , resulting often in personal encounters under unfortunate circumstances . The call for men to fight for the country furnished his opportunity , and he eagerly applied for enlistment in Roosevelt 's Rough Riders . His friends in this city have predicted that he would either get Kited in Cuba or would win a name for himself through his personal bravery . Mr. Fish was a member of the Union League Club and of the St. Nicholas Society . Inquiry was made early this morning at the Seventh Regiment Armory , the Knickerbocker Athletic , Military , ' union , University , and New York Athletic Clubs concerning the list of those reported killed in the Santiago battle . With the exception of Hamilton Fish , Jr. , none of the names was recognized as that of a New York man . Edward . Marshall . Edward Marshall , who is reported to be seriously wounded , is a well-kno431 newspaper man , and has many friends.of International fame . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in psychology and in hypnotism , and studied abroad under Charcot , the great French hypnotist . He has been connected with The Journal for about three years , part of the time as traveling correspondent , and for about a year as Sunday editor . At the outoreak of the war he was sent South , and for a time had charge of The Journal 's service at Tampa . When active work In Cuba began he was sent there . Before his connection with The Journal he was connected with The World , and was for a time a correspondent for that paper in Germany . He was born near Rochester , N. Y. , and received most of his education in that city . He came to New York about ten years ago . His brother , Isaac D. Marshall , is also a well-known newspaper man in this city . Mr. Marshall married Edith Berrold , who was formerly Salvini 's leading lady .                     