@@674762

txt The Madrid correspondent of The Daily Telegraph , telegraphing Thursday , says : " Even now hope is not wholly abandoned , and the Government is resolved to do nothing capable of being interpreted as aggressive or provocative . " t The Madrid correspondent of The Daily Mail , telegraphing at 6 o'clock Friday evening , says : " The feeling here to-day has been less pessimistic , and the best proof of it is that Spanish securities have risen . It is said the European powers are working hard to prevent an outbreak of hostilities , and that Austria is foremost in this peaceful enterprise . The members of the Spanish Government , however , manifest very little trust in a peaceful solution : Several of them hinted as much in conversations I had with them to-day . " In political circles the attitude is very skeptical , only a few believing that peace is probable . It is remembered how powerless were the powers during the Cretan crisis . The Pope , however , is not dismayed , and continues to work for a settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the American Senate is being watched with the greatest interest . " The National subscription to increase the navy is expected very soon to reach 50,000,000 pesetas , several wealthy Spanish noblemen subscribing 500,000 pesetas each , quite a small fortune in Spain . The so-called Catholic Party , composed of Ultramontanes and Dissidents from the Carlists , has resolved to open a subscription of its own , the proceeds of which will be devoted to such patriotic end as its members may think proper . " Apart from this , however , the National subscription is creating very wide enthusiasm . As regards a popular patriotic agitation and its outbursts in the street , this is only showing itself in sparks . It is not et a consuming fire . All the influential . , ten of all parties , except , of course , Romero Robledo and Weyler , are exhorting the people to exercise self-possession , to remain calm , and not to exhaust uselessly and prematurely their strength and their patriotism . In Barcelona the students have renewed their rioting . They invaded the beautiful Botanical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and flowers , which they carried entwined with the Spanish colors as banners , parading the streets . The Rector tried in vain to pacify them , but they smashed the windows in the university building . In Valencia things seem quieter . Even the republican papers advise the people to be calm . The military and naval activity has been increasing there during the last few hours , but no details are given as to the preparations . " Gen. Woodford is now keeping aloof from official centres . He has had no conference with Sefior Gullon , the Foreign Minister , for the last three days . " The news published in this morning 's Imparcial , from its London correspondent , concerning the deep interest taken by Queen Victoria , her earnest desire for peace , and her personal endeavors in favor of its preservation , has been read here with the greatest interest . A member of the Cabinet said to me to-day : ' Spain feels grateful for those endeavors . The British Government can exert a great influence in favor of peace if it cares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States are simply violating in the most brutal manner all International rights in their dealings with us . ' " Public opinion , however , expects nothing from England , suspecting that the British Government has reasons of its own for the moment for siding rather with the United States . "                     