@@673457

txt It is a very musty practice to try to make out that a particularly detestable murderer is something else than a murderer by calling him a " psychological problem . " The modern Anarchist , nevertheless , does present a psychological problem , not only in his crime , but still more in the manner in which he takes his punishment . The crime is entirely different in its motive and intention , or its lack of motive and intention , from anything that has been known before our generation . The fanaticism of assassins of monarchs , whether they be religious fanatics , as has commonly happened , or political fanatics , is intelligible enough . Sometimes they have been revolutionists who sincerely desired the welfare of mankind and thought they were removing an obstacle to human progress in killing a ruler . Such a view is hardly tenable in our time , even by a fanatic who is not a downright maniac , at least outside of Russia . The more frequent case has been that in which the rage and chagrin that are common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or more volatile and more susceptible to the influence of a general emotion than the rest to think that he would win their applause by putting into execution what they say " ought " to be done . This is the case of assassins like Wilkes Booth and Guiteau , who are always astonished and disgusted to find that they do not become popular heroes when they have put into practice what their muddled brains imagine ' f be a popular sentiment . The astonishment and disgust of Guiteau led to the extraordinary exhibition he made in the closing days of his worthless life and even on the scaffold  --  what to many people seemed , to be absolute raving , though there was really no reason to suppose that Guiteau was the victim of any delusion except that of the popularity of murder . The crimes of the Anarchists are quite of a different order . They have all had this in common , that they were committed out of mere envy , hatred , and malice . The Anarchist does not find himself comfortable in society as at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reward of their industry and prudence by acquiring more comforts than fall to the lot of the idle and reckless . They have no Utopia which they mean to bring in by means of murder , for the philosophic Socialist is as far as possible from the active Anarchist , and the two characters have not been confounded in the history of Anarchism , nor in any Anarchist crime . They are simply filled with a crazy hatred of people who are better off than themselves , and with a furious desire to see such people suffer . What constitutes the psychological problem is that the criminals should seem to think that this diabolical creed of theirs is good enough to die for , and that it does seem to sustain them when they come to die . It is as if a rabid dog should yield himself joyfully to the policeman 's bullet , consoled by the thought that he had bitten whomsoever he could . When a man finds that the world is too hard for him , his immemorial practice has been to take himself out of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But that he should undertake to put out of it by murder a number of persons , the more the better , who have done him no harm , and whose only demerit toward him is that they are better off than himself , shows a state of mind which seems to be novel , and which would not be credible if we had not so many authentic instances of it . Especially is it wonderful that a man who has tried to massacre a number of his fellowmen , simply as his fellow-men , should feel satisfied with himself when he comes to die , and after he has had a season of seclusion in which to meditate the nature and consequences of his crime . " Most men die well , " according to Dr. Johnson 's dictum , but the Anarchists seem to die particularly well , and it is in a manner offensive and exasperating to human nature that they should die well . The motive of their crime is revenge , and that not a particular but a promiscuous revenge . It implies misery , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a desire , as Frederick the Great expressed it when he owned to the feeling , to inflict what one suffers ; but with the Anarchist it is not directed against those who can be supposed to be authors of their misery . After the condemned Anarchist has been locked up for a term of months or weeks , it would be supposed that he would come to see the folly of blowing up an assemblage of theatregoers or even legislators . But he does not seem to do so . He retains his ferocity to the last , and views his senseless crime with complacency . Every Anarchist crime makes clearer the necessity of putting Anarchists out of the way , like so many rabid dogs ; but every execution of an Anarchist makes it more puzzling and more exasperating that the Anarchist should die in so fatuous a state of self-satisfaction .                     