@@672997

txt This license has been somewhat curbed , and an agitator , speaking within earshot of . a polieethan , finds the flow of his eloquence considerably hampered by being obliged to consider to what lengths he may go without being considered by the policeman to be using seditious language and locked up , with the prospect of an arraignment before a magistrate in the morning . Evidently this is a dangerous power to intrust to a policeman , and one very liable to abuse , though we are not aware that it has thus far been abused . Nevertheless , there is evident and urgent need of a reform in the law . Spoken defamation should be put much more nearly than now upon the same footing with written defamation ; and written sedition should be put upon the same footing with spoken sedition . An Anarchist " organ " can do much more mischief than an Anarchist orator , and should be hold to an equal accountability . ANARCHISTS AND THE LAW . The District Attorney is reported to have said that he can find no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers for any articles they may contain , how inflammatory soever . On the other hand , he says that the police are watching the Anarchists , and that if any of them make speeches inciting to riot and disorder they will be promptly prosecuted . Doubtless Mr. NIcoia. is right in holding that there is no legal punishment for the writing or publishing of language inciting to violence , though there is for uttering it in public . The distinction constitutes a very curious and entirely indefensible anomaly in our law . A man may write and print and distribute what he would be punished for saying at a meeting . Doubtless JOHN MOST has repeatedly published more outrageous things than the things for saying which he was sent to the Island , to the satisfaction of all decent people . The distinction is anomalous because in the case most nearly analogous to that of using seditious language , the offense is aggravated when the words are written and published . Whereas a jury may declare almost anything written and printed to be libelous and punish the publisher , slander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or else some statement by which actual pecuniary damage has been done to the plaintiff . In other words , the law does not provide any remedy for some of the cruelest and meanest wrongs that one human being can do to another , and this is a very grave defect in our jurisprudence and a direct encouragement to the breach of the peace which it is theoretically the object of the law of libel to prevent . In dealing with character a man is compelled to use his pen with the utmost care and circumspection , and sometimes the utmost care and circumspection will not avail , since juries have been known to find libelous statements that were published for a good purpose and entirely without malice . On the other hand , a mau need put no bridle on his tongue , nor is there any redress whatever for the slanderer 's victim unless his damage be pecuniary . When we turn to the law respecting seditious and inflammatory language , we find the rule reversed . Here a man may print what he likes and may write with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumspect in what he says under penalty of being arrested and tried for a misdemeanor and punished accordingly . Of course , this distinction is perfectly unsound and indefensible . The law ought to provide more efficient remedies against spoken defamation and . written incitement to riot . No principle can be invoked to show that written defamation is so much more hurtful than spoken , and written incitement to riot so much less effective than spoken . Anything that a man is punishable for writing and printing he ought to be punishable for saying in public , and . anything that he is punishable for saying he ought to be punishable for publishing in print . In respect of political discussion , the rule of our jurisprudence a few years ago was that its freedom was so desirable and . necessary that any abuse of that freedom should be left to public opinion and not punished by law . When the Anarchists appeared , however , to attack all the institutions of society , and when their teachings bore fruit in actual crime , it was felt to be necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion . Before the Haymarket massacre every foreign crank had been allowed to say what he liked , including what would have caused him tube locked up , in his own country ; and the imported agitators reveled in this new license .                     