@@674406

txt The complex political problem surrounding the selection of Major 's Cabinet is now believed to be practically solved , and Lyman J. Gage of Chicago , as Secretary of the Treasury , is regarded as the key to the situation . This moral certainty is strengthened by the fact that the President of the First National Bank of Chicago is now on his way to Canton , in response to the tele ' graphed request of Major to visit him . Chairman Hanna came here and was en-. gaged for several hours to-day in secret conference with Mr. . It is the understanding that Mr. Hanna . approved of Mr. Gage as Chief of the Treasury Department . It is known that ever since the election of Mr. a powerful personal and political pressure has been exerted on the next President , especially from friends and Republican leaders in Chicago and the Middle Western States , to procure the appointment of Mr. Gage as Secretary of the Treasury . The work has been done in such a quiet and dignified manner that public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is now believed that Mr. Gage 's appointment to the Treasury will be determines upon this week . When the Treasury Is filled the other portfolios can be easily disposed of , excepting that to be given to New York , That problem remains as intricate as ever , but the impression prevails here that Gen. Woodford has the best chance . The President-elect does not seem to have been Influenced against Gen. Woodford by the mild protest which was entered against him yesterday from Eastern visitors . Col. John Hay is here in the interests of a friend and now does not expect a . Cabinet appointment for himself . Gen. William M. Osborne , who has been the guest of Cornelius N. Bliss at Jekyll Island on the Georgia coast , will remain here until Friday and then will return East . Mr. Hanna 's visit is not taken to have any bearing on the Ohio Senatorial situation . Cabinet and inauguration matters engrossed the time of his conference with Major . HE IS FOR GEN . WOODFORD . Mr. Odell Thinks a New York Man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative in Congress , returned from the Platt Atb.aoy dinner yesterday . Thomas C. Platt came to the city with him . . Mr. Odell said in spite of the fact that it has been published repeatedly that Major has completed his Cabinet , he believes there is still room in it for a New York man . " The commercial importance of New York State , " he said , " is too great for it to be left out of the Cabinet The State deserves a place in the Cabinet , and I confidently believe that it will have a prominent portfolio . " He expressed a decided preference for Gen. Stewart L. Woodford , and said that the pressing of Gen. Woodford 's name would not be abandoned .                     