@@675324

txt London gave the Guards a grand farewell to-day on their departure for Southampton , where they embarked for the Cape . Three battalions , the First Scots , the Second Coldstreams , and the Third Grenadiers , left . The Scots entrained at Waterloo Station , South London at 7 o'clock this morning . Along the whole route a lusty ovation awaited the troops , the spectators including the wives and sweethearts of the men . Before many yards were covered ranks were broken and the women linked their arms with the soldiers , who were carri ? d along in the surging , singing crowd to the station , where an immense concourse was awaiting them to give them a tremendous reception . Friends grasped the rifles and kits of the troops and insisted on carrying them . The men marched to the platform singing , while the band played Scotch airs , in which the crowd , that was not allowed to go upon the platform joined , all uniting in " Auld Lang Syne " as the train steamed out of the station . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiasm and many affecting scenes . The officers allowed the women to mix freely with the men on the line of march and before they entered the station . The Guards left in detachments , and the last of the Scots and the Coldstreams did not depart until some time past noon . Each Successive contingent was cheered by the increasing spectators until serried ranks of people lined the route . Crowds assembled near the Wellington Barracks , from which the Grenadier Guards emerged at 12:30 o'clock , after an inspection in the barrack yard by Gen. Sir Evelyn Wood , who complimented the men on their smart appearance . They certainly looked very worknianlike in their khakhi helmets and red field tunics , and the march to Waterloo Station was a triumphal progress . Their own band preceded , playing popular and patriotic airs . The scenes in the streets were similar to ticose attending the departure of the Scots and Coldstreams. except that , if possible . the enthusiasm was more Intense . Friends and relatives marched with them , and soldiers and spectators joined in songs , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed points where the crowds were massed . At times they had the utmost difficulty to get through , the people seeming to wish to carry them to the station shoulder-high . Cheer after cheer shook the building as the trains steamed out , the troops responding lustily . To-day being the anniversary of the battle of Trafalgar . Lord Nelson 's Column in Trafalgar Square was garlanded , while the Victory , lying in Portsmouth Harbor , for the first time since the battle , flew Nelson 's famous signal , " England expects every man will do his duty . "                     