@@781729

txt An Amusing New Farce at the narkhattan Theatre . " His Little Dodge , " a farce treating of hypnotism , was performed at the Maahattan Theatre last night , The original is a French piece by Georges Feydeau and Maurice Hennequin , and the adaptation is by Justin Hunt McCarthy . It is short , brisk , and amusing . The audience laughed heartily over it and applauded it in exactly those places where its fun was broadest , 1 and many persons seemed to take its downright naughtiness for brilliant wit . The plot is clever , and would have been even brilliant a few years ago before hypnotism had been worked a little threadbare . As , however , the touch of magnetic influence is so slight , and is used with comic effect , it is robbed of much of its commonplace and turned into a source of mirth and cause of a happy denouement . Lady Miranda has just wedded Sir Hercules Little after losing her first husband . In her widowhood she discovers a memorandumlbook in which her first husband had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number , running over a period of eight years . He jestingly calls them " ships . that pass in the night . " Lady Miranda becomes jealous and filled with suspicion . She says " All my husbands will deceive me , " and she keeps the first 's picture before her to upbraid it and keep alive her suspicion of all mankind . Sir Hercules Little is " romantic " ; he is not serious in his flirtation , but he must have something to appeal to the romantic element in his nature . He studies hypnotism with a Spanish woman , and , in order to meet her the more securely , hypnotizes his wife every evening . This is " His Little Dodge . " An old admirer of Lady Miranda , the Hon. Mandeville Hobb , who , in despair , has fled to " darkest Venezuela , " returns at this juncture , having learned of her widowhood . In the scenes that follow the fun rarely flags . M. A. Kennedy , Henry Bergman , and Harold Russell sustain the spirit of the farce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Close Shave , " is a short burletta by G. D. Day , with music by Edward Jones . It is not too lively . The cast of " His Little Dodge " follows : deleted table The opening of Doris 's Alrinter Circus , on Forty-second Street , near Seventh Avenue , last night drew but a small crowd , but the show was an excellent one . Several of the performers were some of Barnum 's people , and all were of the best . Among them are the Todd-Judge family of acrobats , Lottie Aymar and Mr. Cousin , bareback riders ; the Mendoza Sisters , trapeze performers ; the Dunhams , performers on horizontal bars , and the Beers Sisters , bareback riders . Extra Sunday Concert for Sembrich . Owing to the popularity of the Sunday concerts given by Mme. Sembrich , and being unable to secure another Sunday night at the Metropolitan Opera House , Director Hirschberg has decided to give another concert on Dec. 5 at Carnegie Music Hall . On this occasion prominent artists will assist , and the orchestra will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The scene that will carry the new English melodrama , " The White Heather , " which was produced in an elaborate and expensive manner at the Academy last evening , is of a pictorial rather than a strictly dramatic character , but it Is perfectly intelligible , Is clearly led up to , and produces a thrilling effect . It represents the descent of two men in divers ' armor from boats anchored off the Scottish coast to the bottom of the sea , their meeeting among the rotting timbers of a wrecked yacht , and a fight to the death between them . One , the villain , has secured the log book of the yacht which contains the record of a marriage which he wishes to destroy . The other , a Hampshire lad , whom " the sorrow of a love that 's unrequited " has driven to drink , after a struggle gains possession of the book . The baffled villain stabs his opponent , who in turn cuts the tube that supplies the other with air . So that , as the one falls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hugely magnified shadows are seen , quickly darting to and fro above him , the other , wounded to the death , but clinging desperately to the book that shall restore her good name to the woman he hopelessly loves , is drawn up to his boat . Few of us know the bottom of the sea very well , and no testimony is available as to the accuracy of the picture . But in it a comprehensible idea of the thing the artists , machinists , and electricians have tried to represent is realized . The imagination is satisfied . The effects are produced by very simple means , but the result is all that could be desired . That one divers who actually remains while the painted ocean rises about him and his companions in the boat disappear among the borders , seems to be descending , while the one who actually descends has the appearance of slowly making his way through water . There are very many other striking scenic pictures in " The White Heather , " from a view of the Scotch moors covered with heather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Shetland House , with all the women of the play and hosts of others in gorgeous attire . But like all the big Drury Lane melodramas of late years the pictorial Interest of the piece depends largely upon the spectator 's familiarity with the place represented . Battersea Park , and a lock on the upper Thames crowded with pleasure craft waiting for the water gates to open , are . naturally not as attractive pictures here as the Battery Park and a. view of the Harlem would be . Yet the scenery Is all new and well painted , and after the stage carpenters have improved the fit of some of the pieces the equipment will be beyond cavil . Enough of the story of this play has already been told . It is not a new stow Jr a particularly interesting one , and the authors cook a great risk in accounting for the secret marriage of Marlon Hume and Lord Angus Cameron . She has not quite the excuse many other victims of " Scotch marriages " have had in novels and plays . She consented to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excepting the yacht 's log. ) with her eyes open to her danger . But , nevertheless , she is " sympathetic " enough in the scene of her reunion with her irascible father , and this scene was acted with excellent skill and effect by Amelia Bingham and Harry Harwood . The central personage is a voluble , aggressive , good-humored but quick-tempered Scotch noblewoman , Lady Janet McClintock , impersonated with abundant vivacity and endowed with personal charm by Rose Coghlan . Olive May , who has not been seen on the stage since her memorable triumph as Suzanne in " Butterflies , " has a slight but showy role as a young lady who yearns to make a " sensation " in the world and wears white " bloomers " to that end . There are some half a hundred others , and many of them are quite unobjectionable : deleted table                     