@@673697

txt Mr. Charles Foster , sometime Secretary of the Treasury , has a genius for getting himself into unnecessary scrapes . Neither does he seem to learn anything by experience . In his latest scrape , however , he did take some precautions . Before denying Mr. Dockery'scharge that the Harrison Administration was on the point of issuing bonds to make good the balance in the Treasury , and that Foster had ordered the bonds , he took the precaution to inquire of the Treasury Department whether he clad committed himself in black and white . He Was told that he had not , and thereupon launched a large and bold denial . Afterward his letter turned up , and thereupon Mr. Dockery , of course , had it published . The correspondence was printed in yesterday 's Times . There is matter enough in Charley 's " two letters to keep him explaining until he gets into a new scrape . The arrivals at this port and at Philadelphia on Wednesday indicate that the importation of raw sugar has been resumed On a large scale . The-1Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receipts from customs duties on sugar under the 40 pet cent . rate , although the revenue from sugar up to the arrival of these cargoes had been very small . It is reported that 22,000,000 pounds were received here on Wednesday . from East Indian ports , and we notice that at Philadelphia 20,000 bags arrived from Germany and 103,000 mats from Iloilo . These cargoes will probably yield *400,000 or $500,000 in. revenue . The Lexow witness , Edgar M. Tomlinson , in the testimony he gave yesterday , confessed that he was a guilty accomplice in a particularly shameless bribery transaction . A man who would serve as a go-between in bribery would scarcely hesitate at lying and perjury. - Moreover , Tomlinson admits that he has a grudge algainst Mr , William S. Andrews . No sensible person would for a moment believe that he told the truth yesterday when he swore that he paid Commissioner Andrews *500 as a bribe . The witness and his story are both too fishy . Up in the Seventeenth District ex-Senator Eugene S. Ives is running for Congress against Benjamin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman of the Executive Committee of the State Republican Committee as well . We publish this morning some chapters from the official history of Mr. Odell . They show him to be a gentleman who is very active in politics , with a special ambition to encourage the habit of Republican voting among AfroAmericans . But Mr. Odell 's rnet/18ds of extending encouragement are open to serious criticism . There is a prejudice against it in all decent communities . We shall be very much surprised if the communities ; that make up the Seventeenth District do not reject Mr. Odell and elect the Democratic candidate . Mr. Ives is a man of ability and would make a creditable representative of the district .                     