@@781328

txt Chris Magee arrived in Birmingham bright and early Monday morning , on his third visit , and immediately set about to reconcile the warring factions of the Republican Party in Alabama . He is still In Alabama , engaged in that ineffectual task . Bill Stevens , Chairman of the negro wing committee . has proved impervious to all attempts . and expresses it as his opinion that the full ticket of his party will go on till November . Magee baa remained quietly at his rooms in the Caldwell House , where he has received the candidates and representatives of both factions . The Chairmen of both Republican Committees and of tho Populist Party have been here . In an interview Stevens says he will not withdraw . The straight-out candidates for Congress in all the districts , except the Second , are proseoutlug a vigorous canvass , and reconciliation is not possible . In three of the four districts whore the Democrats were in danger , the anti-fusion Republican candidates are emphatic in their denunciation of the Lakeview Convention and the third party . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded a tour of the State . At every appointment he begged the negroes to vote the third-party ticket , but the straight-outs were everywhere strong enough to raise a row , and pandemonium has characterized his gatherings . Magee and the fusionists played their last and most desperate card on Monday . when they arrested the Probate Judge and the Circuit Clerk of Bullock County for recognizing the Republicans instead of the fusionists in the appointment of election managers . They had prepared the papers for a number of other arrests , but the storm of indignation aroused by this one dose of the Force bill has deterred them from issuing the warrants . The arrest of the o tholals here in Birmingham had been determined on , but is now abandoned . Democrats everywhere charge the scheme up to Magee . and the feeling is intense . As the immediate result a number of loading Kolb Democrats who have been adhering to the fusion have written letters declaring that they can not go any further . It is not impossible that the fusion candidates for Congress in three districts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow Republicans to come in . Magee went to Montgomery to-day and will return here to-morrow . His friends claim that he is hopeful of bringing the negroes into line for the fusion ticket , but the information at Democratic Headquarters is that the bitterness Cutlee entertains toward Weaver is not abating , the " boodle " fund failing to go round , many expecting but not receiving .                     