@@675104

txt The Manhattan Railway Company has no need to go to Albany for help to defend it against its Tammany assailants . It could confound CROKER in two days and come out of the fight with flying colors and the people on its side if its managers would only open their eyes to the true relation of their property to ' the wants of this community . The elevated railroads ought not to have enemies . They are in a position to compel the friendship of all the people in this city , because they are an indispensable public necessity . Men do not quarrel with the sunlight nor with the air they ; breathe . They would quarrel just as little with the elevated roads if the management of the company would make a decent effort to give them what they reasonably require for their comfort and convenience . The suspension of all traffic on the elevated railroads would throw the business and social life of this city into a state of maddening confusion . That shows the commanding position the roads occupy . The public simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely follow that they would never have to get along without the public if they would take the trouble to win its favor and confidence by respecting its wishes and promoting its comfort , convenience , and safety to the full extent of their powers ? Here is a city full of people whose efforts to become patrons of the elevated roads and to contribute to the company 's revenue every day in the year , have been baffled by the mean and repelling policy of the company itself . That is why the public looks with so little sympathy upon the sufferings of the concern from the teeth and claws of the Tammany tiger . The Manhattan should have extended its lines and increased its facilities years ago . Its coal-burning locomotives should have been replaced by a power less costly and objectionable but more efficient . Its cars , stations , and structure should have been decently cared for . The public ought not to have been obliged to get the Legislature to pass an act to compel the company to light its cars . The stingy and grudging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been replaced by an enlightened disposition to get patronage and make friends by giving the people every accommodation the roads could afford . An announcement of such a broadminded policy now , if accompanied by proper guarantees  --  we are sorry to Say that the Promises of this company unaccompanied by guarantees are of little value  --  would instantly bring to the Manhattan the powerful and decisive support of public opinion , against which , if thoroughly aroused , Tammany could not long contend . The demands that Tammany makes on the company are not in themselves unreasonable or oppressive ; we except the demand that it shall run night trains at five-minute intervals , for that seems to be more than the traffic demands . It is only the vindictive nature and motive of the attack that put Tammany in the wrong . The company might put the Tammany policy of aggression altogether in the wrong and take the wind out of Mr. CROKER 'S sails by announcing that it would promptly do all that Tammany demanded and more ; that it would , in fact , do everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; It would at once be quit of its troubles , and the resulting prosperity of its treasury would presently satisfy even Mr. RUSSELL SAGE of the wisdom of the new policy .                     