@@674338

txt The arrival of the versatile Jom W. FOSTER at Honolulu just before the late Presidential election in this country may be " significant of much " in relation to that old Hawaiian annexation job . FOsTalt was evidently on the look-out . It was to him as Secretary of State at Washington that Minister STEVENS said , in a dispatch announcing that he had assumed " protection of the Hawaiian Islands " at the request of the provisional Government : " The Hawaiian pear is now fully ripe , and this is the golden hour for the United States to pluck it . " FOSTER evidently agreed with STEVENS about the ripeness of the fruit and the desirability of seizing it before the Administration of . which he was a part should expire . It was on the 17th of January , 1893 , that the provisional Government was , proclaimed at Honolulu and on the 1st of February that Minister STEVENS took it under his protection with the help of the marines . On the 19th of January Commissioners had sailed for San Francisco in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - no doubt , with the assistance of tiie eager STEVENS , who had . long before set forth to Mr. ELAINE the luscious qualities of that ripening pear . In ordering Admiral SKERRETT to Honolulu with the Pacific squadron the Secretary of the Navy told him that the Government would be " very glad to annex Hawaii , but as a matter of course none but the ordinary legal means can be used to persuade these people to come into the United States . " . More than " the ordinary legal means " had been used to " persuade " these people to submit to the provisional Government , but for the annexation these " ordinary legal means " were aL'eady working . The Commissioners arrived in Washington early in February , and after two interviews with Secretary of State JOHN W. FOSTER the terms of the treaty were agreed upon , and on the 14th of February it was formally concluded . There was no time to lose if the pear was to be plucked . The golden hour would pass if CLEVELAND got into office , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tempting fruit . He was just that kind of a troublesome person when rascality was afoot . The treaty was before the Senate on the 15th , but that body was exasperatingly dilatory and the " golden hour " passed . Then came BLouNT and the Dole republic and the long wait for another opportunity . And when it became sure that CLEVELAND was to to succeeded by a Republican President , who should turn up suddenly at Honolulu on a visit but this same versatile and thrifty diplomatist JOHN W. FOSTER ? And now we are informed that he has been holding conferences with " Government officials and leading loyalists " with reference to annexation , and telling the German planters who oppose it that if it should be defeated he " believes " the reciprocity treaty will be annulled . Who commissioned FOSTER to open negotiations for annexation anew and authorized him to make threats foi the United States Government ? He is a wily negotiator and has played many parts in his time , sometimes representing both sides in international affairs , but he now probably represents that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " the Hawaiian Islands under the aegis of the American Government . What else is there for him to act for so long in advance of the change of Administration : There was always a rich job behind this annexation- scheme . Will MCKINLEY 'S Administration begin by lending the power of the United States to the schemers ?                     