@@781647

txt deleted 7 lines They assume that thee people are incapable of understantlinwsound principles , whereas if they are bolicily discussed and made clear they are pretty sure to bring conviction to the makirity . A delusion may spring up and carry the  --  peopls3 away in some restricted area or for a limited time , but its sway can not last or become general in a country where intelliqamee and education prevail asthev do in the United States . As LisCOLN remarked : " You may fool all the people some-of the time or some of the people all the time , but you can not fool all the lteople all.the time . " In fact , you can not foci the great number for any length of time , a rid they will not fool themselves deleted 15 lines of establishing Sub Treasuries in which products of labor could be stored as security for loans to be made by the Government at a /ow rate , its notes being issued for the purpose . Anybody who had these products could sell them at their market value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon them , but it was claimed that direct loans from tie Government would bring new money into circulation and that somellOw it would stimulate production and brin g about prosperity . It was the same spirit that turned to a free and unlimited coinage of silver as a moans of making money more plenty . The dangers involved in such a policy were not appreciated , but it was thought that it would replenish the circulation and relieve the hard fate of the tillers of the soil . But discussion has been going on for the last year and a half , the farmers have been thinking at their work , and fruitful crops have relieved them of their stress . They are learning that the way to pay debts and get rid of mortgages is to obtain money by selling the products of their labor rather than by borrowing it from the Government on security of those products . When they had no surplus products they were anxious to borrow money ' on those they hoped to have , but when they have got them they are ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government notes issued in loans upon land and imperishable products and of unlimited silver coin are passing away . They were the offspring of the same misconception that a few years ago demanded unlimited issues of irredeemable greenbacks . The effect of trying to turn such delusions to account in polities has been twice illustrated in the State of Ohio . In 1875 the greenback delusion was at its height , and the Democrats were in possession of the State . They thought to gain advantage by yielding to what seemed to be a popular craze , and they declared against the resumption of specie payments and for the payment of the public debt in greenbacks , that is , for the payment of Government bonds in Government notes that would not be payable at all . Under the agitation of the canvass it was found that a delusion was an unstable force to work upon , and the party was defeated because it had invited the distrust of conservative and intelligent men . This year there was a yielding to the less dangerous demand for the free and unlimited coinage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that advantage was thereby to be gained . But discussion followed and the public mind was cleared , and in the end sound judgment was found to be safer to appeal to than delusion . It is to be hoped that the lesson has been thoroughly learned , not only in Ohio , but throughout the West and South . There is no probability that a majority of the people of this country or of any State can long be held to the support of a party by the force of delusion . Sound and reasonable doctrine will bear discussion and in the end will commend itself to the enduring sense of mankind . To hold fast to it , and to preach it with courage and zeal , is the surest road to party success .                     