@@673016

txt The recent disorders at Buffalo are only the latest development df a kind that will certainly recur . In some degree we may hope to modify the causes oi them , and . that would be the most satisfactory method of dealing with them . But it will at least be a slow process and by no means a sure one . Meanwhile we have to consider what can be done to repress disorder when it breaks out . In most of the large cities of the State the ordinary police force , backed by the military in sudden and extreme emergencies , is fairly efficient , and is , on the whole , tending to improvement . But even in the cities the police force is necessarily planned and organized with reference to the average demands made upon it , and occasions are constantly arising where its work is not and can not be done so promptly and thoroughly as would be desirable . Meanwhile , outside of the large cities there is practically no police force at all . The antiquated methods of the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are wholly inadequate to any serious police duty . They can keep the peace very decently so long as there is no formidable disturbance of the peace . Where there is , they have to call in the militia , and it is fortunate in this State that the Sheriffs have the power to do that at their own discretion when they think that they can not enforce the law with the ordinary means at their command . The militia is an invaluable and indispensable instrument of authority . Our National Guard has rendered great services at various times and is capable of rendering greater if the necessity arises . But no one will claim that it is suited to preserve order in the first instance , or that it is anything but an emergency force . It is a volunteer force ; the time and labor of its members are given with the tacit understanding that they shall be called from their regular occupations only on extraordinary occasions . What the State needs and is sure to need more and more is not merely a force that can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sufficient in extent and sufficiently available to preserve order whenit is threatened and where it can not be preserved by the local authorities . That force can only be provided by the State . It must have authority not in one locality only , ' but in any ; must be available on either side of an imaginary line forming the limits of a city , must be under central control and capable of acting swiftly in co-operation with the local police , or in its place where there is none . It is plain that the tendency shown in all directions to establish , large industries outside of the cities will be stronger as time passes , while in the case of the great transportation companies workmen will necessarily be massed in such places in considerable numbers . Those workmen will be more or less highly organized . It is perfectly idle to talk of breaking , up trades unions . It can not be done , and , in our judgment , it ought not to be done . ' ' The unions may be developed and bade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are perfected in the direction of responsibility , they will malsa it possible for any strike to be followed . for a longer or shorter time by violence . It should be the purpose of the State police to intervene promptly and to check violence at its first manifestation , or where possible to prevent it . The mere existence of such an organization , the knowledge that it could be made quickly available , and that it would be beyond the reach of local influences , would of itself induce a more orderly spirit . The details of such an organization must be a matter for careful study , but the general outlines are not difficult to suggest . There should be a purely State force which would serve as the cadre or framework of the whole . The members of this could easily and profitably be employed as a mounted patrol in the vicinity of large cities , and in other useful work , and their number should be sufficient to make them , when acting together , a formidable body . In addition - to these the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain proportion of the police force of the various cities , in return for which it should pay a corresponding part of the cost of such police . There should be a small but highly-trained body of State detectives that could be relied . on to keep the central authority thoroughly informed of events likely to require the use of the State police . It is unnecessary to add that the entire force should be put and . kept outside of mere partisan politics , as the militia is substantially at present . The chief service of such an organization would not , as may appear at first , be the protection of the property and rights of employers ; it would be the protection of the right to labor , which is the basis of the rights of property and of free , civilized government .                     