@@674787

txt For almost a week we have had possession of the Philippine Islands , at least as complete a possession as Spain ever had , for there has gone with it what Spain never had , the sympathy of the inhabitants . In less than another week we all believe that we shall have obtained possession of Puerto Rico . What are we going to do with them ? There are two questions involved , one of National honor and the other of National interest . The question of National honor comes first , and we hope that very few Americans are willing to consider the second question until this is decided . We have explicitly disclaimed any purpose of aggrandizing ourselves by the acquisition of Cuba , and have proclaimed that our intervention there is merely for the purpose of putting a stop to an abuse which has become intolerable . It would be a wretched and unworthY quibble for us to nretend thar because we did , not explicitly include other Spanish-possessions , therefore we are at liberty to convert them to our own use , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . other modern pirates describe as " compensations " wherever we can find them . And yet , if the fortune of war gives us the Philippines and Puerto Rico , we shall be responsible for the peace and order of them while the war lasts , and we can not avoid a responsibility for them after the war is over . We must at least do the best we can toward assuring them a just and equal Government . This means that we must not permit them to relapse into Spanish possession . According to all accounts the combined greed and laziness which constitute Spanish government have produced their natural results in the Philippines and in Puerto . Rico as well as in Cuba . The difference is only a matter of degree . To " hold them for an indemnity " would be to incur all the inconveniences of a permanent administration , and would contemplate the contingency which we must not contemplate of their ultimate reversion to Spanish control . Puerto Rico is in much the same condition as Cuba in respect to the character of its population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , and there is no more reason why we should not leave the decision of their future government to the inhabitants in this rage than in the case of Cuba , in which we have pledged ourselves so to leave It . We could absolve ourselves of our responsibility in the same way . But the Philippines offer a more difficult problem , We can not leave them to their own people . We know in the first place that a war of races would result , and in the second places that the islands ; if left to their inhabitants , would rapidly revert to savagery . There is really no alternative except to offering them , upon terms which might amount to an indemnity , to the power which would be most sure to hold them in trust for mankind and to offer their trade on equal terms to all corners . This description of itself amounts to a designation of the only power which it fits . If a satisfactory arrangement can not be made with Great Britain , we shall be forced to hold them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would regard that necessity as a National calamity . At any rate , it concerns our National honor that the necessity shall be made clear , and that nobody shall be able to say that we are conducting a war of conquest , which would , in view of our assurances , be a war carried on under false pretenses                     