@@781233

txt There was a test of a new fuse at the Indian Head Proving Ground this afternoon which had a sad termination . Mr. C. L. Larrabee of Bath , Me. , whose firm  --  the Larrabee Machinery Company of Boston  --  is interested in a new time fuse for modern shells , was at the proving grounds superintending trials of the new invention . At the conclusion of the test , which is said to have been quite successful . Mr. Larrabee staggered and fell . He was unconscious when picked up . As soon as possible , he was carried aboard the Government tug lying at the dock , which immediately started for Washington . Mr. Larrabee did not return to consciousness , and died when the boat was about seven miles below Washington . His body was taken in charge by the Coroner upon the arrival of the boat , and conveyed to the rooms of a local undertaker . Heart disease is ascribed as the cause of death . Mr. Larrabee was about fifty years of age and was a man of fine presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wife , and took apartments at the Arlington . Mrs. Larrabee was prostrated by the announcement of her husband 's death . The remains will be sent to Bath for interment . There was a conference of the Republican Senators here to-night , which was attended by all the Republican Senators who hold over or were elected . The conference was informal . The principal subject considered was the attempt the Democrats will make to obstruct the organization of the Senate . Chairman Franklin Murphy of the State Committee was also in Trenton and consulted with lawyers on the subject . The matter of the select ton of the State officers by the joint meeting was not considered . Senator Bradley of Monmouth was present . He expressed himself as prepared to make a vigorous fight should a contest be made to unseat him . Stanley D. Fobes , twenty years old , a trusted clerk and messenger in the employ of the National Bank of the Republic , has been missing since yesterday afternoon , and the police have been asked by the bank 's officers to look for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is said that at one of the offices of the Boston and Maine Railroad in the old Lowell station , on Causeway Street . he received in cash the sum of $3,000 , and it is thought that he collected more money in other places . Twenty-two of the mutineers in the Cameroons have been captured . Among them are all the leaders . They were taken by loyal natives anti delivered at once to the German officials .                     