@@672875

txt The words and actions of the Rev. Dr. PARKHURST ill commenting upon the condition of our municipal affairs give rise to a variety of reflections . The first is the extreme sensitiveness of public officials as to what is said about them from the pulpit compared with their apathy respecting what is said about them in the press . Nobody who is not either interested or inexperienced will think of denying that the indictment drawn by Dr. PARKHURST was in the main just . The men who do the work of governing this city and who divide its spoil among themselves and their followers are not distinguished or influential New Yorkers . In many cases they are not even reputable . If the presentment of the Grand Jury may be trusted , Dr. PARKHURST fell into an error by which he did injustice to Mr.NicoLL . Yet this error was not original with him . He adopted it from reports in the newspapers , which reached more people a thousand-fold than would have known of his indictment if this also had not been reported by the newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as it was not repeated outside of the press . After it had been made with the utmost publicity and remained for a long time uncontradicted , Dr. PARKHURST had a right to assume that a man who was at all sensitive about his reputation for official efficiency would have contradicted and repelled the charge if the charge had not been true . To assume , as apparently Judge MARTINE assumed , that because Dr. PARKHURST fell into this error of detail , therefore the whole gist and purport of his arraignment of the City Government was vitiated , and that that Government is , upon the whole , reasonably honest , reasonably efficient , and reasonably economical , is to make an assumption that insults the intelligence of every reader of the newspapers and of every man who goes about New York with his eyes open . As a matter of fact Dr. PARKHURST is entitled to the thanks of the community . That he has succeeded in stinging the sensibilities of a single one of the officials who are responsible for the government of the city , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumph upon which he ought to be congratulated even if he has happened to hit one of them in the wrong place . Moreover , he has shamed the rest of us by taking the trouble to collect evidence of the violation of the laws , and especially of the excise law , which occurs daily and Sunday under the noses and presumably with the connivance of the police . That the saloons should generally and habitually be open on days and at hours when the law ordains that they shall be shut is quite enough to justify a public assertion that the police and the prosecuting officials are inefficient , either through corruption or incompetency , or both . That it is , in the case of the police , through corruption is indicated by the fact that the liquor dealers are agitating for the passage at Albany of a bill which in effect removes all the existing restraints upon their business . We have already pointed out that the legal restraints upon the liquor dealers are not actual restraints . No liquor dealer is actually prevented from selling liquor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no better off in the case of the passage of the proposed law than he is now unless it be now his practice to pay blackmail for permission to violate the law . The proposed law might , therefore , be entitled , " An act to relieve liquor dealers from the obligation of paying blackmail to the police . " That title would be accurately descriptive of its purpose and effect . The police might be expected to lobby against its passage with even more zeal than . the respectable citizens , who thus far are the only avowed opponents of it . If the bill should be beaten the respectable citizens will congratulate themselves upon their success , while , in fact , the defeat will be due to the efforts of deeply-interested officials whose interest is not of a kind that can be avowed . To suppose that the police do not know that the law- is systematically violated is to suppose that they are more ignorant than anybody else of a state of facts which they have greater facilities for knowing than anybody else . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the municipality is that which Dr. PARKHURST has adopted . In the first place , they should be made to feel that they are watched and that their failure to do their duty by the public is likely to be chronicled and denounced . Their only answer would be an affirmative showing that they have done and are doing their duty . That is an answer which Mr. NICOLL has not ventured to offer to Dr. PARKHURST 'S charges , though it would be conclusive , and though it is very far from conclusive to allege or to prove that in a particular instance Dr. PARKHURST is mistaken . In the second place , the friends of law and order should imitate Dr. PARKHuRs'es example , and collect legal evidence of the violation of the law . There is not a householder in . New-York who could not , with a very little trouble , collect evidence enough to show that a saloon keeper ought to be deprived of his license . There are very few householders in New-York upon whom , such evidence is not continually forced . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the Excise Board to withstand it . So long as it is not collected and made available it is quite idle for respectable householders to cry " Shame ! " where there is no shame , and to say that " somebody " ought to be punished for a condition of things which is ultimately the fault of the respectable householders themselves . In spite of his possible slip , Dr. PARKHURST has set an example that is well worthy of imitation by his fellow-citizens.                     