@@673714

txt Plans for buying the new Government bonds are taking shape . The banks will give up gold for direct purchases or for their customers . Some of them have been a little slow in reaching this conclusion , but the backward ones are swinging into line . They can not resist the arguments which prove that self-interest will thus best be served . There is $111,000,000 in legal tenders in the banks in this city , and 594,000,000 in specie , of which from . $75,00,000 to $80,000 , - 000 is in gold . Daily Clearing House balances must be paid in legal tenders or in gold . Bank customers who wish gold and who may be refused at the banks , can demand legal tenders , which they can exchange for gold at the Sub-Treasury . Thus , no intending subscriber for the bonds can be prevented from getting them by the refusal of his bank to give him gold . Depletion of the legal-tender supply of the banks would be equivalent to the withdrawal of gold , because the legal-tender supply being employed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its place , if there were heavy drafts of legal tenders . Gold paid in  --  balances would necessarily go into new channels . Much of it would eventually reach the Treasury . In this view of the outlook , which has been strongly presented by good authorities in ? banking , bank gold must be used fox bond purchases as certainly as that subscriptions will be forwarded in large volume from this city . Bankers who agree with it say that if they must open their gold - vaults they might as well do it at once , when they can get some credit here and abroad for faith in the loan , as to have the coin dragged from them to meet Clearing House demands . The entire financial community knows that the banks can not hope for active business until they dispose of some of their surplus . The chance now presented to them carries with it a certainty that money idle . and burdensome may be made productive . This argument has had weight since the loan was first proposed . its force is becoming greater each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan st.ch as might reflect upon the Government would be su serious to no other class as to the bankers . if conditions could be so distorted as to put a premium on goid , currency would inevitably suffer a discount , and the profits on gold litio , rdings would be mere than offset by the losses on currency . This was one of the extremu cases brought up yesterday for the enlightenment of a gold-saving banker . It had the effect expected from it . Evidences are abundant that the loan is exciting wider interest than any of its predecessors . The second supply of proposals and blank bids reached the hubTreasury yesterday . it was much reduced by the calls of applicants . Banks , trust companies , banking houses , and individual investors sent for copies . Judging by the demand , apart from distinct assurances from subscribers intending to bid for large amounts , the indications point to a wide distribution of the bonds . Those best informed have said all along that the issue would be oversubscribed . it was thought yesterday that calculations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the most sanguine . Exchanges of notes for gold at the SubTreasury give no one concern . So long as the Government is pledged to redeem its notes , exchanges can not be prevented . There is no disposition here to check them . Those who have shown the greatest interest in the success of the loan regretted tile news ITOID . Washington that the names of persons making the exchanges might be published . They hoped the Treasury Department , if so inclined , would think better of it . Their view was that publication would restrict subscriptions , thus thwarting the general desire that subscriptions at home shall show a generous spirit toward the loan . There could be no purpose in publication , they thought , except to reflect unkindly upon citizens who were merely exercising a right , and who had been prompted to make the exchanges by respect fur the Government and confidence in its credit . Exposure of their names to contumely would De most unkind , they thought , and would react upon the Government . Gold withdrawals from the Treasury have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but since the reserve has lately been growing , officials say the amount could well be spared , especially since it will be returned for bonds in a few days . The withdrawals might be much larger without exciting official criticism .. So small a percentage of the aggregate loan is looked upon as a mere trifle by those most interested . Considering the general interest in the loan among investors , the only surprise expressed is that the withdrawals have been so small . Additions to these exchanges are expected as a. matter of course . Their present limitation is construed as a sign that a much larger proportion of the loan will be subscribed in new gold than had at first been anticipated . To whatever extent gold may be taken out for bond purposes , the legal-tender circulation must be reduced . The result of such contraction , as pointed out , must be to draw gold from the banks . Thus the purpose of the bonds to make good the reserve can not fail to succeed if the issue is subscribed . Formal action may be taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block subscriptions will not be made until the end of the week . It is believed that they will be drawn on a 3 per cent , basis , or at 116.007 , plus interest from Nov. 1 . Individual subscribers are drawing their bids on a basis slightly better for the Government , on semi-official intimations that subscriptions promise to be so large as to shut out small bidders unless they go fractionally above the practical upset price .                     