@@672311

txt About 4:30 o'clock this afternoon a cyclone struck the southwestern section of the city and swept on through to the northern limits . making a pathway nearly a quarter of a mile wide , and leaving death and desolation in its tracks . There was scarcely any warning of the approaching storm , owing to the fact that the sky had been overcast for several hours before the full force of the wind was felt , and it was all over in an incredibly brief period of time , those residing in and near the path of the cyclone scarcely realizing what had happened until it had passed . In addition to dozens of dwellings and stores in tile southern , central , and northern sections of the City more or less ' wrecked , the following big buildings were damaged : The Anchor Mills , Goodwin candle factory Pullman shops . Van Brock 's furniture factory . Kingsland Ferguson faum implement works . the Missouri Pacific , iosnital. the Hodgen School . the German Evangelical Church , the Second Presbyterian Church , and others yet to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of the Academy of Music , which collapsed a few days since , had been leveled by the storm , but this is now denied . The losses ou property are roughly estimated at $100,000 , but will likely prove more . The Harmony Club . a Jewish organization , suffered a loss of $3,000 on their clubhouse on the corner of Olive and Eighteenth streets . The cyclone entered the city in its full force at Twenty-third-street and Chouteau-avenue. passing northeast until it reached Seventeenth and Olive streets . *where it swerved. taking a direct easterly course to Four.teenth , and then again turned to the northeast , leaving the city and striking the river just north of Tyler-street . The only announcement of the approach and progress of the storm was a dull , sullen roar , quickly followed by a torrent of rain , which in turn was succeeded by sleet , and before the victims could realize what had happened the storm had swept by and on , leaving wreckage and mangled humanity in its pathway . Trees were torn up by the roots and broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the roofs of buildings were lifted from their moorings like feathers and tossed into the streets . Mrs. Charles Miller , who resides with her husband at Twentieth and Eugenia streets , was sitting In a rocking chair with her babe In her arms , when the roof was lifted from her house . She rushed to the window and just then the wall gave way and Mrs. Miller and her babe were buried under the debris . The babe miraculously escaped without a scratch , but the mother is badly hurt and may not recover . Mr. Miller was in another part of the house and escaped unhurt . This is but one of dozens ' of incidents of the terrible storm . All sorts of reports are coming in . A telephone message from Venice , Ill .. opposite the northern part of the city , says the storm was very disastrous there , and that several lives were lost , but no details are given . It is reported that a number of . passenger cars were blown from the track in the upper part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union Depot Yards . The list of victims secured up to this hour , 9:30 P. M. , is as follows : DEAD . Mits . MAGGIE CONNORS , aged forty . BERNARD MCCONNELL , aged forty . Jos W aavita , aged nine . INJURED . TERESA WEAVER . aged six , both legs probably die . MRs. CHARLES MILLER , badly cut and serious condition . ANNIE CONNORS . MAGGIE CONNORS . FRANCIS CONNORS . A messenger from the east side of the river says that the storm in St. Clair County , Ill. , was unusually severe , and that the cry of " Good Lord , save us ! " was heard frequently outside of the church walls . Brooklyn , a village of about five hundred people , seems to have suffered most , as the damage at East St. Louis and at Venice was largely confined to railroad property and small dwellings and telegraph and telephone poleti . Brooklyn is about three miles north of East St. Louis . Its population is largely composed of colored people . At 8 P. M. it was reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swept off the face of the earth . It proves not quite so had as that , though bad enough , and , though several were injured , no lives were lost . A number of dwellings are in ruins . The Baptist church Is entirely demolished , and the Methodist Episcopal church , a frame building , was unroofed and turned clear around on its foundations . At Belleville , Ill .. several public ; buildings were unroofed , but no one is reported injured . A late Wabash train arrived at the relay station in East Sr. Louis about 8:15 P. M. The engineer and conductor report that during the storm they feared that their train would be thrown from the track , so terrific was the force of the wind .                     