@@673561

txt The Georgia delegation in Congress is taking deep interest in the question of the Senatorship from that State . Advices indicate that Mr. Bacon of Macon has thus far the largest following , but , inasmuch as the Legislature will not meet until October , all speculations regarding the outcome are at this early date considered idle . Speaker Crisp , it is alleged , will be the second choice of every member of the Legislature . The Speaker has not declared himself a candidate , and , so far as appearances go , is making no move in that direction . It is believed , however , that , whether he makes an active fight for the caucus nomination or not , he will be selected in the event that the leading candidates so divide the strength of the Legislature that no one of the number can be elected . If , on the other hand , the Democrats shall carry the next House  --  and a more hopeful feeling has been growing up among them the last few weeks  --  there will be , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Speaker of the Fifty-fourth Congress . District Attorney , Birney , whose indictment of Col. F. C. Ainsworth has just been thrown out of court by Judge McComas , has appealed from the decision of Judge McComas to the District Court of Appeals . Just what heexpects to accomplish , unless it be to attract the attention of a Democratic President to the excessive zeal of a Republican officer , does not quite appear . Judge McComas rendered his decision that the indictment of Ainsworth was defective upon the ruling of the Court of Appeals on the first indictment , hiding behind it all the way through his decision , which constantly quoted the language of the higher court as insisting that any indictment would fail that was not precise in defining the responsibility for the Ford 's Theatre accident , and fixing it upon the persons charged with it . Mr. Birney seems to have changed his mind about the case overnight . After the decision had been rendered yesterday sustaining the demurrer made by Ainsworth 's counsel , Birney declared that nothing more could be done , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon to carry the case to the Court of Appeals , and it may be that his friends have assured him that if he would but do that , and make it seem important that he should have business to transact in the court in October , he might induce the President to retain him in his place instead of looking for a Democrat to occupy It . The probability is that when the Court of Appeals shall reach the case it will support its own decision . No one looks for a different result , ' and if Mr. Birney has important private business which he desires to take up , there will be Democratic lawyers who will undertake to discharge the ordinary duties of the District Attorney 's office and give to this appeal all the attention the Court of Appeals will consider it worthy of .                     