@@673598

txt No doubt many persons wonder why the military at Chicago have not made short work of the mobs . The fact probably is that the officers in command of the United States troops have been exercising the greatest possible forbearance because they are aware that the street-riot drill of the new tactics , if put into operation , would result in certain death or injury to a great many men . If any one supposes that troops are not prepared for the emergencies of riot fighting , because they are necessarily very different from those of field battle , he is gravely mistaken . The new tactics of the army and navy contain a very complete street-riot drill . It has not yet been put to the test of practice , and it is to be hoped for the sake of the misguided men in the West that it will not have to be . One of the most serious difficulties with which an armed force has to contend in dealing with rioters is an enfilading fire from windows , housetops , and cross streets . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens ' clothing , who may be provided with signaling apparatus . These men may occupy housetops or other vantage ground and keep the commander informed of the points at which rioters are massed . Troops need not be brought to the scene in column , nor is there any necessity of making a futile effort to deploy as skirmishers . The unit of formation for the street-riot drill is the hollow square , and it may be employed in company , battalion , or even brigade . The advantage of the hollow square is that it provides for an all-around fire . The front line attends to the street ahead of it . The right flank of the square directs its fire at the windows and tops of houses on the left side of the street , and the left flank at those on the right . The rear line acts as a rear guard , throwing out in rear of the advancing column a semi-circle of men , who direct their fire to the rear and sides as it may be needed . The hollow square can be marched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a column can be . The officers are inside the square . If an advancing column is harassed by mobs in the cross streets , there is a simple and effective way of dealing with such obstructions . The platoons or sections of the leading company wheel to the right and left , and the rear rank extends . in double time to the right of the front rank . This will make a line sufficiently long to stretch across a very broad street . The commander may then order these sections to open fire or to charge bayonets , and thus the cross streets can be cleared . In the meantime the remainder of the column continues its march along the original street , and the leading company , having finished its work in the cross street , re-forms as the rear company of the body . Artillery is , of course , advantageously employed by placing it inside the sqr are and unmasking it where needed by opening out the front or rear line or the flankers . It was Napoleon who declared that a whiff of grapeshot was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gatling or rapid-fire gun affords a more deadly and continuous fire than the old muzzleloader with its stand of grape . Military officers are thoroughly cognizant of the great loss of life which would inevitably follow the employment of the new streetriot tactics , and they are naturally loath to resort to such destructive measures .                     