@@674733

txt Unless a state of war is created by the act of Spain which the Executive and Congress would be compelled instantly to recognize by measures of defense and offense. some time may yet elapse before the relations of the two countries come to the breaking point . Before we can go I to war we must not only make sure that our cause is just , but we must see to it that our dealing is courteous , civilized . and humane . It would be a barbaric act fur us to declare war on Spain without giving her an opportunity to meet our demands without fighting . The ways in which we may go about the matter of reaching a final understanding are various . Now that the finding of the court of inquiry has been foreshadowed by the hundred tongues of rumor there is no longer much doubt in the public mind that the Maine was blown up by an explosive applied externally by a public or private enemy . IC it was a public enemy , that is , if a Spanish mine did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as we know , there would be no reason for deferring for a single day a hostile demonstration against the Spanish fleet at Havana . We should simply be engaged in carrying on a war which Spain had begun by blowing up our battleship . But if the origin of the external attack is reported as being unknown , we should doubtless intimate to Spain that we neld her responsible for the affront and for the loss of property and of life . Although the case is new , we hold it to be a principle of law , as laid down by our Supreme Court , that a public ship In the waters of a friendly foreign nation is under the protection of the local Government ; and the law of indemnity which we have acknowledged in cases of damages to property and insult to foreign flags is pretty certainly applicable to " the case of the Maine . A demand for reparation will follow the report of the court of inquiry . It may be thought that the extraordinary circumstances of the case will justify us In making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet in a specified number of days . This would be an ultimatum the rejection of which by . Spain would bring on war at once . The puestion is often asked whether we should consent to an arbitration of the Maine case if it were asked for by Spain . Is not arbitration precluded by the fact that the time has now come when we must insist on the immediate pacification of Cuba ? We have two questions with Spain , the Maine and Cuba . Can we simultaneously arbitrate one and fight about the other ? Is n't the proposition a little too absurd to be seriously entertained ? By itself the demand we have to make on account of the Maine is a fair subject of arbitration , being made up of questions of fact as to the explosion and as to the degree of diligence exercised by Spain for the protection of the visiting ship . But it would be June before the tribunal could begin its sittings and  --  September before the finding would be reached . Shall we consent to main ' tain until September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extermination in Cuba ? With the appalling report of Senator PROCTOR in our minds and its sickening pictures before our eyes , can we put off the pacification of Cuba until September ? No . Arbitration and intervention are too violently incompatible to be concurrently undertaken , and intervention can not wait on arbitration . Intervention is war , and would not be entered upon until we had made our demands upon Spain . We may demand that she release the penned-up , starving wretches now under restraint and permit them to return to their homes , and that she carry on her war against the insurgents in a humane and civilized way . That would be the piecemeal and temporizing way of coming at the end of the business . This is the tone of President CLEVELAND in December , 1896 , and of President MCKINLEY in December , 1897 . It is now March , 1898 . That reasonable period of which we have solemnly discoursed was long since spent , and both the power and the intentions of Spain have been fully and fairly tested . She can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savagery in Cuba except under our menace or our compulsion . CODRINGTON 'S shot and shell were the only argument to which the Turk would listen when he was drunk with the blood of Greece . We must not be wrong , but we do not want to be silly and absurd . To go on remonstrating and representing and repeating the exalted and elastic palaver of diplomacy year after year makes us ridiculous and involvts us in visible peril at home . We must consider intervention as a probable and near-by event . Spain may yield to our ultimate demand and abandon Cuba . That is an ideal and wholly improbable solution of the difficulty . If she refuses to listen to reason , denies our right to have anything to say about Cuba , a right she has repeatedly admitted , and insists that devastation and starvation shall continue in Cuba , " to the destruction of the very subject matter of the conflict , " we should have no choice but to intervene at once with force . It would be open to us at the outset to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it against Spain . That would be an irregular proceeding , however , since we have always insisted that revolted colonies should in fart achieve their independence before we could recognize it . It would be more in accord with our traditions if we deferred recognition until the Republic of Cuba actually existed . It would exist after we had driven out the oppressor . We should then acknowledge its independence and welcome it to the family of nations by receiving its Minister and sending our own Minister to its seat of Government                     