@@674678

txt Senator Morgan of Alabama , member of the Committee on Foreign Relations , has reached here on his return from Honolulu , where he went to post himself on the annexation question . For the first time he submitted to-day to an interview on the results of his trip , and said : " My conclusions , based on my observations , are only a full confirmation of what I had previously believed  --  that it is our National duty and will be in every way advantageous to all concerned , to annex Hawaii to this country . I have studied the question from the most authentic and reliable sources . " The establishment of an outpost of the United States within the tropics and 2,200 miles from our coast challenges the inquiry whether such action is necessary to our National welfare . Our Northwestern possessions on the Pacific along the Aleutian Archipelago are over 1,000 miles west of Honolulu . This gives us control of practically the entire American coast of the North Pacific . ? The intervention of the British possessions from the Straits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for our occupation of Hawaii . " Without imputing to Great Britain any other motive than to extend her national policy of commercial conquest , it seems very obvious that if she should acquire dominion of Hawaii and open and fortify Pearl Harbor , her military fortress at Esquimault , on the island of Vancouver , cooperating , would cut our coast line in two , and would leave us incurnbered with a mass of territory in Alaska , whose defense would be almost impossible , and the advantage of which would be lost to us . The Vancouver coal fields would give the British Navy almost irresistible advantage in war and virtual dominion of commerce in time pf peace . " Beginning with Key West we have annexed the entire Gulf coast to the Rio Grande by purchase of territory , and extending up the Rio Grande across the continent to the Pacific we have annexed all the territory lying to the north of that line , and have annexed the entire Pacific coast except the frontage of 000 miles conceded to Great Britain . This rapid and vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the transactions have we cause for regret . I have no fears of such expansion , especially as to possessions in the Pacific in those islands that constitute a part of the geographical and commercial system of the North American Con- , tinent . " There would not be the slightest difficulty in the character , ccndition , or wishes of the 31,000 native people of Hawaii . They are far better adapted to American citizenship than many millions of those whom we have welcomed here from Southern Europe , and better adapted than the Indians , Mexicans , and native Alaskans . Except among the few who expect personal favors and advancement from re-establishment of the royal Government , the general body of Hawaiian population will rejoice in the honor , safety , peace , and prosperity which annexation will bring . Morally and practically the silent invasion of Hawaii from the Orient ( the Japanese ) violates all the declared policy and often-expressed purpose of the United States to protect those people against foreign interference . " The islands as a national possession would richly reward us for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us nothing , and will not at present excite the open opposition of any nation . "                     