@@673630

txt That the effort of The New-York Times to bring about harmony in the Democratic Party in New York State is attracting wide attention is shown by the utterances of prominent Democrats in Congress whose opinions have been sought . These men naturally look to New-York for guidance in party measures , and appreciate the impetus which will be given to the campaign this Fall in case it is found that the New-York State Democracy is united and prepared to make a vigorous fight . One significant point brought out by the inquiries which have been made is that Democrats from other States do not believe that the differences which have arisen in New-York are past healing . In other States of the Union the party in past years has nearly been disrupted through factional quarrels , but the troubles have been adjusted in critical times and the organizations brought to a high state of perfection . What has been done in other States can be done in New-York if the leaders are willing to sink their private animosities and work to bring about the unification which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best-known Democrats in the country take the ground that , in the face of the dangers which beset the party through the present dead-lock in Congress , New-York Democrats ought to lose no time in getting together and giving an object lesson in ' harmony which would bring hope to Democrats in all parts of the country . ' Senator Brice is very much pleased with the movement set on foot by The New York Times , and is of opinion that it will produce most beneficial results . " I do not know of anything except the speedy passage of the Tariff bill which would encourage the Democrats of the country more than the knowledge that the New-York Democrats had decided to drop their factional quarrels and make a solid fight against the Republicans , " Mr. Brice said this afternoon . " The factional fights in the Senate , where the Democratic majority is in small , and the relations , or , rather , absence of relations , between the New-York Senators and the President have confused the party not a little and placed it in serious danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Democratic Party there having demonstrated its ability to win victories , there Is naturally much concern over the fact that just now the two factions are far brom being united . Party harmony in New-York would be looked upon everywhere as a signal that the Democratic victory of the last election was to be repeated . I sincerely hope that the leaders will see the advisability of following the advice of The New-York Times and getting together without any delay . The fact once established that the New York State Democracy was moving along the broad path of harmony , the effect would be magical . " Senator Walsh of Georgia is another Democrat who looks to New-York for the keynote in the coming campaign . He instanced to-day the defeat of Kolb in Alabama as showing the effect upon the party at large of a decisive victory . " Had the Populists won in Alabama , " Mr. Walsh said , " the Populist theories would have received a strong impetus , and in future campaigns the Democrats of the South would find them more.and more difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great blow to Populism in the entire country . " This idea applies to the present attempt of The New-York Times to bring about harmony in New-York State . Let the country know that the Empire State Democracy is thoroughly united , and the difficulties of the coming campaign will be largely minimized . There can be but one opinion as to the paramount duty of the New-York Democrats in the present condition of affairs , and that is that every sacrifice should be made in order to secure party unity , which is essential to party success . " Not only is this true as to the State of New-York , but it is an absolute condition precedent to party supremacy throughout the United States . New-York being the first Democratic State in the Union , the Democrats of the whole country naturally expect to see it set the pace so far as determined action is concerned . We of the South have been sorry to see the evidences of disunion which have appeared there in the last few years . The New-York Times has undertaken a great work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martin of Kansas , who is a close reader of The New-York Times , said this afternoon that he indorsed fully the effort now being made by that paper to remove the obstructions to Democratic unity . " Harmony in New-York , " he said , " will strengthen the party in every State in the Union . If we can win a victory in New York this Fall , it will put us in the front rank for 1896 . The moral effect of a united party in New-York would strengthen the Democracy in every State in the Union that has an election this Fall , and go a long way toward retrieving the losses and backsets by reason of delay in settling the tariff question . " Senator Caffery of Louisiana is another Democrat who appreciates the present work of The New-York Times . " I am convinced , " he said , " that the eyes of thoughtful Democrats throughout the country are on this movement . The Democracy is not in the most favored position just now , and anything which smacks of disunion is apt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go forth that the New-York Democrats were thoroughly organized , with not a trace of dissension existing , the effect upon the party in every State would be electrical . From what I know of the situation in New-York , it seems to me that The New-York Times ought to succeed , and I hope that it will . This is a time when Democrats ought to be willing to sink all personal considerations , and devote their energies to bringing about a victory in the coming election . If we win this Fall , there ought to be no question of our success in 1896 . " " You may say for me , " said Senator Lindsay of Kentucky , " that if- the New York State Democracy should settle its differences and go into the coming fight unhampered by factional difficulties , it ought to win a decided victory . such unity would undoubtedly do much to encourage the people to believe that Democratic dissensions are easily wiped out . I believe , though , that the enactment of a satisface tory tariff bill by Congress would do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmony in any State could possibly accomplish . " Representative Benton of Tennessee does not believe that The New-York Times will fail in its effort to drive dissensions from the councils of its party . He said this afternoon : " New-York is the largest of the Democratic States , and it has been the bulwark of Democracy in the party 's darkest days . When sentiment in some sections was antagonistic to the South , it was not found in New-York State . The sympathy shown b3-New-York Democrats had much to do with the return of the South to prominence and power . Naturally , the South looks to New York State for guidance in political matters . Harmony just now is of the utmost importance , and I am convinced from what I have learned that the Democrats of the great State will adjust their differences and give the country the object lesson of se. glorious victory in November . " " If the New-York Democrats come together this Fall and win the victory which ought to be theirs , the effect upon the country at large will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Democrats of the ' South place great dependence on Ne-v-York . Should the Republicans carry the State , our people would be discouraged , for we are already looking forward to 1896 . In my humble opinion , the sooner the New-York Democrats get together and settle whatever differences they may have . the better it will be for the party all over the United States . If we carry the House of Representatives this Fall , we shall have the next President . I do not know what we shall do if New-York State does not help us . " " Harmony would certainly have a great effect upon the party in New-York , " said Senator Faulkner of West Virginia " If New-York goes Democratic in November , the outlook for the continued supremacy of the party in national affairs would be exceedingly bright . I hope that the leaders in New-York State will act for the best interests of the party . "                     