@@674184

txt After six years of continuous fighting the Presbyterian Church has the satisfaction of seeing a meeting of the General Assembly pass without a serious contest . First there came the question of revision of the Confession , then the contests over Profs . Dimes and Swrif , then the effort to coerce the theological seminaries . This year there were three questions to come up , all possible occasions of fierce dispute  --  seminary control , licensure of candidates , and the Presbyterian Building . Each has been met , fairly considered , and conclusions reached which will command the assent of the great part not only of the Presbyterian Church , but of the rest of the country , How has it come about ? Chiefly through a determined effort to overthrow the system of bossism that has ruled so long . The first victory was when Dr. DAvfr.s of this city refused to go into caucus with the delegation from this Presbytery and threw himself heart and soul into the movement to choose a man for Moderator who , while holding a commanding position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had refused to identify himself with the aggressiveness of the men with whom he agreed theologically . No one could question Dr. Wrrnnow 's conservatism , but a man who could take the position he did in a recent case in the Chicago Presbytery could be trusted to see that no Injustice was done to those who differed from him , and the overwhelming vote that followed Dr. DAvms 's eloquent speech showed that men were tired of fighting and ready to follow Dr. BooTn 's appeal for unity in his opening sermon . The next victory was when the Moderator called for recommendations for the important committees and took care that they should , be composed of men Who could discuss calmly and dispassionately things on which they differed . Then came the defeat of the attempt thoroughly to denominationalize the Young People 's Societies . The very large majority by which the right of each society to affiliate itself with an undenominational organization was vindicated showed that hard and fast lines are losing their hold and that there is in the church an increasing sympathy with others , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once only was there danger of an outbreak . The Committee on the Seminaries hail evidently failed to accomplish its purpose of absolute control . Several of the largest and most important institutions had absolutely refused to accede to its demands , and some were resolved to put on the hardest kind of pressure . Here appeared the power of the Moderator . Combining earnest entreaty with a humor that relieved the tension , and ably seconded by Dr. BOOTH , he succeeded in securing the adoption of a report which , while continuing the request , distinctly refused to enforce a command . It is scarcely surprising that the Assembly sung the Doxology . Similarly forte unate was the action in regard to Union Seminary and that of the New-York Presbytery in licensing candidates from that seminary . There was the usual statement that great care should be exercised , but there was no effort to enforce authority . It is to be hoped that this will mark the final victory in that Church over dogmatism and bossism . Men will continue to differ widely and sharply , but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together , they will soon find their differences of doctrine assuming less and less importance . There will continue to be ecclesiastical schemers , but if the great mass of the Church will realize that these are , after all , but a small minority , there will be much more of freedom for the legitimate work of the Church . What that work is was clearly outlined in the enthusiastic meetings for missions of every kind . It seemed as if men were delighted to find themselves once more relieved of the necessity of making all manner of harsh charges against each other and able to devote time and strength to the work of building up rather than tearing down .                     