@@673242

txt The charter of the Noah L. Farnham Post of the Grand Army of the Republic has been annulled by the Commander of the Department of this State with the approval of the Commander in Chief . This has been done for a technical violation of the rules in adopting and disseminating resolutions without the approval of the Department and Icational Commanders , but the real offense was in the substance of the resolutions rather than the manner of their promulgation . They were in denunciation of the fraud and extravagance perpetrated under the present pension laws , and the Commander in Chief declares that the action of the post in " passing and parading these resolutions before the public " was " plainly for a purpose hostile to the principles of the GI audArmy of the Republic . " That is at once an admission that the real offense was in the substance of the resolutions , and that pension frauds and extravagance are in accordance with the principles of the Grand . Army of the Republic as now understood by its Commander in Chief . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an honest and reputable pension system will be promoted by the penalty it is made to pay for taking it . There have been so many vague reports About the management of Custom House affairs at this port for years past , and so many futile inquiries and impotent conclusions from official sources , that it is well that a thorough investigation is at last to be made by a commission with no official connection with the service or with the Administration at Washington . Certainly no more competent men to take part in such an investigation could be found than ex-Secretary of the Treasury FAIRC:HILD and ex-Collector MAGo.:ez . Recent reports as to the condition of growing wheat in Europe are more encouraging than those of two or three weeks ago . Uur London dispatches of Sunday said that there was the promise of an excellent harvest in England , and press dispatches from aussia report that the condition of Winter wheat in that country is excellent in 124 districts , good in 303 , and bad in only 10 , while the outlook for Summer wheat in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , and Italy the reports do not give much exact informati. n , but it seems probable that there will be considerable losses in those countries . It is not surprising that the gentleman who denounci , d Mr. H ADEL3ON as a Benedict Arnold for appointing a Southern Democrat to the bench of a United States court should also denounce Mr. CLEVELAND as an aristocrat for refusing to give up his time to office seekers . Both criticisms are of equal breadth and decency , and neither commands the least respect from the sensible people of the country , who , Mr. CLARKSON to the contrary notwithstanding , are in a " large majority . " The real aristocrats are the spoilsmen who claim to have a right to hold office without reference to their fitness or the service they render . The genuine Democrat is the man who insists , as Mr. CLEVELAND does , upon the equal rights of all citizens to have the best service that can be get , and the right of the people generally to the time and energy of their President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasurer of the United States as to the assets and demand liabilities of the Treasury yesterday shows the following as to the gold reserve : This does not take account of the gold shipped from this port on Saturday last , which , however , will , when deducted , still leave a margin above the redemption reserve . The rebuke administered by Secretary LAMONT , under the direction of the President , to the court-martial which recently tried Capt . JOHNSON of the retired list for the alleged offense of duplicating his pay accounts has naturally created a breeze in army circles . The court , of which Col. FORSYTH , Seventh Cavalry , was President , found the facts as alleged in one of the specifications , bat attached no criminality thereto , while they held him guilty as to another specification and not guilty as to the remaining one . Accordingly , they found him not guilty of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman , as the charge originally read , but guilty of a minor offense , that of conduct prejudicial to good order and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of discovering no evidence of a deliberate purpose on his part to commit a. fraud for his benefit , although he had done wrong . Hence , the court sentenced him only to be reprimanded by the reviewing authorities . But when the reprimand thus invoked came , it proved to be for the court as well as for Capt . JOHNSON . The Secretary disapproved . both the sentence and the findings , except that of guilty on the first specification , and he added that so slight a sentence , imposed by such a court , was " a reproach to the service . " His ground was that the collection for one 's own benefit of property pledged as collateral security deserved " severe and humiliating punishment " anywhere , and certainly not least in the army . The case can not fail to bathe theme of talk in many a garrison .                     