@@673515

txt In matters religious , social , and political it is always important to ? know one 's friends . Just where to place Senator Hill of New-York in respect to measures and policies approved by his party has been a matter of doubt among the Democratic leaders at Washington . There may still be doubt as to Mr. Hill 's attitude in respect to the Yellowstone Park or the rebuilding of the Icearsarge . But the senior Senator from New-York has made it very clear that he opposes his party in respect to the Wilson bill . Mr. Hill has apparently made common cause with Senator Chandler and other Republican guerrillas in an effort to defeat tariff legislation . Certain Populist and nondescript Senators from the South are just at present training in the Hill regiment . Democrats have no place in this insurgent band . It has no regard for the Public wish or welfare . It is a private and wholly selfish undertaking . There are not , it must be assumed , two opinions about the merits , or , rather , the demerits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial at Washington . But the very fact that it is on trial ought , one would suppose , to repress every public or organized expression of opinion upon it until a verdict is reached or the case is dismissed . As a matter of fact , however , various organizations that are not directly connected in any way with the case , and that have no responsibility for the conduct of either the plaintiff or the defendant , seem to take pride and pleasure in anticipating the verdict of the jury . The public press , so far as we have remarked , has observed a decent reticence upon the matter , but scarcely a day passes that some society does not feel called upon to pass some ' resolution in order to show that it is not in sympathy with indecent and criminal conduct . This precipitancy argues a pruriency of mind . Suppose the case were one of embezzlement or arson . Would the unions , leagues , and societies feel called upon to express their views upon these crimes in advance of the verdict , lest they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or setting houses on fire ? Of course not . They would not find the subject matter of the trials so irresistibly alluring to them that they could not wait until the trial was over in order to say something . It is plain enough that the Rosebery Government is in an extremely precarious situation , and it is equally plain that the situation is the direct result of the .. ? Prime Minister 's own deliverances . The Irish Nationalists , without whom the Li:xerals would be in a minority , have be:n disaffected by the remarks of Lord Rosebery in the House of Lords . Lord Rosebery 's con:Nultion that he was misreported scarcely improves his position . Obviously a party leader , laying down a party policy , ought not to subject himself to the chance of being misunderstood by his own supporters . If that fate befalls him , it is a conclusive criticism upon his competency . The bill on which the Government was beaten yesterday by one vote is of no great political importance , and was not a measure by which the Ministry could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the defeat was that not only the so-called " Parnellites , " but o. considerable number of the McCarthyites also were absent , and had not taken the trouble to secure pairs . The action of the Parnellites is of no account , since they are professional rnischiefmakers . The defection of the McCarthyites is , however , very important . When Mr. Gladstone last came into office his opponents boasted that he had not a " working majority . " That wan proved to be untrue , but it seems quite true of his successor . A speedy dissolution and a new appeal to the people appear to be inevitable . . , The enactment of Dr. Nagle 's bill , introduced by Congressman Dunphy , providing for a national commission to consider the feasibilty of constructing a boulevard ( with a promenade of shade trees ) from the ! Atlantic to the Pacific would meet a long-felt want , it seems to us . It is one of those projects of legislation that overflows with the ripe fruits of much politico-economical meditation , and is loaded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the expenditure of $100,000,000 for the building of this roadway would give employment to Mr. Coxey 's army and other needy , persons , and it would provide three thousand miles of continuous facilities for buggy ridint and other pastoral pleasures . But in its present form this bill seems to lack something . It should provide that in certain contingencies and at certain seasons of the year the electors in any given community should have the power . and privilege to choose front their number from six to twenty persons who should have the right to use the Nagle-Dunphy boulevard until the end thereof was reached , and thereafter to plunge into . the Pacific Ocean and enjoy its waters for purposes of natation or ablution and asphyxiation indefinitely . A transcontinental boulevard bill , unless wrapped about with popular features , seems to us likely to fail of enactment . If such a bill be sufficiently loaded with blessings it must go through .                     