@@674354

txt It-is not likely that anything will be done in either house of Congress to-morrow except to exchange congratulations and condolences over the results of the election , and to listen to the President 's message . When the last session closed the House Immigration bill had the right of way in the Senate , and has it still . It is the unfinished business , and will be called up pro forma at the expiration of the morning hour-2 o'clock . Although known as the House bill on the calendar as reported to the Senate by Mr. Lodge , it is a materially different measure , all of the House provisions having been stricken out except the enacting clause , and a new bill substituted . This bill will be called up Tuesday by Senators Lodge and Chandler , who desire to push it to a vote as quickly as possible . As the bill came from the House it provided not only for the exclusion of immigrants who could not fill the educational test , but went at some length into the regulating of aliea contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as the educational test , and excludes all persons over fourteen years of age who can not read and write the language of their native country , or some other language , excepting only aged persons , who as parents or grandparents of admissible immigrants may accompany or be sent by such immigrants . Tile Constitution in Five-Line Bits . For the purpose of testing the ability of the immigrant to read and write , a citation of five lines from the Constitution of the United States is to be used , printed in good-sized readable type . The Constitution , cut into five-line slips , would form a lottery from which the immigrant would draw at random , then read , and then write down what he had read . Failure to comply with this test would cause deportation to the country whence the immigrant came , at the expense of the steamship company carrying him . An effort will be made to secure new dates for the consideration of special orders that were not reached during the last session . These measures now coming under this preferred head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National flag ; House Bill 3,206 , to amend the act to prevent the extermination of fur-bearing animals of Alaska ; House Bill 878 , to reduce the cases in which , the penalty of death may be inflicted , and Senate joint resointion proposing an amendment to the Constitution providing for the election of Senators by popular vote . An important local bill on which there has developed a bitter fight is the Detroit bridge bill for a bridge across the Detroit River . It was postponed at the last session until the first Monday in December . Bills That Will Be Pressed . In addition to the appropriation bills , there are several measures that will con-t tend with each other for the right of way . Prominent among these are the bills to refund the Pacific Railroad debt ; to admit the Territories of New Mexico and Arizona ; authorizing the Secretary of the Navy to enlist additional men , now pending in the Senate on a motion to reconsider the vote by which it was passed ; Mr. Davis 's resolution relative to the assertion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction of a cable between this country and the Republic of Hawaii ; a bill providing for a uniform classification and grading of agricultural products , and one providing for the reorganization of the Consular and Diplomatic , service . In the House of Representatives there will be the swearing in of twa new members to first engage the attention of Speaker Reed and the House  --  Messrs . Boatner of Louisiana and Stokes of South Carolina . These gentlemen enjoy the unusual distinction of having twice received certificates of election to one Congress . At the last session their seats were declared vacant , but the contestants did not succeed in establishing their rights thereto , and new elections were ordered to fill the vacancies . Since Congress adjourned another vacancy has occurred  --  that occasioned by the death of ex-Speaker Crisp . His son , who was his father 's clerk , has been nominated to fill the unexpired term , but the election will not be held until Dec. 16 . The death of ex-Speaker Crisp probably will be announced by one of his former colleagues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House will adjourn as a mark of respect to Mr. Crisp 's memory . The Pension Bill . Mr. Blue , Chairman of the sub-committee of the Committee on Appropriations , at a suitable opportunity , will report the General Pension bill to the House and announce a day for its consideration . This doubtless will be early in the week . The rules of the House provide that all business on the calendar shall retain its place throughout an entire Congress , so that adjournment from one session to another means no more than adjournment from day to day . The programme of business for the first week of the session will depend upon the developments from day to day of committee action and recommendation . Before the week closes , however , the Legislative , Executive , and Judicial Appropriation bill will be reported and placed on the calendar , and Friday night there will be the usual session for the consideration of private pension bills .                     