@@675029

txt The American Peace Commissioners held their usual session this morning . They preserve secrecy regarding the terms of the treaty of peace . This is partly through the influence of the three Senators on the body , who represent that it would be discourtesy to the Senate to publish the terms before the treaty is presented to that body by the President . The protocol of the treaty will almost reach the dimensions of a volume , as it will contain every written statement presented on both sides during the conferences . The Spaniards made a last contribution yesterday on the assembling of the commissions . Senor Montero Rios then presented a vigorously worded protest , in which the Spaniards declared they had yielded to force , but that they invoked the conscience of the nations against the abuse of the rights of nations of which they were the victims . This protest was for purposes of record and consisted of an argument in support of every concession demanded by the Spaniards , and which the Americans refused , some of them peremptorily and without an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concessions , which we are obliged to make , touch us less than the insult which has been inflicted on our nation by President in his message . We again protest solemnly against the accusation hurled against us in connection with the Maine , and we intend to submit the question to an international tribunal , comprised of England , France , and Germany , to determine who shall bear the responsibility of the catastrophe ? ' In spite of the secrecy observed by the Americans , it is learned that the treaty , in substance , consists of thirteen or fourteen articles . The principal articles provide for the cession and evacuation of Cuba . Puerto Rico , and the Philippine Islands , and the political , administrative , " and financial results thereof ; the acquirement by the United States of public property , and the relinquishment of archives . The articles of secondary importance determine the status of Spanish subjects remaining in the ceded territories and unfinished law suits and contracts , and guarantees of the same terms to Spanish shipping and merchandise as imposed upon American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The status of Spanish commerce in the West Indies is left to be settled later . An important provision is the guarantee of religious freedom in the ceded territories in the same terms as the Florida treaty , the Americans having steadfastly refused to incorporate any guarantee of the United States ' determination to favor the property of the Catholic Church . leaving it subject to the general laws on the same footing as private property . The Americans were apprehensive even yesterday that there might he some turn of affairs which would frustrate their efforts at the eleventh hour . Senator Gray , though well known to be radically opposed to the policy of annexation or " imperialism . " will vote in the Senate to ratify the treaty , considering that his signing that document binds him to support it .                     