@@673768

txt Ill luck continues to attend the Republican Senators in their assaults upon the foreign policy of the Administration . Mr. Aldrich 's insinuation that the President ordered the United States war ship withdrawn from Hawaii at the request of a committee of the deposed Queen 's supporters would not have been out of place , perhaps , in a Board of Aldermen , where a certain recklessness of accusation is quite in keeping with the manners and customs of the place , and where differences can be adjusted on the spot with the fists . On the floor of the Senate , a body which makes solemn pretensions to dignity , it was out of place and indecent . The charge was that the President , after unreservedly committing the whole Hawaiian business into the hands of Congress , had secretly conspired with the friends of the ex-Queen to bring about her restoration , by withdrawing our war ship in order that the royalists , encouraged by that act and by the presence of the British ships , might rise and overthrow the Government of President Dole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in obedience to the will of Congress , recognizes as the lawful head of the Hawaiian Government . It is needless to say that the conduct Senator Aldrich 's remarks imputed to President Cleveland would have made the President liable to impeachment  --  in feet , would have justified his impeachment . Charges of that gravity would be made by a Senator possessing any sense of responsibility only after . the most careful inquiry and with an array of evidence in their support . Now what are the facts ? The President 's brief statement presents them , so far as they relate to the question asked of him by the Queen 's " ' Commissioners , " and his reply . The statement is a perfectly dignified and perfectly sufficient refutation of the Rhode Island Senator 's charge . But there are further facts which ought to be adduced , because they must have been within Mr. Aldrich 's knowledge if he took any pains whatever to inform himself . The Queen 's " Commissioners " did not make their application to the President until Aug. 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them until a later day . Yet Admiral Walker says in his published dispatches that in obedience to Secretary Herbert 's order to take the Philadelphia to San Francisco he " left Honolulu Aug. 12 " ! Does Senator Aldrich imagine that the " British cable " so much feared by Senator Lodge is already in operation to the Sandwich Islands ? But as a matter of fact Admiral Walker says his sailing orders reached him Aug. 2 , or nine days before the " Commissioners " sent their communication to the President . " It is a singular circumstance , " said the Senator ? " that the vessel should have been withdrawn at once closely following the visit of those gentlemen to this city . " It is a more singular circumstance that a United States Senator from a New-England State should be so ignorant or so reckless . After this , it is hardly worthy of mention that the fact was long ago published that the Philadelphia was withdrawn with the knowledge and approval of the Dole Government . Senator Lodge 's dose is promised for to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Friday that the presence of the British ship after ours was withdrawn was favorable for a royalist uprising . And yet the Massachusetts Senator was probably aware that our understanding with Great Britain , of which Admiral Walker was ignorant , but Mr. Lodge can not be , deprives his theory of all point and substance .                     