@@672328

txt Three bills were quietly ordered to a third reading yesterday in the Senate at Albany and made a special order for Thursday of next - week , which . may be considered as fairly covering the subject of electoral reform . These are the Saxton Ballot Reform bill , the Chase General Registration bill , and amendments to the Penal Code proposed by Mr. SAXTON to strengthen the provisions of law against bribery at eleetions . There is another measure now in committee which would be a desirable addition to this proposed legislation , limiting expenditures for political purposes By candidates for office and requiring a statement thereof to be filed . While it is evident that the demand for electoral reform has been steadily increasing during the past year and that it insists upon the exclusive official ballot , which is a distinctive feature of the Saxton bill , it is equally noteworthy that outspoken op-position has practically ceased . Gov . HILL , to be sure , in his annual message adhered obstinately to his position in regard to the official ballot , and the Tammany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the Senate bill was reported from the Senate Committee on General Laws last week the two Tammany members joined in a minority report favoring the Linson bill , - which conforms to the Governor 's suggestion as to the use of both official andnon-official ballots and the retention of the present form and classification . But outside of these two sources there has been no sign of opposition to the reform in its genuine shape , while more and more Democratic organizations , apart from Tammany Hall , have given it their support , and the various workingmen 's organizations have omitted no opportunity of reiterating their demand for it . The Saxton bill has been very carefully revised and modified in some of its details , but the Australian method of voting is retained , and without that the whole reform would be rendered almost nugatory . It is the keystone of the system . The most important change is that which provides for a single ballot and for grouping candidates in separate tickets under the designation of the parties making nominations . This will greatly simplify the task of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote the complete ticket of an organization . It is practically admitted that a general registration is desirable as an adjunct to the proposed new method of voting , but alit is also desirable whether a change is made in the method of voting or not , it is properly embodied in a separate measure . It is also conceded that the law against bribery at elections needs to . be reinforced with provisions which will make it easier to obtain evidences of the offense . When the Fassett bill for this purpose was passed last year the Governor vetoed it mainly on the ground . that provisions of the kind ought to be made a part of the Penal Code , which already deals with offenses against the electoral suffrage . The matter is now presented in the form of amendments to the Penal Code , and there can certainly be no honest objection to making the law against bribery as stringent and effective as it can possibly be made . How far Democrats in the Legislature may venture this year in opposing electoral reform we have as yet no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they may be disposed to submit to the dictation of Gov . HILL , and that has not yet been disclosed . The opposition will doubless be concentrated upon the provisions of the Saxton bill which relate to the exclusively official ballot . There is not the least possibility of securing any material change in these or of defeating the measure on account of them in either house . The question that remains open is whether Gov . HILL will persist in vetoing the Saxton bill in spite of the demonstrations of public sentiment on the subject , and if so , whether he can hold enough Democrats to his support to prevent its passage over a veto . That he will veto it is extremely probable , because he can not approve it without such a square back-down from a position - which he has strenuously maintained for two years as would make him ridiculous , and to allow it to become a law without his signature would be an exhibition of cowardice hardly less injurious to him . It is quite possible , however , that he may adhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued support of the Democrats in the Legislature on this particular question . He may conclude that it will be the better part of political valor on his part to leave them for once to act upon their own convictions , uninfluenced by executive threats or promises . If the Democratic members are left free from coercion or pressure , they can hardly fail to see the wisdom of settling this question in accordance with the unmistakable popular demand . Should the alternative be presented of h eeding that demand or yielding to the declaration of HILL. , there may still be enough of them who realize that obedience to him will be perilous to their party and to themselves to secure the final passage of the measure .                     