@@674384

txt The following dispatch , giving an account of the sinking of the filibuster steamer Cornrnodore , was received from Datona at 11 o'clock to-night : " About 10 o'clock Friday night , a suspicious leak was discovered in the fireroom , and Capt . Murphy immediately started the pumps , which undoubtedly had been tampered with , as they were in working order when Capt . Murphy and Chief Engineer Redigan left watch at 8 o'clock . " The fires were extinguished , and the boat came to a standstill about sixteen miles from Mosquito Light . " Capt . Murphy took full charge of the handling of the ship , while the first mate superintended the launching of the boats . " The Cubans took possession of the big boat and loaded it with baggage , so that only twelve men left the tug.in it . " They reached shore at 4 o'clock Saturday , and left for Jacksonville . " The second boat was occupied by six Cubans , and the empty boat washed ashore at Fort Orange last night . " The third boat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , leaving a ten-foot dingy for Capt . Murphy 's use , who refused to leave the ship until all were saved . " C. B. Montgomery , the steward ; Stephen Crane , and William Higgins remained with the Captain , and with him launched the dingy and stood by the tug until 7 o'clock , when the Commodore sank . " The mate 's boat , containing nine Americans , was smashed and the mate , two engineers , six firemen and sailors , were lashed to a raft , which Capt . Murphy attempted to t- ashore , two miles away , but the terrible sea and the northeast gale swept them away . " The dingy , occupied by the Captain and companions was twenty-seven hours at sea , Montgomery and Crane holding Capt . Murphy 's overcoat as a sail until the beach was sighted . " High seas were breaking a half mile from shore . " Montgomery , Crane , and Murphy were washed to the beach , where citizens provided them with medical attendance . Higgins was killed by the overturning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There is no doubt that a traitor did the work of scuttling , and then tampered with the pumps , a.S they were working perfectly at 8 o'clock . " The suspected man was saved , and a thorough investigation will be made tomorrow . " The owners of the Three Friends made an effort to get out Saturday to go to the relief of the shipwrecked crew , but permission was not received from Washington until this afternoon at 5 o'clock , five hours after it had been requested . Capt . Monteann Broward has command of her , and a picked crew attends him . The tug left the harbor to-night , and is expected to arrive in the neighborhood of the wreck within six hours . In the event the missing men are found or something definite has been learned about them , a signal has been arranged to notify the Captain of the Three Friends .                     