@@780979

txt Le Soir says that Gen. Chanoine , the newly appointed War Minister , told friends that he regarded himself as a sentinel relieving another charged with watching over the army 's rights , and intimated that as he was appointed after the first Cabinet Council of Saturday he was not responsible for the decisions reached at the Council . He declared that should he see any attempt , under pretext of a revision of the Dreyfus proceedings , to engage in manoeuvres against the army , he would immediately resign . A semi-official note explains that Gen. Chanoine only had a conference with President Faure after his appointment to suc-ceed Gen. Zurlinden had actually been signed . The decision of the commission appointed to consider the matter of the revision will be in no way binding upon the Cabinet , which will still have to decide the actual question of revision . It is reported , however , that a vessel has already started for the Ile du Diable in readiness to bring Dreyfus to Paris , and M. Brisson and Gen. Chanoine are determined that nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stirring events are regarded as impending . Gen. Zurlinden is credited with the belief that there is a Picquart mystery , and it is believed that he fully intends that Col. Picquart shall be prosecuted . According to Col. Picquart 's written statement to the Minister of Justice four secret documents were submitted to the court-martial held in 1894 behind the backs of Dreyfus and his counsel . It is reported that the Government has selected Beauvais , capital of the Department of Oise , as the most suitable town in which to hold the rehearing of the case . The difficulties attendant upon securing a revision of the Dreyfus proceedings may be gauged from the story now published that Gen. Zurlinden practically sacrificed himself by advocating a revision of the case , and that his change of opinion was due to the strong feeling which he afterward found among his subordinates at the War Office . According to newspaper accounts , which are undoubtedly fairly correct , Premier Brisson only got his way at Saturday 's Cabinet Council , though supported by eight of his colleagues , after a tough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Public Works , who were warmly supported for , three hours by President Faure himself . At the opening of the council , M. Sarrien , Minister of Justice , stated his views of the case at considerable length , expressing the conviction that , ; A revision was necessary for the peace of the country and expedient on the ground that many of the documents in the dossier appeared to be of doubtful authenticity . and , above all , that Col. Henry 's admission of forgery threw suspicion upon all his evidence . Sarrien , however , did not ask the Council to decide for or against revision , but only asked pe:mission to submit the matter to a commission . M. Faure opened the discussion . He did not directly oppose a revision , but pointed out political and other objections to reopening the case . It is said that M. Brisson went so far as to remind M. Faure of the Constitutional limits to his functions . Gen. Zurlinden admitted that when he took office , if he was not a Dreyfusite , he at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dreyfus family . A deep study of the dossier. however , he said , had absolutely convinced him that Dreyfus was guilty . Finally a division occurred , in which M. Faure did not take part . A majority of the Paris papers approve of the Cabinet 's decision , which Is looked upon as the first definite step taken toward revision . A few unimportant street demonstrations occurred last night .                     