@@672529

txt Census Superintendent Porter has come down from his high position , and his employee are now at work getting out the names of the residents of the Second Ward of New-York , taken by the Federal enumerators , as called for by the Common Council of New-York . When Supervisor Kenny called upon Mr. Porter to-day with the resolution adopted by the Common Connell , the Superintendent could think of no further excuse for delay . There was no doubt that the request came from the " municipality " of New-York , and the law requiring him to give the names Was too plain to ue avoided . Mr. Kenny brought with him from Washington the pollee enumeration books of the first five wards of New-York , which Secretary Noble was unwilling before the election should be compared with the Porter enumeration while remaining in the Supervisor 's custody . Mr. Kenny had not wholly given up hope of getting the comparison made . He asked 1dr . Porter to allow him as a representative of the City Government to compare the police and Federal returns . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a private citizen , and it was again refused . The schedules could only be seen , it was explained , by a sworn officer of the census . Mr. Kenny promptly offered to be sworn in as such an officer , but nis offer was hastily declined . Then M.T . Porter suddenly became magnanimous and wanted to know 11 the comparison deSired by the city could not bo made from copies of the names on the census enumerators ' sheets . Mr. Kenny said it could , and Mr. Porter proposed to furnish the lists for the regular legal fee of 25 cents per 100 names . Mr. Kenny accepted the proposal at ones , and as quickly as the census employes can copy the 45,000 names they will be turned over to the city . Mr. Porter did not explain how it was that a week ago he could not let the pity have the names from the Second Ward unless the municipality asked for them , and yet could this week himself propose to give up the names from four other wards . It has been slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ census officer to help it tufts effort to get a fair count of its inhabitants , but it appears to be making progress at last . It has been suggested that a great light may have been thrown on the Republican census tinkers since Tuesday of last week .                     