@@674875

txt This has been a night of anxious waiting both at the White House and at the War Department . Information from Gen. Shelter has been momentarily expected , but up to 1:15 o'clock this morning not a word of official news has been received . Shortly after 1 o'clbck Secretary Alger . and Secretary Wilson , who had been In conference with the President during the greater part of the night , left the White ' House for their homes . They said that ab- solutely not a line d official information had been received to-night from Santiago . Adjt . Gen. Corbin left the War Department about 1 o'clock . Secretary Alger to-day expressed the opinion that failure by Gen. Toral to surrender Santiago would be followed by the speedy capture of the city and Spanish Army . The other Cabinet Ministers shared his belief , but were sanguine that the enemy would not take the risks of a general assault . The following dispatch from Gen. Shatter , dated yesterday , was received by Adjt . Gen. Corbin at 9:30 this morning : " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flag of truce np since 2 o'clock considering proposition for surrendering , now that I have town surrounded on the north . Lines were completed at 5 P. M. by Gen. Ludlow right down to the bay . The line is rather thin , but will have it strengthened in the morning by Gen. Henry , who has ' just arrived at headquarters . " Only three or four casualties . No one killed so far as I can learn . " Expect to have two of the new batteries in position to-morrow . " Great deal of suffering among the people who have gone out of Santiago . Am doing my best to relieve it , but not entirely successful . SFIAFTER . " A report from Gen. Miles , also received today , indicated that he had found unexpected physical difficulties to contend with , and he is apparently greatly pleased with the progress made by the army under the conditions prevailing . There was an absence to-day of the concern that has been manifested lest the force at Santiago is insufficient to restrain the Spanish Army if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the possibility of aggressive action was discussed the tendency of army officers was to scout it as not possible . The Spanish Army has not yet evinced the first inclination to attack . The policy from the beginning of hostilities , to simply await attack and make a brief impulsive resistance , has been so uniformly the war policy of the Spaniards as to lead to the impression that they entirely lack anything like the energy to initiate movements or to sustain a conflict at a point , even when it is strengthened by fortifications . Fear the Spaniards May Have Bolted . Not a few army men and civilians questioned Gen. Corbin as to whether the Spanish are not simply maintaining a courageous but feeble 4ront in order to restrain and delay pursuit of the main body of the army , which some military men are inclined to think have escaped from the city and from the danger of capture by falling back toward Manzanillo . Gen. Ludlow 's command at the extreme right is reported to have been extended toward the northwest so as to surround the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force between the Spaniards and the city on the west side except the troops of Gen. Ludlow are those of the Cubans . Some assistance is expected from them , but further information will be awaited as to their stability and subjection to orders before an estimate of their co-operation as an effective fighting force is ventured upon . Gen. Corbin was not disposed to believe that the Spaniards had begun to leave . Shatter , he thought , was in the way of - learning of a Spanish movement to the rear very promptly through the constant arrivals within the American lines of refugees from Santiago , their movements having been almost unobstructed by the forces of the Spanish commander . As the President continues to ask for information , and does not fail to ask if it is possible the Spanish have escaped toward Manzanillo , or even toward Holguin , on the northwest , some ground for anticipating such a movement has been supplied , and the report that 500 cavalry had left Gen. Toral was referred to as indicating a movement that would later be made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ordnance officers have noticed the fact referred to in some Santiago dispatches that the replies to the firing of the United States troops was in volleys of small arms only . The pelting of batteries brought early the answers of Mausers , no ordnance being used . This silence on the part of the most powerful guns supposed to be in the hands of the Spanish troops excites among the artillery officers the belief that much of the artillery has been taken away , that all is to be removed if it can be taken away without provoking a general assault , and that renewals of truce will afford the Spanish just the additional time they need in order to be able to transfer all their guns to a new position . These criticisms , say the officers who are closely observing the developments at Santiago , do not take into account the fact that Gen. Shatter is on the ground , anxious as anybody can be in Washington to prevent the escape of the Spaniards , and trained to devise means to prevent such an escape if it is undertaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department is becoming less communicative about preparations for new work than it has been since the army moved to Cuba . Spain , it is suggested by Gen. Corbin , is not yet lacking interest in our movements . Whether her forces in Cuba and elsewhere be large or small , advance information will permit the commanders of those forces to adopt the best possible means to hold off attack , and for that reason Gen. Corbin has adopted the rule of refusing to say anything about things to be done . " 1 will tell you ail I know and can about anything that has happened , " he said to an inquirer to-day . " but about contemplated expeditions , or movements of troops and transports that can be of use to Spain , I will tell you nothing . That is not information that the publid must have . "                     