@@675082

txt SEATTLE , Washington , Jan. 27 . ? The steamer Cottage City , from Alaska , brings news that a number of Copper River prospectors perished in Valdez Glacier . The following are known to have been lost : Charles Khron , New York City ; D. P. Smith , Chicago ; Ole Evjen , Baldwin , Wis. ; ? Henderson , Wisconsin , and George Sweesey , New York . Among the many badly frozen miners are George Poalowitz , New York City ; Sylvester Grog , St. Joseph , Mo. ; Holvea Evjens , Baldwin , Wis . There are six men at Valdez suffering from frozen feet , hands , and faces . A hospital has been established at Twelve Mile Camp , on the other side of the glacier , and fifteen men are suffering there from the same cause . All were frozen trying to cross the glacier , but managed to get back into camp . Holven and Ole Evjens , father and son , started for Valdez , but on getting well toward the summit of the glacier found their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his father extra wrapping for his feet , and as a result both.the son 's legs were frozen in a few minutes , and he was unable to proceed . He bade his father good-bye and compelled him to go on without him . Then the boy lay down in the snow to die . The body will probably never be recovered . The father reached Twelve Mile Camp , but is not expected to live . Smith and Khron were members of the same party . In company with George Poalowitz , Sylvester Grog , and several others , they started across the glacier early in December . Smith was the first to suffer . After they had crossed the summit and were going down the long stretch toward Valdez his strength began to fail him . At last he could keep up no longer . Calling his companions around him , be told them he was doomed , even if they got him into camp , and that they must try and save the nselves . Then he laid down In the snow , and was soon lulled into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted to lie down and die when the trip was almost at an end . His comrades kept him moving , in spite of the pain of his badly frozen feet , and at last got him into Valdez . His toes were so badly frozen that they fell off when his boots were cut away . Blood poisoning set in soon after , and in ten days he was dead . He was a member of the Manhattan Mining Company of New York , a German , and leaves a wife and a family in that city . The third man of the party to lose his life was a miner named Henderson , from some small town in Wisconsin . He started out with the party , but was frozen before they reached the summit of the glacier . He decided that his only hope was to turn back . Soon after he left the party a blizzard swept over the glacier , obliterating all trails , and making travel impossible . He probably lost his way then and perished . George Poalowitz of the Manhattan Mining Company of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He returned on the Cottage City to-day in charge of Dr. Lewis of Chicago . He will lose the greater part of both feet , and is in danger of losing his life from blood poisoning . George S. SWeesey , also of New York , was a blacksmith at Valdez for a long time . He started across the glacier early in the Winter , drawing a heavy sled . The details of his death are unknown , for he was alone . The miners who arrived on the Cottage City say that many others perished like Sweesey . They are unable to give names . The men starting out in pairs or singly were never heard of again .                     