@@781079

txt Chicago has not been so excited In sears as it is to-day over the proposed extension of the Yeriees traction franchises . Five big mass meetings were held to-day and to-night in various parts of the city . and eighteen are scheduled to take place between now and Monday night , when the extension ordinances are to come up . There is hardly anything else talked of anywhere in Chicago , and even the women 's clubs are taking it up . To-day the Monticello , the leading active Democratic club of the city , passed resolutions denouncing the measure , and it was only after a fight that a clause recommending that a body guard of 2,000 men accompany each Alderman to the Council Chamber next Monday night was stricken out . Other clubs were less wise , and some resolutions were passed advocating hanging or shooting Aldermen who voted for the measure . Mayor Harrison has been charged witn saying similar things , but , as a matter of fact , he has not uttered the incendiary Cvords attributed to him . To-day four of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a meeting of that body , which was trying to agree to recommend new ordinances to the Council . Two more members are expected to bolt before Monday . Several Aldermen known to be against the ordinances are hurrying back from out of town visits , and Alderman Walker , who is at home with a broken knee , proposes to be carried on a stretcher to the Council chamber . The rough element of the city . largely augmented by the Winter quota of tramps , he s already begun to take advantage of the situation , and is indulging in violence , which is expected shortly to call for police attention . Chief Kipley has issued particular orders to his force , and says he is ready fot any outbreak which may occur . Alderman " Bath House " John Coughlin has received several anonymous letters threatening him with a dire fate . One letter contained a bit of hemp rope . Both sides of the controversy have gone into type , and besides the newspapers they are using Pamphlets and handbills . The " antis " to-night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallows and the words " Anti-Fifty-Year Steal . " They are also giving away buttons for the same purpose . The Mayor has said that no railway ordinance of any sort will be passed by the Council until the Allen bill is repealed . and citizens , irrespective or party , seem detecmined to back him . If the present excitement keeps up the prospect is that there will be 250.000 people around the City Hall next Monday evening . Yerkes to-night issued a statement charging two of the leading newspaper proprietors with blackmail and venality , and saying that honest Aldermen were being in timidated from voting as their consciences dictated .                     