@@672558

txt There is , of course , no use in repining at the disappearance of the institution of New Year 's calls . It had been abused until when its time came its desuetude was generally recognized to be innocuous . In its origin and in its actual practice it was a gracious and kindly custom , and it is noteworthy also as being one of the few social legacies that have been bequeathed to the American people by the Data " settlers of Manhattan Island . They imported it into New-York and it was because it was so obviously sensible and human that it long survived the Dutch occupation and spread itself gradually over the continent . It is a good many years since New-York grew too big for such a custom to be really practicable in it , except under rigid restrictions , which should prevent families from being:descended upon by the friends of their friends in whom they themselves felt not the slightest interest . But this drawbac  --  could readily have been overcome by the general adoption and continuance of the practice that prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquaintances whom they wished to see of their willingness to receive them . With respect to New Year 's calls , and to some other things , it is unfortunate that society in the large sense consents to take its cue from " society " in the restricted sense . This latter " society " is composed of persons who make a business of social intercourse , and who spend their days and nights in visiting and or being visited . Obviously people thus employed have no occasion for setting apart one day in the year for an observance which they can and do practice on any one of the other three hundred and sixty-four , and obviously the institution of New Year 's calls is obsolete and superfluous , so far as " society ' 5'is concerned . It does not by any means follow that it is superfluous or obsolete for the community at large . Nearly every man has old acquaintances whose paths lie apart from his own , whom he does not wish to lose sight of altogether , and old ties that no longer really bind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The social duties thus entailed upon him a busy man used to have the opportunity of discharging once a year upon a public holiday . Now that that opportunity is denied him , it is to be feared that in most cases he will not discharge them at all , to his conscious loss and to the injury of an excellent and kindly feeling . In smaller cities , where everybody knows everybody , and where the alonseathat sometimes attended New Year 's calling in the great cities did not prevail . there is no reason at all why-the custom should be discontinued . Now that it has been discontinued , the queetion arises , what is the pnbile nee of a holiday on New Year 's Day at all . Ten years ago any New-Yorker who had been asked that question would have answered - without hesitation , that it was to enable people to make and to receive-New Year'scalls , and he would have found it difficult as well as superfluous to make any other-explanation . The significance of Memorial Day is likely to make it long outlast the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a day which mourners devote to their dead , whether or not their dead were victims of the civil war . The Fourth of July is in no danger of going unobserved while there are small boys to make a noise or adults anxious to escape from it at - what is the pleasantest season of the year-in the country and the least pleasant in the city . Labor Day is perhaps not defensible as . a holiday , but is none the less warmly defended by those to whom it is at least " a day off " at a season when they can make excursions if they do not care to " demonstrate . " Thanksgiving Day is devoted throughout all those parts of the ' country upon which the customs of NewEngland have imposed themselves to the reunion of families , and Christmas Day is the day of the year-for children . Moreover , on all these days , except Christmas , which is strictly an indoor festival , the weather is likely to be suitable for some form of out-of-door exercise , and a great many people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasonable sports of New Year 's Day are sleighing and skating , and it appears that they have ceased to be seasonable at this latitude . Really , the scores of thousands of young men in this city who found yesterday on their hands must have found it hang very heavily , with nothing that could be done out of doors , and nothing to be done indoors except , as many of them doubtless considered , to drink more than was good for them by way of felicitating themselves upon the resolutions of abstinence for the remainder of 1891 which they had framed . These are probably of the opinion this morning , even if they were not ' of that opinion yesterday , that it would have been better for them to be kept at work .                     