@@675348

txt Mr. Moss has made , or Mr. MAZET has caused him to make , a serious mistake in issuing , on the day before election , what he calls a " report " of the work of the investigating committee . The time chosen as well as the tone of the paper stamps it as a campaign document . That is bad for many reasons , and it is especially bad because it discredits the committee and tends to deprive its work of the influence that it might otherwise have . Unquestionably the committee has succeeded in disclosing more distinctly than has been done before the source of grave evils the existence of which was generally accepted . It has especially drawn from RICHARD CROWFR and from his immediate lieutenant the admission of action and motives for action that are to the last degree corrupting , dangerous , and disgraceful . No political leader since the days of Tv . EEl ) has so cynically owned to the selfishness of his purposes and the low character of the methods he adopts and the demoralizing forces that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done with no apparent consciousness of how it would all be regarded by decent and honest citizens . He sees nothing wrong in it . He believes with childlike simplicity that it is what the people wanted and expected when they put him in the saddle . He is playing politics , playing it as he understands the game , playing it for all it is worth . Undoubtedly it is a dirty game , but it is not dirty to him because he has no standard of cleanliness by which to judge it . The Eskimo who never washes is not aware of his actual condition . The picture that the Tammany chief has drawn of his own political personality and of the organization over which he rules with the authority that the Sultan of Turkey may well envy is a revolting one in all conscience . Ultimately the people of this city will take note of it and will act on it . They might to some extent do so now , though the occasion is not propitious , when the offices to be filled are relatively so unimportant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is its assertion that it is no worse than the opposing machine , and that the exposure of its evils is but the effort of that machine to turn it out and get possession . Unfortunately Mr. Moss and Mr. MAzET are doing much to justify that assertion and extend the belief in its truth . Mr. Moss 's " report , " which is not in any proper sense a report at all but a Partial and biased piece of special pleading , will have precisely that effect . It will not arouse , it will dull , the sentiment that must in the long run put an end to Crokerism . It is a partisan production , and as such is as mischievous as it is discreditable . The Mazet committee has not merely wasted a great opportunity ; it has been guilty of a most dishonorable betrayal of trust .                     