@@675219

txt The venerable ex-Senator HENRY W. BLAIR of New Hampshire has come to the surface as the defender of the protective tariff against the charge that it promotes monopolies and trusts . It is not the aid given by the tariff , he thinks , that enables trusts to rear their horrid heads in defiance of the rights of the public , it is the peculiar and heinous policy that their astute authors have adopted . This policy consists in destroying competition by the combination of unprofitable plants , which are then closed up and leave the field to the active ones that are wickedly run at a profit big enough to pay big dividends on the idle capital . Such combinations , he believes , are contrary to public policy , and the conveyances by which they are effected should be forbidden by law . " If in the future , " he says , " such conveyances were declared illegal and void ab initio I believe that the evil would cease . " This is a new and interesting view . We have been aware for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are known as trusts , but the only persons that seemed likely to suffer from that operation were the innocents who might be induced to buy their securities on the false representation that the plants were profitable and would be made more so by the combination . These are the trusts of which Attorney General GRIGGS said that they would harm chiefly those who went into them . The market for which they are planned is the stock market , and the only industry they seek to control is the shearing of lambs . Men with any money to lose and no clearer ideas of business than the ex-Senator from New Hampshire appears to have would certainly do well to steer clear of them . Mr. BLAIR makes the most of the obvious inconsistency ' of the chief of the Sugar Trust accusing the tariff of responsibility for the iniquities of which ft has been one of the most audacious and successful promoters and beneficiaries . But it does not impair the authority of Scripture with those who accept it that the Arch Sinner is known to be an adept in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all difficult to show that without the aid of the tariff the Sugar Trust would have been unable to accomplish the things that have been most obnoxious in its history . And even if this were not true , it still remains an ugly fact for the theorists of the school of Mr. BLAIR that the price of sugar has fallen during the existence of the trust .                     