@@673046

txt The letters of our correspondent who has been studying the political situation in Virginia , North Carolina , and Alabama have thrown a great deal of light upon the agitation that is going on in those States and to a less extent in other parts of the South where the Farmers ' movement has attained strength . The Farmers ' Alliance was not intended to be or to become a political organization in the sense of acting as a separate party , but it has had the effect of seriously disturbing the balance of parties in several States . In South Carolina it has simply captured and controlled the Democratic Party for the time being , and for the purposes of the present campaign there is no real dissension . TILLMAN will get substantially the full Democratic vote , and the same vote and . possibly more will go to the support of the national ticket . In North Carolina the political end of the Alliance has been carried into the thirdparty movement and has been something of a menace to Democratic prospects , but there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sufficient interest in the issues of the national campaign to be brought back in large numbers to their party allegiance before the election . The situation in Virginia does not differ materially from that in North Carolina , except that the third . party has shown less vitality there and has a feebler hold upon such Democrats as have been carried into it in the local agitations . In Alabama the conditions have been rendered peculiar by the Kolb movement in State politics- and its consequences . While Kola and his followers have been drawn into an alliance with the third party , the leader himself has always posed as a Democrat more Democratic than the leaders of the regular organization . In 1890 he sought the regular nomination for Governor and was defeated in the convention . He claimed to have been unfairly treated , but bided his time and came before the convention again this year . Again defeated , he declared that it was by means of fraud , and refused to accept the result . It was as an independent Democratic candidate that he received the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaffected Democrats of the regular organization . In the late State canvass he insisted upon the purity and fidelity of his Delinocracy , and appealed even more strongly than the regular candidate to the prejudices of the " white element . " He protested . with special vigor against " negro domination , " and . when he was defeated at the August election he not only charged that the result was due to fraud , but taunted his opponent with the support he received from the negro vote . Kola and . his following have not accepted defeat at the polls any more cheerfully than they accepted defeat in the Democratic Convention , and they are now bent upon revenge by doing their utmost to vanquish the regular party at the November election , including in the slaughter the national ticket . This is what makes the Democratic situation in Alabama more perilous than elsewhere in the South . Kenn has apparently inspired his followers with a large share of his own bitter rage at the defeat of his plans , and they are openly supporting the third-party ticket as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless of consequences in the field of national politics . The most disreputable aspect of this peculiar ferment in Southern politics is furnished . by the part taken in it by the Republicans . The Democrats who have been carried into the third-party movement through the Farmers ' Alliance , and in Alabama through the Kolb disaffection , are still Democrats , so far as the issues of the national campaign are concerned . The Alliance itself has repeatedly declared against the Republican tariff policy and against Federal interference with elections . In fact , the Kolb men in Alabama have been extreme in their denunciations of negro ' rule and the Force bill policy . But the Republicans who control the local organizations of their party and who are amenable to the influences of the Administration at Washington and the National Committee in New-York , have not hesitated to sink their pretended principles and bury all scruples as to political methods and enter into bargains for the support of third-party candidates and the encouragement of disaffected Democrats in the hope of defeating the Electoral ticket which represents the interests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been seduced into hostility to it . A particularly disreputable dicker has been going on in Alabama , in which the Harrison ticket itself is deliberately sacrificed to help the Kolb men in their effort to elect the Weaver candidates , whose principles are utterly repugnant to every honest Republican . The attitude of both the Kolb faction and the Republicans is one of an unprincipled . and unscrupulous determination to defeat the Democratic Party in the State by a treacherous and corrupt combination , which the most conspicuous leaders of the National Republican Party are only too anxious to aid with their counsel and with the funds of the party treasury . And yet there is no doubt that the bulk of the present supporters of the third-party ticket in Alabama , as well as in North Carolina and . Virginia , are in principle , in sentiment , and in sympathy , Democrats on all the real issues of the national contest . Their interests and . the interests of their State are involved in the success of the Democratic Party , and it is only necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues of the canvass fairly in the face to be convinced of the folly of their present position . Perhaps in the five weeks that remain before the election they can be made to see the peril of the course into which they have been inveigled.                     