@@672899

txt The suppression by the Fiftieth Congress of the steam presses in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing has proved an expensive piece of . demagogy . Since the 30th of June , 1889 , when this concession to the demands of the Knights of Labor went into effect , the efficiency of the bureau has been seriously impaired and the cost of printing the Government securities greatly increased . It is time that an end be put to this discreditable revival of an old and ignorant prejudice against laborsaving appliances . There never was the least reason for depriving the Government of the convenience and profits derived from the use of these steam presses . They did the work required of them as perfectly as any slow and clumsy hand press ever made . The inspection of the backs and faces of the silver certificates issued before the date above mentioned will convince any rational person that the difference in the work of the two machines is imperceptible . Up to that time the backs of notes as well as revenue stamps and less important securities were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand presses , as it was believed , though never proved , that it afforded greater security against the skill of the counterfeiter . The most careful comparison of the lathe work and other fine lines on the backs with those on the faces will disclose nothing but equal excellence . Were it possible to detect a difference it would have been pointed out by the experts of the Knights of Labor in their testimony before the Senate committee that investigated the subject . Of ten opinions expressed by them relative to the printing on the notes submitted to them as tests only two were right . Their pretended ability to distinguish between the printing of hand presses and that of steam presses was Riniply desperate but vain guesswork . It could not be otherwise . There is no mystery about the printing of a bank note or silver certitteatd ; the process is not one that requires an unusual order of skill and intelligence . Any one that has ever visited the Bureau of Engraving and Printing remembers how it is done . First the steel plate on which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " inked in , " as the printers themselves say . Then they wipe it off with a muslin rag , leaving the intaglio cuttings filled with ink . They next polish the plate with the surface of their hands , which have been rubbed over a ball of whiting . This is to remove any ink that may have been left after the operatidn with the muslin . Finally comes the taking of the impression . The four operations are the same on the steam press . The only one about which there is a dispute is the manipulation of the muslin rag . The fanatical adherents of the hand press contend that it is an " art " requiring so much " judgment and discrimination " that it can not be left to the automatic control of a steam press . Their inability to distinguish one kind of printing from the other shows how far this contention has a basis in fact . It shows , too , that the counterfeiter was in danger of extinction if be depended alone upon the imperfect work of the steam presses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious absurdity about the art of handling a muslin rag , the eighteen steam presses in the bureau wore thrown out . Although more than 200 hand presses have been put in their place , entailing an increased annual expense of over $100,000 , the work of printing Government securities has been constantly and most inconveniently in arrears . Even two to three hours overtime , frequently at night ? an offense against labor that usually evokes the sympathy and wrath of the professional agitator  --  has been insufficient to supply the demand of the Treasury . The Government has at last been compelled to seek some relief in the use of typographical presses . But complete relief will not be had until the steam presses are replaced . It will not be till then , either , that the disgrace of the surrender to the opposition to labor-saving appliances will be wiped out .                     