@@675362

txt The General Currency bill , prepared by the Republican caucus committee appointed by the last Congress has received its final revision at the hands of the members and will be given to the press to-morrow aftcrnoon for publication Wednesday after a copy has been mailed to each Republican Representative in Congress . The measure represents the unanimous conclusions of the committee , and will be called up for consideration at the caucus of Republican members of the House , which is to be held probably next Saturday . Accompanying the bill is a report setting forth at length the reasons and necessity which in the opinion of the committee exist for the proposed legislation . The Evening Star to-day prints the following as some of the chief features of the bill and which in the main are probably fairly accurate : " An amendment to the coinage laws , making 25% grains of gold , 000 parts fine , the standard coin measure . " An amendment to the greenback reissue act of ISIS providing that those Treasury notes shall be redeemed with gold , and when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for gold . " This provision will prevent the operation of the endless chain which hitherto has been the means to raid the gold reserve . " An amendment to the specific resumption act directing the maintenance of a gold reserve of not less than : $100,000,000. the maintenance of the reserve at that figure now being entirely discretionary to the Secretary of the Treasury . " An amendment to the National Bank act , authorizing banks to be organized with a capital stock of 525,000 . At present the minimum is 550.000 . Another amendment to the same act , authorizing banks to issue notes to the par value of the bonds they have on deposit to secure circulation . At present the limit is 00 per cent . " A third amendment to this act reduces the taxation on bank circulation to one-tenth of 1 per cent . This tax is to pay the expense of engraving and printing the notes . The present rate more than meets this expense . " SUDDEN DEATH IN A CHURCH . George Elliott , a Retired Banker , Succumbs to an Attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 302 East Fifteenth Street , died suddenly of heart disease last evening in St. Paul 's Methodist Episcopal Church , at Eighty-sixth Street and West End Avenue . Mr. Elliott had been a member and trustee of the church for many years . When the congregation removed from the old edifice at Twenty-second Street and Fourth Avenue to the present location Mr. Elliott continued his membership . He left home last evening apparently in good health and excellent spirits to attend a. quarterly conference of the church . He chatted with friends before theses , sion began , but when he started to take his seat he suddenly clasped his hands over his heart and , staggering , fell to the floor . Aid was at his side in a moment , and messengers soon returned with Dr. Holland of West Eighty-third Street . Mr. Elliott was beivond human assistance , however , and the doctor pronounced him dead . His sudder demise caused quite a shock to those who witnessed it . The body was removed to the dead man 's house , and the funeral wil probably take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North of Ireland eighty-one years ago . He came to America when less than twenty years of uge , and made his home in this city , where he had since resided . He entered a banking house , and in a few year , - , with his brother , John F. Elliott , founded the house of Elliott g CO. of : ? 0 1t all Street . Mr. Elliott leaves a wife , two sons . and two daughters .                     