@@672607

txt A commission of eight physicians connected with the veterinary department of the University of Pennsylvania began last Saturday a series of experiments designed to show the effect of Koca 's tuberculin upon consumptive cows . " It is estimated , " said the Chairman , Dr. Zual , , before the first injections were made , " that 50 per cent , of the cases of consumption originate from the use of dairy products . Our plan is to free the human race from the scourge by removing its cause . We propose to investigate the value of the lymph in'three lines  --  as a curative agent , as a diagnosing agent , and as an agent to secure immunity from disease . " Three cows were subjected to the treatment . Two of them were undoubtedly tuberculous , and the tuberele bacillus had been found in their milk . The third was supposed to be tuberculous , and in this case the tuberculin was used as a diagnosing agent . It is noticeable that these experiments are made in a city to which milk is sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the prevalence of tuberculosis in these herds , like that in which experts have been engaged in the region surrounding Boston , has been made by the sanitary authorities , but the following statement , published by the Philadelphia Press last year , shows that the matter has not been wholly overlooked : " In New-Jersey not long ago , in the milk district of this city , fifty-three herds were found infected with tuberculosis . They are still supplying the city with milk . The number of diseased herds in the Pennsylvania milk district of the city is at least as large and probably larger . " II The latest conclusions of physicians concerning the value of Koca 's tuberculin do not , unfortunately , afford much ground for expectation - that the commission will succeed in curing cows that are clearly tuberculous . For example , Dr. GRIFFITH of the Tuberculosis Commission of the University of Pennsylvania says in the recent report of the commission 's work , under the head of general conclusions : " No alteration for the better occurred in the physical signs of any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a number of plithisical patients subjected to favorable hygienic conditions . * " * In a majority of the cases either no appreciable changes in the physical signs could be detected , or the alterations found indicated more or less deterioration in the condition of the lungs . " But if the experiments upon diseased cows shall direct public attention to the condition of the dairy herds in the - vicinity of Philadelphia , and if the commission shall undertake to show how many consumptive cows there are in the herds from which the milk supply of Philadelphia is procured , its work will be of great service to the people , even if it shall appear that the tuberculin will neither cure tuberculous animals nor make sound cows proof against infection . Not until last year was there enacted in Philadelphia a municipal ordinance forbidding the sale of milk adulterated with water , and this ordinance was passed with great difficulty , owing to the powerful opposition of the milk dealers . The work of the commission may convince the people that further legislation is needed . It may show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the only harmless part of the compound , and that milk which is not below the standard and has not been adulterated may carry the germs of consumption to every family where it is used . We hope that in the course of time the sanitary authorities of this city will take some action to prevent the sale of tuberculous milk here . The address of Dr. &TILL; shows that he and his associates have very decided opinions as to the danger of infection from the milk of consumptive cows . Why should they not cause , an inquiry to be made concerning the actual condition of the dairy herds in the milk district of their city The facts that might thus be procured would be of great value , and could scarcely fail , we should say , to excite a popular interest that would compel the enactment of protective laws .                     