@@673776

txt An explosion wrecked the house of Nathan Strom this evening and caused a fire , in which Hugo Schmid was burned to death . in plain sight of a crowd of spectators , who were powerless to rescue him . Three houses were burned to the ground . Mr. Strom is a furniture dealer at 45 James Street , New-York , and his home was a two-story frame cottage in Union Avenue , Mariners ' Harbor , on a portion of the property once occupied by W. F. Cody 's Wild West Show . Mrs. Strom and her daughter left the house at 5:30 P. M. , and , it is supposed , went to New-York . The house was left in charge of Hugo Schmid , about fifty years old , who was employed as a man-of-allwork . There was a terrific explosion at 6:30 that rattled the windows of houses three blocks away . Those who were near say Strom 's house seemed to be fairly lifted from its foundations . A moment later the whole structure seemed to be enveloped in fir.aries . Fred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only men near the scene , and when they ran to the house they discovered " Old Hugo , " as he was known , standing in the front door calling for help . . The door had been blown from its hinges and Schmid was just inside the house , but was buried to the waist in heavy beams and wreckage , unable to move and surrounded by fire . The men dashed to his rescue , but , so tightly was he pinned in , that their united strength was of no avail . They were driven back by the flames which began to shoot out of the doorway , but , stimulated by the heart-rending cries of the man and the encouraging shouts of the crowd that quickly collected , they dashed into the flames . Again they were driven back , and the third time Welsher and Guyon went back to the rescue , but without avail , and by that time Schmid 's cries had ceased . The cottage adjoining that in which the explosion occurred was occupied by G. W. Smoot , a conductor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Smoot and her four children , one an infant of two weeks . The explosion wrecked the windows , and Mrs. Smoot had barely time to escape with the children before the house caught fire . Thefflames spread so rapidly that little of the furniture could be saved , and nearly the whole of Mr. Smoot 's month 's wages , received  --  yesterday , was burned . The fire communicated to the residence of William Decker , and the Wild West Hotel was threatened , but the firemen arrived in time and the greater portion of - Mr . Decker 's personal property was saved . Just how the . explosion occurred will never be known . There are several theories as to its-cause . It is alledued that a gasoline stove was used by the Storm family , and that they had a barrel of the explosive oil in the cellar , and to this the accident is generally attributed . The firemen had the flames under control by 8:30 , and began a search for the body of " Old Hugo . " It was recovered shortly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schaefer took charge of the body , impaneled a jury , and will hold the inquest Monday evening . Two of the cottages were owned by Edward P. Doyle and the third by Mr. Decker , the occupant . The total loss on real and personal property is estimated at 818,000 . A LESSON FOR PHILADELPHIA A Committee of tier Officials Come to New-York to Learn How to Make Antitoxine . A delegation of prominent health officials from Philadelphia visited the Board of Health yesterday with the object of informing themselves as to the manufacture of antitoxine . The members of the delegation were Dr. Denier , Commissioner of Public Safety ; Dr. Shakespeare of the State Bacteriological Department , and Dr. Ford and Dr. Kaiser , members of the Philadelphia Board of Health . The committee was informally received by Dr. Biggs , Gen. Emmons Clark , Dr. Parks , and Dr. Bebe , who conducted the visitors through the laboratories and explained the workings of the various incubators , many of which were entirely new to the visitors . The citizens of the Quaker City were also permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed themselves surprised at what they saw . The Philadelphians explained that they wanted to learn how to manufacture antitoxine . The doctors told them it was easy enough , and then proceeded to give them their first lesson . After an hour 's consultation in the department , the visitors were taken to the stables where the inoculated horses are . The wrinkled appearance of the Philadelphians ' foreheads showed that their gray matte : was absorbing the information at a rapid rate . A Driver Shot by a Bartender . John Sherry , a driver , twenty-three years old , of 246 East Twenty-sixth Street , was shot in the left thigh by Tiernan , thirty-three years old , of 405 East Nineteenth Street , in Michael Kennedy 's saloon , at 417 East Nineteenth Street , yesterday afternoon . He was taken to Bellevue Hospital , and was arrested . Kennedy 's place is frequented by drivers in the Street-Cleaning Department . is the bartender . Neither Sherry nor would tell just what caused the trouble between them . Sherry had been in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words about something a few - minutes before the shot was fired . was behind the bar when he fired the.shot. said he shot in ' self-defense . He said that he and Sherry had had an argument , and that Sherry was shout to assault him with a beer glass when he took the revolver from behind the counter and shot him . Sherry 's injury is not dangerous . 