@@673180

txt That which will , we believe , impress all dispassionate , unprejudiced readers of President Cleveland 's inaugural is the grave , earnest spirit of broad , deep Americanism which pervades it in whole and in part . His declarations of principles are those of an American citizen and statesman ? we use this latter designation advisedly  --  and are evidently those of one who thinks and feels deeply , and who assumes the onerous duties and responsibilities of his office solemnly impressed with their exceeding gravity and importance , and with a wise reliance upon that " Supreme Being who rules the affairs of men , " and la whose Divine guidance ho reverently trusts . If Mr. Cleveland has proved to his countrymen any one thing more clearly than another it is his fine sincerity of character and his unselfish devotion to that which he believes to be for their best interests . From the Springfield Republican , ( Ind . ) The address is an admirable-statement of the principles of reform to which the Democratic Party has pledged itself . His own subjection to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the solemn and weighty utterances at the close , Wherein he refers to the responsibility put upon him by his oath of office , have to support them in carrying conviction to all of simple and disinterested devotion to the cause of good government , as ho sees it , &considerable; public service already performed and always thus characterized . No one can doubt his honest determination to carry out all the promises set forth in the address . The only question is as to how far his hands are to be upheld by his party and the people . From the Baltimore Sun , ( . Dem . ) As a definition of the general aims and objects of his Administration it is clear and lucid . As an exposition of the true principles and policy of the Democratic Party of to-day it is direct , positive , and yet conservative and thoroughly patriotic . It is as devoid of any trace or flavor of mere partisanship as of personal egotism or self-laudation . Although the occasion was the supreme moment of a personal triumph such as no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not one word of reference to his own former Administration , nor any yielding to the temptation to rehearse either the services of his party or his own . From the Boston Herald , ( I ) id- ) Tho address is well grounded in principle , but very ' brief In its elaboration of the points considered . They are all sound and wise ones . including , as they do , a conservative protection of the currency , a call for clear reform in the tariff , a warning against pension abuses , an appeal for economy in expenditure , a condemnation of the conferment of office for partisan service , a disapproval of the " trust " practices in trade , and an advocacy of equal rights before the law . There could hardly be a better platform for a patriotic President to present in the opening of his Administration . From the . Detroit Free Press , ( Dem . ) Mr. Cleveland has a well-established reputation for happiness in the making of addresses , and on this occasion he was more than usually felicitous . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best sense fitting to the occasion . There is no attempt at oratorical or rhetorical display . It is the plain speech of a plain man to a plain people . In its earnestness , however , its conciseness , its grasp of the situation , it is a model of what such a speech on such an occasion should be . From the Chicago Times , ( Dem . ) Thus declaring himself , the President enters upon the discharge of his duties . He possesses courage , fidelity , and cheerfulness , qualities that will be essential in carrying out reforms with which he and the Democratic Party in both executive and legislative office are charged . All Democrats will wish him well in the confident feeling that ho has the capacity fully to meet the task . They will support him cordially and unitedly , From the Milwaukee Wisconsin , ( Rep. ) By his straightforward and manly pledge to preserve inviolable the national credit , by the exercise of Executive in tervention whenever it maybe necessary to avert financial disaster , the President commands the support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , irrespective of party . From the Chicago Tribune , ( Rep. ) President Cleveland can not be too warmly commended for his pledge that none of the powers with which the Executive branch of the Government is invested will be withheld when their exorcise is deemed necessary to maintain our national credit or avert financial disaster .                     