@@673774

txt By a majority of 22 in a vote of 140 Democrats , the House caucus of the dominant party to-day decided to adopt a rule to put through before the end of the week , the substitute for the originhl Carlisle Currency bill offered a short time ago by Mr. Springer . The bill thus agreed to is the one which several members of the Banking and Currency Committee insist is not properly a substitute , but a series of amendments that were not submitted to or agreed upon by the committee , but were put in shape by Mr. Springer after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury . The talk in the caucus made plain what everybody has known for weeks , that the Democrats were not likely to agree upon any bill . All the speakers , from Mr. Bland to Mr. Sperry , adhered to his individual views . An Arkansas member offered a proposition to allow the States to go into the bullion-buying and silver-coining business , with a plan for distribution of the silver purchased on State account for coining , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends and opponents were but ten votes apart . There has been much talk about a growing interest in the abolition of the gold demand currency , but it was seen to be the merest moonshine when Mr. Sperry 's bill received but thirteen votes on a motion to substitute it for the Springer substitute . About the best that can be predicted on the basis of the action of to-day is that some time in the course of the week the Committee on Rules will enforce an order requiring the House to vote on the motion to pass the substitute Currency bill . If all the Democrats who to-day voted for the substitute could be depended upon to vote for it when it shall come to a Anal test , and if they should he assisted by the Democrats who to-day voted " No , " the affirmatives would still lack a majority . But it was distinctly understood that the caucus was not to be binding . A few of the members who to-day voted for the substitute will vote against it when it shall reach the deciding vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote with their party . The Democratic division may be depended upon to be as large as it was today . Up to this time it has not been ascertained that a single Republican will vote for the substitute . A moment 's consideration of the problem makes it seem inevitable that the substitute is doomed to defeat . To those Democrats who have been hoping that the party would shake off its lethargy and make good use of the last few weeks of its legislative opportunities , the vote of to-day is really less significant than the confessions of inability which are heard from the men v ho have rerused to accept the bill offered by the Administration , and yet fail to provide a measure asserted to be better , and that would command the united support of the party . The feeling in the party was illustrated by a retort in the caucus . Mr. Swanson of Virginia asked Mr. Tarsney of Missouri whether he would be willing that the Democrats , by inaction , should confess their inability to supply a necessary legislative remedy . Mr. Tarsney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to demonstrate it by passing the wrong hill . Very much of the difference of opinion in the House must be , and is , laid at the door of the Secretary of the Treasury . It is safe to assert that if he had insisted upon the bill first sent up by him , even if it was not so good a bill as that now proposed to be substituted by Mr. Springer , his course would have been more convincing and influential than that which he has followed . So deeply impressed have members of the House become with the idea that the Secretary is vacillating that there were many members to-day looking for still another substitute from the Treasury , which was expected to contain many features quite new and wonderful in their power to convert the doubters and fully to cure any of the ills from which the Treasury is suffering .                     