@@673643

txt The confirmation of the President 's appointment of Mr. A. Augustus Healy of Brooklyn to be Collector of Internal Revenue for the First District would give a marked forward impulse to the cause of Democratic harmony in this State . In Mr. Healy 's case the Finance Committee of the Senate , we suppose , awaits the pleasure of the Senators from the State of New-York . They could probably secure a confirmation at any time , Senator Hill and Senator Murphy would hardly delay confirmation if they could be induced to consider the matter as loyal Democrats apart from all personal considerations . We do not understand that there is any opposition to Mr. Healy among the Democrats of Brooklyn . We have not heard of any opposition even among Democrats of the old organization . It is a first-rate appointment . Mr. Healy was born in Brooklyn , educated there , and has lived there all his life . He has attained to business and social distinction . He is universally respected . He has done his duty as a good citizen , both in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been called under various municipal administrations . He is a sound Democrat who has done good service for the party . No one can question his attachment to Democratic principles . No Democrat can adduce any party reason or any personal reason why this excellent appointment should not be confirmed . It strikes us that it is not very good Democracy to allow Mr. Ernst Nathan , who was Mr. Platt 's appointee through President Harrison , to continue in charge of this important office . If there is to be union and harmony among the Democrats of New-York this Fall , Brooklyn is a good place to begin the cementing . There is need of it there as there is in New-York and Erie and other Democratic strongholds . Brooklyn sends five Congressmen to Washington . In the present House they are all Democrats . Kings must be united if the delegation is to continue unbroken . Division would mean defeat . Senators Hill and Murphy , we assume , are desirous of promoting the success of their party in the Congressional elections . The confirmation of Mr. Healy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obstacle to the harmonious action of the Kings Democracy . ' here is a disposition to come together over there which the confirmation of Mr. Healy 's appointment would very much encourage .                     