@@672592

txt Nicholcie Staub of New-Milford was declared elected Controller by the House this afternoon , but is still out of office through the unexpected stand taken by Gov . Bulkeley . On the first day of the session ( Jan. 7 ) Staub , whose majority at the polls exceeded 1,600 , was declared elected by the Senate , and on Jan. 13 was sworn in by that body . The House , in passing the declaratory resolution in his favor this afternoon , refused the substitution of the Senate document declaring him elected . passing an independent order which necessitates concurrence from the assooiate branch of the Legislature . The controversy was intensified by this course , and as the Senate had adjourned until next Tuesday there was no way out of the muddle . When Controller Staub , on the strength of the two resolutions , undertook to assume the duties or the office to which he was oilmen by the electors of the State three months ago he was confronted by Gov . Bulkeley 's prohibition . T4 Controller was accompanied by William Hamerely of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a hot exchange of compliments with the Governor . Bulkeley 's position is that Controller Staub will not be allowed to take the office until the Senate has concurred with the House in adopting the declaratory resolution . The Senate can not meet the new issue until next Tuesday . What will bo done then can not be foreshadowed . The Controller is in the both of hav- ing been declared elected by both houses of the General Assembly , and of having had the oath of office administered to him by the Senate . The House demands that he shall be sworn in again in joint convention , and Gov . Bulkeley will keep the doors of the office barred against him until the Senate recedes from its original and constitutional attitude . Stiles Judson of Stratford was the Representative who introduced the Staub resolution . While it was done in concurrence with the opinion of his associates , he is entitled to the credit of having taken the first step on the side of the Republican claimants toward extending justice to the Democratic majority of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leading Republican in the House , to effect a settlement . He is the only member of the investigating cons. mittee who has shown the slightest sense of honor in the controversy . The House this aiternoon , in reply to the Senate 's bill providing for the seating of the Democratic members and the testing of their titles before the Superior and Supreme Courts , adopted the folio wing , which was drafted by Augustus Braudegee of New-London : Whereas , The difference of opinion between the two Houses of this General Assembly touching the election of State officers concerns the peace , good order , and welfare of the State and good dtitens thereof . Whereas , Such differenoes depend largely upon questions of constitutional and statute law , now therefore , for the orderly and amicable settlement of such differences . . Resotrfd , By this house , that this House declares its willingness to unite with the Senate in the pass- age of ajoint resolution requesting the advice of the Judges o the Supreme Court on all the questions of law involved In these differences , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will join in such reference , to take such action and pass . in concurrence with the senate , such legislation as may be necessary to carry Into effect the opinion of the Judges . This is the most Important step that the House has yet taken with regard to a settlement of existing troubles . It is a step toward common ground with the Senate . The House will not return to the Capitol until Wednesday of next week . Mr. Brandegee 's resolutions were adopted in good faith and will open the way for a submission of the dispute to the Supreme Court .                     