@@781063

txt The GraMsend election frauds would have been aired before the General Term this morning but for Judge Mayham 's refusal to listen to an affidavit that would have made quite interestingreading . The matter before the court was the question whether an order should not issue directing the State Board of Canvassers to reconvene and award the certificate of election for constitutional delegates in the Sixth Senatorial District , comprising Richmond County and a part of Kings , to the five Democratic candidates . The Secretary of State claims that the certificates of election in that district were awarded to the Republican constitutional delegates through error . William M. Mullen , one of the Democratic candidates for delegate , appeared for the petitioners . In opposition Mr. Charles L. Pashley , one of the Republicans declared elected by the State board , held that the court had no power to issue a writ of mandamus compelling or directing the State Board of Canvassers to reconvene and recanvass the vote . The Judges here held a consultation , and when court was ready to hear further arguments Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to read . " I object to his reading the affidavit , " broke in Mr. Mullen , " unless he first tells its nature , and then I want the right further to object if I wish . " " The affidavit refers to frauds committed at the last election which will ultimately have some bearing on the case , " replied Mr. Pashley . " You need not read them , " remarked Judge Mayham , " as we wo n't go bail of the returns of the Secretary of State in hearing the argument for a writ . You may take your writ , Mr. Mullen , " he concluded , and the order for the State Board to reconvene and correct the error referred to was issued . The affidavit which Mr. Pashley endeavored to read contained a statement of alleged frauds committed at the last election in Gravesend , which is in the Sixth Senatorial District , and was sworn to by Mr. Pashley himself . The delegates , headed by Mr. Pashley , will appeal to the Constitutional Convention to 1 ) e seated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Board of Canvassers late this afternoon , pursuant to the order of the Supreme Court , reconvened and recanvassed the vote for Constitutional Convention delegates in the Sixth Senatorial District . The board corrected the error made at its last meeting , and declared James W. Riggs , Eugene A. Cunan , George W. Rodeck , W. M. Mullen , and Thomas W. Fitzgerald , the Democratic candidates for Constitutional delegates in that district , to have been elected . Secretary of State Rice , Controller Campbell , State Engineer Schenck , and State Treasurer Danforth were the only members of the board present                     