@@674615

txt The sub-committee of the Republican Conference Committees of Greater New York met at County Committee Headquarters , 1 Madison Avenue , last night , and issued the following call for the City Con-vention : To the Enrolled Republican Electors of the City of New York : The enrolled Republican electors of the City of New York are hereby called upon to send delegates to a Republican City Convention , to be held at Carnegie Music Hall , Seventh Avenue and Fifty-seventh . Street , on Sept. 28 , 1897 , noon , to nominate candidates for thc offices of Mayor , Controller , and President of the Council , to elect a Republican City Committee , and to transact such other business as may properly come before the convention . The said delegates must be elected by conventions held in and for each Assembly district , or portion thereof , and each such convention shall elect delegates in accordance with the basis of representation established by the State Convention of 1e7e5 for the election of delegates to a State Convention , as follows : One delegate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegate for every thousand votes and majority fraction of a thousand votes cast in each Assembly district , or portim thereof , in the next preceding National election for the National Republican ticket . The Secretary of each Assembly District Convention is hereby directed to forward to the undersigned Secretary at Rdom. 424 , 1 Madison Avenue , a duly certified copy of the credentials of the delegates . Vacancies in each delegation may be filled on the call of She temporary roll by the remaining members of the delegation in which such vacancies occur . Lemuel E. Quigg , Chairman , ex officio ; William J. Buttling , Secretary , ex officio ; Frederick S.Gibbs , Republican County Committee , City and County of New York ; Jacob Worth , Republican County Committee of the County of Kings ; H. C. Johnson , Republican County Committee of the County of Queens ; Hugh , Republican County Committee of the County of Richmond . The allotment of delegates to the City Convention is as follows : BOROUGHS MANHATTAN AND Manhattan , Bronx , and Westchester , 191 ; Kings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Total number delegates , 348 . The Conference Sub-Committee adjourned to meet at the convention hall at 10 o'clock on the morning of Sept. 28. to make up the temporary roll . In passing upon the credentials of delegates each member of the committee will cast the number of votes to which the borough or boroughs he shall represent may be entitled to in the convention . This will give to Frederick S. Gibbs , who will represent the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx , absolute control of the situation , and it will rest with him whether any Low delegates shall be seated in the committee . The rules of time Saratoga Convention will apply to the Republican Convention . MR . WORTH FINDS NEW FRIENDS . Franklin W. Woodruff and the Rev. Dr. Darlington Are for Low . Lieut . Gov . Timothy Woodruff began his second day 's work in his " personal " headquarters in the Clarendon Hotel yesterday morning , with the assurance that Jacob Worth was already whipped in Kings County . Theodore B. Willis was nowhere to be seen . Just where Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woodruff opened his headquarters does not appear . A few days ago it was announced that Mr. Willis was the accredited representative of Mr. Platt in the county , but now his position is undefined . The leadership was variously stated yesterday to be Mr. Willis , and then again Mr. Woodruff , but no one could be found to explain the exact condition of affairs . The inference is that both men are Platt leaders , with Mr. Woodruff in the foreground . Evidence accumulated yesterday to show that the fight at the Republican General Committee meeting Tuesday night will be made upon the date for the County Convention , which the Executive Committee has set for Sept. 23 . All convention as well as the primary dates must be ratified by the full committee . It is the intention of the Woodruff-Willis faction , it is said , to defeat Worth if possible in having the County Convention postponed until after the City Convention . Mr. Worth 's enemies believe if they can succeed in this they will be able to carry the City Convention , and by so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Brooklyn with a safe majority for their county ticket . Worth , they say , will then be annihilated , and will never more be heard of politically in Kings County . It was given out at Mr. Woodruff 's headquarters last evening that the Lieutenant Governor has secured the pledges of 101 delegates , and that by Tuesday night he expects to have the necessary number for a comfortable majority of the 219 delegates to the General Committee . The Worth people , on the other hand , assert that their convention dates will be ratified by one of the largest majorities ever received in committee . One of the interesting bits of gossip of the day was the announcement that Franklin W. Woodruff , uncle of the Lieutenant Governor , visited Sheriff Buttling during the afternoon and proclaimed himself in favor of Worth and Low . The Rev. J. H. Darlington , pastor of Christ Church , in Mr. Worth 's ward in Williamsburg , is reported as a convert to the Worth side of the party . He is said to have met Mr. Worth up town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him because he had come out for Low . " Mr. Worth , I have always been more or less opposed to you , because of your affilia tion with Platt , " Dr. Darlington is reported to have said . " The parishioners in my church have long been opposed to you because they regarded you as Mr. Platt 's representative in this city . Their opposition to you was based largely upon your allegiance to Platt . Often have members of my congregation left services to go out and take a hand in the primaries with the cry on their lips : Down with Worth and Platt . ' " But now , Mr. Worth . we are with you . Your support of Mr. Low and your separation from Mr. Platt have brought us to your support . We are with you heart and soul in the present fight for Low . " Mr. Worth is reported as much pleased with Dr. Darlington 's indorsement , and to have said to him he was sure Mr. Platt would no more be heard of in local politics after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a nominating committee has selected Frank H. Gilbert of the Second Ward as their candidate for Alderman , and will indorse him at a meeting to be held at 61 Henry Street to-morrow night . Gilbert is butler in the family of Mr. Polhemus in Remsen Street . He is said to own considerable real estate in Brooklyn , and is looked upon as a man of much influence among his people . INDEPENDENT HALL DEMOCRACY . May Go with the Republicans  --  Did Not Hear Mr. Raines . The Independent Hall Democracy of the Thirtieth Assembly District held a meeting last night at 1,551 Second Avenue . A parade of 250 people , headed by a fife and drum corps , preceded the meeting . Speeches were made by William A. Ellis , John Milholland , T. W. Davis , Judge A. T. Ackert , and Isidor D. Morrison . Messrs . W. N. Loew , T. W. Davis , and Ernest Harvier , the committee representing the districts in the conference with the Republicans at Manhattan Hotel on Aug. : to , reported . The sentiment , chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ally itself with the Republicans if the Republicans declare against the Raines law . A letter from Secretary Raines was received in which he declined an invitation issued by the Independents to meet their speakers in a debate of the Raines law . He pleaded prior engagements . A telegram from Excise Commissioner Julius Harburger was also received . He told of addressing a large meeting at Canandaigua , and cheered the Independents on to further work against the Raines law . REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE . Chairman Hackett Issues a Call for a Meeting on Sept . IS . Chairman Charles W. Hackett issued from Republican Headquarters in the Fifth Avenue Hotel yesterday the following call : A meeting of the Republican State Committee will be held on Saturday , Sept. 18 , at noon , at the Fifth Avenue Hotel , in New York City , for the purpose of nominating a Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals and for such other business as may properly come before the committee . Election Inspectors Examined . The first installment of Republican candidates for Inspectors of Election in Brooklyn were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nearly 250 men were present . The Commissioners examined 2.50 Democratic candidates Thursday night , and will examine the remainder of the candidates early next week . The Democratic and Republican candidates for places as poll clerks will be examined within a few dv ... 7 .. There are over 500 places to be filled . Queens County . Convention . The Queens County Republican Central Committee met in Miller 's Hotel , Long Island City , yesterday , and fixed Sept. 27 as the date and Jamaica as the place for the convention . The convention for the Borough of Queens will be held at the same date and place . The primaries will be held in all the districts in the county Sept. 24 . Quigg Indorsed for Mayor . At a meeting of the Ivy Club Wednesday night , in 1,22S Third Avenue , Harry Lyons , Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions , presented a resolution indorsing Lemuel E. Quigg as a candidate for Mayor .                     