@@673941

txt Perhaps the most effective part of the address of the Democratic Club of this city to the people of the State is that which shows the failure of the Republican ' Legislature to keep the pledge of economy. ? We do not attach much importance to the rate of taxation as a political issue unless it is shown that an increased rate is due to dishonesty or extravagance ' in expenditures . A. high rate  --  rov. be justified by proving that the expenditures which make it necessary are legitimate and for the public benefit , ' and a low rate may be reprehensible if the public needs are not adequately provided for . But , judged by this standard , the Republican record for the present year is a bad one , and judged by the party promises , it is worse . Among the specific pledges of the last Republican State Convention , to be redeemed In case of " the election of a Republican Assembly and a Republican Governor and Lieutenant Governor , " were " reduced State expenditures , " " . an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax rate . " Whether they relied upon these pledges or not , the people at the election of last November gave the opportunity asked for , and every one of the pledges was flagrantly violated . As to " reduced expenditures , " the figures show that , apart from the cost of the State system for the care of the insane , the appropriations for the year were increased by nearly $2,000,000 over those of last year , and no corresponding benefit can be pointed out . In fact , expenses were increased at the very points where the Democratic Administration had been most criticised for alleged extravagance , and where definite promises of retrenchment were made . It is shown by a corrr , ; arison with past years that the amount to be raised by direct taxation  --  still excluding the requirements for the insane under the new system ? is larger than for a long series of years , with one exception , notwithstanding that revenue from other sources has increased to about $5,000,000 ; and in the exceptional year the appropriations were made by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a . Democratic Governor . Taking into account the corporation and inheritance taxes and other general sources of State revenue , we find the contrast with former years very striking . The promise of an equitable system of taxation implied that the existing system was regarded as inequitable , but nothing was done or attempted by the majority to correct it . The effort to secure to elocal authorities the power to adept an equitable method of assessment for themselves was defeated , though it would in no way have affected the revenues of the State . Exactly what a " minimized tax rate " was intended to mean is not apparent , but it could hardly be taken to mean an increase of nearly one-half over that of the previous year , which actually took place . This would not be a matter of so much importance but for the promises that were made in order to secure support . especially in the rural districts , where alone - the burden of State taxes is usually complained of . The cities , which really pay more than their share , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources , find taxation for their own purposes so much heavier than for the suppart of the State Government that they do not greatly notice these variations , but those who were induced to vote for the Republican Party last year . as the party of economy find themselves betrayed . It ' is and always was the party of public extravagance , its National policy having made it so wherever it has the power of appropriation.                     