@@780973

txt J. Edward Addicks controlled the Republican State Convention to-day , and he showed small consideration for either the rights or the wishes of the followers of ex-Senator Higgins . The Higginc men bolted , held a convention , declared in favor of McKinley , and laid the basis for a contest at St. Louis . The Chairman , a follower of Addicks , refused to entertain a motion instructing the delegates for McKinley , and a minority report from the Platform Committee , commending McKinley but leaving delegates free to act , was voted down in the convenUon . The convention was a most disorderly one . Mr. Addicks took an active part in the preliminary proceedings . When he first appeared he was hissed and cheered . He accused the Higgins men of committing gross frauds in the Newcastle primaries , and the Higgins people replied with countercharges . The Higgins men could get no representation on any of the committees , and in all cases contests were decided in favor of the Addicks people . The platform rpnferms the principles of the party and declares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coinage of silver , and declares that , " until there is an international agreement we believe the present money system should be maintained , and every dollar made as good as every other dollar . " The McKinley bill was indorsed , liberal pensions were favored , and the Democratic management of State affairs was denounced . A minority report favored leaving the delegates uninstructed , but commended Major McKinley . The report also contained a plank condemning " the bold and open use of money , as carried on by some Republicans at the recent primaries , " and condemned Gov . Watson for voting in the Legislature at the election for a United States Senator . The minority report was laid on the table . and the majority report was adopted . After the rejection of the minority report by a vote of 91 to 54 , and the adoption of the majority report , Washington Hastings , the leader of the anti-Addicks men , said : " These are the last words The evident intention has been since morning to stifle the minority . The subsequent proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left the convention , amid much excitement . The convention then selected delegates to take the places of the bolters . A resolution offered by Addicks was adopted giving future conventions 200 , instead of 160 , delegates . The additions were made to the two lower counties , which Addicks contras . ' - The State Committee. , was then announced , and the following deletes named for St. Louis : Newcastle County  --  J. Edward Addicks and Daniel E. Stewart , with Robert J. Hanby and Thomas E. Postel ( colored ) for alternates ; Kent County  --  J. Frank Allen and A. B. Conner , with Daniel M. Wilson and George W. Marshall as alternates ; Sussex County  --  Hiram H. Burton and Caleb R. Layton Joseph L. Cahill and C. E. Davis as alternates . The report of the Committee on Credentials was adopted , several anti-Addicks men being declared not elected The regular convention adjourned after adopting the platform reported . When the anti-Addicks men left the hall - they were followed by Gen. James H. Wilson , Chairman of the State Committtee ; Hugh C. Brown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathizers with the regular Republicans . They went to the State House and assembled in the hall of the House of Representatives . Chairman Wilson took the Speaker 's chair and nominated Washington Hastings as Chairman and Hugh C. Brown as Secretary . There was no opposition , and Mr. Hastings made a brief speech . He said the convention should adopt a platform , indorse William McKinley , and elect delegates to the National Convention at St .. Louis . " And I make the prediction , " said Mr. Hastings , " and mark well the prediction , that William McKinley will be nominated in the National Convention , and the delegates from this convention will be seated . " A platform was adopted pledging support to the doctrines of protection and reciprocity , and favoring discriminating duties in favor of goods carried in American vessels . The platform continues : Believing that the people are entitled to the use of the best money , and being anxious to restore the industrial and commercial prosperity of the Nation , we demand the maintenance of present gold standard of value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be established upon a secure basis we are opposed to the free coinage of silver by the United States . The following was also adopted : Resolved , That this convention , recognizing in William McKinley of Ohio the highest type of American statesmanship , we hereby instruct the National delegates to cast the vote of Delaware for William Metrinley , first , last , and all the time . Resolved , That the Republicans of Delaware express faith in the election of Henry A. Du Pont as a Senator of the United States and insist that he be given a seat in that body . Resolved . That this is a Republican convention for the naming of six delegates to nominate Republican candidates for President and Vice President of the United States ; that only men of true and tried party fidelity can fitly represent this body ; that J. Edward Addicks is not a Republican ; that he betrayed the party of this State by conspiring with the Democrats to defeat the election of a Republican to the Senate of the United States , and that he is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morally  --  to represent the Republicans of Delaware in any capacity . Delegates were named to the St. Louis Convention as follows : Anthony Higgins , John Pilling , Paris L. Carlisle , Hiram Reedy , C. P. Swayne , and George H. Hall . Alternates were also named It was decided that the present State Committee should hold over and call the August convention .                     