@@673069

txt The significance of the unusual activity which business men are showing in the present campaign lies in the fact that their interests depend absolutely upon the general prosperity of the industries of the country . To them a. sound currency and a sound system of taxation are of the utmost importance , but only because they are of importance to the producers and consumers of the land upon whose profitable industry and general wellbeing all trade is dependent . The business men who are supporting the Democratic Party with so much earnestness this year , and whose Cleveland and Stevenson clubs , in this city are taking such an active part in the campaign , are in a position to understand the bearing of the issues involved in this contest . Those who are engaged in banking and in general trade are not recipients of favors from the Government , and they seek no favors for themselves . What they demand is merely the most favorable conditions for the industry and trade of the whole country . It is obviously for their interest that the agriculture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the highest attainable.degree , for upon their prosperity depend the activity and the profit of all forms of traffic and of exchange . The mere fact that intelligent and enterprising business men in a great commercial community are opposed to the Republican tariff policy is in itself evidence that their knowledge of the conditions of trade convinces them that the policy is injurious to the industries of the country as a whole , and to the people engaged in them . It is not for their interest to have any line of industry injured or depressed , but they are in a position to see that building up special interests by giving them inordinate profits at the expense of the mass of the people is an injury to many industries which in no way share in the benefit , but of necessity bear the burden . The condition of trade in business centres is a sure index of the industrial condition of the country at large . The more fruitful our crops and the more prosperous our farmers the better for trade . Not only do the products of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the producers are customers for other commodities which they handle , and the more prosperous the farmers find themselves the better for the traders of the country . It is equally true that the business men of New-York or of any other commercial city have a deep concern in the success of our various manufacturing industries . These supply in large measure the articles . which enter into the transactions of trade , and the more extensive and varied their products the better for commerce and all the employments - which it involves . To assume that business men favor a policy which would be injurious to these industries is to assume that they do not understand business and do not desire to promote it , They are fully aware that when industries are active and wages are good trade is also active and profitable , and depression in productive industries would . take the life out of commerce . The great bulk of our traffic is necessarily domestic , but there is nothing truer than that the volume of foreign trade depends absolutely upon the success of domestic trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be promoted and enlarged without at the same time promoting and enlarging domestic traffic . There is no other class of citizens whose success is so completely bound up with the prosperity and well-being of the whole people of the country as the class which is known as " business men . " Consequently , the interest which " business men " take in the policy supported by a political party is a sure indication of the effect which that policy have , in the belief of intelligent and practical men of affairs , upon the general well-being of the people . There has never been a time when men engaged in trade have shown snob an active interest in politics as at present , and the great meeting at the Lenox Lyceum last night was an indication of their conviction that the policy pufsued by the Republican Party is injurious to the industrial interests upon which business depends .                     