@@781590

txt The publication of the will of the late ANTONIO EUSEBIO TERRY raises anew a question that has been raised a great many times before . Because it contains the clause , unhappily too familiar , that if the widow marries again " she loses her interest . " The question is , What possible comfort the making of a provision of this kind can bring to the soul of a testator ? What difference can it Possibly have seemed to make to the late Mr. , or Don , ANTONIO TERRY , or to any like testator , that his widow might , by the healing influence of time , come to prove consolable ? Or , even if the thought of her ultimate consolability should to the moribund husband seem " forbidden and abhorrent , " what possible comfort Could it give him , as she was smoothing his dyini , pillow , to know that he had " fixed her " so that , no matter how much she might desire it , she could not remarry , except in a contingency which made the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , more properly speaking , " Woman , " have often occasion to resent the selfishness of men . But we do not know any more just occasion for resentment than the appearance of this particular clause in the wills of men . Selfishness " inter vivos " is a trait which enlivens the dull tranquillities of wedded life . But this prospective and posthumous selfishness really belongs to a stage of human evolution much anterior to the nineteenth century . The ultimate and logical expression of it is the Hindu institution of suttee . Next to that is the mediaeval pressure upon a widow to get into a nunnery for the vidual remainder of her existence . The clause in a will imposing a material penalty for the viola-. tion of a sentimental obligation , which is of no value whatever unless it be willingly accepted , Is the sole survival of the brutal masculine selfishness which in earlier stages of development enjoins upon the widow to destroy herself or to disfigure herself so as to make herself matrimonially ineligible . The modern widow necessarily after a time becomes visible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present case , that before her marriage , and even after her marriage , she has been very - sively visible indeed . Nevertheless , the modern testator , in a certain proportion of cases , undertakes to prescribe that beyond visibility she shall not go , and that any need for companionship that she may experience , after his withdrawal from this earthly scene , shall not be lawfully and properly assuaged without its costing her as much money as he has to leave . The courts have disc untenanted this particular method of exhibiting a selfishness that reaches beyond the grave . It is to be wished that they could see their way to nullifying it whenever it comes before them . For it is not chivalrous , it is not civilized ; it is not even decent .                     