@@780983

txt The news of Gen. Buller 's reverse was received so late that morning newspaper comment to-day is confined to perfunctory expressions of extreme regret and disappointment and of the necessity of calmness and redoubled efforts to retrieve the position . This latest check is regarded as the most serious event in Great Britain 's military history since the Indian mutiny . The Standard says : " Gen. Buller 's dispatch is deplorable reading . It is the now familiar story of concealed Boers and of British troops march ' ing up blindly almost to the very muzzle of the enemy 's rifles . It can not be doubted that the moral effect will be to aggravate our difficulties over the whole field of operations . The country has discovered with annoyance and surprise that subduing Boer farmers is about the hardest work we have entered upon since the Indian mutiny . Their commandants have shown themselves able to give our Generals useful , but expensive , lessons in modern tactics . " The Times says : " Since the days of the Indian mutiny the Nation has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Plainly Gen. Buller 's advance is paralyzed for the moment as completely as Lord Methuen 's and Gen. Gatacre 's " The depression over Buller 's defeat is all the greater as , during the last forty-eight hours , there had been renorts of the relief of Ladysmith . Yesterday the War Office allowed It to be understood that the position of affairs in Natal was entirely satisfactory . The reaction is ' all the more pronounced on this account . The gloomy information came too late to reach the service clubs ; and only a few journalists and stragglers were waiting at the War Office . It has hardly been realized until now , even after the experience of the week , that Gen. Buller could fail . Virtually nothing had been allowed to leak through regarding his preparations ; but the public waited patiently , in the confident belief that he . ' was taking such time and precautions as would insure success . No independent reports of the engagement have yet been allowed to come through ; but Gen. Buller 's own dispatch tells the sad tale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrapped again by the astute Boers . It was not anticipated tnat Gen. Buller would make a frontal attack ; but no criticisms of his movements are made . since apparently he suffered a repulse rather than a defeat , and did not push the attack home , but broke it off in the middle , so as ' to save a useless sacrifice of life . It is expected that he will renew the attack shortly . Immediately on receiving the news , the War Office decided to mobilize still another division and to replace the losses of artillery . The necessary reinforcements will be hurried off as speedily as possible .                     