@@674913

txt The Madrid correspondent of The Times says : " The dominant note of the press comment is philosophical resignation . The educated classes are not making any attempt to find scapegoats or to console themselves with vituperation of the victorious enemy . While severely criticising the shortsightedness and incompetence of the Government , they recognize that no one statesman or Cabinet , but the nation itself , is to blame . " The colonies , instead of enriching , have impoverished the country . Columbus , in discovering the New World , was not Spain 's benefactor , but her evil genius . Therefore one leading paper opposes the suggestion that his remains should be brought home from Havana . Magellan ought logically to be put in the same category as Columbus , but his evil influence on Spanish history is not yet generally recognized , for Seville is Initiating a monument to him . " It is argued that Spain ought to have concentrated her energies in developing her European possessions and , if an outlet was required elsewhere that she ought to have chosen Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend her political influence . " The lower classes seem animated by a corresponding spirit of fatalistic resignation . I can perceive nowhere any symptoms of dangerous popular excitement . Madrid was never more quiet and orderly . Last night one of the poorest and most populous quarters of the city celebrated an annual nocturnal fete . The people enjoyed themselves as usual in a joyous , light-hearted fashion . " Similar tranquillity prevails in the provinces . Fortunately , the harvest everywhere is abundant . The alarmists now point to the dangers which wilts arise from the return of the repatriated army , but the Government has taken ample precaution . " It is expected that the evacuation of Cuba will not be completed until December . Press telegrams from Havana state that despite the disappointment in military circles , the news of peace was , on the whole , well received , and that a rapid increase of material prosperity is anticipated . "                     