@@674045

txt A degree of excitement that has not been equaled in this city for many years was created by the appearance at noon to-day of the special message of the President to Congress on the Venezuelan question . Although the message was expected , it was not looked for at once , and its early appearance , together with its ringing reassertion of the position taken by the Administration that England must not be allowed to occupy land in this hemisphere that does not belong to her , were at once a surprise and a gratification . Prompt and Cordial Approval . Never before , following a public utterance by President Cleveland or any other recent President , have the words of a message been received with such prompt and cordial approval . Men who have been seeking little occasions as a ground for criticism of the Administration forgot their dissatisfaction in commendation of the resolute opinions expressed by the President , and unhesitatingly declare that every American citizen would stand to the last extremity in support of a policy so manfully and righteously asserted for the Americap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cabinet had . kept the President 's intentions a pro . ? found secret . It must have been known to them that the message of to-day was contemplated , and there is reason to believe that it might have been sent in when the annual message was submitted . While the President was away , presumably enjoying a hunting trip , he was turning the matter over in his mind , and while he was not accompanied by any one with whom he could or would be likely to discuss it , there is no doubt that it was the chief topic of reflection , and that the conclusions he reached were ? those that had been matured carefully after the whole matter had been studied out thoroughly and full weight had been given in his mind to the consequences that would flow from a resolute challenge of Great Britain in the event that the British Empire should refuse to abide by our reiterated demand that the boundary question must be sumbitted to arbitration . Its Tenor Known in Advance . Long before the message was read in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Representatives its contents were familiar to the Senators and the members of the . House , and by the time the Clerk of the Senate was ready to read it the Capitol was ringing with praises of the stirring last . paragraph , and everybody who was worth quoting was giving his opinion of the document as a whole . The feeling was about the same on both sides of the Senate and the House . The suggestion for a commission to enable the Congress to learn the merits of the controversy was regarded as sure to cause a postponement of serious chili , culty with Great Britain in case the British authorities should persist in put .. suing a policy directly in opposition to what the President has declared will be our interest and adherence to our traditional policy , but nowhere was there the slightest reservation of approval of the President or of the possibility that support of him would lead to an immediate rupture of agreeable relations . No Serious Expectation of War . It can not be said that there was any strong belief that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While it is known that there is a British desire to gain valuable gold fields in the territory of Venezuela to which she has made claim , the value of these lands , if gained , would be small compared with the direct and indirect loss that might be suffered by precipitating a conflict that might bring on an invasion of Can , ada and the loss of those colonies the British Empire . May Lead to Salisbury 's Overthrow . The persistence of the Salisbury Ministry in making the Guiana boundary pute a cause for war , and possibly the loss to England fur a protracted period of one of her best customers , it is believed will prove extremely Unpopular with the British people , and possibly lead to the sudden and complete overthrow of the Tory Party on an appeal to the people . The trade with Venezuela is of comparative inconsequence ; that with the United States is constant and immense . If the British regard for commercial activity and butineSS prosperity is not as influential as it has been in the past , and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry out an aggressive colonial policy at cost , British opinion will not , lieved , support the position of in this case . Waiting for the British Response . Upon this British public response , and that at once , as it will be learned tomorrow , will the course of the United States Government be shaped in precautionary measures until the report is obtained from the commission asked for by the President and which will be at once approved and provided 4'or . As the Venezuelan sine is the one on which the United States authorities have been obliged to depend , it is admitted ' that there may be information to be derived from Great Britain or from British sources that may put a somewhat different aspect on some features of the controversy , without , however , removing our concern about the recognition of a doctrine that must come to be respected by European nations with possible designs of expansion on this continent . Venezuela Must Be Treated Decently . But if the tone and temper of the British people is evil . and the effort ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British in Guiana , there is no doubt that our Government will push to the utmost the preparations for supporting its demand that Venezuela be treated with the decency that that weak and disorganized nation is entitled to receive , and dealt with in the same spirit of justice that would be exacted by a nation more capable of supporting emphatic demands . England 's Commerce at Stake . While the United States lack readiness for war and is not strong in naval equipment , we have some good warships and a few merchant ships that would be able , if armed , seriously to embarrass and injure the great commercial marine of England , and the direct loss that would follow the loss of ships would be insignificant as compared with the indirect loss suffered by her citizens in the interruption of a vast commerce , the loss of buyers of British goods , the advance of prices of food in England incidental to an interrupted supply of American ? breadstuffs and provisions , and the increased cost to the people of England of maintaining in a distant sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ports . To conduct an effective attack upon any one port of the United States would require much preparation by the British , and when all was ready there would be exposed to the danger of our flying cruisers the coal ships necessary to supply a fighting fleet , the troop ships under convoys with small coaling capacity and ? narrow steaming radius , while the vessels of the United States always would be able to keep near ports in which coal supplies could be had after short runs from seaward . People Will Support the President . The cost of war will not now deter the American people from supporting the President , and if war shall result from the message of to-day , it is believed here that the country will contribute genet , cusly , if not cheerfully , its share of the cost of providing the men and arms necessary to make good all the pretensions that we shall decide to make . To declare that we are for light and justice and against wrong and injustice is not an unworthy declaration , and the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their cause only can be upheld with honor and self-respect by a strict enforcement of the position the President has taken .                     