@@672888

txt The town of Tamaqua seldom before experienced such excitement us prevailed there last night . The chase of the burglars who robbed the Wamsher store at High Mines and afterward shot and killed Police Officer John Berget kept the excitement at fever heat all day long , and when the news of the capture of the burglars arrived at 8 o'clock last night the scenes on the street were such as have never been seen here before . Hundreds of people flocked toward the Reading station until fully 800 were gathered together , and the prevailing feeling among them was for quick justice , and fears of trouble were entertained by the company officials . When the burglars took to the hills after shooting Officer Berget , they were pursued by Constable Kleinert of High Mines , who fired several shots after them . The tire was returned and , the officer 's ammunition having given out , be was compelled to retreat . After the wounded officer was removed to his home , the military company was called out and followed the trail of the burglars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to Tamaisend , but found no trace of the men . The burglars were strongly armed , as were the military- , and had they encountered each other on the mountain a bitter light would have resulted . Alen were stationed about the base of the mountain , and by noon fifty citizens from Tamaqua and vicinity . accompanied by several Coal and Iron policemen , arrived , and squads of men were sent out in every direction . The burglars managed to keep out of sight , and worked their way down into what is kuowu as Hickory Swamp  --  a thickly-wooded section , where they hicilthewselves in the thick brush . One of their number had been shot in two places by Officer Kleinert , and their progress was very much impeded in consequence . The wounded man was not at any time deserted by his comrades , and they helped him over the hills . When they reached the point in the swamp mentioned the man sank exhausted and weak from loss of blood . They had been seen entering the swamp by a workman , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He reported the matter , however , and by 8:30 o'clock the swamp was thoroughly surrounded . Capt . Christian of the Coal and Iron police force then called his men together , and in company with twenty mounted citizens and the military company they advanced toward the heart of the swamp . rile officers had not proceeded more than fifty yards when a pistol shot rang out , but the ball sped harmlessly by . The shot was fired by one of the burglars as soon as he was aware that they were discovered . They eotnmanded the officers to stand back , if they valued their lives , and kept up a continual fire from their seven 32-calibre revolvers . The officers advanced cautiously and succeeded in closing in on the trio without one of their number being injured , and . they were quickly handcuffed and taken to Tamaqua The wounded man was so weak that be was unable to walk , and ho wall placed in a conveyance . When the officers reached Tamaqua the streets were lined with people . A mad rush was made for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " bhoot them ! " the top of the buggy in which was the wounded man was torn off , and for a time a riot was feared . District Attorney Koch then addre  --  fsed the crowd and quieted them . He was cheered to the echo . Had the people succeeded in reaching the trio they would have boeu torn to pieces . They were given a hearing and were charged with burglary and murder , after which they were taken to the town lock-uo . At 1 : 30 o'clock a special train drew up to the Reading station and they were taken to the county jail . where their names were given as Edwin Everett Blakeslee of St. Louis , John Brown of Beaver Falls , Penn. , and Thomas Kelley of Pottsville , Penn . Kelley , the one who was shot , upon being told that he was very seriously wounded , admitted having fired the shot that killed Officer lilerget.                     