@@672725

txt The University of Pennsylvania has just come into possession of several handsome bequests through the untiring energy and industry of Prof. Francis N. Thorpe , who is now lecturing at Chautauqua . Prof. Thorpe received advices from the benefactors to-day , which makes it possible to give a detailed account of the new school , the success of which is now assured . The new institution is to be known as the School of American History and Institutions . Everything that pertains to America in the way of history , literature , law , and lore of any hind is to be studied . Prof. Thorpe is to be the Dean of the new school , and he has spent over five years in perfecting his plans and elaborating his Ideas . One bequest of $500,000 slipped through the professor 's hands on account of the unfortunate failure in business of the intending donor . The bequests referred to come from several prominent gentlemen in Philadelphia and NowYork whose names are withheld for the present . The  --  amount subscribed will reach in the neighborhood of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted is that a new school distinctively American is to be organized , equipped , and administered in such a way as to emphasize the place that American institutions should hold in the present history of the world 's progress . It will be made up of different departments , with special courses as follows : The history of American legislation in all the States and in Congress , ( this course will be for the benefit of lawyers ? second , State constitutional history ; third , the history of the great movements in education , ( this is intended for the 300,000 school teachers in the land ; ) fourth , the history of the Church ; fifth , the history of diplomacy ; sixth , the history of municipal affairs and the growth of cities ; seventh , the his- tor y of politics and political parties . A school of journalism will also be started , and a prominent journalist will give his attention especially to the history of the American newspaper in its growth . Among the prominent professors who will be connected with this new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stuart Patterson ; Prof. E. J. James , the political economist , and Prof. Thompson . Prof. Thorpe has his eye on several leading men , but until they are engaged no names can be given out . The library will be one of the finest on this continent , containing over 50,000 ' volumes , It will be very Complete in every line bearing on American history , literature , and law . It will contain a complete and official record of the National government , some l , 000 volumes , as well as a complete selection of the laws of every State in the Union . The celebrated library of Mr. Jameson of Chicago will also form a part of it . The course will be very attractive for political men , lawyers , newspaper men . students , and writers in general . For example , In the study of municipal affairs and the growth of cities , much attention will be given to every possible improvement in the way of the management and government of the city . The library has already city ordinances of nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be increased as rapidly as possible . The 80110 ? 1 at present will occupy part of the library building and part of the College of Arts , but a new building will be constructed as early , as possible . Prof. Thorpe will take a swing around the circle within the next six weeks and visit several of the benefactors referred to , when the names and amount of the subscriptions will be definitely announced . The President of a very prominent university has just made an attractive oiler to Prof. Thorpe for the establishment of such a school at the President 's own university . The , ew school will beistarted on Oct 1 , in Philadelphia , and Prof. Thorpe has already received over 500 applications from would-be students .                     