@@675393

txt We are losing enough Assembly districts now to make dishonest performances l ; ke this bring the flush of shame to the face of every Republican . These were the words of the ex-Hon . ABRAHAM GRUBER at the meeting of the County Committee of the Republicans of New York on Thursday evening . The proceedings referred to were certainly unfair and indecent . Mr. GRUBER wished to present to the committee a resolution providing that the inspectors and elec. tion officers in each election district should be named by the Assembly District Association and not as now by the President of the County Committee . He was prevented from offering his resolution by the action of Mr. GIBBS of the Rational Committee , who moved an adjournment on the ground that there was no quorum present and whose motion was declared carried by the presiding officer despite Mr. GRUBER 'S demand for a roll call . So the committee adjourned actually before the regular time for meeting had arrived , greatly to the astonishment of the body of the members as they came in . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patronage and all the power connected with the election officers are kept in the hands of Mr. QUIGG , who is himself under the thumb of Mr. PLATT . When a proposition is made to give the associations in the Assembly districts the control of their own affairs in this mat .. ter the agents of the boss will not even let it come to a vote . They boast of a majority , but they do not dare to trust it . Anything at once more cowardly and arbitrary in the field of small politics can not be imagined . But it is noticeable that the indignation expressed by Mr. GRUBER is not aroused by these disgraceful tactics , but by their consequences . It is not the " dishonest performances , " but the loss of Assembly districts , that he thinks should bring the " flush of shame to the cheek of every Republican . " That is the spirit on which the boss grows fat . Until the opposition to him is based on some higher motive than this he can laugh at it , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " reform within the party , " stale , flat , and unprofitable as it is , is as far as the Grubers of the Republican camp have yet got . Until they pass that limit they will effect nothing . " Within the party " the boss can take care of them easily .                     