@@672742

txt The old English . aristocratic families of Kingston have been stirred by a romantic , elopement in high life . The marriage took place at St. Paul 's Episcopal Church , Kingston , Friday . The bride was Miss Sophie Tupper Cameron , daughter of Major Gen. Cameron , Commandant of the Royal Millitary College at Kingston . She is a granddaughter of Sir Charles Tupper , High Commissioner for Canada in England , and Is a beantl- ' ful and highly accomplished girl . When traveling in England a year ago she met Hamilton ( tray , a young civil engineer of Abbeywood , Kent , and it was supposed to be a ease of love at first sight . The Major General is a stern old gentleman and was not kindly disposed to Gray , who was a dashing young beau of thirty and a son of the proprietor of the Silver Town . Eleetrie Works in Kent County , with little to recommend him . So , doubtless , the father thought little of his handsome face and his wealth  --  for the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his daughter was engaged to Gray he would not give his consent , and Miss Cameron was brought back to Canada . But Gray was not to be thwarted . He corresponded with the young lady and followed her to Canada , arriving here last Wednesday . The young Couple decided that they could not live apart , and Gray persuaded Miss Cameron to consent to a clandestine marriage , with the hope that the old Major General wonld relent when the knot had been tied . All arrangements having been perfected , Miss Cameron left tier home Friday morning in ordinary walking costume , not even wearing a veil . She walked down one of the main streets of the old City and got into a cab , being joined later by Gray . They had decided to avoid suspicion , and , as a safer plan of securing the longed-for union , fthey determined to get married in the city and within a short distance of the parental roof . For this purpose they repaired to St. Paul 's Church , where the Rev. Dr. Johnstone performed the ceremony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his service . The only witnesses of the marriage were two cabmen and a lawyer . Gray settled ball his property on his wife and the lawyer was there to execute the agreement . After the marriage the couple went to the leading hotel , where they engaged rooms for ten days , and informed the father of the marriage . They chartered a steam launch and will enjoy their honeymoon cruising about on the St. Lawrence in the vicinity of Kingston . Gray refused to give the particulars of the romantic marriage for publication , saying it was of no public interest .                     