@@781718

txt The congratulations that have poured in upon Mayor GRANT upon his re-election are worth considering . Those from out of town always assume that his election is somehow a " Democratic victory , " and are indeed based upon that assumption . The senders of these may easily be pardoned for not knowing what is the real significance of the event . But the local congratulators know perfectly well what they are congratulating about , and exhibit this consciousness in their dispatches . They rejoice that the better element has been beaten in a " fair stand-up fight , " and that henceforth it will not be necessary for gentlemen engaged in the pursuit of practical politics to take any account of it or to moderate their procedures lest it be aroused . There is great joy in Tammany , and also in the corrupt part of what used to be anti-Tammany , over the defeat of the self-righteous , or of any other variety of righteous . One of the most marked characteristics of the congratulations is that so many of them come from gentlemen who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element was temporarily in the ascendant , and who are now encouraged by the genial sunshine that has fallen upon the unrighteous to unfold their petals to the day . " Sweet , blighted lilies , " as the old epitaph upon the colored baby has it , " sweet , blighted lilies , they are holding up their heads again . " A congratulatory dispatch from " FRANKLIN EDSON " will recall to the public notice that there is still extant a very much blighted lily of that name . A fair-seeming lily the Franklinia Edsonia was until it was exposed to that fierce light which beats upon the Mayoralty . During that exposure its petals shrunk and turned brown and curled up at the ends until , when it was removed from the public view , it was about as unimpressive a vegetable as a florist ever threw to the garbage heap as no longer marketable . Yet it has revived in the rich putrescence of the Tammany manure and unfolds itself in the following blossom : " I congratulate you upon your re-election to the Mayoralty of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on its magnificent triumph over its combined enemies . FRANKLIN EDSON . " Sweet , blighted lilies , they are holding up their heads again . Another and even more blighted blossom was once familiar to a greatly-entertained public as 1IOLLIN M. SQUIRE . SQUIRE was never adapted by nature or cultivation to take a prize at a flower show . Ever since he struggled into light , he was not only rotten at the core , but much discolored in the leaves and frayed at the edges , and the longer he remained in the light , and flourished , after his kind , the more straggly and disreputable his aspect became . Who knew that SQUIRE was any longer extant until he too flowered out again in a dispatch of congratulation to the Mayor re-elect , a dispatch from which the grotesque felicities of the rhetoric of his old flowering time are not absent , and to which , indeed , we owe the title of this article ? To save space we omit the jerky paragraphing by which SQUIRE subdivides his exultation , but otherwise we reproduce him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to express  --  Excelsior  --  GRANT . Alieni temporis flores  --  GRACE , IviNs &; Co . Sincerely , ROLLIN M. SQUIRE . " It does seem to be true that " GRACE , IVIES &; CO. " and any other representatives of public decency who have devoted themselves to the extirpation of the Squire variety of statesman are at present out of season . But assuredly their season is not so remote as that of SQUIRE himself . It is he and EDSON who are really the flowers of another time . Their reappearance in the public view will convince a good many people who may heretofore have been in doubt what the triumph of Tammany means . It means that the Edsons and Squires consider that they have once more a " show " in municipal politics , and that the mere fact of having outraged public decency isno bar to preferment . SQUIRE has not enjoyed himself so much since the famous occasion when ho wreaked his power of expression upon the front of the City Hall . He is perfectly capable of aspiring to a place that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those memorable lines , no faltering will be in the least apt to mark the Titan 's task and no shrinking from the trial , in the present and prospective condition of the District Attorney 's office . SQUIRE is once more ready to face the foe till Freedom 's hand falls shattered from Time 's dial , and to pocket any portable property that that convulsion may detach , while a , Tammany victory sings and trembling decent persons bespeak his desolation . SQUIRE and EDSON are quite right to congratulate GRANT . They are once more in their element , which is not the better . " Sweet , blighted lilies , they are holding up their heads again . "                     