@@781059

txt Forty hours before the time called for the caucus to decide the Senatorial question half a dozen legislators are not to be found in Albany . Mr. George S. Weed and John B. Riley of Plattaburg are holding forth in Smith M. Weed 's headquarters at the Delavan , and outside of their rooms the Senatorial problem is not dismissed in Albany to any extent . The day has been so stormy and disagreeable that Gov . Hill has not been disturbed by callers , but has been left alone to enjoy the luxury of his grate fire in the Executive Chamber  --  a luxury which has been unknown up to this Winter . The Demarest episode is not expected to interfere with the plans of the Demooratio caucus . Bo careful a man as the Attorney General is reported as saying that nothing can prevent Demarest exercising his prerogative of voting for a United States Senator on Wednesday except his being looked in jaiL The Governor takes the ground that Demarest is entitled to east his ballot as if he were an innocent man , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throw any influence , the culprit will be here to vote as the caucus directs . It is a curious study , this , and displays the rotten condition of our polities , that a self-confessed forger and embezzler should be allowed to set as an officer of the State , and by his vote decide an election for the highest office , with two exceptions , in the gift of the people , encouraged and advised in this course by the Governor and Attorney GeneraL Were the Demooratio majority on joint ballot a trifle larger , Mr. Demarest 's resignation would be in order , but the margin is so small and the risk of accident to some other of the eighty Democrats so great . that Demarest will not be interfered with unless the Republicans take his case in hand . Under the Revised Statutes Demarest can be expelled for wounding the character of the House and bringing its proceedings into odium and contempt . Demarest has been very popular during the three years he has been in Albany . He spent money freely , and always had plenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented the district ; but in the Fall Demarest went into the fight and wrested the county from the enemy . In consequence of this victory Demarest insisted upon being placed at the head of the Committee on Railroads , and to secure this position he harassed Speaker Sheehan for a month by petitions , letters of recommendation . and personal appeals . The Speaker 's declaration that he proposed to have at the head of the important committees only men in whose honesty and integrity he had the fullest confidence may account , in the light of recent developments , for Demarest 's failure . One can imagine the alacrity with which Goy . Hill would promulgate one of his characteristic manifestoes if the Assembly were Republican and the culprit were a Republican , demanding an immediate example of him . A dispatch received In Albany from Nyaok this afternoon reports that Demarest has disappeared . It may be that the Democratic leaders have persuaded him to keep In the dark and avoid reporters until his shrewder friends can make a case for him If Demarest fails to vote for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erie is unable to attend in consequence of illness , the two parties onjoint ballot will be evenly divided , namely , seventy-nine each . As there has been doubt expressed by some persons as to whether the candidate Is to receive a majority of the votes cast , or a majority of all the members elected , the following extract from the Congressional statute is reproduced : " And the person having a majority of all the votes of the said joint assembly , a majority of all the members elected to both houses being present and voting , shall be declared duly elected . " Tammany will be represented at the Senatorial caucus by a committee consisting of Commissioner Gilroy , Register Fitzgerald , Jolla F. Carroll , Police Commissioner Martin , and Charles Steckler . The committee will shout for whomsoever Gov . Hill tells them to .                     