@@672519

txt The only State in which the Democratic cyclone of Tuesday met with much resistance was Ohio . A year ago the Democrats elected their Governor by a plurality of a little less than 11,000 and secured a majority in both branches of the Legislature . This ought to have put the party in a position of great advantage , and would have done so if it had used its power with wisdom and moderation . Instead of that it proceeded at once to use its opportunity in an extremely partisan fashion . In the first place , it acted unwisely in electing to the Senate of the United States a railroad millionaire , with no pretensions to statesmanship , who was open to the charge of being a non-resident of the State and of having sworn off his taxes in Ohio on that ground . The Legislature established a partisan board in Cincinnati to exercise some of the most important functions of local government without the consent of the people of the city , and when this became involved in gross scandals , so that the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of getting rid of it , the Democratic majority refused to stand by him in dealing with the matter in an honest and straightforward manner . Another gross abuse of the party 's opportunities , and one which attracted the attention of the whole country , was the reapportionment of the State for Congressional representation for the sole purpose of acquiring an unfair advantage at the next election . It is true that the State had been gerrymandered for the benefit of the Republican Party on the original apportionment under the census of 1880 , but the Democrats seized the opportunity on the very eve of the taking of a new census , not simply to undo that wrong , but to commit one quite as great on their own account . As a district had been carved out by the Republicans for the express purpose of making sure of the election of Mr. , so the Democrats rearranged the counties for the express purpose of bringing him into a district in which they had a large majority and in which they felt sure he would be defeated . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reckless partisanship V They seem to have defeated Mclirmary in spite of the herculean efforts made in his behalf and the enormous corruption fund that was sent to the district to help his election , but it is only by a slight margin in a district in which their legitimate majority was large . They have made a gain in Congressmen , but it is not felt to be a legitimate one , and it may not be any greater than they would have made under the old apportionment if they had conducted themselves in a manner to command public confidence and receive the full benefit of the tidal wave of popular sentiment that has overwhelmed the Republicans in other States . The Republicans have elected their candidate for Secretary of State by a plurality of 15,000 or so , thereby gaining the prestige of carrying the State election after having lost it last year . In short , the Democrats of Ohio , by their course in the Legislature , produced a reaction against themselves almost strong enough to counteract in their own State the effect of the tremendous reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other States . The comparison of this result with that which took place in Pennsylvania is very instructive and very encouraging . In Pennsylvania the Republicans had the advantage of a very large normal majority of the popular vote , and they had a powerful organization and practically unlimited resources on their side , which they used without scruple . And yet so mighty was the revolt against bossism , arrogant dictation , and corrupt methods that the most desperate effort could not resist it , and the Republican Party was fairly submerged by the tide of popular resentment . It was an assertion of the moral sense of the community which had been so recklessly trampled upon . This was undoubtedly aided by the Democratic tidal wave that was sweeping over the country in consequence of the conduct of the Republican Administration and the Republican Congress at Washington , but the assertion of the public conscience in behalf of fairness and decent methods in Ohio was made against the force of this flood of sentiment and is therefore especially significant . In this there ought to be a warning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they are to derive lasting advantage from it they must use their opportunities with prudence and moderation and show themselves worthy of the confidence that has been reposed in them , remembering that in the result there is perhaps less of confidence in them than of disgust with their opponents . It would not be difficult for them to throw away the fruits of their victory in the next two years by proceeding to extremes in the use of party power where they fancied it might be made more secure by schemes of gerrymandering or other partisan methods of intrenchment . The safest reliance is popular confidence , which can only be retained by a judicious use of power for the public benefit and by a careful regard for the principles of justice and right in dealing with matters that concern the people .                     