@@674665

txt In discussing the banking functions of the United States Treasury and the inadequate powers given it properly to discharge them , TEE TIMES remarked on Friday : " When anybody wants gold from this side , an agent is merely sent to the United States Treasury with greenbacks to exchange for it , and the Treasury , whatever may be its straits , or those of the country. , has no alternative but to make the exchange . It has some of the fixed functions but none of the important optional powers or defensive safeguards of a bank . It can raise neither the price of its gold nor the discount rate . It must furnish gold at a uniform price , practically fixed by law , or dishonor its notes and convulse the country with panic . " On this The New York Sun comments as follows : " The Treasury does not need any defensive safeguard beyond the very simple one of locking up the redeemed greenbacks . This , of itself , will always so deplete the reserves of the banks that they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus stop gold exports . Besides . if there were no greenbacks in existence , the banks would have not only to redeem their circulating notes in gold , but to pay gold to their depositors on demand , and this would put them in a much more unsafe position than that in which the Treasury is . " Locking up redeemed greenbacks is not an option nor a safeguard for the Treasury . It can only be done when there is a surplus . ? The amount of the surplus and the amount of greenbacks that can be locked up are not optional with the Treasury . A " defensive safeguard " beyond the control of the Treasury is a delusion . If there were no greenbacks in existence and the banks were obliged to keep gold for demand obligations , they would not be in a position worse than that of the Treasury , because they could and would con-. trol the obligations they assumed with as close reference as possible to the resources with which the obligations must be met . Doubtless they would make some mistakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is . Not only is it true that the Treasury has none of the important optional powers and defensive safeguards of a bank , but it is not fitted to avail itself of them if it had them . The sooner the Treasury is taken out of the banking business altogether , the better .                     