@@675177

txt Intelligence to hand here from Demerara , British Guiana , reports the arrival there of four men who had escaped in an open boat from the French penal settlement of St. Jean , Ma.roni River , French Guiana . The experiences of these last arrivals from the French penal settlements around Cayenne have been no better than of those whose pathetic tales of convict life in French Guiana have already shocked the reading public , the men being forced to undergo an existence to which death would be a happy release , and whose only hope rested in the bare probability of their being able to escape from their abominable thralldom . This last escape would appear to have been carefully . planned . but the chances of the fleeing men depended upon their being able to secure the means of getting away by sea rather than by land , as so many of their fellow-exiles had already attempted , only to be recaptured in the interior . After months of weary watching and waiting those who had arranged to escape together discovered one day that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . frail as the craft was , they determined to embrace the first opportunity to attempt escape therein , but fully prepared to face death In the ocean should the canoe prove unequal to the voyage . A few days ago they eluded the vigilance of their guard , scaled the prison wall , and made a bold desh for liberty . They purloined the prison canoe  --  the same in which they made their adventurous voyage , a craft some thirty feet long and two and a half feet wide  --  and secured a small supply of provisions . Unfortunately , as they were clearing the mouth of the River Maronl their provisions were washed overboard , and it seemed as if each rising wave would swamp their frail craft . But , metaphorically speaking , they had burned their boats and could not and did not turn back . After much buffeting by sea , lasting three days and three nights , and suffering the pangs of hunger for a considerable tim-6 during that anxious period , they arrived in the Berbice River , British Guiana , where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resumed their perilous voyage to the northward . The following day they entered the Demerara River and proceeded to Georgetown , the capital of British Guiana . On their arrival at Georgetown they presented a most pitiable appearance . In their face and in their person signs of the discomfort and privations they had undergone were plainly and painfully visible . One man had his right ear bandaged , the fierce rays of a tropical sun having scorched and blistered the exposed parts of his body to such an extent as to necessitate the services of a medical man . All had , however , suffered to a greater or less degree from the exposure . There were four men in the boat . The eldest gave out that he was a Boulangist and had been exiled seven years ago by President Carnot for a political offense . He had been a professor of rhetoric in a normal school in Paris and was thirty-seven years of age ; one of his fellow-exiles was an optician , thirty-four years of age ; another , an artist , aged twenty-two , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty- , one The pollee authorities at Georgetown declined to interfere with the refugees , the reason being that no report or description had been received by them from the French Guiana authorities . The latter had formerly been in the habit of reporting and describing prisoners that had escaped from the convict settlements of Cayenne , but for a year or more they had abandoned that practice ? in fact , this change is said to have taken place at the time the Court of Cassation took up the Dreyfus case . After remaining at Georgetown for two days the refugees continued their voyage , with the intention of entering next the Orinoco River , and they will effect . a landing somewhere in the territory in dispute between Great Britain and Venezuela . They secured at Georgetown a negro well acquainted with the Orinoco to act as their pilot .                     