@@672440

txt Announcement is made that Senator Quay will return to his home here Saturday . He comes to straighten out the Republican muddle in the Twenty-fifth Congressional District , where so much trouble has , been caused by the nomination of Major Alexander for Congress . The district is ordinarily good for about five thousand Republican majority . but this year there is doubt whether it can be carried without heroic measures . was nominated by the votes of three delegates , who had been instructed for Captain C. C. Townsend . Townsend is a resident of Mr. Quay 's county and was warmly supported by the Senator . At the time there were indications that these men had gone to , with Quay 's knowledge , to insure the defeat of Col. Oscar L. Jaokson , an anti-Quay man , who was developing dangerous strength . Since then , however , the three deserting delegates have confessed that they were paid $650 apiece to vote for by W. D. Wallace , a Newcastle attorney . Information has been made against them for bribery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though this is doubtful . declares that he had no knowledge of the bribery and will not withdraw . The Jackson people demand that he remain on the ticket . The Townsend people call for his removal , while a number of Republican leaders in Beaver County are in favor of letting the whole thing drop and of supporting In Butler the fourth county in the district , there is a determined call for the withdrawal of . If is sidetracked , however , his friends will not only refuse to vote for whomever else may be nominated , but will cut the Republican State ticket as well . This is more than the State ticket can stand in four stalwart Republican counties with a man like Pattiaon as the candidate of the opposition . Mr. Quay and the other Republican leaders sidetracked once before . That was in 1886 , when his nomination was contested by the late " Torpedo " Roberts , a man of immense wealth with a decided tendency to " boodle " methods . His money secured for him the sanction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , as 's followers turned in and helped send Norman Hall , a Democrat , to Washington . They will take even more radical measures of revenge this year if he is set aside . It rests largely with Quay to solve the problem In his own Congressional district . The mystery is where the bribery money came from . Nobody appears to know whether it was supplied by men who sought Townsend 's downtall , 's defeat , or disaster to Quay , but it may accomplish all three .                     