@@780961

txt Information has been received at the Department of State to the effect that in three towns in the Brazilian Province of Rio Grande do Sul the military have joined the citizens in opposing the domination of the Fonseca Government . Seiler Mendonoa , the Brazilian Minister here , at a late hour last night , received the following cablegram : Brazilian Minister at Washington , via Lisbon , Nov. 12.1891 : Continue to deny alarming reports spread through Europe in regard to restoration of monarchy and disturbance of public order in Brazil . Rio deJaneiro is perfectly quiet , business is satisfied and lively , with confidence in the Government . News daily received here announces perfect quiet in all the States except Rio Grande do sul , where the Government has taken measures to put down the conflict arising from the struggle for supremacy between the two parties ; there Jane idea ox secession , which is repug ? nant to all Brazilians . No contict exists outside of Rio Grande do SnL Deny London Times 's telegram , and declare that there is no general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day for the Congressional elections , according to the electoral law . Restoration of the monarchy le opposed almost universally . as a matter definitely settled . Cure Preto , Naimon , and all the old monarchists are enjoying perfect freedom . Exchange is conducted with security , confidence in the Governmenvs stability is general ; the Bank of the Republic Is not giving artiticiat quotations , and the English Panics are dealing in exchange with freedom . They declare that the reports to the contrary are circulated by the enemies of the republic . Minister Mendonca has furnished a copy of the above cablegram to Secretary Blaine . He explains that It was sent by Senor Chennout. the Brazilian Minister of Foreign Relations , to the Lisbon Mission , with instructions to forward it to the Brazilian Ministera in alt European countries , as well as the United States . There is a strong suspicion at the legation here that the exaggerated reports of internal troubles in Brazil published in English papers have been sent from Brazil with a speculative purpose . When Minister Itlendonca left London Oct. 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exaggerated reports recently pub . lished of revolution in Brazil the bonds tell off In price to 63 . As these bonds are strong favorites on European Bourses the temptation to use certain news dispatches to Influence their rattle in a speculative manner seems to Minister Mendonea to have proved irresistible . J. C. A. de Lima , of Sao Paulo , Brazil , arrived In New-York yesterday afternoon . He came from Havana , Cuba , where ho is the Brazilian Consul , appointed by Fonseca . He said to a TI3IES reporter that , while he had not been home since the beginning of the troubles now reported In that country , he had watched closely all dispatches from Brazil , and was naturally much interested in the reports of secession of some of the States . He did not believe , he said , that there was to be an overthrow of the republican form of governmeneand he did not think that there would be bloodshed . " What Is the cause of the secession i " he was asked . " I believe , " ho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has seceded for political effect only , If it has seceded . I have no advises except from the newspapers . If other provinces have done the same thing or are contemplating It , they do It for the same reason . They do not desire to return to a monarchy . They desire simply to record their disapprobation of Beefier ? as Fonaeca'e administration . " The condition of Brazil and the nature of the administration are such as to lead me to this belief . Fonseca 's action in deolaring Congress dissolved is wholly unauthorized . lie has no more authority to do that under the Constitution than the President of the United States has the right to declare Congress adjourned .                     