@@674482

txt The correspondent of The Times at Volo will say to-morrow : " The direct cause of the panic at Tyrnavo was a rumor that the authorities had ordered the inhabitants to evacuate the town and the report that the Turks were approaching . The population immediately decamped in the direction of Larissa in carriages , carts , on horseback , and afoot . They were soon joined by other crowds coming along the cross road from the fighting line . Then the confusion became indescribable . Some of the fugitives fired at their own countrymen in the darkness , believing them to be Turks . " After comparing many conflicting accounts , I believe the following to be substantially correct : About sunset it was observed at the point selected for the headquarters for the Greek staff that the right wing was being turned by the Turkish cavalry . Accordingly , orders were issued that as soon as it became dark the force should retire on Larissa . At the same time this intelligence was transmitted by flash signals to the Greek troops on the heights beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their own safety . " These orders reached the first line about 8:30 ; and the movement to retire began immediately . The men were tired out , hungry , and sullen , having been kept all day under artillery fire without the excitement of real fighting . Those who have experienced real warfare know how raw troops under such circumstances , are apt to lose cohesion and discipline , and how , as the result of some little accident , an orderly retreat may degenerate into a disorderly stampede . " In this case the accident seems to have been the flash signals on the heights , which were interpreted to mean that those positions were being taken by the Turks . Simultaneously the cry was raised , nobody knows how , that the Turkish cavalry was advancing . In the darkness it was impossible to c/istinguish friend from foe . The first fugitives from the front arrived at Larissa about 1 o'clock in the morning when everybody was in bed . The news spread like wildfire , and soon the whole town was in movement , everybody packing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doomed city , which , once delivered into their hands , would speedily be sacked by the bloodthirsty Bashi-Bazouks . " Early in the morning the Crown Prince Constantin and his staff left for Pharsalos . But this incident made much less impression than might have been expected . BY this time a large crowd had assembled at the railway station in the hope of getting away by the early train , but most of them gradually convinced themselves that this way of exit was hopeless , and went to seek other means of transport . " When I reached Volo I found the panic already beginning , though it was momentarily stopped by the arrival of a dozen Turkish prisoners tied together with cords and headed by their commanding officer , a grave , fine-looking Turk of the old school , who looked with imperturbable calm and dignity at the excited crowd around him . This was about 1 o'clock in the afternoon . Since then the excitement has steadily increased . It is generally believed that the Bashi Bazouks may arrive at any moment . The regular steamer service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passages by irregular and ' tramp ' boats . " While out for a walk this morning I noticed a worthy paterfamilias carrying , for the protection of his wife and child , a loaded rifle , though in reality there is no immediate danger , as the Turks can not arrive here for several days and will be in no hurry to come within reach of the guns of the Greek fleet while there is possible a concentration of the Greek Army in the rear at Pharsalos. "                     