@@673854

txt At the election held on Nov. 6 last , 64,830 legal voters of the City of Brooklyn voted in favor of consolidation with the City of New-York , and 01,926 , voted against the proposition . The majority for consolidation was 2,904 . The League of Loyal Citizens of Brooklyn , which is the organized opposition to consolidation , now offers to produce in the Senate Chamber on request " the original signatures of over 72,000 citizens of Brooklyn opposing consolidation  --  over 7,000 more than voted in favor of consolidation last Fall . " The Loyal Citizens offer their 72,000 signatures as proof that the people of Brooklyn do not want to be consolidated with New-York . They propose that their signed petitions , not the certificate of last Fall 's election , shall weigh with the Legislature in determining what further steps it will take in respect to consolidation . This attempt to override by petition the will of the people formally expressed at the polls is worth considering for a moment in its legal and constitutional aspects . In his " Constitutional Limitations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people acting in their sovereign capacity can be of legal force only when expressed at the times and under the conditions which they themselves have prescribed and pointed out by the Constitution , or which , consistently with the Constitution , have been prescribed and pointed out for them by statute ; and if by any portion of the people , however large , an ' attempt should be made to interfere with the regular working of the agencies of government at any other time or in any other mode than as allowed by existing law , either constitutional or statutory , it would be revolutionary in character , and must be resisted and repressed by the officers who , for the time being , represent legitimate government . ? * ? The authority of the people is exercised through elections , by means of which they choose ? ? ? officers . ? ? ? In some cases , also , they pass upon other questions specially submitted to them , and adopt or reject a measure according as a majority may vote for or against it . ? ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or rejected , and matters of local importance * ? ? are passed upon and determined by the people whom they concern , under constitutional or statutory provisions which require or permit it . " Of course , the petition of the League of Loyal Citizens is not an interference with the Government of such a revolutionary character as to call for repression by officers of the law . Nevertheless , the League is in a sense an intruder and usurper . The vote of the people of Brooklyn upon the consolidation question is both the de jure and de facto expression of their wish . It was given under the authority and the forms of law . The right of each individuals voter to join in the utterance was carefully determined under the registration laws and on oath . The vote was taken under the authority of Chapter 64 of the Laws of 1894 , by which the question of consolidation was submitted to the vote of the duly quail- , fled - electors . The ballots were cast and counted under all the safeguards of the election laws , arid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The expression of the people 's will which the League of Loyal Citizens offers to produce , however , was obtained under no sanction of law , and there is no assurance of effective precautions to guard against the introduction of names not those of voters or citizens . It can not be contended for a moment that this petition constitutes a " proof " that the sentiment of the people of Brooklyn has changed since the last election . Can the League of Loyal Citizens affirm that if a league of consolidationists should go to work with zeal and vim they could not produce 100,000 original signatures of citizens favoring consolidation ? The Legislature can not pay any attention to this ex parte , irregular , unofficial expression of opinion . So far as it regards a local referendum as mandatory it must be guided by the referendum of the ballot box , not of that of the League 's petition .                     