@@674036

txt An accident to the water scoop under the locomotive tender prevented the Empire State Express from reaching this city within its new schedule time of S hours and 15 minutes to-day . The loss of time occasioned by the mishap , together with the thick frost on the rails between Palmyra. and Buffalo , caused the train to roll into the station here just 23 minutes late , according to the new time table , and 2 minutes ahead of the old schedule . Inasmuch as the train was fully on time up to the moment of the stoppage caused by the accident , it is clearly manifest that the proposed reduction of 25 minutes in this filer 's time is entirely practicable . The average speed made up to the time of the mishap was 53.56 miles per hour . Had the delay occurred in the edrly part of the day , the lust time would certainly have been made up . Until within the last few weeks the Empire State Express has held undisputed sway as the fastest regular passenger train in the world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jealous eyes , and various attempts have been made to equal its achievements . The regular speed of the Empire State Express prior to today was 51 miles an hour . Recently a regular passenger train was put on by a British railway company scheduled to make 51.75 miles an hour , and a regular passenger service averaging 51.25 miles an hour was established by one of the German roads . Knowledge of these ambitious efforts on the part of foreigners spurred the New York Central people to look to their laurels , and the new time schedule of the Empire State Express reinstates that train as the fastest train in the world beyond dispute . The average speed of this train will hereafter be 53.13 miles an hour . The start was made from the Grand Central Station in New-York exactly on time at S:30 o'clock this morning . Something got in its way in the yard , and the train came to a full stop in sight of the station . That was delay number one . According to the new schedule , the train was bound to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes between Albany and Syracuse , and ten minutes between Syracuse and Buffalo . Although the wet weather , and consequent slippery condition of the tracks , made this increase of speed much more difficult than it would have been with the tracks dry and clean , there were no serious mishaps in the first two parts of the achievement . With two or three insignificant exceptions , there was no falling behind the schedule time throughout the journey , as far as Rochester . On the other hand , at frequent intervals , the train was reported as being from one and a half to three minutes ahead of time . There was , however , no effort made to exceed the scheduled rate of speed . Ordrs from headquarters were simply to make the trip from New-York to Buffalo in eight hours and fifteen minutes ; consequently , there were no record-breaking bursts of speed . For the accommodation of representatives of the New-York newspapers , Third Vice President H. Walter Webb of the New-York Central had caused his private car Mariquita to be attached to the train . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General Passenger Agent of the New York Central , and John C. Yager , General Superintendent of the Wagner Palace Car Company . Other railroad men who accompanied the party . either the whole or a portion of the way , were C. A. Crone , Assistant Superintendent of Motive Power ; F. H. Harrington , Superintendent , and J. R. Leonard , Assistant Superintendent , of the Mohawk Division of the New-York Central , and Theodore Butterfield , General Passenger Agent of the Rome , Watertown and Ogdensburg . The train conductor was B. H. Dayton , and the Wagner car conductor was Frank Mabie . Engineer A. Buchanan , with the powerful locomotive No. 870 , took the train to Albany . There were two full stops and several slow-ups " on the way . However , the flier easily managed to keep a little ahead of its schedule , making several successive miles In fifty-two and fifty-three seconds each . Albany station was reached at 11:05 A. M. , exactly four minutes ahead of time . Less than three minutes were consumed in the exchange of locomotives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward Chase , took the train , and speeded away from Albany about half a minute ahead of time . A dozen or more passengers were taken on at Albany , including Alfred C. Chapin , Samuel Beardsley , and Michael Rickard , the members of the State Railroad Commission , who were on their way to Buffalo to bestow their official attention on various railroad matters of public interest . Commissioner Rickard is a veteran locomotive engineer , having for more than thirty years run an engine on the New-York Central Railroad . He very naturally took an earnest interest in the making of a new record by the Empire State Express . He commented on the fact that the train drawn to-day was more than twice as heavy as the British trains , which have been making fifty-one and fifty-two miles an hour for long distances . It was Mr. Rickard 's opinion that engines like Nos. 870 or 099 would be able to draw trains of the same weight as the British trains at a speed of seventy or seventy-five miles an hour with perfect safety . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was maintained from Albany to Utica . The train reached the last-mentioned place just thirty seconds ahead of time , but an unlooked-for delay of two minutes occurred there in consequence of the care required in helping an invalid on board the train . No special effort was made to recover the lost time until within about twenty miles of Syracuse . In that locality the solid rock-balasted track stretches away on an almost level plain . The miles were reeled off like magic , the train at certain points dashing along at the tremendous rate of seventythree miles an hour . For a short distance the West Shore Railroad tracks run parallel with those of the New-York Central only a few yards distant . Here the Empire State Express overhauled a light three-car passenger train also going toward Buffalo , and passed tt like a flash . The Syracuse station was reached two minutes and forty seconds ahead of the schedule time . There the redoubtable No. 099 was detached from the train , giving place to No. 904 , a locomotive of the same class . The New-York Central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best end of the line for speed-making purposes . To-day the weather did what it could to counteract that advantage , and a vexatious accident did still more . A little north of Palmyra a snowstorm and stiff head winds were encountered . For a while these combined drawbacks retarded the speed of the train , but not more than two or three minutes were lost , and that time was so far made up subsequently that Rochester was reached almost on time . The delay of one minute sufficed to let off and take on passengers there , and the run to Buffalo , a distance of sixty-seven miles , over a snow-covered roadbed , was begun with every promise of a successful culmination . Soon after passing Churchville , a small station , about twenty-one miles west of Rochester , the water scoop under the tender accidentally caught on the edge of a water tank buried between the tracks , and was so bent that it scraped the roadbed . The mishap was discovered quickly by the engineer , and the train was brought to a standstill . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scoop , and that work caused a delay of fourteen minutes and a few seconds . With nearly fifty miles to run , the engineer would have thought nothing of making up the fourteen minutes on a dry track , but here the tracks were frost-laden , and the task of recovering the lost time was entered upon with serious misgivings . Part of the distance was up grade . The only speed burst on this end of the journey was made between Crittenden and East Buffalo . The distance is seventeen miles . and the run was made in sixteen minutes . The total weight of the train was 681,200 pounds , distributed as follows : Buffet car , 93,500 pounds , dining car Eglinton , 101,300 pounds ; coach , 98,000 pounds ; coach , 82,000 pounds ; private car Mariquita , 106,400 pounds ; engine and tender , 200,000 pounds . The ordinary weight of the Empire State Express is a little short of 575,000 pounds . Vice President Webb 's private car , which was occupied by the railway officers and newspaper men , was just so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its full complement of passengers  --  something over 200 . A majojrity of the cars attached to the train to-day made their first trip with the Empire State Express four years ago .                     