@@781271

txt A terrific struggle took place yesterday afternoon among painters employed on the cantilever bridge , about dusk , unseen by those on land , but described by the few witnesses of it , as blood curdling . A gang of painters had been employed by the Grand Trunk authorities to repaint the cables , guys , and stays . They were all Canadians . They swung scaffolds at intervals beneath the bridge , and were working on these perilous footholds about 200 feet above the rapids . One of the mon was a French Canadian from Montreal , named Joseph Greaves . His companion on the same scaffold was William Garnet . While working they engaged in an altercation . In which Garnet lost his temper , grasped a hatchet , and threatened to brain Greaves . Their loud talk attracted the attention of other workmen , but nobody could interfere . Than ensued a dramatic duel such as novelists imagine between rivals for a woman 's hand . Greaves grasped Gainel by the wrist to stay his hand , but Garnet was the stronger and threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ river . He pushed him to the edge , when Greaves released his hold on his assailant to save himself from falling , whereupon Garael struck him three times with the hatchet . All three blows were aimed at the head , but Greaves writhed and dodged and was struck twice on the shoulder and once behind the left ear . The last blow staggered him , and he fell and would have dropped into the river had he not been caught between two braces . Greaves , with the blood streaming from his outs , ellinhed hand over hand to the bridge floor . Garnet followed , hatchet in hand , to complete the murder , but was Intercepted by the other workmen . Garnet , when overpowered , hissed : " The next time I catch you I will kill you . " The wounded man was carried to the Canadian shore , where his wounds were dressed . It was then discovered that an artery bad been out , and for a long time the surgeons were unable to stanch the hemorrhage . It is doubtful whether Greaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is believed that he will be a maniac for life . Garnet escaped while others were attending the victim . Canadian othcers were sent after him , but all they could learn was that he had been seen on a Michigan Central freight train . It is supposed that he came to Buffalo and will try to escape through the States . Officers on both sides of the river are warned to keep a lookout for him . He Is thus described : Twentylive years of age ; weight , 225 pounds ; 5 feet 8 inches in height ; sandy mnatache and hair ; dressed in slouch hat and brown clothes bedaubed with paint . He may try to ship by boat . Greaves is a sailor .                     