@@674068

txt James Spanel , a laborer employed on an excavation at One Hundred and Thirty-eighth Street and Edgecombe Avenue , was instantly killb-d at noon yesterday by an unexpected explosion of dynamite . Michael Boden of 207 West Sixty-seventh Street , a blaster , was seriously injured . A series of four blasts were exploded at 12 o'clock , all of them being successful but one . Boden , who placed the blasts , had then removed the logs from the hole containing the unexploded charge , and was standing over it trying to extract the cartridge with a steel instrument for the purpose , called a spoon . He dropped the spoon into the hole , and was twisting it around , trying to get hold of the cartridge , when the charge suddenly exploded with a terrific noise , and hurled pieces of broken rock in every direction . Spanel , who was standing a few feet from Boden when the explosion occurred , was blown into the air , and fell dead an a pile of rocks , fifteen feet away . Roden did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was standing en the solid ledge of rock in which the cartridge had been placed , but was hurled several feet away and seriously , perhaps fatally , injured by the flying pieces of rock . As soon as the smoke and dust of the explosion cleared away , the other laborers ran to the injured men . An ambulance was summoned from Manhattan Hospital . Boden was attended temporarily , and hurriedly taken there . The police , who were an the scene a moment after the explosion took place , at once arrested Contractor Edward Wood of One Hundred and Eighteenth Street and Amsterdam Avenue and Foreman Cox of 229 Columbus Avenue . Contractor Wood did not witness the explosion , but Cox , who did , said that it was purely accidental . The failure of the cartridge to explode when the blasts were fired was due to some defect in the wires which connected the cartridge with the electric battery . The other workmen were , fortunately , acme distance away . Cox says the steel hook on the end of the spoon must have broken through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction . The neighborhood - of the accident has few houses , and none nearer than two blocks . Had the explosion occurred in a thickly built district the damage to property might have been great , as several large pieces of rock were detached from the main ledge and thrown a distance of 150 feet , landing in the vacant lots on the opposite side of the avenue . Spanel , the dead man , lived at 310 West Sixty-ninth Street , and had a wife and two children . Boden also has a family . Contractor Wood and Foreman Cox were arraigned before Magistrate Wentworth , in the Harlem Court , and remanded to the Coroner , without examination .                     