@@781123

txt Gen. Blanco calbles from Havana that the torpedo boat destroyer Terror , from Martinique , has arrived at Fajardo , on the east coast of Puerto Rico . She intended to go to San Juan , but found four American warships cruising in front of the harbor , and changed her direction for Fajardo . Gen. ' BlanCo 's dispatch says that Admiral ' Cervera 's squadron is still at Santiago de Cuba ; that the bulk of Admiral Sampson 's squadron is blockading that port ; that Commodore Schley 's squadron is watching the Yucatan Passage ; that the American vessels have left Cienfuegos , and that the American fleet of blockaders remains in sight of Havana . Gen. Blanco says In his dispatch that he opposed the departure of the French steamer Lafayette with a cargo of coal , as the coal was.required for Spanish ships . The Imparcial to-day reiterates that Admiral Cervera is at Santiago de Cuba , which port , it says , possesser , advantages over Cienfuegos . A dispatch to The Financial News from Kingston , Jamaica , says the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , reports having picked up a yawl containing two reconcentrados who had escaped from Santiago de Cuba . He says they told him that Admiral Cervera. ' s squadron was in the harbor , that the vessels were coaled and victualed , and were ready to sail " when the Cadiz squadron arrives next week and breaks the blockade . " A dispatch to The Daily Telegraph from Kingston says : " Despite the most energetic search , the whereabouts of the Spanish Cape Verde squadron remain unknown to the American authorities . On Thursday last Cervera , was reported to be at Santiago de Cuba , and Schley left Key West for that port . " The next morning I learned where the squadron was bound and was enabled to follow , aboard the British ship Premier . Since then we have been engaged in a fruitless search for the Spaniards in the Gulf and the Caribbean Sea . " Monday morning we came up with the American ships off Cienfuegos and learned that Commodore Schley believed that Admiral Cervera was in Cienfuegos Harbor . " " The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Texas , Brooklyn , Marblehead , Castine , Vixen , Eagle , and Dupont , maintained a close blockade of the entrance . The topmasts of three or four large ships could be seen in the harbor over the promontory which conceals the entrance , and it was believed that these were the Vizcaya and the other cruisers under Cervera . " Tuesday evening the Cuban insurgents sent a boat with positive information that the Spanish fleet was not in Cienfuegos Harbor ; and just after sunset Commodore Schley 's squadron sailed away southeast , bound for Santiago de Cuba . We followed in the Premier , and , despite a heavy gale from the southeast , kept in touch with the squadron until 4 o'clock Wednesday . A severe rainsquall then hit the vessels , and when it cleared we found that they had altered their course and disappeared . We stood along toward Santiago , but , as the gale increased in severity and our supply Of coal and water was dangerously low , the Premier was obliged to run for Kingston , where she arrived on Friday at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we sighted the United States gunboat Hawk , returning to Cienfuegos from Santiago de Cuba - with the news that the Spanish fleet under Cervera was not at Santiago . I am afraid there is little chance of meeting the Spanish fleet . The probabilities are that Cervera , after discharging ammunition and supplies for Blanco at Santiago , put out again , ran down the Caribbean to 14lartinique , and got out into the Atlantic by the same way he entered . " In this way , it appears , the Spanish fleet has completely outmanoeuvred the American commanders , and has succeeded in concealing its movements , though the Americans have some seventy war vessels patrolling the West Indian waters . " It is reported that severe fighting took place between the insurgents and Spaniard near Cienfuegos on Sunday , in which the Spaniards lost 300 killed and wounded . "                     