@@781526

txt It may be recollected that at the beginning of the season THE TIMES expressed the opinion that Edmund C. Stanton had got together for the present season , at the Metropolitan Opera House , one of the best all-around companies ever assembled hero for German opera . Last night 's performance was one of the finest demonstrations yet given of the justice of this opinion . It is not too much to say that , taking it all in all , it was the finest performance of " Die Walkiire " ever given iu this city . It was splendid la its dramatic forcefulness , beautiful in its picturesqueness of aspect . and unequaled in its vocal exuellenoe . We have had occasion to tind fault frequently this season , but last night 's performance was of a nature to disarm criticism , to drive cold reason behind the barriers of emotion , and convince the hearer that there are times when all things work together for the good of them that love genuine dramma per musica . Individual excellence was not especially prominent because there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Herr Gudehus tu the brat act and continued till Herr Fischer made his exit at the close of the last scene . Gudehus is vocally by far the beat Siegmund we have had , and his acting is thoroughly good , though not so noble as that of the wonderful old NiAMMILL But the latter could not sing , while Gudehus sang every measure finely , making the famous love song buoyant and bold , as the composer intended it to be . Frau Mielke 's Briinnhilde was n lovely performance , rounded and thoughtful in conception , direct and eloquent in execution . She sang admirably , her valkyr 's cry as the opening of the second act electrifying the audience , and her subsequent work being charged with digI nity and beauty . Frau Ritter-Gdtze 's Fricke was superb . It was out and out the best interpretation of the role both vocally and dramatically ever seen here . Fraulein Jahn was a satisfactory Siegllnde . She sang the music smoothly and commendably , and acted in a womanly manner . It is not necessary at this late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popular basso struck a deeper note of passion and power than even he usually does , and his action was uncommonly full of significance . The Hunting of Behrens Is the beat thing that singer does , and last evening it was up to its mark . The choir of Valkyrs was satisfactory , and the orchestra played like a band of virtuosi . Anton Seidl conducted . The enthusiasm of the audience was aroused at the outset by the beautiful treatment of the itreat love duet at the hands of Gudehus and ritulein Jahn , and the tenor 's forcible declamation at the close of the scene brought the curtain down with a grand outburst of applause . The three artists who appeared in the first act were called out five tunes , and the applause did not cease until the conductor came forward to acknowledge the kindness of the auditors . The enthusiasm at the termination of the second act was of a similar kind and might have been even greater had not a slight mishap with one of the cloud drops marred the ? fleet of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philharmonic Society at the Metropolitan Opera House yesterday afternoon was an entertainment of a nature to fill a music lover 's heart with peace and pleasure . The programme was composed of genuinely fine works , three of them being acknowledged masterpieces . The novelty of the occasion was a work which has passed the ordeal of criticism in leading European cities , and has been heard with favor as near home as Brooklyn . On the occasion et its production In that place some description of Rubinstein 's " Antony and Cleopatra " overture was given in this column . Suffice it to say now that a second hearing confirms the favorable impression then made by the picturesqueness of its themes and the opulence of its instrumentation . The other orchestral numbers were Schubert 's unfinished symphony and Behumann'a B flat symphony . The soloist was Mrs. Fanny Bloomtield-Zoisler of Chicago , who played Chopiu 's F minor piano concerto , with orchestra . An account of her performance of this work was given during tho Worcester festival last Fall . No further comment is now required titan the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance reviewed in September . The whole programme will be repeated to-night .                     