@@674281

txt Fanny Bough-by , seventeen years old , was picked up , bruised and bleeding , on the track of the fair grounds here to-day , and was removed to her home ' in Hempstead , where she is in a dying condition . William Thorne is under arrest here , and is responsible for the young girl 's injuries . The programme at the fair to-day included a number of bicycle races , and Miss Boughby rode over here to witness them . The time came for the beginning of the races . Thorne was on the track speeding a fast trotter he owns . He was repeatedly ordered off the track by the judges , and finally started his horse down the track in the direction of a gate that leads from the grounds to the road . cuts:de . It was supposed by everybody that he had gone , and all attention was centred on the-bicyclists . Miss Boughby mounted her wheel to ride across the track to a place where she could have a better view of the start of the contestants . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with his trotter at a clipping pace . Miss Bough . by heard the clatter of the horse 's - hoofs , and became confused . She was almost at a standstill in the middle of the track when the fare feet of the trotter struck her , and knocked her to the ground . The horse and sulky passed over her . Hundreds of people ran to the spot where the girl was lying on the track to give her aid , while thousands saw the accident . Miss Boughby was picked up , and carried into one of the stables on the track . There she was attended by Dr. Lanehart of Hempstead , who happened to be present . He made an examination of the girl , and found that her left leg was broken in two places , and that her right kneecap was broken . The girl wap also badly cut and bruised about the face and body , and the doctor thought she was suffering from internal injuries also . She was placed in a carriage , and was driven to her home in Hempstead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track and down the road without waiting to learn the condition of the victim of his carelessness . As soon as it was seen that he was escaping , a crowd of angry men went after him in all sorts of conveyances . There were many speedy horses on the fair grounds , and there was a race between several drivers to see who would overtake Thorne . He was Caught up with about three miles from here and brought back . He is now in jail . Miss Boughby is a member of a prominent family in Hempstead . The wheel she was riding at the time of the accident was completely wrecked .                     