@@675093

txt Contrary to general expectations , all is quiet along the entire line , nothing having happened up to this hour to disturb the peace of Sunday . In Manila the inhabitants have generally recovered from the alarm occasioned by the fear of a native uprising and are resuming their ordinary business . The shipping interests are naturally suffering , since there have been no clearances for . Philippine ports within a week ; but , on the other hand . foreign shipping has increased , especially for Hongkong , every steamer bound thither being crowded with timid refugees . Despite , however , this Sunday quietude. many are asking whether the problem is not still far from solution . A week ago those who took an optimistic view predicted that the terrible lesson just administered to the rebels would settle the question of Filipino independence in short order . But this prediction has not been fulfilled . As a matter of fact , the rebels are now scattered throughout the country bushwhacking , except at Malabon , where they are gathered in force . Even there their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every bush . clump , and tree furnishing a cover for their sharpshooters . Unfortunately , for miles around the land is studded with bamboo jungle , and open spaces are few and far between . This affords the natives . who fight better under cover , a distinct advantage . In many places the jungle is so dense that the eye can not penetrate it , and only by the flashes of their rifles is the whereabouts of the enemy indicated . Under such conditions it is remarkable that the American casualties should be so few , while the number of dead natives found in the brush after every skirmish testifies to the precision of our fire . Last week there was not a single day without fighting ; but the Americans steadily advanced , carrying everything before them and gradually increasing their semi-circle , until now it spreads fan-shaped from four to ten miles around Manila , the water works being the most distant point . It is now known that the Filipino loss is fully 2,500 killed , with wounded vastly in excess of that number , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the cost of 65 Americans killed and 257 wounded . There are two Americans missing and unaccounted for . No fewer than twenty native villages have surrendered or been captured . Several have been destroyed because their houses harbored men , frequently disguised in female attire , who shot from windows and roof tops at the American troops . Many rifles and a ton of ammunition have been seized . As might be expected , there has been some looting in the outskirts ; but it has not been general , and has been done in direct violation of orders . The only incident that has broken the quiet of the day followed the arrival of the German first-class cruiser Kaiserin Augusta . When she saluted Admiral Dewey this afternoon a report spread rapidly that the American warships were bombarding Malabon . To-day crowds have visited the scenes of last week 's fighting . All the roads from the city were thronged with vehicles . But beyond burned villages and the new mounds in the fields , there was little to be seen . A close inspection showed that most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the last , as the bcklies were usually surrounded by empty cartridges , while in the trenches , wherever there were no dead , there was little and often no ammunition . Among the distinguished prisoners captured In Manila since the outbreak of hostilities are Capt . A. G. Escamillo . Aguinaldo 's private secretary ; Capt . E. P. Veraguth , Col. Martin de los Reyes. and Seflor Tomas del Rosario. a member of the so-called Filipino Congress in session at Malolos . A few minor Filipino officials are also in custody .                     