@@673478

txt When the Sheffield Blanket Ballot bill came up as the special order in the Assembly on Wednesday , consideration of it was unexpectedly postponed for one week , and the reason given for the delay was that some change is to be made in the paster provisions . There was also found to be some conflict between its provisions relating to Election Inspectors and those of a pending measure which relates to that subject alone . It was a fault of the ballot bill as originally presented that it made such extensive changes in the election laws in regard to matters that do not directly affect the form of ballot or the method of using it . It was made too complicated and presented too many issues which could be better dealt with separately . But it ought to be an easy matter to eliminate the provisions which are covered by other bills and on which there is no material difference of opinion . Members of the Legislature are substantially agreed on the question of adopting the blanket ballot , and the only issue that seems really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the official ballot . This issue is somewhat sharply presented , and there is a tendency to divide on the party line with reference to it . We can see no legitimate reason for such a division , for honest men of all parties are in favor of protecting the exercise of the suffrage from all sinister influences without interfering more than is absolutely necessary with its freedom . But we suspect that the real cause of the difference is that one party claims , or admits , more dependence than the other upon voters who are illiterate . But for the illiterate voters there would be no difficulty in dealing with this matter ; but their existence does not justify the blanket paster , to which there are such serious objections . Moreover , the blanket paster , printed beforehand by political organizations , can not meet the actual requirements of this class . If any of them desire to vote other than a straight ticket , or for any candidates whose names are not on the official ballot , their right is to mix a ticket to suit themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed pester ballot does not enable them to do . Such a general pester can not be claimed as a protection to any constitutional right . On the other hand , the provision of the Sheffield bill which allows the use of sample ballots already marked as a guide for marking the official ballot would enable any voter to make such combination of names as he wished , and the provision for an ofdcial blank vaster meets absolutely the requirement that every man shall be able to vote for candidates of his own choice . No other plan yet proposed does fully meet that requirement . There seems to be some fear that the official paster might be used as a means of identifying ballots . It is more- likely that it would be used hardly at all . There is scarcely a voter , of the illiterate class who would have any desire to throw away a vote upon some candidate who had not received a nomination , and for the sake of doing so would declare his illiteracy under oath at the time of registration . The chance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this declaration and then to swear on the day of election that they wished to vote for candidates whose names were not on the official ballot , merely as a means of furnishing evidence as to how they voted , is very slight . The whole process would have so much publicity and any corrupt purpose would be so easily exposed that there is no likelihood of this abuse of the official paster. it will be much wiser to stick to the bill as it was reported , so far as the paster is concerned , than to confuse the question any further .                     