@@672617

txt Mr. Henry Sedgwiek Watts . an American , has resided for the past six years at Cuneo , in Piedmont , near the frontier . He has been in the habit of crossing and recrossing the frontier at his convenience . A few days ago , while returning from a drive , he was stopped by some Italian customs officers and roughly ordered to get out of his carriage and go with them to the nearest customs bureau in order that he might be searched , on suspicion of having contraband goods concealed about his person. , After protesting against such treatment and telling the customs officers that he bad been in the habit for years of driving across the frontier and driving back when it suited him . Mr. Watts consented to go with his captors . Upon entering the customs bureau , an official rushed furiously into the room where Mr. Watts had been taken , and , after gesticulating wildly for a moment or so and giving vent to a tirade of abuse in Italian , seized Mr. Watts and shook him violently . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been subjected , Mr. Watts remained calm and refrained from resenting the customs official 's - violence . The American , in French , asked the meaning of the outrage , but for a reply the officer simply threatened to imprison him . Mr. Watts was then searched , but nothing of a contraband nature was found on him . He was then released . Mr. Watts called upon the local authorities at Cuneo and lodged a complaint against the customs officers , but found that the customs official who had roughly handled him had been there and had charged Mr. Watts with outrageously insulting an officer in the discharge of his duties . Upon this charge Mr. Watts was tried , and was acquitted . when it was shown that the accusations brought by the customs officers were untrue . The Government authorities at Cuneo , not being content with the decision of the local courts , made an appeal against it , and Mr. Watts immediately sought the advice of the nearest United States official representative . This should have been the United States Consul at Turin , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successor of the late United States Consul there having as yet not been recognized by the Italian Government . Consequently Mr. Watts came to Rome to claim the protection of the United States Consul , Mr. A. Bournerand today made a sworn statement as to what took place at Cuneo . The matter will be fully investigated by the United States Consulate.                     