@@672769

txt Rumors concerning the ill health of John D. Rockefeller , the Standard Oil magnate , have been revived by the return of his family to New-York on Tuesday , leaving him behind at his Sumner home at Forest Hills Farm , near here . It has been known here for some time that Mr. Rockefeller was not in the beet of health , and at Intervals rumor has had him u u ring from melancholy or severe nervous prostration , but , as usual . there was Innen more fiction than fact in Dame Rumor 's tales . When Mr. Rockefeller returned to Cleveland in the Spring to spend the Summermenths on his beautiful farm on ** Ridge , he was very much run clown and greatly in need of rest . The financial stringency last Winter had put a heavier burden than usual upon him , and he had overworked himself He came here for rest , and he has been taking it , much in his customary way . If anything . he has devoted less time to business and more to outdoor pursuits than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time has his condition been serious or critical . so far as can be learned . Ile has Lad physicians , as he always has , and they have come and gone frequently , but there have been no consultations as to his condition , and there has been little more than the attention which he at all times pays to his health . tie has been steadily Improving during the Summer , and now locks and feels much stronger and better than in the spring . It can be said on very good authority that his condition now is not at all serious , and that he is only remaining behind his family in order that the work of recuperation may not be Interrupted and that no evil effects may follow his return to business . His mind is as keen and bright as it ever was , and his seems in every way himself . Yesterday he was one of the pall bearers at the funeral of Ezra Thomas , one of the oldest members of the Euclid Avenue Baptist Church , of which Mr. Rockefeller is a regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any way serious his physicians would not have allowed him to be present on so depressing an occasion as the funeral of an old friend . The return of his family to New-York without him , his mends say , is the best of evidence that he Is not in need of particular care and that his condition is in no wise serious . Ho will probably remain at his suburban home the bettor part of this month , and , as is his custom when there , will spend a good part of each day in fair weather in outdoor exorcise and works of various kinds . No alarm Is felt regarding his health by his friends here .                     