@@674508

txt The ferryboat Texas , of the Broadway Ferry line , was run down in the middlie of the East River last night by the steamship Corning of the John H. Starin Line , going north on her way to New Haven . The ferryboat was badly damaged . Several of the passengers were thrown from their feet , and Mrs. Annie Giesenheimer of 397 Ninth Avenue , received a severe scalp wound . She was taken to Bellevue Hospital , where her wound was dressed , and then accompanied by her husband she went to her home . The Texas plies between Broadway , in Brooklyn , and the foot of East Twenty-third Street , this city . At 10 o'clock last night she left the Brooklyn side loaded with over 201 ) passengers , among whom were many wheelmen . When about twq-thirds of the way across the river the wheelman of the Texas saw the steamship Corning going up the East River , coming straight in his direction . He tried to get his boat out of danger by throwing her off her course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverse his engines . It was too late , however , and the Corning crashed into the Texas amidship . The impact was terrific , and the Texas was shaken from stem to stern . As the Corning backed away , the Texas began to rock , and the impression got abroad among the passengers that she was sinking . Then ensued a panic . Men crawled on their knees on the floors to get the life preservers from under the seats , and the women ran back and forth wringing their hands and shrieking . Several of the more level-headed passengers saw there was no immediate danger , and they proceeded to quiet the crowd . After 14 time they succeeded . Mrs. Geisenheimer , with her husband , was seated in the side of the boat almost at the place where the Corning struck her . When the Captain of the Corning saw the Texas would be able to get to her pier , he proceeded on his way up the river to the Sound , and thence to New Haven . When quiet was restored on board the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously injured , she proceeded to her pier , at the foot of East Twenty-third Street . Policeman Hoifer of the East Twenty-second Street Station called an ambulance from Bellevue Hospital , and Mrs. Geisenheimer , accompanied by her husband , was taken there . After she had been treated , she insisted on being taken to her home . As soon as her passengers were discharged the Texas backed out of the slip to go to a dry dock for repairs . It will take several days to repair the damage done . The escape of the Texas from a far more serious accident is due largely to the construction of her sides . Like all ferryboats , the sides extend away over the hull proper , and before one of them is injured so as to spring a leak , several feet of stout timbers would have to be cut through . The Corning is a large Passenger steamer , which runs between New York and New Haven .                     