@@673539

txt Nobody imagines that it was the intention of the framers or the supporters of the act giving the Mayor of this city power to remove the heads of departments within sixty days after coming into office that it should apply to any elective officer , and yet the language of the bill is that the Mayor " may remove from office any head of department and appoint his successor . " Among the " departments " of the City Government enumerated in the Consolidation act is the Finance Department , and the head of that department is declared to be the Controller . When the Consolidation act was passed , the Controller was appointed by the Mayor , but he was made an elective officer in 1884 , his term being reduced to three years and special provision being made regarding his removal , similar to that which applies to Sheriffs and County Clerks . Now it is claimed on the part of the opponents of the Sheffield bill that if it is signed it will give the Mayor the power to remove the Controller and appoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and appointment would also apply to the Commissioner of Street Improvements of the Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth Wards is nonsense , because he is clearly not the head of any department . The act of 1890 creating the office does not make it a department or its incumbent the head of a department , and its reference to the limitations of his power and manner of removal plainly distinguishes this Commissioner from the " heads of departments and public officers of the City of New-York . " But the matter of the Controller is quite different . He certainly is the head of a department , and the Sheffield bill declares that the Mayor may remove the head of " any department . " If this means any department the head of which is an appointed officer , it does not say so . It does not say a municipal department or a department of the City Government , even that being a matter of inference . The latter may be regarded as a matter of " necessary inference , " and possibly the former might be construed in the same way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and if the Governor desires an excuse for vetoing the bill he may find it in this very looseness of application . It is not a conclusive answer to say that the election of the Controller and the manner of his removal are separately provided for . That was done by an independent act of the Legislature and not by an amendment of any specific provision of the Consolidation act , and this power of removal is granted by a : similar independent act , and if it is really in conflict with the earlier provision it will presumably prevail . How this question would be Judicially determined we can not say , but It is unfortunate that there should be any chance to raise it and to make a plausible excuse of it for vetoing the bill . It is the more inexcusable because the Sheffield bill consisted of a single section of about a dozen lines in very plain language , and it was supposed to have been considered by the Committees on Cities of both branches of the Legislature . Senator Cantor is quoted as saying that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know Just what it contained ; " There could be no severer commentary upon the methods of legislation at Albany than that simple statement , about a measure which apparently excited more interest and occasioned more discussion than almost any other .                     