@@674693

txt The gambols of the Congregationalists of Coytesville , N. J. , ought not to be less seriously regarded because nobody is able to give a rational explanation of them . Such an explanation it is , in fact , impossible to extract from the published account of their performances . That two aged and weighty Trustees settled upon a pew with which they had previously thwarted the aisle in order to prevent the progress of the pastor to the pulpit is clear enough . But to the natural inquiry why they should have done this thing neither the Trustees in question nor the opposing Trustees return any intelligible response . The obstructors were not , in fact , all Trustees . The connection of one of them with the " society " appears to have consisted exclusively in the fact that he was " the sexton 's brother-inlaw . " In undertaking to account for the schism in the " First Congregational Church of the Palisades , " we do not need to advert to the fact , not without significance in itself , that the wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that apparently simple fact lies latent a whole Pandora 's box of ecclesiastical discussion . A casual remark by any member of the family of another Trustee , that the organist was in the habit of striking wrong notes , would doubtless have supplied the parish with matter for dissension for the Winter . In the " back districts " of New England the inhabitants have been known to cherish an even smaller criticism as the basis of the intellectual life of the parish , or , what is the same thing , of the community , for the whole period between the departure and the return of the Summer boarder . But Coytesville is not so remote , unfriended , melancholy , nor , we may add , slow , as that comparison would imply . It is a village on the western slope of the Palisades , and within gunshot , according to the range of modern artillery , of the City Hall . Its inhabitants are not within the range of absorption into Greater New York only by reason of the arbitrary State lines that were drawn before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as urban or politan as some thousands of those who voted a month ago for VAN WYCK or TRACT . Not the learned LOMBROSO himself would venture to discriminate between them and the Flatlanders , for example , as respects their rural or urban relations . It would seem to follow that a parochial disturbance in New Utrecht might have the same far-reaching consequences as ons in Coytesville , and that the politics of Greater New York are liable to be appreciably disturbed by the performances of an organist who is also the wife of the junior Trustee . But this does not quite follow . The excitement of Coytesville is distinctly suburban . In a strictly rural neighborhood , as we have suggested , the fact that the organist was opposed to the minister would be " good " for at least six months . In a really urban neighborhood it would not last three days . Then , again , Coytesville has " supped full with horrors . " It is the community which has mainly thriven upon the demolition of the Palisades , and the most spicy parochial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a population in a small fraction of the time it would last a really primitive and unspoiled settlement . The parochial quarrel in Coytesville has this mark of an unsophisticated society , in which excitements are infrequent , that nobody concerned knows why he is angry , while everybody concerned is penetrated with the conviction that he does well to be angry . But the very rapidity with which the parochial quarrel has festered ann ripened betokens that the community marked by this precipitation contains a modern and even " yellow " public to which nothing is more than a nine days ' wonder .                     