@@675059

txt Senator HOAR has given notice in the Senate that on Monday next he will reply to the address of Senator PLATT of Connecticut , on the pregnant question of the constitutionality of the acquisition of dependencies beyond the seas . The venerable Massachusetts Senator will no doubt make a most interesting argument after the manner customary to the constitutional lawyer of the august body of which he is so respected a member , but it may be permitted to a layman to remark that that manner is no longer so persuasive and convincing as it was , let us say , in the time of DANIEL WEBSTER . The change is due partly to the change in the Senators and partly to the great difference in the subjects now under discussion . Mr. WEBSTER and his antagonists had for the main matter of their debates the nature of the bond by which the Union was formed and held together . It proved , in the course of those crowded years , that this bond could be fully welded only in the fires of war , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion were more or less clearly or dimly conscious . It gave a vigor to their thought and often an earnestness to their utterance which the Senators of to-day rarely exhibit Nor this alone ; they were engaged in the interpretation of an instrument as to the practical application of which there was no real precedent . No one could say that the right of secession had been actually adjudicated . It had never been attempted really to exercise it . Threats had been uttered , indeed , often enough by eminent public men , some of the most eminent being from the New England States . But no Strte and no party in any State had ever taken up arms , or in any other form brought themselves within the reach of the Supreme Court , and that high tribunal had never pronounced its judgment on the question . It happens now that for the acquisition of territory by the United States there is ample precedent , and that the Supreme Court has pronounced on all the serious points involved in it . Mr. Hoax , therefore , can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he do ? Fall back on the abstract theory of the consent of the governed ? In that case he will be compelled to condemn the action of his own party in Hawaii . Will he take up the argument from expediency ? He may do so , but Senator PLATT expressly excluded that . On the whole we await the great effort of the Massachusetts Senator with much curiosity . He is by far the most able and learned of the opponents of the President 's policy , but , so far , he does not seem to have found any very firm ground on which to establish their case .                     