@@674955

txt The Secretary of War , who to-day inspected Camp Poland and reviewed the troops encamped there , made a speech to the commanding officers at Gen. 's headquarters during the morning , in which he fixed the blame of the sickness in the different camps throughout the country on the commanding officers . Secretary Alger was given an enthusiastic reception by the citizens of Knoxville . He went from the station directly to the camp , and shortly afterward , accompanied by his staff and the officers of the camp , the Secretary rode over the drill field and inspected the troops . He then reviewed the parade . He next visited the hospitals and regimental quarters and made a thorough inspection of the condition of the camp and men . Gen. Alger congratulated Gen. on the splendid condition of his camp and of the troops . Ho expressed satisfaction with the location of the camp  --  and the showing made by the men . The parade at Camp Poland was witnessed by an immense concourse of people . After the review Gen. Alger asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There , surrounded by officers and the Knoxville Citizens ' Committee , the Secretary made an address . He removed his hat and in a careful manner of speech said : " I came here to visit this camp for the purpose of acquainting myself and seeing for myself just how the troops are faring and to hear from the officers any recommendations that they may think will benefit the camp . I want to hear what the commanders have to say about division and regimental hospitals , more especially . There has been a great deal of talk about the conditions of the camps and hospitals . I want to say that had the War Department been acquainted with the conditions said to have existed at Chickamauga the troops there would have been moved long before they were . " We received only good reports at Washington from the commanding officers , and it was supposed that the outside reports were exaggerated . The commanders of camps are responsible for the condition of their camps , and if the men are not well cared for and if the hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer for it . . " The War Department has been and is ready to supply the demands of the troops for medicines and sustenance , and there is no reason why conditions other than the best possible should exist . " Secretary Alger and party left for Chattanooga at 4 o'clock .                     