@@674287

txt State Excise Commissioner LYitAN has notified a certain club at Sing Sing that it can not " dispose of liquors among its members " without taking out a tax certificate entitling it " to traffic in liquors. " in other words , he has practically decided that the Raines liquor tax law applies to social clubs , and has given notice that all such organizations must comply with its requirements or be subject to its penalties . There are some very peculiar things about this judicial decision of the Excise Commissioner . He speaks of the decision of a Judge in the test case at Rochester as being the result of a collusion between " certain members of a social club " and the County Treasurer . The fact Is that the officers of the club applied for a tax certificate and it was refused by the County Treasurer , on the ground that under the decision of the Court of Appeals regarding " sales " of liquor in a club it was not engaged in the traffic and was not entitled to a certificate . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing the question to a test , but there is no reason for supposing that the County Treasurer did not act in entire good faith . The proceedings were open and public , the County Treasurer was in no sense amenable to the authority of the State Commissioner in the matter , and there is no propriety in charging " collusion . " Mr. LrmAN makes the extraordinary statement that the adjudication was made " without the knowledge of the Excise Department , " and " therefore " is not recognized by it . Does he mean to claim that he is under no obligation to accept a judicial determination of law which is made without special notice to him , when he is in no way a party to the proceeding ? But he presumes to ignore the decision of the Court of Appeals also in regard to what constitutes a sale of liquor . It is true that the decision was obtained under the old excise law and not under the present act , but he undertakes to sustain himself by a decision of the Court of Appeals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law of this State and which deals with precisely the same question . This is a matter which should be brought to a final test and settled by some higher judicial authority than Commissioner LYMAN , and there is no better way than for the clubs to stand upon their rights as thus far construed by the courts , and leave the Commissioner or his agents to proceed against them for violation of the law . His statement that the law " expressly provides " for issuing liquor tax certificates to " corporations engaged in the traffic in liquors " and makes them " amenable to the pains and penalties " for engaging in the traffic without a certificate , is wholly irrelevant . Clubs may be corporations , but the point is that they are not " engaged in the traffic in liquors " when their members supply themselves with drinks bought with their own funds for their own private use .                     