@@672554

txt We are not among those who have been disposed to put the sole responsibility for the failure to keep the streets of the pity clean daring the last eight months upon Commissioner Resrrin . Ile is entitled to certain allowances and to some consideration . The appropriation for street cleaning was fixed at the beginning of the year , .. and a good deal more than one-fourth of it was used up during the first three months , ? before Mr. BEATTIE came into office . He says that he had remaining for the last quarter of the year $105,000 less than was expended during the first quarter , and has all the time been working with inadequate funds . It is nonsense to say that he is bound to keep the streets just as clean without sufficient means as with them . No man is bound to do the impossible . He also found the department poorly equipped with the appliances for its work , and has had no funds at his command for giving it a proper equipment . The plan of hiring carts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons is not an economical ore , but he has been forced to resort to it . We are inclined in fairness to make some allowance for Mr. BEtsTrie on account of the difficulties he has had to contend with . But the Commissioner made a number of admissions before the investigating committee yesterday which are very significant , and indicate that he can not altogether escape the responsibility of failure to keep the streets clean . Let us put two or three of these admissions in juxtaposi ? tion , and see how they look . In the first place , he admitted that he appointed men and hired horses and carts at the request of Tammany leaders . With this is to be placed the statement that Deputy Commissioner DALTON , Tammany leader in the Fifteenth Assembly District , hired and discharged most of the men . Mr. Bess. = also said that a responsible , permanent force of men was necessary for efficient work , and that the men should be selected for their special fitness , and discharged for good business reasons only . In order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulated by statute or " the office must be controlled by a man who will have his own way or throw up the job . " No man , he admitted , could do his work thoroughly unless he had his own way , but he did not explain why he could not himself have his own way . After pleading lank of funds , and making some estimates of the expense necessary for equipping the department and doing its work , Mr. BEATTIE said that if lie could have a ten years ' contract he could " keep the streets clean on the basis of the present appropriation . " Out of these several statements some light may be extracted as to the real difficulty in getting clean streets at the present cost of Op work , which is very high in comparison with the expense for the same purpose in other cities that have much cleaner streets than New-York . If the streets could be kept clean under a ten years ' contract with the money now used in keeping them unclean , the contractor furnishing his own appliances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department for a term of six years could certainly keep them clean , with the necessary equipment furnished at public expense . But , as Mr. BEATTIE says , he would have to have his own way . That is , he would have to control the force and the appliances employed , and be able to select men " for special fitness " and discharge them " for good business reasons only . " Then , on the Commissioner 's own admissions , the main difficulty is with political interference , with the practice of appointing men and hiring horses and carts " on the request of Tammany leaders . " No man , be he public official or contractor , if he felt bound to employ . men who were recommended by politicians , to hire carts and horses from persons who " took an interest in politics , " to consult the wishes of Tammany leaders in regard to retaining or discharging men , could by any possibility do the work of cleaning the streets of this city well , however much money he might have at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be done . Here , then , is the root of the evil , and admitting it , as he does , how can Commissioner BEATTIE uphold the Tammany method , as he appears to do ? Why does he not take his stand upon the principles which he admits to be sound , and insist upon having his way or throwing up the job ? He might not succeed in having his way , and throwing up the job might not cure the evil , but Mr. BEATTIE would stand in a more creditable light , and his act of courage or of self-sacrifice , as the case might be , would serve to impress more forcibly upon the public mind the necessity of a business administration of municipal affairs if we are to have them decently managed . It is evident that the Street-Cleaning Department ' needs to be reorganized , or , rather , it needs to be organized and placed upon some systematic basis . The division of responsibility between that department and the Board of Health , the Police Department , and the Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be done away with , though under a proper City Government these departments would work together for good results . Under a demoralizing political rdgiino of the Tammany order they work separately for bad results and the plunder of the community . Going one stop further , we run the responsibility for the whole bad business of inefficiency , wastefulness , and shabby results in all municipal administration to those " respectable " people who from one base motive or another help to keep Tammany politicians in control of work that should be in the charge of capable and honest citizens who would have no object but to serve the best interests of the public .                     