@@675100

txt The reports or such skirmishes as those noted above , and the stories of frequent firing by concealed natives upon the American outposts , have conveyed the impression to the officials here that Gen. Otis is being rapidly brought to a pass where he must assume a most vigorous campaign . Although no instructions have yet been sent to him , it is assumed that he will feel justified soon in doing this to prevent the demoralization of his troops , and also to make his position tenable in the approaching wet season . The nature of the country around Manila favors the tactics the in3urvnts seem to have adopted after learning that they could not face the American soldiers in the Open field , and it doubtless will be Gen. Otis 's task , just as soon as his reinarcements reach him , to clear them away . Half a dozen natives concealed : n the jungle , and firing at long range at intervals , could make life unbearable for a wAole company of regular troops until they were dislodged . Military officers who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become panicky and lose their nerve under this treatment . That , however , is what they must expect , occupying the outposts and trenches miles outside of Manila during the rainy season , protecting the waterworks and strategic points , unless a determined effort is made before the country becomes impassable owing to the rains , to carry the war straight into ' the interior and chase Aguinaldo 's men beyond the range of activity , It is estimated . that at the rate of progress now making by the transport Grant , the 1,800 troops on that ship will land at Manila about March 4 . A couple of weeks later the Sherman will arrive at the same place with a similar number of troops , and two weeks after that the Sheridan is due with the troops now embarking at New York . Before the last of these troops reach Manila the dry season will have gotten well toward an end , and only a short time will be left for active operations , so there is need for steady work in the preparations at all points , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops . A consideration that favors a termination of the struggle at an early date is the  --  fact that the latest reports rather indicate that the insurgents are becoming short Of ammunition , and with redoubled vigilance on the part of the naval forces- around Luzon they may be brought to terms on this , ac- , count as.much as from any other cause .                     