@@674822

txt Under the Hull bill officers in commission are required to fill but one report of their commands , and that in Washington . By the failure to provide for the filing of duplicate reports of volunteer regiments with the Adjutants General of the several States , it is averred that injustice is being done to the histories of the States . During the war of the rebellion Pennsylvania alone had duplicates filed with its Adjutant General . New York on questions of vital importance is compelled to go to Washington for her information . State Historian Hastings , hoping to secure such data as are necessary for the archives of the State relative to the present war with Spain , sent out a circular letter about the middle of May to the commanders of the New York organizations , and thus far has received reports from all but the cavalry , the Naval Reserve , and Col. Hardin of the Second Regiment . In order that the Federal authorities might take no offense , and that the work ? would be voluntary , Mr. Hastings couched his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show : " If you could arrange with some competent member of your command to keep a diary , with a view of having this office copy it at the close of the campaign , you will confer a benefit not only upon your command , but upon this office and upon posterity . Should your command go into action , if it be not inconsistent with army regulations , I would earnestly beg of you to forward to this office a copy of the report you make to the War Department ; if it be ' not regarded as violation of army regulations , will you not send to this office a. statement of the operations of your command , in order that future generations may know that the sons of New York were present and performed their duty like soldiers ? During the War of the Rebellion many of the most gallant organizations from New York never received just credit because of the failure of commanding officers to make reports on engagements in which their regiments participated . This appeal is issued with a view to prevent , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also arranged with Gen. Henry V. Boynton , President of the National Chickamauga and Chattanooga Park Commission , for pictures of camp sites of the New York troops at Chickamauga Park , and they will be furnished without any bother to the commandants . A letter received from one , of New York 's Colonels at Camp Alger , Va. , shows the spirit in which the officers view the request of the State Historian , in these sentences : " I will endeavor to comply with the first four requests contained in your letter as soon as possible , although I doubt whether I can procure a good photograph of the whole command , as it is too . large to be included in one photograph , and-the same remarks , will apply to photographs of the camp . Would your office pay a reasonable price for photographs of the command and the camp if taken in sections and put together ? I have arranged with the Chaplain of the regiment to keep a diary , and will see that a copy of it is furnished for the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I will forward you copies of such reports as I can Without violating the army regulations , and will endeavor to keep your office advised of the operations of the command . " ' Here is a section of another letter from Capt . George H. Thomas , Chickamauga Park , Ga. : " I have arranged with our Chaplain to keep a diary of events as they transpire , and later on to send it to you up to date . We are now ordered to proceed to Cuba , and of the events that may happen there we Will give you as accurate ' account as will be in our power . I inclose a photograph cut from a newspaper , in lieu of having no other at present . All the photographs have been given to friends . I would say , however , that you may obtain them from Saiony 's galleries , Union Square , New York City . Since our arrival in the South we have been unable to find a. photographer , consequently it is impossible to comply with your request at present . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you take in them , and hoping that you will accept the thanks of an old friend , " &c.; Another letter from the same camp contains the following. : " Replying to your good favor of the 28th inst. , I beg to say that I have with me none of the photographs which you request . All the negatives taken are being sent directly - to- my sister , ? and ' I will ask her to send you copies as you request . With regard to keeping the diary , I will : be most happy to do , what I- can , in the . matter , and will corn-municate further with you on the subject . ' am-afraid I will.not be a.ble ta forward you-copies of any report that-I-will make to Washington , , but I . try to send you  --  unofficial accounts as , full as possible . " .                     