@@674801

txt Every other topic in Great Britain has dropped out of sight before the passing of Mr. Gladstone . Hawarden focuses the attention , which from the highest to the man in the street is respectful , sincere , and profoundly moved . Now the hour is come when , to quote from Mr. Chamberlain last evening at the Civil Service banquet , " the greatest statesman of our time and generation is passing to hit rest . " In two places , perhaps , was the tension most keen and most heartfelt  --  the House of Commons and Hawarden . Just before the House rose a telegram from Mr. Herbert Gladstone reached Lord Stanley announcing that his father was sinking . In the minds of all it was the last of a long series of bulletins anxiously awaited and mournfully received . Already before his death the hush of grief seemed to fall over the scene of his triumphs , and from the present men turned to the past , recalling the sayings and doings of the great lion who lay dying  --  his old colleagues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his last and implacable foe as they watched in past days his fights against foes whom he could overcome . True to himself , he was yielding slowly inch by inch . It was generally felt at St. Stephen 's that his dying was but the sequel to that great scene witnessed four years ago , when , his last speech spoken , he quitted the House without one word of spoken adieu . Anticipating the inevitable , the members of the Government discussed the appropriate procedure to be observed . and resolved that no effort on their part shoal be wanting to mark a suitable sense of their loss and the loss of the nation . Disregarding recent precedents , it was decided that when the end should come the procedure . in Parliament ' should be ' the.same as : that adopted in the cases of the Earl Of Chatham , ' and - fyeungerBitt , namely , an iddreSs to her Majesty praying for a funeral at the public charge and a monument erected in Westminster Abbey . Throughout the whole kingdom every public gathering has added its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly versed in the telegram from the Prince of Wales to Mr. Henry Gladstone : " My thoughts are with you , your mother , and your family at this trying time you are experiencing . God grant that your father do not suffer . ALBERT EDWARD . " At the banquet of the - Home Counties Liberal Federation last evening . Sir William Vernon Harcourt , Liberal leader in the House of Commons , instead of delivering en important party attack , only uttered a few words of grief and left the room . The Duke of Devonshire , Lord President of the Council of Ministers , speaking before the British Empire League , referred touchingly to the mournful scene at He-warden , where " the greatest of Englishmen is slowly passing away . " In other places Lord Mayor Horatio Davies , Lord George Hamilton , Secretary of State for India , Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman , and many others in London . as well as in Birmingham , Swansea , Cardiff , Liverpool , Edinburgh , and elsewhere at all sorts of gatherings  --  politicians , divines , reformers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national and individual grief , while the press , without exception , published columns of details and columns of editorial comments . It is the topic of the hour in Great Britain , but abroad the evidences of sympathy have been almost as universal . M. Faare , President of the French Republic , daily inqUired and has regularly received every bulletin . The press of Belgium , France , Italy , and Greece , in a spontaneous outburst , recalls how many oppressed peoples during Mr. Gladstone 's life have offered hymns of praise for his intervention in their behalf , while in Madrid the prospect of his death has caused a twenty-four hours ' suspension of war animosity against England . Not the least point in this tribute to Mr. Gladstone is its profound unanimity . ( An Obituary of Mr. Gladstone Will Be Found on Page 7 of This Issue. )                     