@@673341

txt According to a statement issued by the Pension Bureau . at Washington . the Board of Revision is disposing of about 1,600 per week of the cases in which payment has been suspended and will complete its work of revising those cases by Oct. 10 . The result will be the retention of about 75 per cent . of those - whose cases have been reexamined , though in some instances the ratings will bo changed . The purging of the rolls of 25 per cent , of the suspected names will be no small gain , for in all such cases it will have been proved that the applicants were not entitled to the pensions that had been granted . The amount of money saved is of little consequence in comparison with the principle involved . When the Government is paving out such enormous sums under a too liberal law , it is scandalous to have the amount increased by a disregard of such requirements as the law prescribes and to have the pension rolls tainted with fraud . One of the beat results of Commissioner LOCHREN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applications hereafter , or at least to make them futile . No persons fairly entitled to a pension , even for a disability not incurred in the service , will suffer . The result of recent trials at Sandy Hook shows that this country , which five years ago had never manufactured a single armor-piercing projectile , has now two independent sources of supplying such shells , one for the forts and the other for the ships . The projectiles thus made are of the highest character , and , while manufactured on two different systems , are equal , if not superior , to projectiles made by the same systems in any part of the world . A nine-inch nickel-steel plate at Sandy Hook was cleanly perforated by two eight-inch shells made by the Midvale Steel Company on the Holtzer system . One 9f them was recovered , practically perfect in shape , the point being sharp and instruments being required to detect the " upset , ' . ' which amounted to only five-thousandth of an inch . Under a severe test , this Americanmade Holtzer projectile showed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twelve-inch shells made by the Carpenter Steel Company , on the Firming system , had previously attacked a Bethlehem seventeen-inch nickel-steel plate . One of them penetrated sixteen aud a half inches , a second went beyond the rear of the plate , while the third , with a high charge , passed through both plate and backing . The two former were recovered and were pronounced to be uninjured , the point of one remaining still sharp . Taking together the Sandy Hook and Indian Head experiments , it may fairly be said . that our country has solved as , satisfactorily the problem of projectiles as that of armor and guns . It will be owned that the Emperor of Germany has shown magnanimity in the overture he has made for a reconciliation with BISMARCK . and delicacy in the manner in which the overture was made . It appears that the overture has been accepted , if it be true that BismAucK has ordered his physicians to order him to Wiesbaden , where the Emperor has a house , which he will doubtless offer to the exChancellor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refuse and put him still more deeply in the wrong . If ho accepts the favor from his late " master , " it will be impossible even for BISMARCK to say any more spiteful things about the Emperor in public . We can well believe that the reconciliation would excite enthusiasm in Germany , for it would put au end . to a national scandal and would much improve the reputation of BISMARCK , which he himself has done so much to impair , but which is , after all , a , national possession .                     