@@674358

txt In the present situation in the United States Senate it is plainly a good thing that no action by that body is needed to carry out the proposed settlement of the Anglo-Venezuelan question . But it is a still better thing that the proposed settlement does not involve positive action by the American Government at all , but is to be carried out by the two Govern- , ments directly interested . In this fact I lies much if not most of the value of the outcome of the policy of the United States Government as developed in the last year . This is a point which has escaped the attention of the leading journals of England , or , if they are aware of it , they do not give it the . weight it should have , and make assumptions quite inconsistent with it . Papers of all Parties  --  Liberal , Radical , Conservative , and Unionist  --  after Lord SALISBURY 'S Guildhall speech joined in crying out , in effect , that at last the United States had been forced to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could thenceforth be made to keep all the South American Republics in order . The English papers declared that their Government , having been induced by our Government to settle a dispute with Venezuela on terms practically dictated by the United States , ignoring Venezuela , all future business with that little nation , or with others of South America , would be done through and by the United States , and at our risk . We had assumed a virtual protectorate and must take all the responsibilities that go with a protectorate . Nothing of the sort is true . If Lord SALISBURY had tried to conduct his negotiations on any such basis , and with the purpose of securing an open or implied acknowledgment by the United States of any such unlimited liability , the negotiations would have come to a prompt , perhaps to a disastrous , close . What the United States Government has done in this whole question is really very simple . It can easily be disentangled from the long and voluminous record , because the real purpose of our Government has been distinctly conceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has insisted that Great Britain , in a dispute involving the essential territorial rights of an American State , should not enforce its own decision , but should consent to submit the dispute to an impartial arbitration . Great Britain has consented . The President has done what he could to arrange the terms of the arbitration . There the matter ends . We have not undertaken to force Venezuela to accept arbitration , nor are we bound , if she does accept it , to force her to carry out the decision arrived at . We have provided a way by which justice may be done . That is all that Venezuela had any right to ask us to do and all that we had any right to try to do , and our position is made clear and impregnable by the terms reached . between the two Governments directly involved .                     