@@674783

txt A question which many persons thought might lead to serious trouble between the United . States and France was settled satisfactorily this afternoon when the President ordered the release of the French steamer Lafayette , which had been captured by the gunboat Annapolis , while trying to enter Havana harbor last night . The news of the capture of the Lafayette was received at the Department of State first from the press dispatches . The particulars were not known as they were understood a few hours later . Then the report asserted that the Lafayette hod made several attempts to run the blockade and had persisted , in spite of warnings , in trying to get past the blockading vessels . During the afternoon the Secretary of the French Embassy , Mr. Thiebaut , called upon Assistant Secretary of State Moore and had a talk with him . The report was at once circulated that he had presented a protest on behalf of the French Government and the owners of the Lafayette and that serious complications were likely to follow the seizure of the vessel . Assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Secretary of the French Embsu qsy , and later on , having been put in possession of some facts that were not previously communicated to him , it was decided that an error had been committed by the naval officers making the arrest and that it should be corrected . If the strict , law of blockade had been enforced the seizure would have been good ; I but it seems that assurances had been given that this vessel should be allowed certain privileges and that the blockading officers had not been fully informed of the agreement on the part of the Government that the Lafayette should be permitted to enter the harbor of Havana for specific purposes , in consequence of the fact that her Captain , when he sailed from France , was ignorant of the existence of the blockade . The following statement in regard to the matter was issued from the White House to-night : " The Lafayette was released In pursuance of orders which were issued by the Navy Department previous to her seizure , but which had not been received by the commanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts are that on April 29 the French Embassy made an informal inquiry as to whether the Lafayette , which left St. Nazaire , France , for Vera Cruz by way of Havana before war was declared or information of the blockade received , would be allowed to land at Havana certain passengers , her mail bags , and the dispatch bag of the Consulate General of France , and te take some French passengers on board . An assurance was given that if this privilege should be granted the steamer would be forbidden by the French Consul to land goods . " The matter was duly considered , and it was decided that , without regard to the strict law of blockade , and as an act of courtesy , the request of the French Government should be acceded to . Orders were accordingly sent on the 2d day of May . When information was received of the capture of the steamer and of her having been brought to Key West , those orders were communicated to the captors , with instruct tions to release the steamer and to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried into effect . No demand was made either by or on behalf of the French Government , directly or indirectly , for the steamer 's release . " The Wilmington will escort the Lafayette to Havana to-night "                     