@@673873

txt The motive of that plot is plainly recognizable as the emulous desire of France and Germany to conciliate their great and good friend the Czar , with a view to the balance of power in ' Europe , and not with the least reference to any interest that either of them actually has in the East . This is rather too unpresentable a motive to produce , and hence it has been concealed by means of the humbug that we have just ' exposed . Here is another point . Japan needed the possession of the strong places on the Chinese mainland mainly as a guarantee that China would fulfill the treaty , both as to the payment of the indemnity and as to the enormously valuable commercial concessions which she obtained , not only for herself but , for all mankind , and which the ' nations that do the greater part of the Oriental trade gratefully recognize : The good faith of China can not be trusted . Nobody doubts that she will shirk the fulfillment of the treaty if she can . France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan of the power of coercing China into fulfilling her obligations . It seems that since they have weakened the power of Japan to enforce the execution of the treaty , they should in decency guarantee the payment of the indemnity and the fulfillment of the commercial concessions . In any case , we have by no means seen the last of this matter . The interference of France and Germany in a business which was none of theirs will be , as it should be ; deeply and long resented by Japan , and it is not to be expected that they will permanently profit by it . In fact , on the face of the matter , both can not succeed in the attempt which each has made to conciliate Russia at the expense immediately of Japan and ultimately of the other . One or the other of I them has been tricked and ' deceived in this " triumph of Russian diplomacy . " There seems to be no doubt left that Japan has agreed , in deference to the remonstrance of Russia , Germany , and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any port of Manchuria , including Port Arthur . This is a result that can not be said to reflect any credit upon the two civilized powers concerned , that is to say , Germany and France . Indeed , Western civilization appears to more advantage in this business in the Oriental copy than in the European original . The Interests of France and Germany in Japan are exclusively commercial , except for the French possession of Indo-China and Cochin-China , and are the same as those of other civilized nations . They are the same in kind , though much less in degree , as those of Great Britain and the United States . We ourselves are Japan 's best customer , buying from her nearly as much as all the rest of the world together , and selling to her about as much as Germany and half as much again as France and Russia together . The imports of Japan from Great Britain and the United States together are to those of Russia , France , and Germany about as 259 to 107 ; the exports as 436. to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her foreign commerce , nearly one-half , which passes through Hongkong and is not further separated , and taking her direct trade with the various . foreign countries , it appears that her total trade with Great Britain and the United States is to her total trade with all Europe , including Russia , as 55 to 29 : These figures are worth giving because they effectually explode the hypocritical pretense , put forward by the official press of Germany and France , ' that they have been actuated by commercial considers= tions in their endeavors to minify- the treaty . The two nations which do so much more business with .                     