@@673110

txt Controller MYERS thinks that the newspapers have been too critical about the condition of the streets , and says that everything can not be done in a single night . Well , it is a good many nights since the newspapers began to be critical and to contend for clean streets . It is a number of months since the new system of cleaning was authorized , and it is not carried into full effect yet . If it had not been for the criticisms of the newspapers , where should we have been by this time ? It is to be hoped that the Controller is not satisfied to have the city in a dirty condition , and that he is not so uncritical as to think that the streets are yet in a satisfactory condition of cleanliness . Why should not New-York " be as clean as London , Paris , or Vienna ? An enormous sum of money is allowed for cleaning the streets , but if it is not enough more should be allowed . It is poor economy to injure health and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By all means let Commissioner BRENNAN have enough to put the new system into full effect and leave no excuse for failure to have clean streets . The report of Lieut . HARDING , United States Army , to the Adjutant General of the army on the service of the National Guard at Buffalo during the railway strike is very flattering to the State troops . Ho reports the mobilization to have been rapid and orderly , the discipline and conduct of the troops excellent , and the percentage of members present with their organizations ? 91.56 ? to be high , showing " that the men may be depended on for duty when called . " Though this is but the confirmation of the judgment reached by competent observers at home , ? it is gratifying to have it form a part of the record of the War Department . Several of our Republican contemporaries have made a curious discovery in the last two or three weeks . There has been disclosed to them suddenly the existence of a large number of Trust combinations . For example , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country about fortythree combinations which are acknowledged to be Trusts . " It gives the capitalization of them , and names many of them , and wants to know when the Democratic Party will " begin the assault . " But where wore all these Trusts during the recent campaign ? Where were they when Senator ALDRICH made that speech , for which the Herald and its Republican contemporaries expressed so much admiration , and in which he undertook to show that nearly all of the Trusts now enumerated by the Herald did not exist ? Rave these all sprang into life since Nov. 87.                     