@@672491

txt The victory of the Sohneider all-steel and nickel-steel armor plates over the Cammell compound steel and Iron plate which was won on the Annapolis proving ground last Thursday was clinched to-day when an eight-inch projectile was fired at the centre of each plate , equi-distant from each of the four six-inch shots fired Thursday . An eight-inch gun , made . at the Washington Navy Yard , was used , firing a Firth ( Firminy ) armor-piercing projectile weighing 210 pounds . The normal powder charge for this gun would be 150 pounds , which would give an initial velocity of about 2,100 feet per second . Owing to the plates being already - weakened only 85 pounds of powder were used , giving an initial velocity of 1,850 feet per second . The first shot was fired at the Schneider allsteel plate and the projectile penetrated through the 1012 inches of steel and 412 inches into the oak backing and rebounded , broken transversely into three almost equal pieces . The plate was cracked Into four pieces by four cracks radiating from the hole made by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six-inch shot holes to the edge of the plate . There were no other cracks and none of the metal was loosened from the plate . The second shot was fired at the nickel-steel plate , and the projectile pierced clear through it and into the oak backing . a total of 211e inches , being 612 inches more than the penetration in the all-steel plate and its backing . Again the projectile was broken up , the point remaining in the hole and the base being scattered in all directions . The hole in the plate was quite ragged , owing to the breaking of the projectile , but no crack appeared in any direction . Then came the turn of the already cracked and disfigured compound plate . The protections to the gun were more carefully arranged than before , and the spectators sought cover at unusually great distances . The shot was followed by a perfect volley of fragments of plate , cutting off twigs and good-sized branches from the trees and splashing in the river . As soon as It was safe to get out of cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was gone except a few ragged edges on each side , and nothing but the badly-cracked and easily-penetrated wrought iron remained . The ground in front of it loosed like a plowed field , and was covered with ' pieces of steel of all sizes . The projectile had , of course , gone clear through it and the 36 inches of oak backing , and for some time it could not be found . It was finally dug out of the opposite side of the mound of earth back of the plate not much the worse for - wear , being shortened about two-tenths of an inch . This shot completed the test and the plates were then closely examined . It needed no examination to show that , as far as protection was i concerned , the Cammell plate was annihilated . The thin back of soft and cracked wrought iron that remained would not have kept out a sixpounder Hotchkiss projectile . Between the allsteel and the nickel-steel , however , there was a question . The penetration was greater in the nickel-steel , while the all-steel was cracked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly showed the least penetration and showed that it could be relied on up to that limit more certainly to keep an enemy 's shots out of the ship , but it is equally true that the nickel-steel works were better prepared for a sixth shot if one had been fired . The nickel steel may not yet have demonstrated its entire superiority , but there seems to be a coming field for further experiments In that direction , and if a combination of the best qualities of each of the plates can be made , the result will be very near perfection . If the superiority of the nickel steel plates is finally demonstrated , it is sale to say the Navy Department will adopt them . The rear surface of the oak backing behind the two Schneider plates was not even cracked , while two great ragged holes in that back of the Cammell plate marked the places where the six-inch shell had gone through Thursday and the eight-inch shell today . Considering the low velocity used to-day the Firth ( Firminy ) shells made a very poor showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither of the shells fired at the Schneider plates ought to have broken at the velocity used , yet both were broken up . The shell fired at the Cammell plate had so little resistance to overcome that no comparison can be made between it and the Holtzer shells , which did the first work of weakening the plates . If the Carpenter Steel Company of Reading , which has a contract with the Government for shells made by the sirminy process , expects to come up to the Hultzer standard it will have to make better shells than are made abroad by that process . As soon as the trial board has finished examining the backs of the Schneider plates , which will be in about two weeks , they will be used for testing some of the Firth ( Firminy ) six-inch shells and a number of six-inch shells made by the Sterling Steel Company of Pittsburg. - ?                     