@@673900

txt Every attentive observer of current events must have heaved a sigh of discouragement when he read in. yesterday 's papers that men and women , nominally sane , had met in this city and revived the old Anti-Vaccination Society . It is really a cause for humiliation , and perhaps for shame , that such a thing could take place here , and at this time , in the centre of our boasted civilization , and after the experience of a hundred years has left , in minds open to conviction , no more doubt of vaccination 's incalculable value than there is of the good results that have followed the use of antiseptic methods in surgery . The formation of this society is not less disgraceful to the city than would be the trial of an old woman for witchcraft in the Court of Oyer and Terminer . As soon as the police and prison officials of this country adopt the anthropometric system that has been used in France for years , they will have no more trouble in identifying arrested criminals with absolute certainty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States court will be made impossible . The men accused of robbing the Post Offices at Hoboken and Springfield , by such simple devices as shaving off their beards , blackening their eyes , and changing their clothes , have managed thoroughly to confuse the witnesses against them , and , possibly enough , are in much less danger of conviction than if , in these superficial peculiarities , they had remained unchanged . No Such difficulty could have arisen , arid the men would have attempted no such transmogrification of their appearance , had their first arrest been followed immediately by the taking of measurements after the method invented by Bertillon , and since made perfect by him and others . The system is of proved practicability and value . A man who has once been submitted to it , and whose record once gets into the police books , can always thereafter be identified beyond any chance of doubt , no matter how many years elapse between one arrested and another , and no matter how severe are the mutilations , accidental or intentional , he may undergo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is not true , declares that we Americans say " belong with , " where an Englishman would say " belong to . " The charge is absurd and might be dismissed with a simple denial that we do any such thing , but these solemn BritisherS are So fond of teaching us how to use our own language  --  it certainly is ours he much as it is theirs  --  that every such lesson should be resented , and the would-be instructors advised to confine their labors to their fellow-islanders , eight out of ten of whom Speak no language at all , but simply a dialect , more or less barbarous . As to the preposition after " belong , " of course , it may be either " to " or " with , " according to the meaning one wishes to convey . If Ivir . Lang can find no difference in sense between " He belongs to the Forty-second Regiment " and " fie belongs With the Forty-second Reglinent , " the first of Which , according to him , is English and the Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he meant one thing , and the Other : if he ' meant something ; else-then. ; hiti is a quite hopeless case . An attempt to explain the distinction would be wasting time , for it is so perfectly obvious , that anybody who , like Mr. Lang , fails to see it , must be mentally peculiar to a degree that puts him beyond the ree- , th of anything except sympathy . ? After a few more truckmen have driven their teams into and over the riders of bicycles , after a few more men and women have been maimed or killed , people will begin to suspect that these often-recurring events are not really the " accidents " they seem to be ; that they are not even the results of carelessness and stupidity on the part of drivers  --  the explanation now usually given ; but that they are simply the brutal manifestation of a too widely held feeling that roads belong to horses and wagons . Even pedestrians suffer more or less from the existence of that feeling in ignorant minds , and bicyclists naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or three trials for murder , and possibly a conviction thereof , are what is needed to drive through a lot of thick skulls the fact that sitting behind a horse gives nobody the right either to endanger or take the lives of those who choose to use their own muscles as motors . It is to be hoped that the lesson may soon be given .                     