@@673065

txt Three more Demaeratio officers of registration wore arrested . this afternoon on charges of refusing to show the tax reeelpts of applicants for registration to Federal Supervisors , and held in $3,000 ball each by Chief Supervisor Maoallister . This makes a total of twenty-four thus arrested and held to bail to date . The Democrats , however , are turning the tables and beginning to give the Republicans a dose of their own medicine . This afternoon Edmund B. Frazer , one of the arrested Rezisters , swore out a warrant for A. Wallace Hukill , the Supervisor upon whose complaint he was arrested , charging him with perjury . Hukill swore that Frazer refused to show him the tax receipts of applicants , whereas Frazer swears that Hukill never made any demand upon him for the inspection of a single receipt during the progress of the registration . This morning , also , the Democrats caused the arrest of George W. , colored , on a charge of registering illegally . He has not yet been a resident of the State a year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Headquarters , upon which he obtained registration . He was held in $300 bail for appearance at court . To-morrow and Saturday are the last days of registration , and , as a matter of polboy , the Democratic County Committee has requested the registration officers to allow the supervisors to inspect all tax receipts . Their right to do so is in nowise admitted , but as a refusal would result in the summary arrest or the officers , and the consequent interruption of their work , It is feared that it might cause some Democrats to lose the opportunity of getting registered . This was the real object of the Republican crusade after all , as , with but a single exception , the officers arrested are serving in Democratic districts . Receiver of Taxes Dickey also requested that this be done . as he is satisfied for the most rigid inspection of all receipts issued from his office . None are issued by him except to men whose names appear upon the assessment lists . This morning United States Marshal Mahaffy went to Milton . Susses County , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Demooratio members of the Board of Registration for Broadkiln Hundred , on charges of illegally registering certain applicants . They were arraigned before United States Commissioner J. H. Bacon at Georgetown this afternoon and hole . In $500 bail each , which was promptly furnished . This is the first application of the Wilmington bulldozing methods in Sussex County . and has aroused the most intense indignation there . It has also stirred up the Democrats to renewed exertions , and they will work all the more enthusiastically and vigorously to defeat the instigators or such ixfamous political methods .                     