@@674583

txt Wall Street has never abated confidence in the belief that there have been for a long time in contemplation comprehensive plans for the rejuvenation of the anthracite coal trade . Yesterday there came the first . tangible suggestion that such plans are beyond the stage of contemplation  --  are about to become actually operative . The statement is made In Philadelphia practically headquarters for anthracite trade information  --  that the Lehigh Valley Railroad has passed or is about to pass into the control of the Central Railroad of New Jersey . Such a deal will prove to be of greater importance than any transaction affecting coal transportation interests that has taken place since A. A. , five or six years ago , electrified Wall Street by his Reading combination , in which these twoJcompanies , the Lehigh Valley and Jersey Central , figured conspicuously . The project , bringing these two properties into a merger arrangement with Reading , was , at the time of its announcement , hailed in and out of Wall Street as a definite and aggressive step toward such a concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had been previously anticipated . The panic of 1393 smashed the programme , and ever since the anthracite coal trade has been demoralized . So bad have been coal trade conditions and so poorly have the net earnings of the biggest coal railroads panned out that practically every official annual report has announced discouraging results . And only recently the coal trade reached the depth of its demoralization . Delaware and Hudson and Jersey Central since the first of the year have cut down their dividend rates , and Lackawanna 's rate has been maintained only through acknowledged drafts upon the company 's surplus . Reading , since the fiasco , has gone through a reorganization which involved heavy assessment charges upon its security holders . And with Lehigh Valley , conditions have been bad enough to induce the management to call upon outside bankers for succor . Mr. Morgan 's Large Option . The Lehigh Valley crisis was tided over and ' a receivership avoided through assistance provided by Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan . He and his associates made large advances to the property , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of its financial difficulties . Incidental to Mr. Morgan 's relief of Lehigh Valley 's immediate embarrassments , he agreed to take an option upon a. large block of the company 's stock , and under the agreement , Mr. Morgan , independent of his own holdings , is given a proxy upon a majority of - the rest of the capital stock . When this Lehigh Valley deal was announced it was hailed in the financial world as significant of very important developments soon to follow . Mr. Morgan 's already large interests among the anthracite coal roads were well understood , and his acquisition of Lehigh Valley was taken to mean new agreements between the vaeious properties , promising great results . Yee , until yesterday , there have been no indications of any definite progress made in this particular quarter . Mr. Morgan 's option on Lehigh Valley stock has been reported to have averaged $27.50 per share . Lately the stock has been very strong . It was selling at about $20 when the option was taken by Mr. Morgan , and it has since been up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little . This substantial advance in market value has been made so quietly as hardly to have attracted attention in New York , Lehigh Valley etock being dealt in only on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange . Dp to yesterday there has been no intimation of any deal pending or contemplated of the character now suggested  --  the absorption of Lehigh Valley by Jersey Central . The et-feet of such a deal can hardly be figured cut by outsiders . Both properties have been running behind . It is the theory of people who want to take cheerful views that through the combination vast economies can be put into operation , and that gross earnings , producing thus net revenues , which will not only offset the retrogression of recent years , but will establish an inspiriting prosperity , can be brought about . If there were no optimists , there would be no more deals . Officials Deny that There Is a Deal . President J. Rogers Maxwell of the Jersey Central Company , when asked yesterday about the report from Philadelphia announcing a deal between his company and the Lehigh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have made no such deal . If any such deal has been made I do not know about it . If any such deal had been completed I could not be ignorant of it . " Vice President H. C. Fahnestock of the First National Bank , an influential Director of the Jersey Central Company , said : " You can deny the story . " At the offiee of J. P. Morgan 84 .. Co. , Mr. C. H. Coster , who represents that firm in the recently organized Directory of Lehigh Valley , was too busy to discuss the report . Jersey Central owns and operates 610 miles of road . The Lehigh Valley system nas 1,314 miles in it . On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday Jersey Central was one of the most conspicuous ' ocks . It jumped up two or three points and closed in the face of the general reaction somewhat advanced . Philadelphia , Lehigh Valley stock was strong around 32 . Whatever may occur in the anthracite situation is likely to develop soon . Wan Street has an abiding faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about coal-trade conditions which will be vastly beneficial . The report from Philadelphia that the Jersey Central and the Lehigh Valley are to be merged is the first indication of any positive move toward the establishment of better coal traffic conditions . There is a long list of reasons why Jersey Central might like to control the Lehigh Valley . Whatever the effect for Lehigh Valley , it is certain that tremendous benefits would be provided for Jersey Central . Especially would it be a benefit in removing the pres                     