@@674297

txt That Is the Verdict Against a Little Group or Anti-Vaccinationlsts . From The London Standard . The report on the recent epidemic of smallpox at Gloucester , just issued by the special committee appointed by the Board of Guardians during the outbreak , contains evidence of the most striking character upon every aspect of the vaccination question . The statistics alone are worth volumes of argument . During the epidemic , 2,036 persons were attacked by smallpox , and of these 21.7 per cent . died ; but the proportion of deaths to cases was 40.5 per cent . among the unvaccinated , and only 9.2 among the vaccinated . These figures are sufficiently convincing as they stand , but they do not represent the full strength of the case . The term " vaccinated " only means that the operation had been performed some time in infancy , and does not imply a condition of efficient vaccination , as it is now scientifically understood . For that , revaccination is generally necessary , and the result of careful investigation was to show that , " among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a person who had been revaccinated successfully within not more than ten years nor less than one month before exposure to infection . " It is the fashion , however , to poohpooh statistics of this kind , and some people may be Inclined to attach more importance to individual object lessons , of which the report contains many examples . For instance , the whole police force , with their wives and children , were vaccinated or revaccinated , except the wife and two children of one constable , and these three were the only Individuals attacked . The constable was a strong anti-vaccinator , but after his family contracted the disorder he submitted with a third child to the operation , and they both escaped . Again , in the county asylum , which contains 1,481 persons , the disease suddenly appeared , in spite of all precautions , and seized one of the female patients . All the inmates , together with the staff , were immediately vaccinated , and only three other cases occurred , with but a single death . The case of the Post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specially exposed to infection , both from handing letters and from going their houseto-house rounds . Out of 221 men , only 2 were attacked , and these happened to have missed revaccination . Dr. Oscar Clark , one of the medical practitioners In. the town , had an amusing experience with a determined anti-vaccinator , who forbade his children to be vaccinated . The doctor managed to circumvent him , and performed the operation , with the result that the man took the disorder , while his vaccinated wife and children escaped . Whole columns of similar evidence might be quoted , proving the protective efficacy of inoculation in the most incontrovertible manner to any one capable of reasoning at all . Moreover , the report contains numerous facts totally subversive of the theoretic views held by opponents of compulsory vaccination . One common argument is that if it were not compulsory people would adopt it voluntarily . The experience of Gloucester shows that , even in the face of a tremendous epidemic , a considerable number of people will still decline to protect themselves and their children until they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of the royal commission , and generally relied on by anti-vaccinators , is that isolation is an efficient and preferable means of prevention . Here again Gloucester conclusively disproves the theory . Isolation was found perfectly powerless to arrest the progress of the infection amid such a mass of inflammable material . From this report it appears that the town authorities acted with commendable vigor when once the situation was realized ? that is , when it was too late . But perhaps the most instructive thing in the whole document is the story of how Gloucester came to be unvaccinated . In the year 1887 , the Board of Guardians decided to give up compulsory vaccination by 12 votes against 10 , out of a total body of 53 elected and nearly as many ex officio members . Such is local government by bare majorities .                     