@@673943

txt Hereafter the Government weather forecasters ? if they obey the order just sent cut by Secretary Morton , and of course they will , and are to accompany each of their prophecies with a " verification " of its predecessor . How this is to be done , under the present system of forecasting , it is difficult to see , but doubtless . the becret'ary knows , for he is an extremely sensible man and not likely to issue instructions that require a violation of the laws either of truth or of possibility . It will be decidedly interesting . therefore , to see how Mr. Dunn and the observers in other cities will manage to " verify " such predictions as those which they sent out on the eve of the Fourt of July and on many another occasion whose relative insignificance renders the recalling of them for the moment less easy . The English language is one of vast resources , and by its adroit manipulation , even things that are not so can often be given a good working verification , one that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep in fair order for centuries . The habit our salaried prophets have of promulgating their oracular statements with a truly Delphic indefiniteness as to what particular part of a region they are going to fit will be of infinite seivlye to them in obeying the new order . " It this vicinity , " for instance , covers no small parts of three States , and when New-York : ers , on days when they have been promised fair weather , shake dripping umbrellas at Mr. Dunn and angrily heap upon him epithets venomous enough to be useful even in a game of golf , he is accustomed to calm their rage by reading reports ( f sunny skies in Jersey or Connecticut . By sonic such device as that , no doubt , obedience to Mr. Morton 's latest command will be made both practicable and amusing . A down-town clothing dealer has put up a neat sign announcing " Any trouser in this window , $5 . " That - makes the price of a pair $10 , . but why did n't the merchant say so ? Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could wear one trouser with either comfort or propriety . A mysterious something , which a critic who writes about Robert Louis Stevenson in The Edinburgh Review calls " deliberate analysis , " has " confirmed " that unfortunate person in " the belief that Stevenson owed much of his fame to the personal liking of his contemporaries . " It is just possible that , if the entertainer of this wise conviction had resorted to a simpler reading and appreciation of the great romancer 's books , instead of to " deliberate analysis , " he might have shared the liking , personal and other , which StevensOn 's contemporaries  --  and his sorrowing survivors ? most certainly feel . It would at any rate have saved even , an Edinburgh reviewer from making a very stupid  --  though urintentionally very true , when properly interpreted  --  statement of the case . It might , too , have preserved him from maundering on with ? " we can discover neither novelty nor profundity in his social philosophy . " As Stevenson had no particular social philosophy at all , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A due sense of proportion is , we fear , lacking in the mental make-up of the Baron Harden Hickey . Considering the size of other realms whose rulers have borne the title of King James , it would have been in much better taste for the monarch of Trinidad to ask his brother potentates - to address him as King Jim . His Grand Chancellor , too , the Comte de la Boissike , would n't be half so apt to make the little island tip up in an Inconvenient and even dangerous manner , when he lands on it , if he should edit his present somewhat ponderous name down to Count Bossy . , These are matters which the founders of a new kingdom should not neglect . They ma.Y seem like trifles to some , but such is not the ease . Only by giving the most careful attention to matters of detail can Trinidad ever be raised to a proper elevation among the other Powers .                     