@@675357

txt The Kentucky Democrats are in a despondent mood . The refusal of the Jefferson County ComL missioners to do Goebel 's bidding has greatly disconcerted them . They generally share in the popular belief that their candidate will not fill the Gubernatorial chair . It is stated by Taylor 's friends that he will be given the certificate of election , and in the face of two repudiations at the hands of the very men he appointed to office , Goebel win not dare to bring his contest before the Legislature , for he now knows from hints that have been dropped that a certain but sufficient number of the Legislature will refuse to unseat ' Taylor after the State Board has acted , from the fact that the State Board is composed of Goebel 's friends , appointed by him for the very contingency that now exists , though they can not be driven to override public opinion . The Jefferson County Board was not in session to-day on amount of being engaged in tabulating the vote which gives Taylor 3,401 plurality and the other Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-morrow , win , it is positively asserted , certify the vote , and the injunction asked by the Republicans will be withdrawn . This is due to the fact that the Democrats , seeing their fight hopeless , have failed to file notice of contest . Taylor 's official plurality in the State is 2,232 , against which Goebel has filed contests aggregating 2,849 votes , but with little show of gaining them . The motion to reject the vote of the City of Louisville will be argued , but it is stated upon the best information that the Commissioners will refuse to do so . In spite of the apparent certainty of the friends and supporters of Taylor , there are many rumors and some fears that even should the certificate be issued to Taylor there will be trouble . This feeling is intensified to some extent by the emphatic statement of Goebel , who says : " I will be the next Governor . " Should armed interferende become neces- I sary , there is little doubt that Taylor will have strong support . Mass meetings were held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered to Gov . Bradley enough volunteers to put an army of 20,000 men in the field inside of twenty-four hours to seat Taylor as Governor . Stirring speeches were made , in which leading citizens said that Goebel should not he seated ; that they would shoulder guns to put Taylor in office if necessary . If the spirit of many of the resolutions is carried out , there may soon he civil war in Kentucky . The following was signed by leading Green County citizens : If the Democrats insist on stealing their way into office by casting out the pluralities for Taylor and the Republican ticket , - Green County raises her , vpicb aga.inCt such ** rage of the ballot tiok , and if necessary can furnish 500 patriots to assist in inaugurating William S. Taylor . the man whom a majority of the people have elected Governor of Kentucky . " From Harlan County has already come assurance from leading citizens , including the County Judge , County Attorney , Sheriff , Postmaster. and United States Commissioner . that : " We , together with 1,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Gov . Bradley and Gen. W. S. Taylor to inaugurate Gen. Taylor and maintain him in the office to which he was clected , however any State Election Board or any Legislature may decide . " In Jackson County the anti-Goebelites pledged themselves to send 2,000 armed men to seat Taylor at the point of bayonets , if the Governor should so order .                     