@@781395

txt An appalling railway accident occurred early this morning near Thirsk , in Yorkshire , by which ten persons were killed and a large number injured . The express train which leaves Edinburgh every evening for London was running at full speed as it approached Thirsk , when-ahead of it appeared a heavily-laden goods train . The engineer of the express train reversed his enr gine and put on the brakes , but the momentum of the heavy express was too great , and it dashed into the goods train , making a most terrible wreck . To add to the horror the carriages caught Ere and were destroyed . A large number of persona from near-by places were soon at the scene and did everything possible to extricate the dead and injured . The burning cars greatly hampered their efforts , but had it not been for their bravery the loss of life would have been much greater . The fire burned fiercely until noon , when the flames were got under control . Among the dead . Is Capt . Duncan McLeod of the Forty-second Highlanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured were also bound for Australia and India . Among the killed are the driver of the goods train and the stoker of the express train . The thighs of the driver of the express train were smashed , and , although held down by the debris , he implered the rescuers to save the passengers and not mind him . The express was crowded with passengers returning from the Highlands of Scotland and from Dundee and Edinburgh . Among the passengers were the Marquis of Hunt/3r and the Marquis of Tweeddale . Neither sustained serious injury , though the Marquis of Huntly had one of his shoulders bruised and one of his thumbs fractured . Eleven other persons were more or lees injured . The Marquis of Tweeddale says that at the time of the accident the express train was traveling at the rate of sixty miles an Donn The goods train Into which the express train ran was loaded with iron , The former train was going slow . The shock was severe , smashing the engine and tender of the express train and the carriage next to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forward end was demolished and the wheels wore torn off . The passengers in this coach were all asleep when the collision occurred . They were pretty thoroughly frightened when they were awakened by the crash . When they got out they found themselves amid a terrible wreck . The engine and tender were doubled back upon the first carriage and the Pullman oar , forming one heap , which took tire from the red-hot coals from the engine furnace . The carriage behind the Pullman car was broken . Besides the Marquis of Tweeddale and the Marquis of Scantly , there were in the Pullman coach Gen. Lambton and Mr. Kynooh , a railway Director . Lady Stewart was in another carriage . All got a severe Shaking up . The scene at the wreck was pitiable . Some of the bodies taken out of the debris had been burned beyond all semblance of humanity . The clothing had been destroyed and in some Oases the jewelry worn had been melted by the intense heat . The occupants of one carriage were imprisoned by debris in the great peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered from the increasing heat . They were rescued from their horrible position in the nick of time . Pinioned beneath the huge engine the rescuing party saw a woman . She was in great agony and screaming for help . They were powerless to help her . Before their eyes flames enveloped her , and she was burned to death and her body reduced to ashes . The husband of the poor victim piteously appealed to the would-be helpers to save his wife . One passenger says that be awoke suddenly with vague forebodings of evil and gave his valuables to his wire . Immediately after , the crash came and both were thrown beneath the carriage and badly injured . As soon as possible the wounded were taken to North Allerton . The Marquis of Tweeddale , together with the Marquis of Huntly and a number of other passengers , came from the wreck on a special train . The Marquis of Hantly got off the train at Peterborough , He seemed to feel more severely than the others the effects of the shock . The Marquis of Tweeddale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be due to the fact that a signalman was asleep at his post He has been suspended from duty pending an investigation . It might not , however , have happened had there not been a dense fog , which prevented the engineer of the express train from seeing ahead of him for any distance . A passenger named Relath , in an interview , said that he saw Signalman liolmes after the collision . The man was in a pitiable condition of mental distress . His child had died en she previous night , he told Relath , and he had asked the stationmaster for leave of absence , but had been refused . He had to take his tarn of duty , though greatly fatigued , and was so tired that he fell asleep and neglected the signals .                     