@@674715

txt There seems to be something more than rumor in the assertion , not denied at Washington , and likely to be affirmed by an early batch of nominations sent from the White House to the Senate , that the President will name for Fish Commissioner a man who can by no stretch of the imagination or conscience be regarded by the President or by any other man who can read the law as legally qualified to hold that important pa .. sition . The law which . the President has sworn to execute prescribes that the Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries shall be " a person of scientific and practical acquaintance with the fish and fisheries of the seacoast and inland waters . " Senator ELKINS has a constituent , not a " person of scientific and practical acquaintance " with anything in particular , but simply acquainted with Mr. ELKINS and having a well-developed desire to have a place with a large salary . This man 's acquaintance , such as it is , with fish and fisheries , has been obtained in six months , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jocularly referred to the fact that he has had his candidate " coached " in order to enable him to comply with the law and get a place . There are several candidates for this office . None of them is quite so ignorant , in the view of the law , as the candidate of Mr. ELKINS . Several of them have been well educated and carefully trained in the service of the United States and with the Fish Commission . They are properly equipped for the place and for the satisfactory discharge of its duties . Amazing as the unpalatable report from Washington must be to all men who desire to see the President act courageously and wisely in making such appointments , it seems to be determined beyond the possibility of adverse argument that Senator ELhaNs shall make this appointment and that a totally unfit man will get the place . President knows the law , Senator ELKINS undoubtedly knows it . So does the man who has been studying six months to become a " person of scientific and practical acquaintance with the fish and fisheries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ELKINs 's coached candidate shall be appointed by President , will not that appointment look like a deliberate surrender of his prerogative and his independence to a Senator who is not above contempt for the law ? A President who reads the newspapers can not plead ignorance of the total unfitness of Mr. ELKINS 'S candidate . Under the circumstances , the appointment of this West Virginia man at the behest of Mr. ELIaNS will be about as disgraceful a performance as has been reported from Washington for many years . And yet it is insisted that there is no chance for anybody except ELKINs 's man . Will Senator FRYE stand calmly by and allow the law which he pratuired to be put upon the books to be violated by the President ?                     