@@673351

txt Should the District Attorney and Sheriff of Kings County fail before election to make impossible the great Coney Island prize fight announced for December , or to punish those responsible - for the seventeen prize fights that have taken place there since Jan. 1 , the chances of a damaging and possibly fatal blow to the machine in Brooklyn would be considerably greater . Perhaps , in the permanent interest of decency and morality , it is desirable that this fact-should not penetrate the mind of Mr. HUGH . We do not know whatcharch Mr. MeLmaGnisx  --  attends , but we have no doubt he respects the church as a great moral force in society . Should he-chance to read reports of some of the sermons delivered in his city yesterday he may conclude to -- give the word that the prize fight is " off " rather than take the risks involved in affronting every intelligent and respectable citizen in Brooklyn . The old suggestion about a Director on the cowcatcher to prevent railway collisions could hardly be carried out as a preventive of child-slaughter by the trolley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note that nearly every child so killed has been of poor parents . If it were practicable to confine the loss to the families of stockholders in the highly-profitable trolley companies it would , certainly , be a terribly cruel measure , but it might bring home to the Directors their own heartlessness in allowing the dangerous speed . now used by their cars , and in failing to provide the guards which are perfectly practicable . It is with the companies and their managers a question of money and nothing else . What is it with the parents of the little ones who are needlessly slain Senator MORGAN announces that his speeches in favor of silver in the Senate are , so yip speak , involuntary . He does not wish to make a them , but is forced to do so . " I do not feel , ' he declares , " that I can stand by and see silver money killed in the way that it is going to lie killed here without putting in a plea for the people . " The singular shallowness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be  --  pardoned in view of his frank and probably unwilling admission that the repeal bill will be passed . When that is done , Mr. MORGAN will , we trust , resume control of himself and . devote his acknowledged ability to better uses than he has of late found for it . It may seem a hopeless undertaking to resume negotiations for acquiring a coaling station for our navy at Mole St. Nicolas , in view of the great opposition so recently made by Haiti to that project . But its proposed renewal is based on the belief that there is much in going to work in the right way . It would seem possible to remove some of the former opposition to it in the island by explaining thoroughly that no annexation of even a foot of ground is contemplated or desired , but simply the lease of a very small amotpi of land for coal sheds , wharves , and so on . This last certainly-does not conflict with Haiti 's Constitution , although ceding her sovereign rights over any portion of her territory would . Again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haitian waters pending negotiations , the apprehensions of the islanders may be allayed . One former obstacle to success was President HIPPOLYTE 'S fear that his enemies would use the project of ceding rights  --  to a naval and coaling station against him - with a view to his overthrow ; as , indeed , they attempted to do . But of late he has seemed to be rather more firmly seated . At all events , since a  --  coaling station in the West Indies is desirable , it seems well to test the-possibilities of obtaining one at Mole St. Nicolas before. - turning attention elsewhere .                     