@@674145

txt The fate of the magnificent scheme for consolidating into one grand metropolis the community which has gradually been growing together upon New-York Bay is now in the hands of Gov . ' MORTON . It is not simply the approval of the bill creating a commission to prepare for the consolidation that depends upon him , but practically the whole course of action that is to follow . He is to determine the character of the commission by his appointments , and it will be in the power of the commission so to shape its action as to disarm opposition and win the approval of all classes of people . Six members of the commission are practically named in the bill . These are the President of the present Consolidation Commission , Mr. ANDREW H. GREEN ; the Mayors of New-York , Brooklyn , and Long Island City . the State Engineer and Surveyor , and the Attorney General . The Governor is to appoint , with the advice and consent of the Senate , nine other members , " residents of the territory of said municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no doubt of Gov . MORTON 'S approval of the bill . In his first message to the Legislature oil taking office at the beginning of last year , referring to the vote of the people in favor of the consolidation , he said , " It now becomes the duty of the Legislature to take such further steps as are necessary to carry their wishes into effect . " The framing of a charter , he declared , was " a comprehensive , delicate , and important task , " which " should not be entered upon without careful and serious preparation , " and he recommended that a commission " be at once created , to be composed of the most capable citizens of the various localities interested , and to be charged with the power and the duty of framing a charter . " It has been said that the present bill does not allow sufficient time for the commission 's work , but the Governor recommended that it should report at the session then begun , " if the plan can be drafted and submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object to the requirement of this bill that the report be made more than nine , months hence . The bill has also been criticised because it provides that the consolidation shall take effect so soon as the beginning of 1898 , but the old Consolidation Commisssion was in favor of declaring it in effect at once , while its other recommendations were exactly like the provisions of this bill . Hence we do not see any ground upon which the Governor can refuse to approve this measure without gross inconsistency . The fact is that there has been so little ground for opposing its actual provisions that nearly all the arguments against it have been against consolidation on any terms . The opponents have for the most part been opponents of consolidation from the first , and presented the same arguments in 1894 , when the question was before the people . There have been two classes of persons who have professed to be in favor of consolidation but opposed to this method of going about it . One of these has contended that the charter should be framed before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Legislature might know beforehand the terms of the union and the kind of administration that were to be established . It has seemed to us better that the commission and the people should know beforehand that there was to be a consolidation and have the problem worked out with distinct reference to that assured fact . Whether this is to be wisely done will depend upon the Governor 's action in making the appointments . He can hardly be expected to accept the theory that a commission of his selection can not be trusted to do this work wisely . The other class of opponents has been animated ' by a fear , or a pretended fear , that if this bill should be passed ; it would be fllowed by a " Platt scheme " for government by State commissions , pend. ing the preparation of charter legislation , but this scheme , if it existed , could not succeed without the Governor 's con. ; sent . It depends upon him whether this qwq ' and in ? favor of the prompt creation , of it commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as practicable , the only argument that can now be addressed to him against signing this bill is that if he does sign it he will be sure to appoint a bad com mission in obedience to Boss PLATT , and that he will be in danger of consenting to a scheme for destroying " home rule " and establishing State commissions for the government of the metropolitan district . If any one is found bold enough to address this argument to the Governor it is doubtful whether he will cheerfully admit its force . The fact - is : that it depends upon him whether th8 direful forebodings that have been uttered shall be realized or dissipated . He can make the law serve its legitimate purpose or he can put it on the way to failure . To veto it would be to admit that he can not escape the latter alternative .                     