@@673678

txt There is just enough uncertainty as to the outcome of the political campaign in Kansas to attract the attention of every person who delights in a struggle , the result of which is shrouded in doubt . A letter received to-day from one who is well posted on political matters in the State gives a pretty good idea of the mixed condition of affairs there . Says the writer : There are so many elements of uncertainty in this contest that the best judges are at sea . The possibly strength of the Democratic ticket can not be even guessed at . The Prohibitionists in the Republican Party are dissatisfied , and many of them have announced their determination to vote the Prohibition ticket . The Germans , who have heretofore voted with the Republicans , are taken with Overmyer 's hesubmission sophistry . The Populists have been holding all the big meetings in the State , excepting the ovations , which would indicate their hold upon the people , as the Republican meetings have generally been slimly attended . Morrill 's re al estate transactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 200 settlers on the St. Joe and Grand Island Railway are telling against him among the farmers . Then the scheme of the Government ownership of railroads has obtained a foothold among Republicans , in addition to the 16 to 1 silver idea . . So far , the campaign has been solely one of abuse and defamation on the part of the Republicans and Populists , started by the ignorant managers of the Republican State Committee . The Democrats have held to argument  --  whether right or wrong their views have been ably advocated . " I am inclined to think , " writes the Kansas correspondent , in concluding his letter. , " that the Republicans will win a majority in the Legislature , and also elect their State officers , but confess to being shaky on the latter proposition . It would not surprise me to see the Democratic State ticket win , because the Prohibition Party , if it develops strength , will get it all from the Republican ranks . Already 6,000 Christian Endeavorers have signified their purpose to so change . The Methodist Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Should these defections from the Republican ranks materialize , Overmyer would be in the political swim . " Jerry Simpson will be the only Populist Congressman returned- Calderhead , who is opposed to Davis , is hampered by his monometallist views , but I believe he will pull through . "                     