@@672531

txt There are evidently exalting times ahead in this State , and not very far distant at that . Although there has been no public acknowledgment of such purpose on the part of the Governor , it is generally understood that he has determined to call an extra session of the present Legislature , whose term expires by limitation seven days before the meeting of the next ? on the first Wednesday in January ? and that there Is to be a meeting of the Governor and Council to-morrow , when the formal call will be agreed upon and issued immediately . Chandler and Moore control the Governor , and they have been pushing for the extra session for several days . Dr. Gallinger has opposed the extra-session scheme from the start , thinking it safer to trust the Republican chances to the new Legislature without any intervention on the part of its predecessor , and doubtless also bearing in mind the fact that the old Legislature is pre-eminently a Chandler body and that it may not hesitate to take action that may injure his own senatorial prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in view in calling an extra session ' would be an election of a new Clerk of the House , who could be depended upon to construct the roll of the new House in a manner satisfactory to the Republican managers , especially as the claim had been set up that Clerk Dickey , in taking up his residence in the State of Maine , had practically resigned his office , but oircumstances developed on Saturday which materially changed the aspect of affairs . There was a close conference of the Republican bosses here . Gov . Goodell was in town hobnobbing with Attorney General Barnard . Chandler and Moore were here also , and , singularly enough , Mr. Clerk of the House Dickey also put in an appearance and held conference with the rest . What he purpose was lu coming to town is only to be surmised , and he was thorouelly non-committal in his conversation with outsiders as to the course he will pursue . It is evident , however , that he does not regard his removal from the State as a resignation of his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may have determined to continue , and have satisfied the Republican leaders that he will be a safe man for them ; or , on the other hand , he may have come up simply to learn the views of different party leaders as to what his duty may be . But , whatever his present purpose or future conclusion may be , it is evident from what appeared in Senator Chandler 's paper , the Monitor , Saturday evening , that the Senator and those in unison with him are determined that the Legislature at the extra session , which will probably be called for the first week In December , shall attempt retrospective legislation affecting the election of members to the Legislature of 1t391. already chosen . The Monitor of that issue , in fact , presents the draft of a bill purporting to he contributed by " A Lawyer . " accompanied by a preparatory communication which provides in express terms that representation in the next House shall be based upon the census of this year . thus giving , or attempting to give , the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regularly chosen , and which provides , further , that a specified number only of the thirty or more towns formerly classed , but remanded to the - pro rata " condition by the amended Constitution , all of which elected Representatives this year . shall be represented in the next House , the number named beim , : fourteen , of which six have chosen Republicans and eight Democrats . This would leave Live Republicans and twelve Democrats elected from this class of towns off the list , and , In placing all the " if entitled " men , who are largely Republicans , thereon , wonld give the Republicans a good ' working majority in the House . This proposed measure is evidently Chandler 's own work , and is formally indorsed as " meritorious " in an editorial In the Monitor , written by himself . Here , then , is a Republican leader and United States Senator , who practically controls the Governor and owns ta4majority in the Legislature , ( or did when it was last together , ) serioutils- proposing that his Legislature shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party an advantage which is clearly ex post facto in its nature , atreoting an election that has already taken place , and which practically usarps a right which the tasnstitution guarantees to its suocessor  --  that of the latter to be the sole judge of the election and qualifications of its own members under the law as it stood when they were elected . That euch legislation can be constitutional is preposterous ; that it will be submitted to if attempted is not at all probable . Indeed , the extra session , If called , is morally sure to result In a hitter and protracted contest , ' which can only be cut short by the expiration of the time to which such session Is limited by the Constitution , which is fifteen days , or at least that is the longest period for which the members can draw pay for such session . The nominal Republican majority In the present House is twenty-seven , or was when it was in session a year ago last Summer , but since then some members have died , and several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus disqualifying them for further service , so that when it comes together in extra session the majority will he considerably less if all the Democratic members are in attendance . Moreover , the Democratic leadership in the present House is superior in point of ability and experience to what it will be in the next , and without the adoption of Reed rules of procedure it will be almost impossible to force through any such measure as is contemplated , nor would it seem possible to get such roles in operation in the time which the Legislature will have at its command . Whatever may be the outcome of the proposed extra session , it is evident that Chandler and his Ossooiates have no confidence in the soundness of the claim that the Republicans have a legallyelected majority of the next House as matters now stand . No such revolutionary legislation as Is proposed would have been suggested or thought of were they confident that such is the case . The Democratic leaders , thoughreeognizDig the desperate character of the men opposing them , arc still thoroughly confident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spare no effort to insure that majority the right to which it is entitled .                     