@@781344

txt The Democrats held Congressional con. , ventions in all the districts of New York County last night . The conventions result4 ed in the following nominations : Seventh District  --  NICHOLAS MULLER . Eighth Districe  --  DANIEL J. RIORDAN . Ninth District  --  THOMAS J. BRADLEY . Tenth District  --  AMOS J. CUMMINGS . Eleventh District  --  WILLIAM SULZER . Twelfth District  --  GEORGE B. McOLELAN . Thirteenth District  --  JEFFERSON M , LEVY . Fourteenth District  --  WILLIAM ASTOR CHAN- . LER . Fifteenth District  --  JACOB RUPPERT , Jr . In accepting the nomination from the Thirteenth District , Mr. Levy said : " As some of you may know , a seat in the House of Representatives has been and is the most cherished object of my political aspirations . I am fortunate that the opportunity to gratify my ambition is afforded under the present favorable conditions fot a glorious victory of the Democracy . " This great metropolis is not less Interested in its choice of its representatives in Congress than in the election of its State or municipal officials , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Legislature , its State officers , and its local officials , it is only by the election of Democrats that its best and highest interests can be subserved . " The commercial supremacy of New York , not only threatened but already seriously ; impaired , can only be restored and preserved by wise and careful legislation In Congress . To advance that end shall be my , earnest effort , if elected as your representative . " The incompetency , extravagance , and corruption which have characterized a Republican State Administration ; the admirable municipal administration which we now enjoy and its contrast with its predecesscal the abominable effort of the Republican Party to stifle the Democratic vote by the enactment or the odious " Force bill , " a reminder and a renewal of the days of Davenportism , all these and other conditions mark this as a Democratic year and presage a glorious victory for the Democracy . " The platform adopted at the Syracuse Convention , to which I give my most cordial support , sets forth a declaration of principles and of reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no intelligent comment other than of approval . The success of the Democracy this year means the vindication of the rights of the people , and the promotion of an honest , economical , and intelligent administration of public affairs . To the effort to secure that victory I shall devote my best energies , and upon you I know I can rely to do likewise . I have no fear of the result " Of the nominees , Thomas J. Bradley of the Ninth , Amos J. Cummings of the Tenth , William Sulzer of the Eleventh , and George B. McClellan of the Twelfth , are now merri bers of the House of Representatives . Nicholas Muller , nominated in the Seventh District , was a member of the Fortyfifth , Forty-sixth , Forty-eighth , and Fortyninth Congresses . He represented the First , Fifth , and Ninth Assembly Districts , including Governors and Bedlow 's Islands . He was born in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg , Nov. 15 , Mal , and was educated in the cities of Luxembourg and Metz . When elected to Congress he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lackawanna and Western Railroad . He has been a member of the State Assembly and of the State Central Committee . Daniel J. Riordan , nominated in the Eighth District , is President of the P. Divver Association He became its President after Alderman Brown resigned . The Alderman was followed out of the association by many of the old members , but Mr. Riordan brought in so many young men with him that the association was put on as strong a footing as ever , and Mr. Divver was able to regain his lost power . Mr. Riordan was born in Roosevelt Street and was educated in St. John 's College . Thomas J. Bradley is serving his first term in the House of- Representatives , having been elected to the Fifty-fifth Congress in 1890 , from the Ninth district . Amos J. Cummings was first elected to the Fiftieth Congress , and is now serving his sixth term from the Tenth District . William Sulzer of the Eleventh District - was elected to Congress four years ago , and has served two terms . George B. McClellan of the Twelfth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferson Monroe Levy , the nominee front the Thirteenth District , was born in the fifties , in Bank Street , in the old Ninth Ward , or Village of Greenwich , this city . He comes of a long line of Colonial ancestors , one of them a signer of the Non-Importation act . ' His father , Jefferson P. Levy , commanded the United States ship America of the auxiliary navy in the Mexican war , and he was appointed by Gen. Winfield Scott Captain of the Port of Vera Cruz after its capture . One of his uncles was the famous Commodore Uriah P. Levy . It was through this relative that Mr. Levy came into possession of Monticello , the Virginia home of Thomas Jefferson . Mr. Levy was graduated from the New York University Law School when he came of age and has practiced law successfully . He is a member of the Chamber of Commerce , a Governor of the Democratic Club , and a member of the Manhattan and New York Yacht Clubs and of the Society of Sons of the Revolution . Capt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is distinguished as an explorer and as a soldier . He Is the son of John Winthrop Chanler and a great-grandson of John Jacob Astor . He is a graduate of Harvard University . When twenty-one years old he made a daring exploration of Mount Kilima-Njarca in East Africa , and later he explored the Tana River and the region east of Lake Rudolph . When war with Spain seemed imminent , he organized a regiment , but his offer was declined by the President , who , nevertheless , commissioned him as Captain . He served with distinction in the campaign about Santiago de Cuba . Jacob Ruppert , Jr. , nominated from the Fifteenth District , was born in New York City thirty-one years ago . For twelve years he has been associated with his father in business , and he is now the general manager of the Jacob Ruppert Brewery . For three years he served as a private In the Seventh Regiment , but was promoted in 1889 to the staff of Gov . Hill , with the rank of Colonel . In Gov . Flower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that capacity participated in the celebrations of the Columbian year and delivered the address for the State of New York in acceptance of the Columbus Monument . He is a member of the Manhattan , the New York Athletic , and Catholic Clubs . He is also a member of the New York , Larchmont , and Atlantic Yacht Clubs , and owns a steam yacht . He is well known as a horseman . Mr. Ruppert was nominated last year for President of the Council , bet withdrew .                     