@@781535

txt There has been nothing in recent American politics at all comparable with the emotion which has been caused among the Democratic machinists who insulted the people of the State of New-York with the nomination of IsAAc H. MAY HARD by the dreadful disclosure that Mr. BARTLETT not only corruptly drew for hire , but shamelessly - witnessed , a contract assuring the profits of a post-tradership to his client . So many strong and inured stomachs were never fumed at once . The dura ilia of Senator HILL , Senator MURPHY , Gov . FLOWER , and Lieut . Gov . SHEEHAN are all exacerbated into a fearful condition , and their strainingS and regurgitations this , be heard afar . When , one thinks of the cargoes that have floated peacefully down the alimentary canals of these statesmen and publicists , passing all the locks without creating a ripple on the surface or a fight upon the towpath . one must conclude that what is now rejected . with violent spasms must be very indigestible and very , very bad . Boss McLA.u0RLIN and JOHN Y. MCKANE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they , too , are of the opinion that the election of the corrupt and shameless BARTLETT would be a public calamity , and that the only way to preserve the purity of the bench is to vote for MAYNARD . A sensitive moral stomach is a valuable though not always a comfortable possession , but the value of so very queasy and capricious a digestion as troubles these statesmen is doubtful . They are straining at a gnat , if it be a gnat at all . A poll of lawyers upon the question whether a lawyer is justified in drawing for his client a contract assuring to his client a share in the profits of a business of which his client had the control , when the business was subject to the appointment of the Secretaryof War , might be of some interest to casuists , but would not be of great public value . The lawyers who took the negative side would admit that the offense was a peccadillo , and even so they would be in a minority . The gnat is in any case a minute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnification in order to be made visible at all , like the bacteria in impure water . Yet see what a commotion this microscopic object produces when introduced into the interiors we have indicated . That austere moralist , the editor of the Sun , considered yesterday morning that there was still time for the Bar Association to assemble and wash its hands of BARTLETT before the election . That eminent casuist , Gov . FLOWER , who has committed himself to the proposition that when you suspect a man has stolen a dollar from you your appropriate redress is to knock him down and go through his clothes , finds that the bargain to which BARTLETT was a party , and which consisted in drawing a contract for $10 , - was a " shamefully corrupt bargain , " and that the drawer of the contract is " a dangerous man to have in any position of trust " This is especially luminous in the reflected light of the Governor 's further remark that nobody has dared to assail Judge MAYNARD 'S " personal integrity and honor . " The commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or a fine of $500 , or both , is not , according to the Governor , incompatible with " personal integrity and honor . " Then there are the machinists proper , Arr T and MURPHY and SHEEHAN . The making and execution of just such bargains as that which Mr. BARTLETT is accused , not at all of making , but of registering , is the livelihood of these statesmen , and is , upon the whole , the most innocent and respectable thin g they do . Yet , when it appears that Mr. BARTLETT has given legal form to one of the contracts that they pass their lives in making , they find themselves , as they would express it , " all broke up . " HILL regards the " charge " as " most damaging . " SHEEHAN finds that the " disclosure " will do good by leading the voters to compare the pare MAYNARD With the corrupt BARTLETT , while MURPHY is deprived by horror of the power of speech , and has not the heart to comment upon so appalling a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at none of these eminent persons can define . But every one of them has assimilated with avidity and without any evidence of discomposure or indigestion the double-humped , split-hoofed , wire-haired Bactrian camel of the felony of MAYNARD . They are a curious company of publicists , and they differ among themselves in manners and customs . But they agree in this ? that MAYNARD does not disagree with them . He is their bond of union , and the union may be explained by the biological fact that the camel is the connecting link between the ruminants and the paohyderms.                     