@@674082

txt The currency of the United States is by law and precedent adjusted to a gold standard . Since the resumption of specie payments , all the Government notes have been exchangeable on demand for gold . There has not been at any moment a shadow of uncertainty that gold payments were required by law , nor has there been any doubt that the honor and prosperity of the Nation depended on the unvarying maintenance of gold payments . Within the past few years there has been grave doubt in the public mind at home and still graver doubt abroad whether gold payments would or could be continued . Why ? Solely because of the series of legislative acts by which depreciated silver has been forced into the currency and at " the same time the actual payment with cancellation of the demand notes ha . been stopped . The legislative acts were , first , the Allison-Bland silver law ; second , the provision for the perpetual circulation of the demand notes . third , the Sherman silver-purchase law of 1S90 . Not one of these was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political , and the politics in them was of the basest and most cowardly character . Each of them in succession was a compromise , in the slang of the trade a " deal , " by which the votes of the silver or inflation faction were purchased by the Republican Party . But the Democratic Party nas not been guiltless , for the Republican measures were simply bids a little higher or more attractive than the Democratic bids . The leadership , especially in Congress , of each party has been weak , unscrupulous , greedy , and timid . The consequences to the country every sensible man knows . The doubt cast on the stability of the currency has cost a simply incalculable amount . It can not be reckoned in hundreds of millions , and it would have been many times greater but for the firmness and loyalty of President CLEVELAND , whose unbending will has kept the country to gold payments against forces that no other President has been called on to I resist . During the long struggle he has felt that the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance they would show that they were with him . This was the difference between him and the narrow-minded , faint-hearted leaders in Congress . The latter did not know the American people . Those who professed sound-money doctrine had not the courage to stake their political fortunes on the people 's fidelity to sound money . They should hesitate no longer . If they have the simple common sense to understand the meaning of the event of Wednesday , they can not hesitate . The voice of Mr. ECKELS as he read out the Iamazing record of bids for nearly six I times the Government loan was , in plain I fact , the voice of the American people declaring that gold payments must and shall be maintained . That tremendous offer , which no one had suspected , which the most experienced had deemed impossible , which had not been prepared , which all the efforts of all the financiers never could have prepared , was the equivalent of a National election . It is a proclamation to the whole world that the mind of the 4merican people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dares to ask it to forsake the gold standard will be crushed , and that no National party can be sure of its support that is not by platform and eandidate pledged to the gold standard and its unwavering maintenance by all measures necessary or appropriate . ? To this anouncement of the National decision the sound-money men of the Democratic Party will take heed . From this moment there can be no doubt or hesitation or compromise . The fight for sound money , for the payment of every obligation of the United States , whether bond or note , in gold , will be made before the National Convention and in the convenition . It will determine the platform and the candidate . It will not be diverted by any plea of expediency 1 or foiled by any scheme of compromise . It gill be a fight fo a finish and it Will end for- all ; fine Ole* silver folly .                     