@@674394

txt Senator Sherman this afternoon authorized the positive ' announcement that he had accepted the portfolio of State in President 's Cabinet . Senator Sherman arrived at the house about 11 o'clock , and left for Washington at 2 o'clock . He had a long talk with Major , and they discussed many men ancl  --  measures . The formation of the Cabinet was the main topic of conversation . Senator Sherman later said appointments and the organization of the work in his department would not be considered till after the inauguration of President . It is understood that the appointment of a : First Assistant Secretary of State was not discussed to-day , but the gossips have it that John Russell Young of Philadelphia is under consideration . Senator Sherman was in excellent spirits , and seemed full of vigor . Long 's Chances Good . At luncheon with Majof to-day were Senators Sherman and Burrows and ex-Gov . Long of Massachusetts . The visit of ex-Gov . Long of Massachusetts , following so closely upon that of Senator Lodge of Massachusetts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a place in Major 's Cabinet . Sen .. ator Lodge assured Major that there were no objections to the appointment of Gov . Long on the part of the Massachusetts Republicans , and it may be deemed reasonably ' certain that he will be the New England member of the Cabinet . Major and Gov . Long had a long talk , and the latter left for the East by way of Cleveland ? at 4:30 P. M. It is not thought that the particular place in the Cabinet which is likely to be offered to Gov . Long has been determined . No tender of a portfolio was made to-day . Gov . Long said he simply came to confer with Major . Senator J. C. Burrows of Michigan came to see the President-elect in the interests of Gen. Alger , who he hopes will be appointed Secretary of War . Senator Burrows said the Republicans of Michigan had counts ed upon Gen. Alger , and that he had the hearty indorsement of the Odo Senators . Gen. Alger 's appointment is also being urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burrows did not indicate that the portfolio had been tendered to- Gen. Alger , but the belief is pretty strong here that it will be . The differences that exist between Senator Sherman and Gen. Alger have been adjusted and form no obstacle whatsoever to the appointment of Gen. Alger to the Cabinet . This is stated upon high authority . Itlilholland in Canton . Representative R. B. Mahany of Buffalo and John Milholland of New York City , who is said to be a candidate for Collector of the Port , were among Major 's callers to-day . Mr. Milholland came from Cleveland , where he held a long conference this morning with Mark Hanna . It is said that Milholland came as a representative of Cornelius Bliss to explain complications that will prevent the acceptance of the Navy portfolio by Bliss .                     