@@673472

txt The persistent and promiscuous extraction of morals from current events is a practice that can not be pursued without danger to the mentals . The danger is well known to all judicious and careful readers of newspapers , especially of newspapers of which the writers are not , on their side , equally judicious and careful . It has just received a fresh and , indeed , a culminating illustration . It is undoubtedly lamentable that some sophomores at Cornell , endeavoring to drive out by stenches some freshmen of the same college from a room in which the freshmen had gathered , should have used for this purpose a vapor so powerful that it not only effected its purpose , but put in jeopardy the lives of several freshmen and actually took the life of a colored cook , against whom the wrath of the sophomores was not directed . This conduct of the sophomores is not only lamentable ; it is , as we have heretofore admitted , distinctly culpable and morally deserving of any penalties that may be legally denounced against it by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go except the habitual moral-extractor . He goes much further . He has already made up his mind that football , as at present pursued in American colleges , is a demoralizing practice . This proposition , which may or may not be true , but which is in either case not epoch-making , has assumed with him the magnitude and the inveteracy of a fixed idea . It is not enough to point out that the sophomores have done wrong and that the constitutional right of freshmen peaceably to assemble and to petition for the redress of grievances is impaired when they are dispersed through the administration of chlorine gas by sophomores . It must be shown that the administration of chlorine gas , in common with everything else that goes wrong in colleges , is due to football . This is really a very tough job , which requires to tackle it a hardened moralist who is also a confirmed immentalist . But the moralist with a fixed idea does not shrink from it . He quotes and italicizes certain passages from President Eliot 's very sensible remarks on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all sports in which violent physical collisions play a part is brutalizing both for actors and for spectators , and draws , with the unsparing logic of the monomaniac , the conclusion that the exhibition of chlorine gas in fatal quantities is the natural sequence of the game of football as at present conducted . The plain man will rub his eyes over this demonstration . It may occur to him that the practice of hazing freshmen is of a far higher antiquity than the game of football as conducted with brutalizing tendencies . ' He may also reflect that hazing used to be carried to much greater lengths in American colleges when the American undergraduate enjoyed an average of three-quarters of one lung , and the calves of his legs were rather smaller than his ankles , than it enjoys now , when there is undoubtedly a tendency to excess in athletics . As a matter of fact , the practice of hazing freshmen has declined in violence inversely as the practice of athletic training has advanced . It would be rather easier and more plausible to argue that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the increase of clemency on the part of the sophomores to the freshmen , - who they used to consider were given to them to be hazed and brought into subjection , than that an occasional survival of savagery in hazing is attributable to rough play in football . At any rate , It is enough to make President Eliot turn in his Presidential chair to have his sensible remarks made the text for arguing that it is only a step from kicking a man 's shins in a ball field to poisoning him with chlorine gas .                     