@@673442

txt The news of Mr. Peckham 's nomination attracted great attention when it reached the city . Mayor Gilroy , Richard Croker , Corporation Counsel William H. Clark , and Chief Clerk John F. Carroll of the Court of General Sessions were all in a group in the Mayor 's office when , thenews reached them . " It is a good appointment , " said Mayor Gilroy. " and I believe that the Senate will confirm him without a doubt . He is a very able lawyer and the nomination can not be attacked upon the ground of lack of ability . " " Mr. Peckham is an able lawyer and I believe that he will be confirmed . " said Mr. Croker . He is a lawyer of wide experience , and stands very high in his profession , " said Mr. Clark . Mr. Carroll indorsed those opinions . All were evidently very much surprised at the news , however . Ex-Secretary of the Treasury Charles S. Fairchild , when seen at his residence , 76 Clinton Place , by a reporter for The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and I could not say too much in its praise . Mr. Peckham is a man who is qualified in every way to fill the high position for which he has been named by President Cleveland . I am pleased every way with the nomination . " I like the kind of politics Mr. Peckham advocates , and ' I am delighted that Mr. Cleveland has followed up the Senate 's treatment of Mr. Hornblower 's nomination by sending in the name of a gentleman whose opinions in political matters are like Mr. Hornblower 's , although even of a more pronounced type . " Mr. Peckham was one of the most vigorous and determined opponents of the election of Judge Maynard to the Court of Appeals , and we are to see whether that opposition is to be regarded as a disqualification " That question is at issue in this matter . Mr. Cleveland has made a splendid selection , and it is right that the honor of the appointment should fall to this city and to such a man as Wheeler H. Peckham . " " Do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirmation by the Senate ? " Mr. Fairchild was asked . " I can not say as to that . I do not think that the nomination was made ' by and with the consent of the Senators from New-York . ' That is the way certain Senators construe the Constitution . I certainly hope that no one will stand in the way of Mr. Peckham 's confirmation . " Frederic R. Coudert said : " The appointment is an excellent one . Mr. Peckham has every qualification for the office , although the office requires qualities of a very high order . His character and integrity can not be questioned . His independence is almost proverbial . He can be trusted always and on every occasion to do what he thinks is right ; not what other men think proper , advantageous , or expedient , but that which commends itself to his judgment and conscience . He is an admirable lawyer with a fine judicial mind , by which I mean the ability to find a few grains of wheat in a bushel of chaff . He has just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , can distinguish between a noisy pigmy and a quiet giant . One of his most marked traits , I think , is his power of condensation . He can express a great thought or a weighty judgment in as few words as any man whom I know . This is especially marked in his written arguments and briefs . He wastes neither time nor space , and I shall be much surprised if the opinions he delivers after he takes his seat on the bench of the great court to which the President has nominated him , are not marked by singular clearness , terseness. and vigor . " Mr. Peckham has always been a Democrat , although , be it said . at times an enfant terrible in the political camp . He is the unflinching enemy of wrong , even when it might serve party harmony if he closed his eyes and " ars for the time being and obediently followed the dictates of the chiefs . " When asked for his opinion upon the question of confirmation , Mr. Coudert said : " Of course the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or agreeable to swallow so indigestible a morsel . Still be is himself a good lawyer , and he knows that , whatever else he may think of Mr. Peckham , the latter is in every respect fitter for the position to which President Cleveland has appointed him . Whether the Senator will remember the art Mr. Peckham took in a recent unpleasantness I do not know , but I hope he will be magnanimous enough to overlook and forget past differences in the desire to secure a faithful and competent Judge for the vacancy in the Supreme Court . "                     