@@781538

txt As had been anticipated , the Ministerial declaration made by Premier DIIPITT before the French Chamber last Friday was one tending to restore confidence and to bring tranquillity to the disturbing factions of Deputies . It was admirably handled , gracefully , almost indulgently , transferring to an indefinite future the two great questions of the day , and laying particular stress upon the duty which bound the republic to fulfill the obligations of the exposition of 1900 . Then came the following words , which are partidularly significant : France must neglect nothing to maintain the position she has won by her loyalty , strength , and love of peace . She must devote herself to strengthening this position , which was consecrated before the whole world by a precious alliance . The Government 's foreign policy will be inspired by the clear interests of the country , and care will be taken that our efforts are proportionate only to the value of the object at stake , Could be more simple , more dignified , freer from the taint of prejudice and the vauntings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a vote of 429 to 64 . Both the character of M. DuPtir 's address and its reception by a Chamber , about evenly divided between Moderate Republicans and the Rallies on one side and the Radical Socialists and Monarchists on the other , reveal the fact that French politicians within a brief month have suffered from a very bad scare . Evidence of this scare first showed itself in the tranquillity with which the recentsessions of the Cour de Cassation were conducted . The people of Paris , who had made such a fuss over the Zola trials . bedeleted 9 lines In something over a quarter of a cent-. ury that the republic has been firmly established in France it has sought a permanent majority which would permit it to develop those theories and institutions which belong by principle to a democracy . It has never been fortunate in maintaining such a majority . The French electors are ill-educated politically , and majority after majority has fallen by the very monsters they themselves created . In the meantime Socialism has been growing with prodigious strides , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented a stronger and stronger Left at each election . The programme of the Dupuy Ministry must therefore be one of conciliation , of unification . The Dreyfus case is no longer within the jurisdiction of the executive body , and it will be discovered that to give up the Bahr-el-G-hazal territory , where MARCHAND so industriously planted French flags , " will be inspired by the clear interests of the country . " With these two bugbears out of the way the Government can depend upon a large majority by exciting French pride , and incidentally French interest , through emphasizing the imperative necessity of fulfilling the sacred obligations of the exposition of 1900 . By subordinating everything else to this issue a career of at least eighteen months can be assured M. DUPITY and his colleagues .                     