@@672394

txt The Supreme Court of the United States recently:decided that the authorities of-the ' State of Iowa can not prevent intoxicating liquors from being brought into that State from elsewhere and . sold in the original packages , because that would be an interference - with inter-State commerce , which is subject - to regulation by national antherI ity alone . It is plain enough that the transportation of liqp.ors , as of any other merchandise , from one State to another , is a matter of inter-State commerce , but - the court holds that the selling of the liquors in the original packages is a necessary incident of - the traffic and can not be prohibited by State authority . This decision . has been . regarded as a serious blow to the policy of prohibition in those States which have adopted it , whether by constitutional or legislative provision . But it does not prevent prohibition in a rational form . It will not hinder the policy of abolishing drinking saloons and barrooms where liquors are sold to be drunk on the premises . That is the only form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanently and the only form that can be successfully enforced in any community . Drinking saloons and barrooms are generally admitted to be the ' source of vicious and demoralizing influences , and their existence is an evil that society has the right to suppress if it can . Wherever public sentiment against them is strong enough they can be prevented from carrying on their pernicious traffic , and where they can not be suppressed altogether they may be limited . in number and shorn of some of their evil influence . But this is a very difFerent thing from undertaking by law to deprive men of the right to obtain and use stimulants under any circumstances . That is an interference with personal liberty and private practices which can not be justified upon any sound principle of public policy . No doubt a State may establish for itself a policy of absolute prohibition , so far as manufacturing and trading in liquors within its own limits is concerned , whether it is a wise exercise of power or not , but the Supreme Court holds that it can not prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them ' duly delivered . This may be a serious blow to the maintenance of that extreme policy to which prohibitionists as such are wedded , but it is no interference at all with the reasonable policy of regulation , and does not prevent its being carried to the extent of suppressing all liquor saloons . It has been claimed by prohibitionists that this decision of the Supreme Court will interfere with the successful maintenance of a high-license policy , but we do not so understand it . It would , of coarse , be possible for any man to send out of his own State to obtain liquor , instead of getting it from the licensed dealers within the State , but there would be very little traffic of that kind . where a license system existed . The restriction of State authority implied in this decision would not stand in %the way of any regulation of saloon traffic that might be deemed advisable , nor would it prevent the requirement of licenses at any rate of fees that the legislative authority might fix for the sale of liquors brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packages . It simply sustains the right to have them so brought in and sold . If a high-license policy were to be established in a State , of course any of its citizens might send to a low-license or no-license State for their liquors , if they wished to do so , and . that right has never been ' questioned outside of a prohibition State , but the extent to which that would - be done would not be sufficient to impair the effect of the system in the least . In short , it seems to us that the only practical result of the decision is to enable citizens ? of a prohibition State to get their liquors elsewhere , and this they have always been in the habit of doing without the sanction of the Supreme Court . Iowa undertook to prevent it , and has found that it is an interference with inter-State commerce which exceeds State authority .                     