@@672535

txt There is considerable discussion in the English magazines for this month upon the subject of Indian child marriages . In the New Review Cardinal MANNING and Mrs. FAwcErr argue in favor of governmental interference with Indian usage in this regard . The facts are , as is well understood , that in India infants are betrothed ; that the subsequent marriage takes place on the average at seven years of age , and in thousands of cases earlier , although upon this point there Is a diversity of testimony ; that the marriages are , of course , made without the consent of the children ; that in case the child husband dies the child wife is condemned to widowhood for life , and that Indian usage makes this condition one of great hardship . " When BEHRAMJI MALABARI was in England , he came to me , " says Cardinal MANNING , " and asked me to lay before our Government the intolerable atrocities of infant betrothals , child marriages , and compulsory widowhood in India . " Cardinal MANNING promised to do so , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these Indian child marriages are not marriages at all , since consent is necessary to marriage . The most serious objection to governmental action , namely , the danger of interference with native religious customs , he met with the argument that these customs are not religious . An Indian authority has said : " Infant marriage is no part of the religious system of the Hindus . Far from having its root in religion , it is , according to the best religious authorities , an irreligious innovation . " The British Government has formerly successfully interfered with native practices which were contrary to the conscience of the natural man . It repressed the atrocity of the Sultan . Oue of the earliest acts of Queen VICTORIA was to abolish slavery in India . " An Indian Judge of great eminence gave me , " says Cardinal MANNING , " examples in which he had inflicted punishment on culprits who pleaded social and inveterate custom against the laws of nature . " The general principle upon which the Cardinal justifies interference is that power is the mission of duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ought to interfere . While there may be some who have a doubt as to the correctness of such reasoning , it does seem strange that English law should be called in to assist the iniquitous system of child marriage . The Indian Government has admitted into its courts the English law of the " Restitution of Capital Rights " in cases where the unhappy wives have attempted to escape from the hateful condition into which they have entered not by any consent of their OWL . There has been , furthermore , aconsiderable awakening of native Indian sentiment on this subject . The voices of two native Indian women have been lately heard in England . RUKIIMABAI has given an account in a recent number of the New Review of the miseries of Indian marriage . RtiliHMADAI has herself successfully resisted ? although the final decision of the British courts was against her  --  being handed over to a brutal and squalid laborer with whom she had gone through the form of marriage in her infancy . A high-caste Hindu widow , RAMABAI , has resisted with success the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Pundita , who has traveled over England and this country in the hope of directing the attention of the world to the misfortune of her sisters at home . Last Spring the barbers of Bombay resolved in a public meeting to refuse any longer to shave the heads of Hindu widows , incited to this course , it is said , by Hindu fathers of families who secretly desired reform , but would not venture to take the initiative . There is evidence of a great advance in Indian opinion since the Hindu Remarriage act of 1 8 5 6 . A writer in the London Times , who has compared the literature which grew up around this act with the opinions collected by Lord DLFFEDIN in 1885 , says that the advance has been such that the older and the more recent papers seemed rather to belong to two distant historical periods than to the same generation . A writer in the National Review expresses opinions precisely the contrary of those of Cardinal MANNING and Mrs. FAwcarr . Ho holds that the interference would be more dangerous than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that men desire early marriage because , if marriage is postponed , there may be no wives left . It is very important that a Hindu should have a sou to perform for him at death certain observances , without which ho can not be sure of heaven . This writer remarks also that girls of ten y ears of age in India arc about as far advanced as girls of fifteen in England , and that the Indian girls sometimes have children at twelve . Ho is at issue with the Cardinal as to the facts , for he asserts that only 212 per cent . of the boys and . 1012 per cent . of the girls marry under ten . He says that there can be no objection to the remarriage of widows , provided they can get men to have them , which would . not be easy . A widow shaves her head because she wishes to do so , just as western widows wear weeds . And he denies that the life of Indian widows is of much greater hardship than that of other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testimony is clearly against him . Another opinion is that of the Spectator , which holds that , while there can be no doubt that grave abuses exist in India , it is not possible to interfere against them . Prof. GOLDWIN SMITH is also against interference , but the weight of English opinion appears to be that governmental action is practicable as well as morally incumbent .                     