@@672970

txt A part of the work undertaken in campaigns by party organizations and by members of Congress acting for themselves is the circulation , under members ' franks , of speeches which have been , delivered in Congress and published in the Congressional Record . The law provides that any part of the Record , " or speeches or reports therein contained , " shall be " carried in the mail free of postage , " when covered by a member 's frank . As the beginning of-a campaign draws near , and in the early stages of the contest , many speeches are delivered in Congress by members who have in view the circulation of them in this manner , and the publication in the Record of other speeches of the same kind , prepared but undelivered , or delivered only in part , is procured by members who obtain " leave to print . " Certain members of Congress are now circulating under frank a large volume , which - was published in the usual way and copyrighted some years ago , and which has recently been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of the debates that in March and April last six members of the House , Messrs . JOIINSON , STONE , WASEUNGTON , FITHIAN , BOWMAN , and SIMPSON , cut into six nearly equal parts a copy of Mr. HENRY GEORGE 'S book , " Protection or Free Trade , " and that each of them submitted one of these parts as his contribution to the tariff debate . Each part was introduced by four or five lines written by the member . In this way the entire book of thirty chapters was thrust into the Congressional Record , and after the six parts , each containing live chapters , had been printed by the Government , it was an easy matter for the six members to bring them together again i a book and to circulate this bodt under frank . The book , taken from the Congressional Record and printed in huge editions , costs the authors of this device 1 cent a copy , and is sent by mail throughout the country free of postage . We are informed that several hundred thousand copies have already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which Mr. JouxsoN of Ohio and his associates procured the publication of this book by the Government . Nor can we commend the distribution at public expense of a book for the circulation of , which the protection of the franking statute has been obtained in this way . We do not believe that a majority of the voters in either party can give to such a ' transaction their approval . Indeed , we shall be surprised if the story of the birth of this " campaign document " can excite in honest and conscientious men in any part of the country or in either party any emotions except those of emphatic disapproval and disgust . It is not probable thafthe cause of reform can be promoted by such a proceeding . Tho members of Congress who have done this work have blundered , in our opinion , not only with respect to the methods by which publication and circulation at public expense have been procured , but also in using this book as a " campaign document " which sets forth and supports the policy of the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this volume know that it can not , as a whole , bo regarded as an argument in defense of the policy which the party upholds . If its doctrines should be accepted and proclaimed by the party to-day , the disastrous result of the campaign could be predicted with absolute certainty . It is possible that those who are responsible for this extraordinary campaign venture are not familiar with the contents of the volume , " a million copies " of which they desire to distribute " before the campaign begins . " The assertions of one or two of them afford some ground for this charitable assumption . Perhaps the leaders of the party organization can find time to enlighten them and at the same time to give them a little advice . Instruction would probably be wasted upon the Hon. JERRY SIMPSON , but it may be that some of his companions in this venture would permit their store of wisdom to be enlarged .                     