@@673823

txt The question of individual communion cups was introduced at the Baltimore Methodist Conference to-day by the Rev. B. F. Clarkson in a resolution which stated that " It is the sense of this conference that the preachers in charge of the circuits and stations have neither Scriptural authority nor disciplinary right to introduce or to use individual cups in the administration of the Lord 's Supper . " The Rev. Dr. Richard Harcourt , pastor of Grace Church , jumped up and asserted that there was Scriptural authority for the use of individual cups , and that there was nothing in the discipline against their use . He brought in the sanitary side of the matter , and was Interrupted by Bishop Andrews with the remark : " The brother will speak to the question . " " I was just going to give the opinions of physicians in the matter , " Dr. Harcourt said . " Is not that allowable ? " " I think not under the question , " Bishop Andrews said . " Mr. ' President , " exclaimed Dr. Harcourt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be out off on this question ? Is not even the right of discussion to be allow-A ? " " We shall perhaps allow a little latitude in the discussion . " the Bishop said . " There was a time , " Dr. Harcourt resumed , " when It was said everybody had to go clean-shaven like the Bishop of this conference  --  when there was no dipping of the mustache into the cup , with perhaps tobacco juice on it ; when there was no offensive suffering from the grip after having left the handkerchief at home . Groans . I tell you , Mr. President , that from these causes , at the table of the Lord and at His communion , I have administered slops . " The groans that greeted this remark rose to a tumult  --  entirely overcoming Dr. Harcourt 's voice as he attempted to proceed . There were exclamations of " Oh ! " and cries of " Stop ! " Men clamored for recognition from all parts of the conference floor . The Rev. J. A. Price was recognized and called Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the question . There was much confusion , but Dr. Harcourt was allowed to proceed , after being cautioned by the Bishop to keep to the question . Dr. Harcourt continued his objections to the resolution for some time , and concluded by Saying that he refrained on account of the presence of ladies , from giving further unpleasant facts . A motion to lay the matter on the table was carried -- 91 to 73 . Later in the session It appeared again in the following resolution , which was unanimously adopted : Resolved , That we hereby declare that our action , taken this morning , with reference to the use of individual communion cups , is not to be construed as either approving or condemning this innovation .                     