@@672691

txt Some of those who have for months suffered from the wretched service of the Brooklyn Bridge hope that the new management will I give them some relief . Those who are obliged to cross the bridge during the early hours of the morning , after 1 o'clock , are pretty certain that benefit of some sort must accrue not only to New-Yorkers but to Brooklynites as well , as a result of Mayor Grant 's capture of the bridge . At present after 1 o'clock in the morning until the use of the cable is resumed trains run fifteen minutes apart , and every one of them is so jammed that only a small percentage of those who use them can get seats . Furthermore no effort is made to furnish connections with eleVated railroad trains on either side of the river . Mayor Grant , referring to the change in management , said yesterday that he believed that Col. Wagstaff would operate the bridge for the benefit of the people of the two cities . " The new management , said the Mayor , e knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it that the greatest amount of comfort , convenience , and all speed consistent with safety shall be accorded the public . If there are defects in the train service , either in the daytime ' or the night time , they will be cured if peeBible . In my opinion , there is no good reason why trains should not be run at all times as ' often as public convenience requires . " If the sohedules are not now arranged so that quick connections can he made with the elevated roads after midnight , they should be rearranged at once . If it be true that not enough ears are furnished on the trains after 1 A. M. , and that tired people have to stand up and oling to the straps , I think they will be remedied . " I am aware that there are hundreds of people who have to cross the bridge after 1 o'clock in the morning tired out with their night 's work , and arrangements should be made for their comfortable transit . " Col. Wagstaff will undoubtedly look into all these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travel across the bridge and the comfort and convenience of the passengers . We are new in a position to make many improvements in the bridge service and they will be made . " Col. Wagstaff yesterday in the County Clerk 's office filed his oath as a Bridge Trustee . All the Brooklyn members of the Board of Trustees of the New-York and Brooklyn Bridge held a secret caucus in Corporation Counsel Jenks 's office yesterday and decided not to fight any longer against the control of the big structure by Tammany Hall . They also endeavored to induce ex-President Howell to accept the Vice Presidency , and . it was afterward announced . partially succeeded . Howell is to think it over during the next few days . What is of much more importance , however , the Trustees were positively notified yesterday that in the future they must attend every meeting of the board . The conference lasted for about an hour and a half , and upon its conclusion neither Mayor Chapin nor Corporation Counsel Jenks would Bey a word about what had taken place . Trustees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be accepted solely because there was really no legal ground for a oontest . Everything was quiet at the bridge office yesterday , and President Wagstaff was introduced to all the employes as the only proper head of the establishment . He said he anticipated no more opposition .                     