@@673010

txt As the result of a terrible accident which ocourred at the little mining village of Ogden , N. J. , fifteen miles from here , at noon to-day , one man is'dead , two are momentarily expected to die , and nearly a dozen more are seriously , some fatally , wounded . The acoident occurred at the works of the New-Jersey and Pennsylvania Ore Concentrating Works . A large building under process of construction , on which about twenty men were engaged , collapsed suddenly by the breaking of a derrick with which some heavy timbers wore being hoisted into position . The timbers fell on the partially-erected building , and in a moment the whole mass had fallen , burying under it the whole gang of workmen . The works include several buildings , in which over 100 men are employed . All work In the Works was at once suspended and arrangements were made for extricating and caring for the dead and wounded . The men engaged in the search soon found the dead body of an Italian workman terribly mangled . Soon afterward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Doctors were brought from Stanhope , and a telegram was dispatched to St. Stephen 's Hospital , at Morristown , asking for accommodation for the injured . The hospital is not sufficiently completed to receive patients , so the company 's office was turned into a temporary hospital and the wounded were made as comfortable an circumstances would permit . During the afternoon and up to evening twelve workmen had been removed from the ruins , all seriously wounded . During the afternoon the families of men known to have been employed in the works gathered round the ruins , and the work of the searching party was accompanied by moans and screams from women and children . The searchers were directed to the wounded in many oases by their moans and cries . Thomas A. Edison , who spends much of his time at the works , personally superintended the work of rescue . After dark the search for bodies was continued by the light of lanterns , but up to a late hour no more victims had been discovered . The New-Jersey and Pennsylvania Ore Concentrating Company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago by Mr. Edison and a plant was erected on the site of an abandoned mine in Ogden , where the Edison magnetic ore separator was put to work . The ore as taken from the mine is run through enormous crushing maohines and then into the separator , where immense magnets extract the metal . It was for the crushing operation that the collapsed building was being erected . Ogden is In the northern part of the NewJersey mining district , and people from miles around are flocking to the scene of the accident , anxious to learn the fate of some relative or friend who was employed there . Owing to the confusion and unsystematic work of rescue , it was impossible to-night to ascertain the names of the dead and wounded .                     