@@673165

txt There was no caucus of Democratic Assemblymen yesterday morning on the Personal Registration bill , for the reason that it was plainly intimated that a number of Brooklyn members of the Assembly would refuse to attend . Whether or not it means that they are not in favor of the bill , it means that they do not propose to be bound by any caucus to obey the orders of the machine , and it makes the omen of trouble for the " bosses " still darker . It becomes daily more evident that if the machine tries to force its measures through it will meet with obstruction and revolt in both the Senate and Assembly . The Kings County Senators appear to be up in arms against Gov . FLOWER . but it is not in a good cause . Their ire is excited by the veto of the bill legalizing the expenditures for the Columbian celebration in Brooklyn , but that - veto was one of the Governor 's most creditable acts . The Senators are disposed to retaliate by obstructing the bill providing payment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly different footing . The Governor acted in that matter promptly to meet a pressing public emergency , and probably made the best terms possible at the moment . It is well enough to examine into the matter . but the motive behind the obstruction seems to be a desire to get even with the Governor , and that should not be allowed to prevail , for in both cases the Governor did his duty . The bitter struggle in the House over the Car-Coupling bill has had OD e result that will be gratifying possibly to Mr. HARRISON . It throws the Anti-Option bill , should it finally pass , into the category of bills that may be allowed to die without a veto . We hope that Mr. HA musox would have vetoed this most absurd and mischievous measure had it come to him We hope , for the sake of the tonic effect on his party , that he will still do so if he have the chance . But it is well , in any case , and on any terms , that the pernicious thing shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Canadian canals seems to have been amicably adjusted . As the result of a correspondence conducted quietly at Washington between the British Minister and the Secretary of State , the new order in council of the Canadian Government regulating the tolls for the present year on the Welland and St. Lawrence Canals has abolished the obnoxious rebate allowed to vessels destined to Canadian ports and the consequent discrimination against United States ports . The President has , therefore , issued a proclamation revoking his order of Aug. 18 , 1892 , imposing tolls upon Canadian vessels passing through the St. Mary 's Falls Canal , and the retaliation ceases with its cause . The Canadian Government put itself in the wrong in this matter and showed a , disposition to insist upon its unfriendly polioy , but it has evidently concluded that it will not pay . The Philadelphia Ledger states on " exact personal knowledge " that the selection of Judge GaEsn.A.m for the State Department first occurred to Mr. CLEVELAND in November , and characterizes it as " a suggestion to obey which required the highest courage and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " In his letter to Mr. GRESIIAINI tendering him the portfolio of the State Department Mr. CLEVELAND said : ' In what may be called an emergency in the affairs of the country , it needs you . In my efforts to subserve the interests of the people , I need you . Will you come to us f ' " That is a call equally honorable to him who received and to him who made it . It is well for both and for the country that it was accepted . The tale imputed by a dispatch from St. Paul to Mr. " K. J. D. KIMBERLEY of Honolulu " may safely be taken with large masses of allowance . The tale imputes a desire of getting possession of the Hawaiian Islands both to the German and the English Governments , and sets forth that the execution of this project was intrusted to two mobs , respectively " armed from the German and English Consulates , " who attacked the American volunteers after the protectorate was proclaimed , and were repulsed with the loss of four Germans killed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all other observers , and were reserved for Mr. KIMBERLEY , " claiming to have a report for Queen VICTORIA on affairs in Hawaii , " and confiding the same in transit to the informant of a " reporter of a morning paper " in St. PauL It seems likely that Mr. KIMBERLEY is himself the creature of the reporter 's imagination , and that the story is intended primarily for the pecuniary benefit of its author and . incidentally to fire the American heart by attributing to two foreign powers designs which one of them has disclaimed , and the other has taken no steps toward prosecuting , upon islands of which 91 per cent . of the commerce is with the United States .                     