@@674512

txt A Cabinet council was held to-day . The Queen Regent presided . The retiring Premier , Senor Canovas del Castillo , made a. long statement regarding Cuba , the Philippine Islands , the internal situation , and the relations between Spain and the United States , which led to his resignation . Her Majesty declared herself satisfied with the explanations of Sefior Canovas and begged him to continue the Government until the crisis was solved . Sefior Canovas afterward said the Queen had asked him to telegraph to Marshal Martinez Campos , asking him to come to Madrid , and that the latter had replied that he would arrive here to-morrow . The retiring Premier added that a solution of the crisis will be difficult , and will depend upon the conferences between the Queen Regent , Marshal Martinez de Campos , and Senor Sagasta , the Liberal leader . It is said the latter is prepared to apply extensive reforms to Cuba through the instrumentality of Marshal Martinez de Campos , who , it is believed , will shortly succeed Gen. Weyler as Captain General of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cabinet this evening Sefior Canovas del Castillo , after explaining the various aspects of the situation at home and in the colonies , concluded by declaring that , having obtained the sanction of Parliament to bills for the financial needs of the next financial year , he deemed the time had arrived to ask the Crown either to ratify the powers of the Ministry or to confide the Government to other hands . He said he had decided upon this course because he could not bow to the impositions of the Opposition and because he felt that matters had reached a stage where a slight reconstruction of the Cabinet would fail to meet the demands of the situation . He added , however , that if the Crown still had confidence in him and in the Conservative Party , he would not hesitate to remain in office and to endeavor to cope with the difficulties at home and in the colonies . The Queen Regent formally accepted the resignation of the Cabinet and consulted with the Presidents of the Chambers , but as yet she has not summoned any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she has seen Gen. Martinez Campos , who will arrive here to-morrow morning . Senor Canovas is much disappointed at the response which his advances in the way of reforms and financial plans have met in Cuba .. Awaiting the Crown 's Decision . The resignation of the Cabinet and the general state of political uneasiness absorb public attention . The retiring Premier , Seiler Canovas del Castillo , in an interview , is quoted as saying that not even the members of the Cabinet ' knew of his intention to resign until his resigliStIcin had been effected . Sefior Canovas del Castillo added that it was not until the decree closing the session of the Cortes was signed that he submitted the question of confidence . The Queen Regent , he continued , at the conclusion of a Cabinet council to-day , at which he explained the situation , summoned the Presidents of the chambers to the palace and will arrive at a decision . Continuing , Senor ennovas del Castillo remarked ? The Conservative Party awaits her Majesty 's decision with feelings of the deepest respect . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis . The Conservative papers express the belief that if the Liberals enter power the Chambers will shortly be dissolved . Seilor Saga-sta. and the other Liberal leaders will not make any statement pending the decision of the Crown . Several lists of probable Ministers have been made , in the event of the formation of a Liberal Cabinet ; but not one of them has any claim to be regarded as authoritative . There is no doubt entertained , however , that SenorSagasta. will undertake to form a Cabinet if the Queen Regent intrusts him with the task . In any case , it is expected that the crisis will be settled by Saturday . The published statement that the Spanish Government has received a note from the Government of the United States disapproving of the retention of Gen. Weyler as Captain General of Cuba , is semi-offiewly denied .                     