@@675060

txt TAE TIMES has learned withregret , by intimations upon divers occasions , that many American citizens of German birth resent the remarks it has had occasion to make from time to time during the past few months upon the behavior of officials of the German Empire . The fact of a German origin in itself almost raises a presumption of good American citizenship , which is one reason why any organ of public opinion in this country should deprecate the dislike of German-American citizens , as such . There is no good cause which does not need , and which is not likely to command , their adherence . ? Our German friends will allow us to say , however , that one of the defects of their admirable qualities is what BisMARCK , in rebuking a German Consul , described as an undue " sensitiveness to small disrespects . " And what STEVENSON , in his account of the troubles at Samoa , describes as " a touchiness beyond belief . " We quoted STEVENSON 'S phrase yesterday , in treating of an amazing exhibition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " imperial , " as there is nothing more " kleinstlidtisch , " than this temper . If the Germans are really going in for " imperialism , " they need , among their first requirements , to get rid of it , and to assume the insular indifference of the imperial Britons , who go about the world without caring , and indeed without noticing , how warmly they are getting themselves disliked . As one of their own poets has said : " Pride in their port , defiance in their eye , I see the lords of humankind pass by . " Indeed . the truly imperial apathy of the Briton to what Gentiles and " natives " may think about him is in curious contrast to the solicitude which the kleinstlidtisch German feels and exhibits upon the same point , even while he is ardently wooing general dislike . It is not for German-Americans , it is not for Germans , that Tag TIMES has ever felt or expressed any disrespect . But for that system of officialism which was formerly known as the Prussian bureaucracy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole German Empire , it is impossible that any man brought up in a land , as Mr. GLkDSTONE said , " where freedom is indigenous , familiar , and full-grown , " should feel or profess any respect whatever . The spirit of the Prussian bureaucracy , Which used to make Prussia itself the terror of tourists , seems to animate all the official proceedings of the German Empire . When Admiral vo/q DIEDERICII was comporting himself at Manila with a defiance , which charity may lead us to believe was rather ignorant than willful , of all the proprieties and decencies of intercourse among naval powers , the late HAROLD FREDERIC observed in these columns that our wonder and our indignation would be diminished if we would Snly take the trouble to comprehend that a German Admiral was , in his relations to the casual public , simply a Prussian brakeman " writ large . " The remark was as true as it was pointed , and illuminated many things . The New Yorker who was persecuted with fines and threatened with imprisonment for " insulting " a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arraigned in Berlin for having , in a confidence born of excessive beer , described the Kaiser as a " calf 's head , " are victims and illustrations of Prussian officialism . But perhaps the most amazing and incredible excess of that officialism is the prosecution of Prof. DELBuireic , This is an official attempt to turn a respected and eminent scholar out of his Professorship of History in the University of Berlin because , in his capacity of editor , he had written that the expulsions of the Danes from North Schleswig " cried to heaven , " that it was " brutal " and " infatuated , " and " inflicts irreparable injury upon the idea it thinks it is promoting . " It is some centuries since in any English-speaking country it would have been possible to . begin a prosecution of a Professor of History for such an expression of his views as a citizen . It is noticeable and encouraging that scarcely an apologist can be found for the prosecution in the whole German press . That would lead us to believe that public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are in the habit of believing . But it is by no means announced that upon that account the prosecution will be abandoned . The proposition that the Kaiser is a " calf 's head , " attained by the fermentation of malt and hops , may not seem offensive or even intelligible . But if it had been said instead that the Kaiser was " pig-headed " every English-speaking person would not only have known what was meant , but would have perceived that upon whatever grounds the proposition might have been assailed it was not upon the score of its inaccuracy . It will be very interesting to observe the outcome of the proceedings against Prof. DELBRUCK and to see whether the attempt to punish the free expression of opinion upon the part of an eminent professor in a German university will be met with acquiescence on the part of the German people                     