@@675089

txt The Filipinos have chosen a bloody way to demonstrate , their incapacity for selfgovernment , but it has been effectual . After the insane attack of these people upon their liberators , no American except those who have become fanatics in their rabid opposition to " ' expansion " will believe that it would be prudent for ourselves , just to other nations , or humane to the Filipinos themselves to make them masters of their own destinies . To commit to their unsteady hands and childish minds political powers which all history proves can be safely administered only by enlightened and sober-minded peoples would be to give a dynamite cartridge to a baby for a plaything . We knew this before from the reports of trained observers who have carefully studied their traits and capacities . All the world knows it now through the stupendous folly of their own acts . We have used advisedly and with intent the word liberators . We liberated these people from the miseries and oppression of Spanish rule . Reckless of the effect of their utterances upon the alert Filipinos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its terms doomed them to a new bondage ; and in the daily iteration of their cant phrases about the consent of the governed and the bartering of flesh and blood they have sought to conceal their complete failure to take any account of actual conditions in the Philippines . The pledge of the Peace Commissioners at Paris , the declarations of the Presider. t , the National character , and the high name of this Nation , won by more than a hundred years of devo , tion to liberty and just dealing , stood opposed to their false plea . Reasoning men knew that for the Filipinos the path to liberty and happiness lay through transfer to our control under the treaty . The foes of the treaty did not reason . They stormed , declaimed , denounced . They amazed other nations by the violence of their unreason , and stopped their own Government in its course . The worst of it , of course , is the disastrous effect on the Filipinos . They have been quick to catch the idea that we mean to enslave them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best they . know ; and when their Washington spies informed them that Senators from Massachusetts , from Missouri , from Maryland , and from Arkansas had exposed President MCKINLEY 'S plot to put the yoke of a fresh vassalage on their necks , the news produced the same effect that advices from Madrid of new taxes and heavier burdens would have produced two years ago . Our long task in the Philippines has now become more difficult . Blood has been shed , sedition fomented , and hatred and distrust engendered . Our work is now not construction , but reconstruction . We meet these people now not as pupils at school , but as armed rebels in the field . Under whatever title we hold Manila , order is our first law , and it is a law the Filipinos must respect . With all needed firmness and by the use of force proportioned to the degree of resistance , they will be made to understand that they must recognize our authority and obey . That is their only safety , and ours : But we have constantly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " they are also " half child . " Our position compels us to look upon them as wards to be brought into obedience , not as rebels to be hanged . How much fighting we have before us can not be told . Every American except the most violent opponents of the treaty will hope there will be little more . We have now at Manila a force amply sufficient to repulse the fiercest attack AfoulNALDO 'S men can make . After the arrival of ? reinforcements now on the ocean , , Gen. Orts will be able to undertake operations that will effectually cripple the insurgents by destroying their supplies of ammunition and other necessaries . The larger their army the more exposed they will be to such a stroke . Of pitched battles there may be very few , but we must expect a good deal of guerrilla warfare for months to come . It is not likely that AGISINALDO himself will exhibit much staying power . His character is as unstable as his support , which does not include the better and wiser class of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gen. F. V. GREENE to be a commander of no mean ability . He is hostile to Americans , inconciliable , and capable of giving us trouble . Major BELL in his report to Gen. MERRITT said Pro DE PILAR. was " a vicious , uneducated ignoramus and highway robber . " Probably more than half of AGIIINALDO 'S " Ministers " and Generals are honest , but few of them are educated , and none of them represent any more than AGIIINALDo himself the views and aspirations of the class of educated and well-to-do Filipinos . It seems probable that after one or two collisions the insurgent army will break up . Some parts of it may retire to the mountains , but these bands will give us no serious present trouble save as they may interfere with our administrative work . So far from increasing the perplexities of the President , the mad behavior of the Filipinos at Manila sweeps doubts away , and the ratification of the treaty makes plain the path of duty . He will now pay very little heed to those perilous counselors who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National dishonor . The respectable names which lend to these appeals a delusive appearance of authority and a claim to public attention that their intrinsic merits of logic , argument , and propriety would by no means secure for them will no longer cause him to suppose that in these voices he hears the voice of the American people . The American people , the people who urged and authorized him to begin the Spanish war , have not drawn back . They will sustain him to the end ; for , having faith in the wisdom of his intentions and in his consciousness of obligation to the American character , name , and traditions , they have never doubted that his avowed policy was his real policy , nor that it was a policy of beneficent protection and deliverance .                     