@@673380

txt It is now announced that the report that the Seoretary of the Treasury had given orders to " coin the eeigniorage " of the silver bullion in the Treasury vaults was incorrect . The Philadelphia Ledger is authority for the statement that the hesitation in this direction is caused by doubt as to what the law really is in the premises , and that the various questions raised are under careful study by the law officers of the Treasury and by the Attorney GeneraL They very well may be studied with the utmost care , for to the lay mind there is no authority whatever for coining a dollar of the silver bullion except for the purpose of redeeming the Treasury notes issued to pay for it . As the notes were issued for the market value of the silver , and as the dollars coined from it would have an intrinsic value of only about 52 per cent . of the notes , there is no reason to expect any note holder to ask payment in silver dollars . That might have happened during a currency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not happen now . Until some note holder wants silver dollars for his notes , the law of 1890 gives no authority that we can discover for coining any from the silver bought under that law . Of course . the only object in " coining the seigniorage " is to proteot the gold reserve from further encroachments . For some five months the course of the receipts and expenditures of the Treasury has been such that the gold reserve has been gradually drained down to about $85,000.000 . As the Administration recognizes loyally the duty of preserving the parity of all the money issued by the Government , and . as this can only be done by redeeming every kind of money in gold when desired , the dwindling of the gold in the Treasury is a very inconvenient and disagreeable fact . Under the conditions prevailing from April to November it was also a very dangerous fact , because the gold demand obligations of the Government were growing as the gold was shrinking , and the gold was shrinking because the demands were increasing . But there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Every one knows that unless there should be a tremendous financial disturbance abroad such as there is no sign of , and of which there is hardly a possibility , gold will not be taken from the Treasury except in the ordinary course of business . As was pointed out in our columns by Mr. ATKINSON recently , the course of Treasury business is likely to be gradually but surely and greatly changed by the restoration of confidence . Goods put in bond to save paying the duties will be taken out and the duties paid , and with the revival of business generally the internal revenue taxes will again increase . The tendency will be to check and gradually to overcome the excess of outgo over income . It is not likely , therefore , that the Secretary of the Treasury will feel particularly anxious regarding the condition of the Treasury . But there is one thing that ho will feel very anxious indeed about , and that is not to do anything that could possibly revive in the public mind any doubt , whether reasonable or not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parity with gold . of all forms of currency . On the whole , we believe that the one thing that the country needs just now is entire rest from any action in official circles reviving discussion as to the currency . No one really believes that the Treasury is now or will be allowed to be in any danger of bankruptcy . It can run on for some months without legislation and without extraordinary action of any sort . It will be quite time enough when Congress reassembles , at the earliest , to take up any question relating to the Treasury .                     