@@674107

txt Without excitement and with very little applause to mark the event , the House this afternoon , adopted by a vote of 263 to 17 the Cubar resolutions reported a few days ago by Mr. Hitt of Illinois , Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs . The resolutions%are as follows : Resolved by the House of Representatives , ( the Senate concurring , ) That , in the opinion of Congress , a. state of public ** exists in Cuba , the parties to which are entitled to belligerent rights . and the United States should observe a. strict neutrality between the belligerents . Resolved , That Congress deplores the destruction of life and property caused by the war now waging in that ishind , and , believing that the only permanent solution of the contest , equally in the interest of Spain , the people of Cuba , and other nations , would be in the establishment of a government by the choice of the people of Cuba , it is the sense of Congress that the Government of the ' United States should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Resolved , That the tnitedoStates has not intervened in struggles between any European Governments and their colonies on this continent ; het from the very close relations between the people of the United States and those of Cuba , in consequence of its proximity and the extent of the commerce between the two peoples , the present war is entailing such losses upon the people of the United States that Congress is of opinion that the Government of the United States should be prepared to protect the legitimate interests of our citizens by intervention , if necessary . . The action of the House seemed premature to those who had heard that the resolutions were not to be taken up and disposed of before Wednesday . The general disposition was to attribute the change of programme to the news received yesterday from Spain of the attacks upon the United States Consulate at liarcelona . Mr. Hitt and the other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee promptly rejected this explanation of the change of programme , and gave as their reason for taking up the resolutions the desire to get rid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been irritating and provocative of other outbreaks which it would not be wise and was not considered necessary to stimulvte . The opposition to the resolutions of the Foreign Affairs Committee was numerl2ally feeble , and it was equally divided between the Republican anti the Democratic Parties . Nearly all the Republican opposition came from Massachusetts . The few men who stood in opposition are confident that their positions will be justified in a short time . None of them is a sympathizer with Spain , but all of them have some concern lest the United States shall appear at a disadvantage in the dote of the incident . The speech making was not exciting , nor particularly interesting . It revealed a general lack of accurate knowledge of the extent , capacity , and ability to command edded respect and authority of the Cuban insurgent Government . It was nearly all sentimental , and it naturally was rhetorical . Some of the opponents of the Hitt resolutions asked such questions as : " Where is the Cuban Government ? " and " What is there for the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority to he questions not entitled to specific answers . At all events , they were not answered . The debate that included such inquiries was closed by the vote on the resolutions , which were passed with almost as complete unanimity as the House disposed of the bill to give the President authority to set up the Venezuela commission .                     