@@674195

txt The Anarchists have resumed their activity in this city , and much fear is entertained that they will inaugurate another reign of terror similar to that which prevailed in 1892 and 1893 , when thole vele many explosions here , in Madrid , and other Spanish cities . A bomb was exploded at 9 o'clock tonight while a religious procession was taking place , and six persons were killed and twenty-four wounded . It is not known what explosive the bomb contained , but , judging from its effects , it must have been very powerful . The Captain General of the Province of Barcelona acted as standard bearer in the procession , while the Civil Governor and the City Alcalde held the streamers of the banner . It is thought that the designers of the outrage ? tontemplated killing these officials . The procession was in connection with the Corpus Christi festival . The bomb was throWn when the processionists were entering the Church of Santa Maria , and the people were panic-stricken by the explosion and its effects . Those already in the church made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those on the outside scattered and fled in every direction . While some of the priests present did everything in their power to allay the excitement , others- administered the last rites of the Church to those of the injured who seemed likely to die . A large crowd was witnessing the procession , and the man who threw the deadly missile effected his escape in the excitement . It is reported that some persons who were standing close to him have furnished the police with a description of him . The ponce , at a late hour to-night , had not discovered any clue to the actual authors of the crime , but the number of suspects who have been lodged in jail is quite large . The police think that they perhaps will be able to catch those responsible fog the crime through the confession of some of the Anarchists who have been arrested . This , however , appears to be a very slight hope . This is the second outrage within a few days . During a religious procession on the feast of Corpus Christi a bomb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was evidently the intention of those who placed the bomb where it was found to kill or mains some of those taking part in the procession . MADRID , June ** dynamite cartridges exploded to-night outside of a house occupied by a priest at Orendain , near St. Sebastian , Province of Guipuzcoa . The house and other buildings in the vicinity were badly damaged , but nobody was hurt .                     