@@674943

txt Since the return of the members of the First Naval Battalion who formed the crew of the auxiliary cruiser Yankee some very unpleasant stories have been adrift as to their treatment by two of the officers of the navy attached to the ship . The vessel was commanded by Commander BROWNSON , and the executive officer , the navigator and the Paymaster came from the regular service . The other officers were members of our naval battalion . Many of the enlisted men of the battalion declare that Lieut . HUBBA.RD , the executive officer , and Lieut . CUTLER , the navigator , treated them unkindly . It is not averred that these officers committed any brutal act , but that they habitually used sneering and insulting language to the men under them , and that they frequently applied opprobrious epithets of a kind to hurt men 's feelings and provoke them to acts of insubordination . These stories may or may not be true . It may be that the naval militiamen , unaccustomed to the severe discipline of the regular service , regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have noticed . On the other hand , if either of the officers named made use of the phrases which have been quoted by some of the volunteer sailors they were guilty of violating the commands of the articles for the government of the United States Navy . These articles distinctly state that any person who " quarrels with , strikes , or assaults , or uses provoking or reproachful words , gestures , or menaces toward any person in the navy " may receive " such punishment as a court-martial may adjudge . " If , as some of the naval militiamen declare , Lieuts . HUBBARD and CUTLER called the volunteer sailors " landlubbers , " or applied other taunting epithets to them , sometimes prefaced by profane adjectives , they rendered themselves liable to trial by court-martial . This matter calla for investigation , and Secretary LONG , for the honor of the navy , which has come out of the war with such a clean record , ought to see that it is investigated . If the stories are untrue Lieuts . HUBBARD and CUTLER have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any blame . Other officers of the navy , who are jealous of the honor of their corps , will hope to see them so cleared . But if the naval militiamen are prepared to prove their assertions before a court-martial they ought to be made to do so , and the offending officers ought to be punished . There was every reason why the naval volunteers should be treated with consideration . They had given much valuable time to the acquisition of the rudiments of nautical knowledge . In that acquisition they had undergone considerable discomfort and spent money . When the call to arms came they cheerfully enlisted as seamen in the navy , and gave up comfortable homes and the luxuries of metropolitan life to stand watches in all kinds of weather , coal and scrub ships , sleep in hammocks , eat sailor fare , and take their chances under the guns of the enemy . They may not have been expert seamen at the outset , but they were the material out of which good seamen are made . And they were not only willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at the very least entitled to the same treatment as the articles demand for the seamen of the regular navy . If they received it , the accused officers ought to be placed before the public in the proper light . If they did not receive it , they are entitled to redress                     