@@673979

txt It is very significant that so large a number of men active in the reform movement of last year have declared themselves strongly in favor of home rule for this city , as much in the regulation of the liquor traffic as in other matters . Such a course is unquestionably logical , but this particular matter is one as to which departure from logic is easy and natural . To most persons . who are interested in it and believe that the traffic should be carefully regulated , it is a question of morals , and as to morals most men are inclined to take the shortest cut to accomplish their end , without stopping to study carefully the consequences that ultimately may follow . For many years people who were seriously engaged in the temperance movement have reasoned that because a Republican majority in the Legislature would chiefly consist of members from the country , and these would be more in sympathy with their movement than members from the city , the best way to promote temperance must be through State laws enacted by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to most other objects of a reform nature . For a long time it was a postulate of the reform creed that New-York could be reformed only from Albany . The first serious blow to this doctrine was dealt by Mr. THEODORE ROOSEVELT and the little band of energetic and clear-headed young men who were in the Assembly with him , and who secured the change in the charter by which the power of appointment was placed completely in the hands of the Mayor of New York . At the same time Mr. ROOSEVELT endeavored , though unsuccessfully , to make the Police Commission singleheaded , thus still further concentrating power in the Mayor . Previously the tendency had steadily been to take power from the Mayor , to divide and distribute what was left to the City Government , and , in some marked cases , at one time , to govern the city by State Commissions so far as practicable Since this reversal of the general line of policy regarding the City Government , the practical results have all confirmed the soundness of the general principle of home rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , many excellent people have clung to the notion that it would be unsafe to apply it to the laws to be administered , and especially to such restrictions as should be required for the retail liquor business . It is now becoming plain to the most sincere and zealous reformers that practical and lasting reform can best be secured through the free action of the community itself , and that this is as true regarding matters of excise as regarding other matters . When men like Dr. P ARICHU HST and ? though he is not exactly of the same class  --  Mayor STRONG unqualifiedly accept the principle of home rule as to the excise question , and the former accepts as to general matters , it is evidence of a great and wholesome change of sentiment in an important class In the community . It marks the ultimate triumph of that principle .                     