@@674308

txt Minister TERRELL announces through The United Press that the relations between the Governments of Turkey and the United States are of the most cordial character . Just what he means by this is not evident . It may mean that his relations with the Sultan and the Porte are cordial . For a long time they ' appeared to be the reverse . If he has succeeded in gaining such a footing at the Palace and the Porte as will make his visits there less disagreeable and more productive of results than in the past , he is to be congratulated . If , however , he means just what he says , and is speaking for Secretary OLNEY and President CLEVELAND , then he must mean that he has received adequate assurance that the questions at issue between the two Governments are in fair prospect of speedy settlement . If so , still more is he to be congratulated , and not he alone , but the many Americans who , during his occupancy of the legation , have been unable to gain any satisfaction at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States has five chief claims against the Turkish Government  --  indemnity for American property destroyed , with the connivance and , in some cases , under the authority of Turkish officials ; punishment of Turkish officials and subjects for outrage to American persons and property ; full recognition of the rights of those , whether native born or naturalized , who carry American passports ; recognition , with the customary exequaturs , of American Consuls ; admission to the Bosporus of an American dispatch boat . It also has presented urgently the cause of those Armenians now in this country who desire to have their families come to them . According to recent statements the Turkish Government has decided to yield this last and permit these women and children to come to their husbands and fathers It has also , it is reported , consented to reopen the question of a naturalization treaty . So far that is all . One of the five claims is to be negotiated . As to the others not a word is said . Mr. KNAPP is still at Constantinople unable to return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exequatur in Erzrum , and the Consuls for Harput and Alexandretta have not yet been appointed . Not a cent of indemnity for the outrages of a year ago has been paid , and not a man even brought to trial . Minister TERRELL should know that whatever his own personal relations with the Turkish Government may be , the American people can have no eordial relations with a Government that commits such outrages on their fellow-citizens as the Turkish Government has committed until full reparation is made .                     