@@675157

txt Dr. RICHARD SALTER STORRS has in the current number of The Independent an article en " The Future of the Protestant Pulpit in American Society " that in many ways is remarkable . It is to be followed by others , and is devoted to the " forces that limit and threaten " the pulpit . It is hardly necessary to say that on a subject of this nature Dr. STORRS speaks with peculiar authority . " At home in the pulpit for more than half a century of years , " a preacher of rare gifts , a faithful and laborious student of books and of affairs and of men , a man of pure and high aspirations , constant to a nobh. standard of teaching and of life , a devout but open-minded believer in the doctrines c4 the Protestant religion , there is no one whose thought on this momentous subject is entitled to more respect . We do not , however , propose to consider to-day his view of the particular topic that he discusses . althougn It is put in a form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and is doubtless intended to invite that attention . But we desire to note a passage in which he refers to recent political problems as among the things that tend to divert the minds of men in our country from the pulpit . And we note this passage , not for its bearing on the general subject of Dr. STORRS 'S article , but for the noble spirit that is expressed in it . It is as follows : " It is not to be forgotten . either , that the range anti import of American politics . and the thoughts of men concerning them , are all the time widening with the process of the suns . More than ever before this has been true in recent years ? in the one just closed . Whether we will or no , we no longer , as a nation . dwell apart on an area of our own , though that area be continental in extent and resources . We are now inexorably pushed , without our purpose . and almost without our own consent , into more intimate political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the semi-barbarous peoples of distant islands , for whom astonishing naval victories have brought to us perplexing responsibilities . There . s a sense in the general mind , not in the minds of leaders alone , of something urgent . fateful , prophetic , in the late hurrying development of events . What some cal ! ' providence ' and others call ' destiny ' seems palpably intervening in our affairs , and political movements among ourselves are set in relation with vast cosmical plans or an unseen Power not to be baffled , whose forces emerge without our forethought and work to results beyond our ken . Men 's minds , at such a time , can not but be intensely occupied with what Is going on in the spnere of National development . In a sense , politics become more religious than they were . What appeared Divine impulsions and guidances In the past were hardly more evident than are those which now meet us , and the present urge a stronger impression on the general mind than do any which belonged to Biblical times . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to interpret what has come , to foresee if possible what is still in reserve . to compel public policy to conform to high standards . " In these words speaks the true American citizen as we understand citizenship . Dr. STORRS is not content to regard the present or the future in the light of the traditions and doctrines of the past alone , still less to be guided by the sentiment of the present . He accepts the duty of trying to see the problem in its largest relations , keeping in mind the supreme obligation for those that have in any degree the attention of the public to use all influence to " compel public policy to conform to high standards . " Surely this is a more sensible and a more manly function than indiscriminate fault finding . .                     