@@674910

txt In the House of Commons to-day the Government leader , Mr. A. J. Balfour , First Lord of the Treasury , declined to pledge the Government to prevent the ratification of the Franco-Belgian Pekin-Han-Kow concessions in China . But Mr. Balfour promised that in the event of British capitalists purchasing railroad concessions obtained by French or Belgian syndicates In the Yang-tse-Kiang Valley her Majesty 's Government will support and assist them , both in London and at Pekin , in this and In all other legitimate British commercial enterprises . The morning papers express the growing indignation of the country at the position of affairs in China . The Daily Graphic says : " If this state of things continues , the guns will go off of themselves . " The Shanghai correspondent of The Daily Mail , who professes to divulge the terms of a long existing secret treaty between China and Russia , says : " It is nothing less than an offensive alliance . China undertakes to regard Russia as having a preponderating influence in all questions of commercial and internal politics , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands . Russia finances China in internal developments , and China grants Russia preferential rates in certain areas , and railways built in the joint interests of the two countries will be under Russia 's practical control . " Russia will assist China in developing her military and naval forces , and China will co-operate with Russia as an ally . This treaty has been in abeyance since Li Hung Chang visited the Czar . That it has become operative at the present moment in respect to the Pekin-Han-Kow and NiuChwang contracts is significant . " If The Daily Mall 's version may be trusted it will explain much that had hitherto been inexplicable in the development of the question . The manager of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank in London in the course of an interview yesterday said : " I believe the Pekin-Han-Kow Line , owing to natural obstructions and its costliness , will never he built , Russia merely wishing to keep England out . " The French comment gleefully upon the situation , and the newspapers at Berlin and Vienna are at no pains to hide their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards the project of an Anglo-American alliance as chimerical . These journals consider that the United States have had enough of war for the present , and will not care to give Great Britain anything more than moral support in China . Therefore , they argue , England is not likely to pick a quarrel with Russia , but will content herself with seeking compensation elsewhere . A special dispatch from Shanghai says : " The Russian agents are again intriguing to obtain control of the Chinese Maritime Customs Department. - The Peking correspondent of The Times , telegraphing with reference to the PekingHan-Kow contract , says : " The rebuff is all the more serious because the Tsung-ll-Yamen gave assurances that the decree confirming the contract would not be issued until after a further conference with Sir Claude Macdonald , the British Minister . " The Daily Chronicle , in an editorial which reflects the general opinion of the London morning press , comments upon the fact that the Marquis of Salisbury and all the responsible officials are leaving London at such a 8ritical moment . It says : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humilation and national indignation . "                     