@@672635

txt The exegesis of Gov . HILL 'S letter to Mr. PosT 's free trade meeting has furnished a congenial occupation to newspapers that are friendly to the Governor and . unfriendly to Mr. CLEVELAND . The process appears now to be complete . The exegetists have discovered and interpreted to the world all the obvious and-hidden meanings of the letterrits broad philosophies , its political teachings , its warnings , and its rebukes . There is a general ? agreement that the let-. ter stabs . Mr. CLEVELAND in a way that must cause new pain to - that experienced sufferer . The Governor 's home organ , , the Albany Evening Times , sees in it clear evidence that Mr. Hui , " is not one of thosewho construe the recent overwhelming Democratic victories throughout the country as a demand for free trade . " But if he is wise and far-seeing he is also . wary , as the Tinter ? shows : " It may be that Mr. POST is one of those smart individuals whochave been digging pits for Gov , Hum for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ' in a hole . ' If so , Mr. Posy is probably a wiser , possibly a sadder , and certainly a madder man than he was before . Gov . HILL generally keeps his eyes pretty wide open and is not in the habit of tumbling into pitfalls , no matter how skillfully-they may be covered up . " The Elmira Gazette , another organ of the Governor , regards the document both as a sheet anchor and . as an alarm bell in the deep night : " Gov . HILL 's letter declining the invitation to attend the ' free trade mass meeting ' at Cooper Union , New-York , will serve an excellent end in calling the attention of the country to the fact that the views and expressions of demonstrative agitators of radical opinion should not be considered the theory , belief , or purpose of the Democratic Party . " The Rochester Post-Express , a journal - that attacks Mr. CLEVELAND in every issue , sees at once that , though addressed to Mr. POST , the letter was , really meant for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem ' ing to lash men who called this mass meeting Gov . HILL was no doubt aiming at others  --  the free trade recruits to the Democratic Party and Mr. CLnvELAND . " Finally , the New-York . Bun , no longer , alas I a Hill organ , but a journal that regards him with affectionate regret , tries its hand : " Protection has always been an undisputed principle of the Democraoy , as of other parties , until the Cleveland accident ; and Gov . FrT-Tr 's letter to the free trade meeting in this city on Thursday shows that he is , like all the great statesmen of his party , against the free traders and not for them . He is a Democrat ; a Jeffersonian-Jacksonian Democrat . " But let us look for a moment at Gov . HILL 's own words . Hero is the most important passage of his letter : " I believe that the best interests of our country ? industrial , agricultural , and commercial  --  demand the establishment of that tariff policy declared and particularly defined in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I am earnestly opposed to the attempt which is now being made in some quarters to Undermine the sound and conservative position of the Demooratio Party upon this question , and to commit it irrevocably to the doctrine of free trade , The men who are engaged in this effort , no matter how honest or sincere they may be in their individual convictions , have no right to longer masquerade as true Democrats , while seeking to commit the party to a policy which it has always distinctly repudiated , and which , if adopted . must inevitably , in my judgment , affect injuriously the welfare of the country and unlit the Democratic Party for the maintenance of those wise principles of government of which it has for nearly a century been the proud and unyielding representative . " Clearly enough , that is a thrust in the direction of Mr. CLEVELAiNTD . But it appears - to us that Gov . HILL not only missed his mark , but stumbled headlong into one of those pitfalls that his home organ declares he makes it the study of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepts the Democratic platform of 1888 . But that platform at its very head , front , and beginning " reaffirms the platform adopted . by the representatives in the convention of 1884 and indorses the views expressed by President CLEVELAND in his last earnest message to Congress as the correct interpfetation of that platform upon the question of tariff reduction . " How effusive and warm will be Gov . HILL 'S thanks to Mr. POST for giving him an opportunity to write a letter recognizing Mr. CLEVELAND as the authoritative expositor of Democratic tariff doctrines .                     