@@781345

txt It is no exaggeration to assert that the foremost topic compelling attention in Europe in general and in Great Britain in particular , overshadowing the dreary broils of domestic politics , is the remarkable , aggressive , commercial prosperity which the United States is manifesting . Hardly a newspaper review or a public speaker during the past month has failed to notice with what giant 's strides America is coming into the first place in the alignment of the oowers . It is certainly the chief subject of conversation on Lombard Street and on the Continental Bourses . The manager of one of the greatest London banks recently dre- : , an American business man into his private office and said in an awestruck tone : " This is the first time in the history of finance that New York nas been in a position to dictate money rates to London , Berlin , and Paris . " The bank manager added that London 's nurchases of American securities were a feather's-weight compared with the balance of trade in New York 's favor . Mr. James Bryce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sounded a warning to British manufacturers . He emphasized the fact that the exports of the United States and Germany had increased ? 34,000,000 and ? 21,000,000 , respectively , between 1891 and 1897 , while Great Britain 's decreased ? 15,000,000 , He further pointed out that the business of the United States was developing along many important lines , which Great Britain , he added , should have held against all competitors . Mr. Bryce unhesitatingly asserted that the United States could produce rails cheaper than Great Britain , and said he saw no possibility of opening new markets . except in China . Great Britain seems to have become reconciled to the capture of the iron markets by the United States . American firms are uniformly successful in bidding against the British firms . The Carnegie Company and the Illinois Steel Company have opened extensive offices in London . and are making inroads upon the British preserves . Col. Hunsiker. the Carnegie representative , has contracted for 30,000 tons of plates for the Coolgardie Road , Australia , and the company was unable to undertake the contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a fact that the Russian Government has ordered 80,000 tons of American rails , and the prospect of American competition for the contracts in connection with Russia 's extensive railroads alarms manufacturers here and elsewhere . Consuls assert that all Europe is swarming as never before with the agents of American manufacturers of steel , street railroads , electrical apparatus , and all , kinds of machinery , who are leading the commercial invasion . Several financiers have acknowledged that Russia tried to raise money in London , Paris , Berlin , and Amsterdam . and that she seems to have turned to the United States as her best hope , possibly with the view of reaping incidental political advantages . It is admitted that it is a question of a short time when capitalists will have to reckon with New York as a competitor in high finance . The Daily Chronicle comments upon the fact that American capitalists " have the courage of their financial opinions if they think they know the European situation better than the capitalists of the Old World . "     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       