@@673312

txt Up to the hour of 4 o'clock this afternoon just fifty-three members of the House of Representatives had reported . at the House Post Office . About the first thing a member does when he reaches town is to call at the Post Office and give directions concerning his mail , so that it seems safe to estimate that not more than sixty Representatives are in the city this evening . Only fourteen Senators have reported thus far . To-morrow it is expected that a great many members of both houses will arrive . Mr. of Tennessee was among to-day 's arrivals . He said to a correspondent of THE NEW-YORK TIMES that he expected . the coming extraordinary session to be exceedingly lively . He is of the opinion that the Sherman law will be repealed . belt he is not sure that it will be repealed unconditionally . Mr. was not willing to discuss the subject of his possible leadership on the floor , contenting himself with the statement that in the fifteen years in which he has served in Congress he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This may be regarded by some as equivalent to a declaration that in case the plan of making Mr. Wilson of West Virginia Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and Mr. the mouthpiece of the committee on the floor is carried out , Mr. will not interpose any serious objections . It is known that he favors the carrying on of the work of framing a tariff bill at the same time that the silver question is " being discussed . Although Mr. was unwilling to be quoted on this subject , it is said by one of his friends that he believes the majority in the House should not waste any time in getting to work on a new tariff measure . Mr. takes the ground that the Democratic Party is thoroughly united as to the necessity of doing away with the tariff law , and also in the resolve to change the election laws under which the notorious John I. Davenport has long managed to do injury to the Democratic Party . It is not united on the subject of silver . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party is united should not be lost sight of in the face of a situation which will necessarily lead to a struggle in both branches of Congress . Senator Teller of Colorado arrived to-day and spent some time at the Capitol . Mr. Teller still maintains that the Sherman law is not responsible for the present finan-. cial depression . He takes the ground that the people are hoarding money , not because of lack of confidence in the currency , but because they are afraid of investment . " If they had any doubt about the stability and value of the currency , " said Mr. Teller , " they would seek investments in land or property of any kind which would have a stable - value . On the contrary , they decline all investments and are putting their money away in safe-deposit vaults and in stockings . If the banks that have failed throughout the country had had silver with which to pay their depositors they would not have broken . The depositors would have taken silver or silver certificates in payment for their checks without a murmur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direct result of a scare which originated through the failure of Baring Brothers . The New-York bankers , he declares , re-echoing the old cry , with the object of bringing about the repeal of the Sherman law and the issue of bonds by the Government , are directly responsible for the present flurry . There is a hint of a threat in the following statement by Mr. Teller : " I do not think that the Sherman law can be repealed without a proper substitute . At least , it will be a long time before such a thing can be accomplished . If that is the relief that is wanted , it certainly can not be had at once . The law can not be repealed in August or in September or in October . I am not a defender of that law , and do not think it a good one . It is not the work of the silver men . It is Mr. Sherman 's measure , and one he believed in when he presented it . In my judgment , however , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is put in its place . " Senator squire of Washington also came in to-day . He was at the Post Office Degartment this afternoon . He looks to see the Sherman law repealed , but he thinks there will be considerable delay in bringing it about . He did not make a positive answer to the question whether there was likely to be a substitute bill passed . Senator Gorman is punting in considerable time each day at his quarters in the Capitol . but he is not talking for publication . He has not yet issued a call for a caucus of the Democratic members of the Senate , but it is expected that he will call them together by next Monday at the latest . By that time it is believed the list of the Senate 's employes who are to remain in the service will be completed . The Republican employes are worrying a good deal and all of them will be glad when the policy of the majority is announced through the new Secretary and Sergeant at Arms . Some of the veterans . like Capt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , the well-informed and popular Superintendent of Documents , are losing no sleep over the situation . They know that they will be retained in their places . If it were not for the contest over the two offices of Doorkeeper and Sergeant at Arms of the House , Washingtonians would hardly realize that an extra session of Congress was so near at hand . The candidates for these two positions are doing their best with the limited amount of Congressional material at hand to advance their respective interests . " Iceman " Turner of New York still sticks to the assertion that he can not be beaten . The friends of E. B. Smith of Texas question this declaration . They think Smith and ex-Doorkeeper Hurt of Chattanooga leading candidates , with Smith in the lead by reason of Hurt 's late entry . Mr. Smith 's friends do not seem to attach the importance to Turner 's support that a careful General would . No word has yet come from New-York calculated to discredit any of Turner 's claims . So far he is the only New-Yorker mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrepressible Felix McCloskey . Coakley has declared in an interview that ho is not a candidate and would not take the place if it were oligred him . Mr. McCloskey is undoubtedly very much a candidate , but without votes enough in sight to make his candidacy look the least bit serious . It is expected that most of the New-York City members will be here on Friday . and that they will hold a caucus Friday night , when the question of their action regarding the Doorkeepership and other matters Trill be decided . There is nothing particularly new regarding the position of Sergeant at Arms . Representative Donovan of Ohio said this afternoon that when the entire Ohio delegaefr and the pile choice i cceityofa ac o n falroerytcye fwoirllsebre geant at Arnie will be unanimously supported . Owing to the fact that the sergeant at Arms of the last House , Dr. Yoder. is an Ohio man . it is generally accepted that the decision of the Ohio delegation will settle the question as to who will succeed him . Representative Donovan said he believed S. E. Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to take the same view of the situation . He would make an admirable Sergeant at Arms . Representative Robertson of Louisiana . in response to a telegram , to-day received authority from Judge Holman to issue a call for a Democratic caucus . The call is as follows : WASHINGTON , D. C. , Aug. 2. 1893 . By authority from the Hon. W. S. Holman , Chairman of the Democratic caucus , I hereby call a caucus of the Democratic , members of the Fifty-third Congress , to meet in the House of Renresentatives on Saturday . Aug. 5. at 8 o'clock P. M. B. M. ROBERTSON , Secretary Democratic caucus .                     