@@675239

txt In the July number of The Southern Workman and Hampton School Record is given in full the thirty-first annual report of the Principal of the Institute , the Rev. H. B. FIUSSELL , together with several other reports of the various branches of the work at Hampton . We wish that every reader of THE TimEs interested in the future of the negro , with which is bound up largely the future of the South and so of the whole country , could be persuaded to study this report in the relative leisure of the Summer days . We are sure that it would give many of them a new idea of what is being done at Hampton and of the opportunities it affords to all of us who desire to do something that will really count in the solution of the problem presented to our Nation . It is not an uncommon notion that Hampton is an enterprise of ordinary philanthropy through which the contributions of the charitable are distributed to those of the colored race that are able to avail themselves of its educational advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the free or cheap education of its pupils . A philanthropic enterprise it is , beyond doubt , but with no such narrow and temporary purpose as this . On the contrary , it is'an organized business establishment , conducted with the closest attention to the requirements of business , and its aim is to teach ' teachers not at all in mere book knowledge , but in all knowl- edge and practice that will fit them to be intelligent , self-supporting men and women , and to aid others of their race in the same career . There is not in the North a factory or department store or other business concern that is managed with a stricter or more efficient regard to the requirements of economy and the adaptation of means to ends . Practically nothing is given to the pupils of Hampton . Every one of them is made to feel that he or she must earn what is offered , the money aid in certain cases being granted only on the certainty that it will promote the usefulness of the recipient in the work of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be provided by the pupils alone , but the Pupils are made to feel that they contribute to it and that it is theirs . The primary and indispensable condition at all times and in all cases is that the sacred sense of self-respect shall be implanted and nurtured and made fruitful . This principle is carefully observed from the kindergarten to the post-graduate course . At every stage the pupil is made to feel that the things he or she is engaged upon are really useful , and they are also made to feel more and more as they go on that they are preparing themselves not only to earn their own way in the world but to aid their fellows practically and constantly to do the same . How far this has borne fruit is shown in the fact that the great work of Tuskegee in Alabama  --  one of the best in the South ? is carried on chiefly and was conceived and established by graduates of Hampton . And throughout the South , in many States , the graduates of this singularly successful school are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really an industrial village , says Dr. FhISSEIA ? and the young people who come here are introduced into its business life . Each one becomes a partner in toe concern , and has his own responsibility for the carrying on of the institution . Continual appeals are made to the students for the practice of economy , and the doing of their best work because the burden of the school rest : . ; upon their shoulders . They are thus initiated into business . They are told the cost of running the shops , and are instructed in making estimates for buildings . The cost of material and labor is discussed with them . A personal account is kept with each student of the school , everyone being furnished with an account book , subject to examination by the teachers of arithmetic . Prom this " industrial village " boys were sent to the shipyard at Newport News and to contractors in Portsmouth and gave such satisfaction that more were asked for , while those that had been working at building took a contract for erecting two house= at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than day pay on the job . They had been trained not merely as workmen , but as contractors and business men , and well trained . Like training is given in farming to the boys . and in housework , in the care and preparation of food and of clothing , to the girls . It is not easy to exaggerate the influence of this wise , sensible , practical , and noble enterprise upon the future of the South . It is not merely what it can do for its own pupils , or even what they can in their turn do for their race ; it is the princit , ile that it is instilling in the minds of all connected with it , and in the public mind , wherever they may go                     