@@672809

txt An accident occurred on the New-York and Harlem Railroad at One Hundred and Fortyninth Street and Railroad Avenue at 5:25 last night which was remarkable from the fact that , while a carload of passengers were overturned without serious result to any , two men who were walking along the track at the time were killed . Train No. 170 , known as the Tuokahoe Accommodation , left the Grand Central Station at 5:10 on the Harlem Road . It consisted of four cars , and was in charge of Conductor T. A. Voorhis . The train is a slow one , stopping at nearly every station between the Grand Central Station and its destination . It is used mostly by commuters , who have their homes out a little way from the city , and runs pretty full as a rule . Last night was no exception .. In the rear car were thirty passengers , including two ladies . At One Hundred and Forty-ninth Street the tracks a the Now-York Central and Hudson River Railroad turn ot into a deep cut and curve around toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of the New-York , New-Haven and Hartford keep straight on . At this junction there is a small roundhouse and shops where temporary repairs are made to cars , and also where oars are cleaned . Numerous side tracks make a . network of switches there . The Tuokahoe train had just got up a good speed of twenty miles an hour after leaving the Mott Haven station , when it dashed across the switches at this point . The forward oars passed the switch all right , when the trouble occurred , and the forward truck of the rear car followed . but when the rear truck struck the frog it apparently had sprung up and the flange of the wheel mounted up on the tongue of the frog . The truck then left the track and traveled about sixty feet or so over the ties and in the sand at the side of the track . Presently the car reached a little platform between the tracks ; then the rear of the oar slowed around and the coach turned over on its side . The whole perfprmanoe took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car cleaners and employee who were standing near . Three of these men had just startedhome for the night and were passing along , single file , when the oar left the track . If it had not been for the stewing around of the rear end of the car they would have all escaped , but as it was two of them Were caught , thrown to one side , and instantly killed . Inside of the ear there ' was a momentary panic . When the car first left the track the passengers were shaken up by the bumping of the - wheels on the ties , audit gave a bit of warning to those whose minds acted quickly . They braced themselves for a crash if one should come . Others were thrown from their seats . . A moment more and the car had gone over . It did not drag much on the ground . A scramble was made for the doors by its frightened occupants . The two ladies were assisted out . They received a few scratches . Immediately the trainmen standing near ran to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed those imprisoned inside how to reach the doors . The car was heated by steam , end there was no upsetting of car stoves . As the passengers ' same out they congratulated themselves that none in the car had received serious . injury . Two or three had been cut slightly by the breaking glass , and some were slightly bruised , but no limbs had been fractured so far as could be learned . The most serious injury happened to the brakeman who was stationed at the front of the rear car , George Williams . His head was badly cut . He was thrown violently when the car went over . Thomas , a carcleaner , also received a supereial cut on the back of his head , which caused the blood to flow freely . He Immediately started on a run for Mott Haven Station , and , rushing up to the - station men , shouted that several persons had been killed . He asked that ambulances be sent for . A policeman who happened on the train , however , attended to that duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hospital and the Manhattan Hospital for help . Dr. W. J. Daly , who lives nearithe place where the accident happened , came running down the embankment and was soon attending to Williams . the brakeman , who bad been carried into a little house used by the train employes . His wound was dressed and he ' was able to take the next train to his home at White Plains . The ambulance surgeons had little to do en their arrival . Few of the passengers needed aid and none needed much attention . was taken to the Harlem Hospital . where his wounds were dressed . He was suffering from shock . The two men who were killea were taken to the Thirty-third Precinct Station . Ono was identified as William Fleming . a car ? leaner , tweuty-ono years old , who lived at 297 East Forty-third Street . He was unmarried . The other man was not identified certainly last evening . Some of the mon on the road reported that ho was George Lear , a painter , who has charge of the stations on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central around to Spuyten Duyvil , and then down the old road to ? Thirtieth Street . The identification . however , was not satisfactory . He was badly crushed , and his body was in a shocking state . When the car struck him it lifted his body lip in the air and ho was thrown twenty feet away . Hie body and that of his companion were laid side by side on a plot of grass at one side of the track until stretchers could be brought from the station house . A great crowd gathered immediately at the scene . The bridge across the tracks at One Hundred and Forty-ninth Street was lined with persons . Maur rushed down the embankment nod crowded arouud the wrecked ear until a large force of policemen could arrive and drive them back . The delay on the road caused by the accident was slight . Tho car had left the track so far that as soon as it was found that too number of iniured was small , men were put to work clearing away what little obstruction there was , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went over the tracks were cleared . The time of the day was a busy one on the road and the trains had beeun to clog up In the rear . They were sent on rapidly . The forward cars of the Tuokahoe train were uninjured , and the train was ready to proceed in half an hour . All of the passengers who had been through the startling expo.rience in the rear car continued on their journey to their homes . The train wars stopped very quickly after the rear car left the track . Engineer Edward Davis felt that somethiu e was wrong , as the truck was derailed , and shut down his air brakes . The coupling connecting the wrecked car to the train snapped as the car stewed around . Felix McCabe , who supplies necessaries to the Wagner oars at the yards , was one of the men walking along by the side of the track with Fleming . he was in the lead . He saw the ear leave the track , and he lumped to one side . He just escaped the ear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they saw the car awing off from tile rails . But for his jump he would have met the same fate . The car was in bad shape last night as workmen were busy healing it away from the track and preparing to mono it away . The ironwork was wrenched in all sorts of shapes and the woodwork smashed into splinters in places . All the glass in the windows was smashed into small pieces , some of Which were thrown lit ty feet . ' An investigation of the truck that left the track did not show that the flange had been detective , or give any hint of the cause of the derailing . Tho frog was also apparently all right , and , after it had been tightened with spikes , was safe for the passage of trains over it . Perhaps an examination of the wheels anti truck of the car by daylight will show some flaw that was not discernible last night under the glare of a calcium light which was used for the workmen in clearing up the wreckage . The oar was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Harlem Road for a long time . At the WOO of Manua Matt of the ' Harlem Division in the Grand Central Station only little was known concerning the ao ? Mont Word had simply been sent down that the rear ear of the 5:10 train had left the track at the Junction . The report at the office was that the forward truck had taken the Harlem track all right , and the roar truck had gone off on the New-Haven and Hartford track , a derailment naturally resulting . An examination of the marks made by the oar wheels at the switob , however , appoated rather to show that the truck had sprung up at the frog and loft the track entirely at that point . A detailed report will bo made to the the manager of the division to-day , and the act-cideut will be thoroughly investigated .                     