@@674490

txt The admirable address of Mr. S HEIRS on the Civil Service bill made to Gov . BLACK yesterday was full of the highest respect for the office of Governor ; in the actual occupant of that office it must have inspired conflicting feelings . It is an open secret that the bill was drawn under the direction of the Governor , and was intended to accomplish his objects . He is , therefore , entitled to credit for having consented to give a hearing upon it , after the Legislature , despite vigorous opposition , had passed the bill as a party measure , under the whip of the caucus . ' Whether he will revise his attitude toward the bill in the light of the facts and arguments presented to him yesterday remains to be seen . As he listened to Mr. SCHURZ and to the letters of nearly every important and efficient officer in the service of this city , Brook13-n , and the cities of the interior , he must have felt , on the one hand , that if the Constitution be carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his party , and on the other hand , that the whole people  --  every party , every class  --  would be immensely benefited . He must have felt as a party man that his bill was a short cut to all the favors to be got by perverting the service to party ends ; as Governor , he must have realized that his bill was opposed to the Constitution , oppressive in purpose and effect , and demoralizing , not to say corrupting , in its influence on public life . Will he listen to the voice of reason and conscience , or to the appeals of partisan zeal and greed ? The issue is plain . He must take one side or the other . He can not deny , he can not even ignore , the plain truths submitted to him . In the case of Mr. Scitunz , he knows that they were submitted by a man of eminent character , of long and varied service , always honorable , by a practical man who knows intimately every detail of administration and of politics as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theorist ; he can not sneer at his firm devotion to principle as " starch " ; he can not accuse him of partisan motives , since he has been a most efficient supporter of the Governor 's own party and a formidable opponent of the rival party . He must know that to sign the Civil Service bill now is to plead guilty to responsibility for the outrageous purpose and provisions of the bill , as exposed to him and to the people of the State .                     