@@674294

txt It may be difficult to get much public attention for the Greater New-York charter until after the election , but when that is over , the public mind will be ready to take a keen interest in the subject , and the commission ought to be prepared then to present'something definite for its consideration . The commission holds its next meeting on the 15th of this month , and in the meantime the Committee on Draft has before it the preliminary draft prepared by its subcommittee , presumably putting it in shape for the consideration of the commission . It is to be hoped that the small body of citizens who are engaged upon this work will realize its importance and not permit interest in politics or their own private affairs to prevent them from devoting zealous attention to it . There is a central problem in this task of providing a system of government for the enlarged municipality upon a wise solution of which much depends , and that is the problem of local legislation . At present much of the power to legislate upon purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature at Albany , and legislative functions are also distributed by State law among the heads of administrative departments in the city . It ought to be recognized as fundamental at the outset that the power to legislate upon the local affairs of the city should be lodged in a municipal legislative body of some kind , chosen by the people of the city and responsible to them . This power should be granted in the charter to such an extent that the State Legislature could not be called upon to concern itself with the regulation or administration of the internal affairs of the city , and the heads of departments should be exclusively executive officers to carry out what has been prescribed by the municipal legislative authority . The contention is a familiar one that the State Legislature , made up largely of representatives of other communities having no direct interest in the management of the city 's affairs and no responsibility to its people , is not qualified to deal wisely with its interests and is apt to be controlled by other considerations than its civic well-being . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall control their local affairs through representatives and agents of their own choosing , and whatever shortcomings may appear in their exercise of the power , it is not likely to be less wise and effective than its exercise by an outside authority , while if they are made responsible for all consequences , they will find a way to correct their errors . Taking it as granted , to start with , that legislative and executive functions should be separated , and that both should be exercised by local authorities dependent for their existence and support upon the people of the enlarged municipality and responsible to them , the commission should find some way of constituting these authorities so as to give reasonable assurance that their powers will be exercised effectively and wisely . With the administrative departments there will be no great difficulty , but how the legislative body shall be constituted is a question to be studied with care , and one to which every member of the commission should give thoughtful attention in the light of all the knowledge and experience attainable . The point to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legislative body with ample power over the local and internal affairs of the municipality .                     