@@781645

txt fication , however , was only of the provisional union which had been arranged ; and should the existing troubles in Salvador lead to a popular sentiment against federation , either through distrust of Guatemala or through the ultimate coming into power of a Government opposed to federal union , it would doubtless be possible for bet to retract before the day set for the actual beginning of the new governmental machinery . This is fixed for the 15th of September next , but the selection of the first President of Central Ametiea is to be made , if we . do ' not mistake , at an earlier date , August , The Legislatures of Nicaragua and Costa Rica did not emulate the promptness of those of the other three States.hi ratification of the project a union , so that the eagerness of the northern States in this matter has been somewhat counterbalanced by the conservatism of the southern . It is only fait to remember ; however , that our own " more perfect Union " proceeded with steps quite as cautious , not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two out of the thirteen States until after the Union was formed and the new wheels of government set in motion . In the first election of WASIUNOICON as President three of the States did not take part , and one of these was the very important State of New-York . If , as was recently intimated , Nicaragua should not participate in the first selection of a President for Central America this fact would not indicate thaft that republic was indisposed to enter the Union . On the contrary , with all the drawbacks and the doubts which have been made manifest , there seems to be no reason to doubt that all five of the States are thoroughly well disposed toward the coming Union , and that the southern States will enter it as cordially as the northern . A fortnight ago the President of Costa Rica accepted the resolutions adopted by the conference at San Salvador last October , subject to the approval of the Congress of that republic . During the present month Salvador Will undoubtedly be much disturbed , but there is no evidence thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Central American union ; certainly none that it was a demonstration of those who opposed federation . An adverse influence Which might be feared by the friends of union would be that arising from undue meddling in Salvador 's affairs by het neighbors , and probably for the sake of avoiding this result , even if for no other reason , such an interference will not be attempted . The revolution in Salvador may have results extending beyond the limits of that republic . Guatemala is now suspected , according to the current dispatches , of trying to dictate the appointment of a successor to MENENDEZ favorable to her interests , and Honduras is thought to be siding with her . On the Other hand , Salvador is repotted to be appealing , as in the ' crisis of five years ago , to Nicaragua and Costa Rica . That would be reviving the Sectional feeling of the two northern States against the three southern . Salvador is geographically at a disadvantage , being wholly surrmitided on her land frontier by Ghaternale , and Honduras . while Fonseca Bay Separates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has virtually an ally or rather a source of reliance against any aggression or any undue pressure on the part of Guateroala in Mexico , and that country is , no doubt , watching Central Anterican ' affairs just now . In 1885 , When BAithaOsi as Dictator of Guatemala , sought to Grath Saldeleted 17 lines                     