@@674015

txt The two things that have most confused and weakened the Democratic Party in public opinion have been the favor and fear shown toward the advocates of free silver and the potent though not unrebuked or unresisted influence of Got. - manism . These may be regarded as permanently disposed of by the elections in Kentucky and Maryland . Undoubtedly the course of the Democratic Party as to free silver has been more honest and less tricky than that of the Republican Party . In the former the sound-money men have openly fought the inflationists , have for at least a dozen years kept the National platforms on a higher level than those of the Republicans , and , through their leader , Mr. CLEVBLAND , have maintained the Government firmly on the right course . The Republicans , on the other hand , have persistently compromised with their inflation faction , bedeviled the finances of the country with the Sherman law , and have not to this day produced a candidate for a Presidential office or for the nomination who dared to take firm and definite ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arduous and desperate one . It culminated in Kentucky when HARDIN was nominated on a sound-money platform . He repudiated that , and has been defeated by I ) emocra.tic votes . It was the expiring effort of the inflationists and banishes their influence from the field of calculation for the Presidential contest . Gorn3anism was a different , more dishonest , and therefore more dangerous thing . The occupation of GORMAN was trading in power secured by corruption , either in the form of spoils or in a baser form . He was the avowed and contemptuous foe of the principles professed in the platforms of his party , and which the President and the majority of the party in Congress sought to apply  --  tariff reform and civil service reform . He organized a little band of brigands in the Senate and " held up " the Tariff bill until he and they received the ransom they demanded . In his own State he sewed and kept the machinery of his party through patronage , through intrigue and corruption , and through violence . He despised the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The power of legislation was to him simply a source of profit and political influence . Administrative offices in the hands of his associates and subordinates were used in a like manner . Living in a small State with a normally heavy Democratic majority , he was able , with the ma.chinery under his control , to sway his party and maintain his position . Owing to the narrow Democratic majority in the Senate , he was able , from this position , to dominate the councils of his party . He became a person of National importance and gave to the Democracy a stamp of treachery , hypocrisy , and corruption which the best efforts of the best men could not wholly do away with while he remained in control in his State . He has finally been overthrown by Democratic votes . With this riddance , and with that accomplished in Kentucky , the party is immensely strengthened .                     