@@672569

txt The new United States cruiser Conoord anchored off City Island at 4 this afternoon . She left the docks of the Morgan Iron Works at 11 this morning , steamed rapidly through Hell Gate . past Willett 's Point , and was sent bowling down the Sound on a preliminary speed run . The engines were fairly opened out abreast of City Island . Oft Stepping Stones Light the Concord was making 16.5 knots . Ten minuted later she was making 17 knots and running faster every minute . Abreast of Execution Light a speed of no less than 17.6 knots was being developed . The vessel 's steadiness under the high speed was marked . The motion of the engines was haraly perceptible . The run was kept up until abreast of Eaton 's Neck Light . The cruiser was then put about , and then the fall force of the northwest blow was felt . Spray flew high over the decks . The topgallant forecastle and amidships was running with water , the spray in every instance being hurled aboard by the opposition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engines developed exceptionally high power on the return run . This was due mainly to the assistance of the wind in aiding the draught . The preliminary run of to-day is deemed gratifying . Not a break . or flaw developed in any part of the machinery . Steam was maintained without difficulty at an average pressure of 152 pounds to the square inch , the engines making a mean of 153 revolutions per minute . The cutoff was regulated at .78 , vacuum , 24 Inches . The boiler steam gauges registered a mean of 152 pounds . At the engine gauges 148 pounds were recorded ; at the first receiver , 70 pounds , and second receiver , 25 pounds . The blowers today ran up to 460 revolutions per minute . In the iireroom an air pressure of 138 inches was recorded . The temperature of the injection denoted 350 ; discharge , 96 ? , and feed , 132 ? . Every preparation has been completed tonight for the coming official rind of to-morrow . Indicator cards will be taken ever ten minutes throughout the whole of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since the last attempt of the Conootd to meet official requirements several important changes have been . made in the machinery by the contractors . The pistons now follow further than they did before . This has been effected by moving the eccentrics . The exhaust lap has been reduced , and there is now less cushioning than formerly . The official Government requirement for the Concord is a development of 2,400 horse power regardless of speed . This is the maximum development made by the Yorktown . The maximum development of the latter vessel has been made the minimum requirement of the Concord . The Concord is a gunboat cruiser of the same type as the Yorktown . She measures 1.700 tons displacement , will earrysix six-inch breechloading rifles and a crew of 160 men . The engines of the Concord are of the horizontal tripleexpansion type . The vessel has twin-screw , manganeze bronze propellers . The members of the official board aboard the Concord consist of Capt . A. P. Cooke , President , Commanders O. A. Bateheller and Royal B. Bradford , Lieutenant Commander E. P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Magee , Passed Assistant Engineers Stevenson , Freeman , and Eldredge , Assistant Engineers Gage , Leopold , Redgrave , Winohell , Dyson , Moritz , and Herbert . In addition the Concord has on board Mr. N. F. Palmer , Jr. , builder of the engines ; Dr. E. F. Smith , medical officer ; Capt . Woodhull , Pilot P. M. Ball , and Chief Engineer Peek in charge of the engines .                     