@@780976

txt The remarkable statement was made yew terday at Citizens ' Union headquarters that no further financial help was needed ; that the managers of Mr. Low 's campaign had all the money necessary to meet the legitimate expenses of the campaign . The Union leaders regard this situation as significant of the sentiment for Mr. Low and nonpartisanship . This announcement of a plethora of funds was made in this letter " To the Public " : Your responses to the appeal of the Citizens ' Union for contributions to its campaign fund have been so numerous and generous that the treasury now contains all the money which can be legitimately expended between now and Election Day . No candidate on the Citizens ' Union ticket has contributed directly or indirectly one cent to the treasury , nor have the contributions of corporations been solicited or accepted . A faithful statement of expenditures will be rendered to you as soon as my accounts can be audited . Further contributions are unnecessary , and the surplus fund they would now create would be an embarrassment to the Finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to restore such surplus legally and rightfully , since a great number of the contributions , large and small , which have reached the Treasury come from anonymous sources . I take this public means of averting such an embarrassment . But while the Citizens ' Union has ceased to solicit your money , it remains in the field earnestly soliciting your votes . J. KENNEDY TOD . Treasurer Citizens ' Union . Gen. MeCook 's Estimates . Gen. Anson G. McCook had this to sat about the situation : " Ever since the great Republican meeting last week at Carnegie Hall the growth of sentiment in favor of Mr. Low has been steadily increasing . My original estimate , made ten days ago , that he would receive at least 50 per cent . of the Rept iflican vote of New York County and at least GO per cent . of the same vote in the County of Kings , has been changed by the improved conditions . I believe to-day that it is a. conservative estimate to say that in this county 65 per cent . of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . of the Republican vote in the County of Kings . " The meeting of the colored men hi Gramercy Lyceum laSt night to indorse Mr. Low and the Citizens ' Union ticket was the most significant meeting of the campaign . Upon the platforth were many of the real representative men of the colored race , including a majority of the most prominent pastors of its churches in this city . There are more than 20,000 colored voters in Greater New York , and I believe that their vote will be practically solid for Mr. Low and the Citizens ' Union ticket . The gre:ft audiences which greeted Mr. Low last night in Brooklyn are only additional evidences of the resistless tide that will sweep hint into the Mayor 's office . " Joseph H. Choate is reported to have said : " It looks like a Low landslide . " The poll being made by the Union is looked upon as conclusive evidence that the fight is between Mr , Low and Judge Van Wyck . As yet returns from only two Assembly districts have been received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being made by volunteers , who are not paid for their services. , It is declared that the work is being honestly and reliably done . It is charged that some of the corporations are attempting to prevent their men from voting for Seth Low . Railway Employes Terrorized . The following statement was made yes ? terday by James B. Reynolds , Chairman of the Executive Committee : " A man in whom I have implicit confidence came to me and stated that he had been informed by three employes of one of the railway companies that they would . be expected to vote for Van Wyck or Tracy , but not for Low . " Mr. Reynolds also said , that he personally knew of a case of a man who was discharged for wearing a Low-button while employed upon the work now in progress on the Fourth and Madison Avenue street car line in changing its power from horse to electric . James A. Punderford will preside at the Durland Academy mass meeting Saturday , night . The speakers will be Seth Low ; Oscar S. Straus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Ellison , Gen. Anson G. McCook , John Jay Chapman , and Howard P. Okie . The following gentlemen , among others , will act as Vice Presidents : W. D. Stewart , E. B. Holden , Kilaen Van Rensselaer , William Houston Kenyon , Charles Colma . Francis R. Arnold , Alexander Tison , the Rev. S. De Lancey Townsend , E. C. Dusenbury C. Grant La Farge , Thomas R. Ball , the Rev. Dr. Jacob S. Shipman . Arthur W. Watson , John C. Clark , Henry T. McCoun , Edward Corning , W. Arrowsmith , Percival Knauth , Gilbert Colgate . George Putnam Smith . Henry B. Laidlaw . H. J. Swift , Otto E. Reimer , John Franken ? heimer , John H. C. Nevius , Fred M. Littlefield , C. H. Haig , W. P. Gillette , Oscar S. Straus , Horace A. Davis , Leonard Paulson , Jr. ; J. F. Tweedy , Frank H. Dodd , Joseph ; M. Lichtenauer , Lionel Sutro , L. J. Rosen  --  blatt . Theodore A. Kohn , W. B. Fuller , E. Newcomb , M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A meeting of wheelmen organizing the parade to take place on the Boulevard Saturday evening was held at the Citizens ' Union Headquarters , Eighty-second Street and Boulevard , last night . A Committee on Parade was elected as follows : John B. Yates , Grand Marshal ; Theodore Wentz , F. M. Frobisher , P. A. Hagel , A. M. Bremer , L. G. Muller , A , H. Curtis , S. Solomon , William R. Lowe , C. S. McCulloh , J. W. Hutchinson , R. M. Steer , T. G. Sigler , J. C. Pumpelly . The following division marshals were appointed : R. B. Morrison , Borough of the Bronx ; S. Solomon . Twenty-first Assembly District ; William R. Lowe , north of Central Park , Harlem Division : H. C. West , Twenty-seventh Assembly District ; P. A. Hagel , Fifteenth Assembly District . WOMAN 'S LEAGUE AT WORK . ' Charles F. Wingate Gives a History , of the Reform Movement . The Woman 's Municipal League met at the house of Mrs. Esther Herman , 59 West Fifty-Sixth Street , last night . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the candidates of the Citizens ' Union . Miss L. A. Bangs presided . Among the speakers were Miss Kate Bond , Miss A : W. Willson , and Charles F. Wingate , a member of the committee on labor and social reform of the Citizens ' Union . Mr. Wingate gave a retrospect history of the reform movement since the overthrow of , Tweed ring . Mrs. Joseph H. Choat is President of the league , and Mrs. J. Shaw Lowell is at the head of the Executive Board . A meeting will be held this afternoon at the Young Women 's Christian Association Hall , 7 East Fifteenth Street Mrs. Charles Russell Lowell will preside . The speakers will be Prof. Felix Adlez I and the Rey. 5v . S. Aa.insford.                     