@@673822

txt The factional fight for possession of St. Paul 's Catholic Church , ( Polish , ) which has been in prdgress for six months , culminated in a riot this morning immediately after mass . The Rev. Stephen Kaminski , the priest in charge , had just finished the service and the congregation had left the edifice for their homes when thirty-five men approached the building . After a brief parley ten of the number entered the church and demanded that the priest deliver the keys to them . He refused and ordered them to leave the place . Instead of complying with his request , they began to threaten him with bodily harm . Fearing that an effort would be made upon his life , the priest armed himself with a revolver and again commanded the intruders to leave . Scarcely had the priest uttered the order than several shots were directed toward him . He returned the fire , and then a running fusillade was kept up until about two dozen shots had been exchanged between the priest and the attacking parties . Joseph Darganzewski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain possession of the church , was standing near the stove in the middle of the church and a short distance In front of his friends . One of the shots fired by the priest struck him in the right knee and passed out . Another shot struck him in the left ankle , inflicting a severe wound . He fell upon the floor , crying : " Kill him ! I am shot ! " Several more shots were directed toward the priest , but he occupied a position just behind the altar and escaped unharmed . The attacking party retreated from the church . The news of the riot quickly spread and hundreds of women and children armed themselves with clubs and revolvers and hurried to the church to avenge the wounded man . The church was surrounded and an effort made to gain admission , but the priest held the fort securely from a wellintrenched position near the altar . All the windows on the west side of the building were broken and the front doors were burst open , but no one had the courage to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churchyard , hooted and yelled , and brandished clubs and revolvers , calling others to their aid to take the priest from the building and hang him . In another yard was a small gathering of the faithful followers ' of the priest , who were guarding the entrance to the rear door of the church . A woman precipitated a general fight by hurling a can at one of the mob outside the door . Rocks were thrown by the belligerents , and revolvers drawn on both sides . Detectives averted more serious trouble by arresting two filen who were belaboring each other with pitchfork handles . The church yard was then . cleared and the ' crowd ' gathered outside the gate . The priest , stationed near the door leading to the side entrance to the church , shot , according to his story , in self defense , and was aided by five small boys in the sacristy , who loaded and reloaded the priest 's revolvers as directed . A dozen bullet holes are in the altar , some of the bullets gene ' trating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plastering on the walls and ceiling near the altar door . Father Kaminski was taken to jail , but released on bail . The trouble arose over a mistake by the assailing party . One faction was headed by the priest , a Franciscan Monk , and the other by Darganzewski . Bishop Scannell refused to recognize Kaminski , and led in the fight to oust him . Kaminski 's faction secured possession of the church , and two weeks ago the District Court decided in favor of the Bishop . Pending an appeal to the Supreme Court , Kaminski and his faction remained in control . The other faction did not understand this , and under the District Court order they demanded control . Wholesale arrests of rioters were made to-night . The portion of the city near the church is greatly excited , and more trouble is feared . MR . LAUTERBACH MAY RETIRE Talk of a Reorganization of the Republican County Committee . One of the stories which attracted some attention from politicians last night was to the effect that preparations were already under way for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which there are to be thirty-five Assembly districts in the city was one of the excuses given for this . A part of the story was that Edward Lauterbach , the President of the organization , would retire , leaving the field open for the selection of a new President at the earliest meeting after the reapportionment . This takes effect in June . Some time will be required to adjust the scheme of management in county politics to this increase in the number of districts . It was said that Mr. Lauterbach might retire within sixty days .                     