@@672571

txt The air is full of rumors that Mr. Parnell has decided to give up the fight , and , for a time , at least , to retire from the public gaze ; but thus far they are , only rumors , and , moreover . they all originate from Tory and . Unionist sources . Neither in Dublin nor in London are the Irish leaders , who ought to know what is going on , able to guess how much truth there is in these persistent reports . Mr. Parnell had been announced to address a great open-air meeting at Tralee tomorrow . This is the home of the Harrington brothers , and the intention had been to organize such a gathering of the fierce Kerry clans and hillside men as would strike terror into the milder sections of Ireland , but at the last moment it was discovered that there was something the matter with the clans . They were ready enough to gather  --  gathering is the chief occupation of the Kerry men at this time of the year  --  but it became evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to toes the Harrington brothers into Tralee Bay . A stormy meeting of the principal Nationalist society on Thursday evening refused even to hear Edward Harrington , and only the presence of the priests saved him from physical violence . This so altered the aspect of affairs that Mr. Parnell missed his train in London , and has now- arrived in Ireland so late that it is doubtful if he will have time to go to Tralee at alL No information is obtainable to-day as to whether he will be there to-morrow or not , bat , if he does arrive , there are likely to be some rough scenes , and the same is true of his projected meeting at Athlone on Monday . At all events , we bid fair to have the situation much cleared up before Parliament reassembles on Thursday . There is a stoutly-contested campaign in progress at Hartlepool , where the Unionists had 900 Majority in 1886 , and now , despite the fact that their candidate is far and away the wealthiest employer and most popular personality in the district , they will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the Liberals win ' or come near winning it , it will have a magical revivifying effect on the whole Home Rule Party . Mr. Gladstone , without at all retiring home rule , has shrewdly consented to pat suffrage reform alongside of it as a foremost Liberal issue . This reform will have two objects in view ? to wipe out the half million of votes which are cast now by the duplication of the property franchise and to create four . million of new voters by-the establishment of universal suffrage . The adoption of this plank is a triumph for M. Labonchare , who all along has been insisting that it will be necessary for the Liberal House of Commons to pass such a measure before passing any home rule bill , and its promulgation now will moreover do much to inspire the Liberal rank and file with new confidence . The fourth week of the great Scotch railway strike is drawing to a close , with no prospects of an early settlement , and considerable prospects of an attempt to back up the movement by a huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk to-day about what the dock laborers of Dundee will do on Monday , and the federated trades of the North of England . hold a great mass meeting on Newcastle town moor to-morrow , at which the project of a general strike will be discussed . Secretary Fenwick and a number of labor members of Parliament will be present with trades delegates from all the towns between Berwick and Hartlepool Meanwhile fresh trouble has broken out at the London docks , and things seem to be drifting rapidly into a universal tangle . It is already announced from Vienna that the Austrian workmen intend making big demonstrations again on the 1st of May , and we shall soon hear doubtless of a like demonstration throughout other European countries . It has not , however , created anything like the trepidation in financial and political circles which last May Day iatu3ed . Then the idea was new , and timid people viewed it with dismay . Now everybody has measured , or thinks he has measured , its true value , and takes the thing quietly . The Pope will issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Holy See is the proper , indeed the necessary , director of the social democratic movement , but Leo XIII . having had his chance and missed it , talks now to empty benches , and his encyclical will not influence anybody or anything . The young German Emperor , who has missed no chance , has Europe 's ear , and what he has to say on the social subject will be listened to by all sides , and to the confidence his bold frankness has inspired is largely due the present general feeling that no trouble need be apprehended . The new French protective tariff will not become a law without loud and vehement apposition from the manufacturing towns where the proposed increase of duties on raw materials will work groat mischief . Long petitions are being signed against these duties in all the industrial centres , and important groups of manufacturers are said to have declared to the Ministry that if the bill is passed they will dose their faotoriee and . start their basip.ess in England instead . This question is likely to swallow up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of dynastic politics we shall probably hear nothing at all . It is twenty years this week since the French Republic was formally inaugurated by the national Assembly at Bordeaux , and the Government Shen started , having survived some pretenders and smothered . others in ridicule , ' n now so secure that nobody even . dreams of suggesting a rival Factional rancors seem to have sensibly abated , too . M. Jules Ferry returns to official life as a Senator . and . nobody has once shouted " A bee Tosakinois I " at him . Sincehis arrival in Paris M. Ferry has ceased wearing his English mutton-chop whiskers , which used to make him look precisely like a head waiter , and grows a dignified fall beard instead . This may account for the current Parisian notion that he has outlived his unpopularity and will sooner or later return to power . People who stroll now through Berkeley and Eaton Squares in Mayfair may see in each a great ducal mourning escutcheon , one bearing royal arms quartered with the conjoined wings of the Seymonrs , the others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russells , two of England 's best-known families . The aged Duke of Somerset is succeeded now by a brother already in his eighties , who came to the title only a few years ago . He was wholly unknown to the world at large , and , though his rural rent roll was nominally $200,000 a year , he was esteemed a poor man , as Dukes go . The other dead Dake , he of Bedford , was very much in men 's thoughts in his capacity as a ground landlord of 118 acres in the very heart of London , including the Bloomsbury district , where thousands of Americans annually find lodgings , and all Covent Garden . There are on this estate some 30,000 buildings , and the rent is prodigious ; yet the Duke of Bedford was a synonym for all that was rapacious and reactionary in landlordism . He had . estates in twelve counties besides , aggregating nearly 100,000 acres , and his total rent roll in town and country approximated $4,000 , - 000 . Save possibly the Dake of Westminster , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meanest . They burned him . in the crematory at Woking yesterday . Close by in Eaton Terrace hangs the escutcheon of the dead Earl of Devon , dieplaying the three torteaux of the Courtsnays , who were a most powerful family in England centuries before either the Seymours or the later Russells - were heard of . Not even royalty itself has higher claims to antiquity , and their historian is no lesser writer than Gibbon . It is a long day since London has seen three such historic funeral shields hung out together on its walls . There is nothing in it all , though , to quicken the feminine pulses among our 400 , for all three of the new peers are marThe outrageous inequality of judicial sentences in England has frequently been commented upon , but it seems impossible to reform them . This week a female baby farmer , who had deliberately starved . two little children to skin and bones , so that they would have died in a day or two if they had not been discovered , was sent to prison for a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a public subscription for a fire company of which he had ceased to be a member , was sentenced to eighteen months . The portion of Cardinal Newman 's letters and papers which is this week given to the public here by the Longmans in two large volumes does not , as you perhaps know by this time , cover the most important period . of the great man 's life , but is still deeply interesting . Its most velaable feature is here thought to be . the autobiographical memoir written in the third person and . embracing the years from 1816 to 1832. - ? The new volume of John Morley'e essays has divided critics ' attention with a popular single-volume collection of Rossetti 's poems . For twenty years these latter existed for the English public only in an expensive form , which for the general reader mean that they have not existed at all . It is a nice question now whether the public will confirm the ecstatic opinion which the literary young England of 1870 , under the emotional lead of Swinburne , formed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are not entirely sure about their own loyalty to the painterpoet , and confess to doubts about his permanent place in English poetry . Writing and publishing circles hereabout will be smartly stirred up when the real meaning of an advertisement in today 's papers comes to be understood . The announcement is of Ibsen 's new play , " Hedda Gabler , " which Mr. Heinemann publishes to-day with a warning that all the rights are reserved . The situation which this discloses is unique in the history of copyrights . As there is no copyright treaty between England . and . Norway , a London publisher named Walter Scott collected lbsen 's plays , and issued them in a pretty series edited by William Archer , paying Ibsen only such an honorarium as English authors get from honorable American publishers . Mr. Archer recently went to Munich to secure " Hedda Gabler " and learned that Edmund Gosse had just purchased it for Mr. Heinemann , Mr. Archer , returning , announced his intention of reprinting it in Scott 's series a month after the publication by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to the Norwegian original in England . and . by publishing it in Norwegian here before it appeared in Norway he secured an English copyright . Scott 's intention of including it in his series is thus blocked . unless he buys the right of HeineM21111 at a round figure . The play itself is of the same unconventional , not to say unmentionable , class as " Ghosts . " Alfred Parsons , whose work is delightfully familiar to the American public through Harper 's Magazine , is to open an exhibition of his pictures in Bond Street the first week in March . Those exhibited . will be chiefly water colors . The Salon has officially announced that only 1,800 paintings will be received . this year instead of 2,500 , and only 400 drawing , pastels , &e.,; instead of the 800 of previous years . This is done to endeavor to frighten away amateurs and fine lady artists . H. F.                     