@@781104

txt THE TIMES 's correspondent has been waiting for the excitement occasioned . by the killing of the five bandits , who came to Havana with the intention of leaving the island by the Spanish steamer Baldomero Yglesias on the 6th inst. , to subside In order to give a true account of the affair . From all reports a safe Conduct was promised these outlaws , upon condition that they should promptly leave the island , and they were aooonrpanied all the way from the country to the city by an officer of the Government . These five bandits , belonging to Manuel Garcia 's band , were named Domingo Montotongo , Eulogio Rivero , Fernando Delgado , Mango and Ramon Montotongo , brothers to Domingo , who were accompanied . by their uncle Montotongo . They arrived here on the afternoon of the 5th lost , and stopped over night with friends , going ou board the steamer about 3 P. M. on the 6th Inst . The wife and children of Eulogio Rivero , a relative and brother , was of the party . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes to show that the Government was cognizant of the intended departure of these bandits , who , with the exception of the wife , child , and friend of Rivero , descended to the second cabin , where they met several policemen dressed as citizens . The policemen exclaimed : " Alto a la policia , " throwing themselves upon the bandits , who , seeing that they had been entrapped , were disposed to sell their lives as dearly as possible . Each one drew his revolver and tired upon the police , who immediately rushed for the stairway in order to gain the deck , returning the fire of the bandits . Fernando Delgado was killed at the first discharge of the pistols of the police . Domingo and Ramon Moutolongo , Eulogio Rivero and his brother attempted to gain the deck , not stopping to fight with the police . The twolatter fell dead in front of the kitchen . Eulogio Rivero and Domingo Montoiongo ran down the side , the latter exclaiming , " We have been betrayed , " jumped into a small boat which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by threatening to kill him . The police now commenced firing on the retreating boat , the Inspector , Selene sounding the steamer 's whistle and ringing the bell , hearing which the sentinel on board the man-of-war Concha gave the alarm . Arming the marines and launching two boats , he proceeded to intercept the fleeing boat , which was stopped by a passing tugboat . The fire of the marines killed the two bandits and wounded the boatman . Captains of foreign vessels which were anchored near the outgoing steamer report that they were in great peril from the tiring of the policemen and marines , the shots passing over their vessels and striking among their sails and rigging , and the excitement in the harbor from so much shooting can well be imagined . Two policemen on board the steamer were wounded , and a mulatto stevedore was found with his right hand bathed in blood . The public is terribly excited , not understanding why these bandits had been allowed to embark in open day on board a passenger steamer a short time before the hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , instead of doing this while at the public eating houses taking their meals or within the houses of their friends , who had given them accommodation for the night . The arrest could have been made on the railroad or in the States without the terrible results on board the steamship Baldomero Iglesias in the harbor of Havana .                     