@@674968

txt Gen. WHEELER is a man whose honesty is as undoubted as his ' courage , and it would be almost as difficult to imagine as to suspect any motive he could have for attempting to " whitewash " the Administration or its Secretary of War . There is , however , widespread surprise at the sort of testimony which the veteran has given before that absurd committee in Washington , and people are pondering deeply on the mystery of how a soldier so well informed and well intentioned can deduce from unquestioned facts conclusions So utterly at variance with those which he was expected to reach . It may assist to a solution of this problem if people remember in what circumstances it was that Gen. WHEELER studied war and formed the standards by which he judges whether or not the Commissaries , Quartermasters , and Surgeons of to-day have done as well as they could . The Confederate States fought a desperate battle against heavy odds . Their troops underwent great and constant hardships of every sort . They did so uncomplainingly because they understood the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of medicines and care were the necessities and Inevitabilities of their service. - What Gen. WHEELER forgets , perhaps , is that 1898 is not 1864 , and that a little foreign war is not a great civil war . Would he and the men he formerly had have endured as uncomplainingly as they did if the Government for which they fought had possessed limitless wealth and boundless resources ? We think not ? are sure not , To puffer and die for his country is a soldier 's duty , but it is not his duty to suffer needlessly and to die needlessly . It is very likely that our forces in Cuba were better supplied in every way than were , at times , either the Union or Confederate troops . but that , is far from proving that they were not the victims of incompetency and neglect . The theory that Gen. WHEELER is judging the Administration and its conduct of the war by inadmissible standards finds strong confirmation in the fact that , just after he had " praised all the supply departments , saying that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved to add as a ground of commendation that " the mortality among the Spanish troops was quite equal to that among the American soldiers . " That is a statement truly astounding . There is no need to discuss it , or to do more than call attention to the light which it throws upon the whole of Gen. WHEELEin 's testimony .                     