@@673623

txt A proposed amendment upon which the Constitutional Convention has been wasting some time of late declares that the Legislature " may " enact laws " requiring " citizens entitled to exercise the right of suffrage to exercise such right . As this is not mandatory , it is not at all likely that such laws would be enacted , for citizens like to have their rights protected , but not to have them turned into legal obligations and forced upon them . The right to vote should be guarded and protected , and it should be'exercised with freedom . This is a field in which it would be peculiarly offensive to have the liberty of the citizen put under restraint . So far as voting is a duty , it is a duty to be performed according , to convictions , and not under compulsion . No doubt it is neglected by - many who ought to be ashamed of their indifference , but they can not be made earnest and patriotic or public spirited in this matter by compulsion any more than in other matters . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vote . Suppose in . any particular case a citizen is thoroughly dissatisfied with the conduct of both political parties or with the character of their candidates . He may wish to mark his disapproval of his own party by withholding his support , while he may not be willing to give his vote to the candidates of the other party . According to his view he can most effectually exercise his right as a. citizen and express his dissatisfaction by refusing to vote . Why should he be compelled either to make a choice between , two tickets , neither of which he likes but one of , which must be elected , or to throw his vote away upon some " cause " or for candidates in which he takes no interest or to which he has an antipathy ? No man- can , under a system of secret voting , be compelled to do either of these things . He will still be free to cast a blank ballot , which will be exactly equivalent to not voting , except that he is put to a trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . A compulsory voting ' law can not be enforced without a system of espionage and super vision which would be distasteful to our people . Somebody ; Would have to find Out by imatifY who Was and who rig not registered , and who among registered voters had failed to exercise his right . Then these delinhuents would have to be pursued In some way and brought , to account . A mere legal . requirement would have no effect unless enforced by penalties . The penalty of disfranchisement for a greater or less period is suggested , but that is an absurdity . It is trying to force a person to perform a duty by threatening to relieve him of it , or to exercise a right by threatening to deprive him of it . At every election many a man is prevented from voting by illness or necessary absence , and these would have to be allowed as excuses . ' When alleged as such , - somebody would have to decide upon their genuineness and validity , and there would be more inquisitorial proceedings . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few of those superior persons who are always trying to force others to do what in their opinion these others ought to do . Civic duties can not be forced in a free country , except such as are admitted to be necessary to the administration of affairs , like serving on juries . Compulsory voting is not consistent with free institutions or with the spirit of a free people . Why waste time on such a proposition ?                     