@@672304

txt The Senatorial pot has boiled very lively to-day , and the hosts of Millionaire Thomas have been in high glee , claiming not only the nomination of their favorite , but the withdrawal of Mr. Brice from the field before the canons. r . In an interview Mr. Thomas said : " I am certain that my candidacy is stronger than it was a week or so ago . We have been mach encouraged during the last few days by the situation , and now there seems to he a decided wave in my favor . " " Do you expect strong Support from the representatives of the laboring classes I " ? Well , I have received numerous letters from labor organizations of various parts of the State assuring me of their support , and if this has any influence on the legislators , I will certainly have a good vote from . that source . Whether it will influence members for me or not remains to be Seen . " Everything went merrily with the Thomas people until to-night . when Mr. Brice arrived and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the effervescent spirits of his chief opponent . Following CoL Brice came the Hamilton County delegation , accompanied by a ? large number of political workers and office seekers . The crowds at the hotels tonight are very large , and on the streets the Senatorehip is the only theme discussed . It is generally conceded that Mr. Brice is the winner in the race regardless of the claims of his opponent . He lives in a Democratic county and has the prestige of tieing Chairman of the National Committee , while Mr. Thomas comes from Springfield , a strongnold of Republicanism , and the county is surrounded by others of Republican pOrseasion . The fact that Mr. Brice is the only candidate with a military record will also have no little effect in deciding the question as to who will be the next Senator . While no one can tell who the Hamilton County members will favor , it is more than safe to say that Brice will receive ' 7 of the 12 on inc first ballot , and 11 of the 12 on the second . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first ballot all of these will likely go to the stable , when the real contest between Brice and Thomas will commence . In an Interview on hid arrival . Col : Brice said : " I shall use all honorable means to succeed . If I fail , the nominee will make a good Senator . All of the candidates are men of integrity and ability . "                     