@@672874

txt The sentiment in Pennsylvania in favor of the nomination of Cleveland for President is so general and pro-. iaotuiced that all efforts to neutralize it have utterly tailed . The course of Hill in forcing an early convention in New-York to give him prestige in the Presidential race has fallen exceedingly flat in this State . He has never been a favorite in Pennsylvania because of his responsibility for the defeat of Cleveland in New York in 1888 , but to-day he has scarcely any friends to sound his praises . Nearly all the delegates thus far elected in the country districts to the Democratic State Convention are not only expected to support candidates for delegates to the National Democratic Convention of whose loyalty to Cleveland there can he no doubt , but have been instruoted in tee interest of the ex-President . Persons suspected of friendliness to Hill have no chance of receiving any recognition in county conventions . The delegates from Philadelphia are not under instructions , but nearly all of them will east their votes for men who can be depended on to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Monroe , Northumberland , Forest , and other counties in which conventions have been held , Cleveland has swept the board and Hill has been nowhere . In Cumberland an effort to defeat instructions signally failed . Where there are rival candidates for delegates they find themselves compelled to declare for the ex-President . The Forest County Democratic Convention was not satisfied with instructing for Cleveland , but resolutions were adopted by it condemning as " undemocratic and dictatorial the actions of Senators Brice . Gorman , and Hlli in trying to forestall and prevent the people from selecting their standard bearer in the Presidential campaign , " and declaring that " in no event can the Democracy of Forest County favor or indorse the nomination of David B. Hill of New York , since that gentleman 's views are not in harmony with those of his party on the tariff " Hie action in taking snap judgment on the Democrats of New-York in calling at an nnunseemly time a convention , and that convention composed of his own creatures , " is described " as savoring too much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chief Magistracy of the Nation . " In Blair County several delegates were chosen recently who are suspected of treachery to Cleveland , and another election will be held to secure men pronounced in their support of him . In this city two sets of delegates to the State Convention are in the field . One of these is pledged to the support , as national delegate , of Christian Hanlen , who is an ardent admirer of Cleveland , and the other is running in the interest of Mayor Fritchey , who claims to be favorable to the nomination of the ex-President , but who has repeatedly declared himself for Hill . He has had cards printed embellished with a picture of Cleveland , in the hope of deceiving Democratic , voters . He is also depending for success on the work of his police force , every member of which is canvassing the city for votes for his chief . One of his policemen is a candidate for delegate to the State Convention . Prodigious efforts are being made to elect Mayor Fritchey 's delegates , but his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmest personal friends are opposing him . There is another cogent reason why they refuse to stand by him . Four years ago , when his party was entering on a Presidential fight , he joined the Constitutional Defense Association of America , which was organized to antagonize the principle of tariff reform and the alleged tyranny of labor organizations . Among the members of this association were Gen. Mahone of Virginia , ex-Gov . Hoyt of this State , and Congressmen Bingham , Atkinson , and Harmer , all Republicans . For his connection with this association he was expelled as a member of the Democratic City Committee while he held his present position . Another argument used against him is that he endeavored to make a bargain with a prominent politician of this city recently to rebuke the present State Administration by electing him ( Fritohey ) as its enemy .                     