@@674412

txt The discovery of a State law , passed by the Legislature of 1895 , to regulate the government and property interests of church corporations , has caused a profound stir in at least two tf the great denominations . Until yesterday nobody interested in its operation appeared to know that the law existed , notwithstanding the fact that it appears to open the way for the actual confiscation of church property by organizations which are termed " governing besees " in the act , but which , in the case of the Congregational and Baptist denominations , are not recognized as possessing any authority of the kind . Some striking coincidences gather about the discovery of this law . Two weeks ago to-day the Rev. Dr. Lyman Abbott , pastor of Brooklyn 's principal Congregational Church ? Plymouth ? preached a sermon which some critics pronounced , unorthodox . On the following Tudsday the Manhattan Association , which comprises leading Congregational divines of this city , discussed Dr. Abbott 's views , and the clergy and laity of the denomination have since shown an interest amounting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orthodoxy . Prof. Shearman , who is one of Dr. Abbott 's warm friends and supporters in Plymouth Church , was the first man to call attention to the law and to raise the question as to whether or not under its provisions the American Congregational Union or Plymouth Church Corporation , in common with the other church corporations in the denomination , have the final authority in matters affecting their own government and property interest . The Law Discussed . Prof. Shearman presented the subject for discussion at the regular monthly meeting of the Plymouth congregation , held Friday night . A committee , consisting of Prof. Shearman , Rossiter W. Raymond , and Frank Rudd , was appointed to ' investigate the matter . In the discussion at this meeting it was stated that the newly discovered law constitutes the American Congregational Union the legal governing body of the denomination in ' this State . The law further provides that any Congregational Church which fails to maintain public services " in accordance with the- customs and usages of said governing body " shall be deemed extinct , and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prof. Shearman , who is well-informed on  --  the laws affecting , the churches of the State , thinks the law is of . *grave consequence . ' " It affects vitally the interests of all the Congregational - arid . Baptist churches of the State , " said he . " The minute the State presumes to put a governing head over independent churches , they cease to be independent . " ? Congregational churches heretofore have been organized as corporations , each separate and distinct , and not answerable for any of its spiritual or temporal acts to any other body . The utmost interference permissible in the affairs of the individual churches by the various associated interests of this denomination have been recommendations as to creed and advisory suggestions in matters of temporal policy , having no binding effect on the churches . The law of 1S95 is therefore of especial importance to Plymouth Church , since it appears to transfer the governing power to a body which may not approve Dr. Abbott 's recent utterances , and proceed to " govern " Plymouth Church accordingly . Dr. Abbott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation In which the law puts the churches of his denomination . " The provisions of the act , " said he , " are absolutely perversive of the fundamental principles of Congregationalism . The first princip:e of Congregationalism is that there is no general governing body ; each church is complete in itself . " The American Congregational Union is a voluntary society , organized to aid in the erection of places of worship , and to assist feeble churches . I see no reason to suppose that the American Congregational Union had anything to do with the passage of the law , which seems to me probably to have been a piece of legal blundering by some legislative committee which knew nothing whatever about church affairs . " Against Fundamental Principles . The Rev. Dr. William Lloyd , ' pastor of the Central Congregational Church of this city , said yesterday that the existence of such a law seemed incredible . " It is opposed to the fundamental principles of the denomination , " he said . " The essence of Congregationalism is independence . Such a law would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None of the Congregational general bodies assumes judicial or executive power over the individual churches . The Manhattan Association and the Manhattan Conference are both merely advisory and voluntarily helpful - organizations . As to the American Congregational Union , to which seems to have been given these extraordinary powers , it is an organization for church extension purely , and its President , Secretary , Treasurer , and Board of Directors are merely servants of the denomination , whose duty it is to expend the money raised by the churches to extend the general work of the denomination . The union has no power whatever , and it is but fair to say that it has never claimed any power to interfere in the affairs of the established churches . Creed Merely Recommended . " The Congregational Council some years ago adopted a form of creed and recommended its adoption by the churches . The churches , however , ' recognized no obligation to adopt it , beyond giving weighty consideration to advice from such a source . The Congregational Union never contributed a cent to Plymouth Church , nor has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " On the other hand , Plymouth has given thousands of dollars to the union . It would be nothing short of downright robbery for the union to lay any claim . whatever to Plymouth . It . has no business to touch a brick in . the Plymouth edifice , nor to make a suggestion as to creed . It has no authority even to investigate the church . The union is never even represented at church installations as an official body . It is purely the servant of the churches . " It is my impression , " said Dr. Lloyd in conclusion , " that the union will be more surprised than any of us to learn ' that such a law exists . Whatever may be the issue , it is certain that Plymouth Church will stand by Dr. Abbott . If the gentlemen who now propose to investigate it find it as it now appears to be , the Congregational churches will have but the one alternative of getting it changed at once . " Baptists " Will Object . The Rev. Dr. Robert S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same democratic idea underlying the Congregational Church system characterized his own denomination , and that if such a law was found to exist the Baptist churches would seek to have it wiped out at once . " In the Baptist denomination , " he said , " we have entered into voluntary association for mutual advice and . counsel . That is all our associations amount to . The rights of the individual churches are paramount . " The Trustees of my church-can sell the church property at any time without consulting with any ' other body in the denomination . All Baptist churches are incorporated under one of two State laws . The older law recognizes the right of pewholders to a voice in temporal questions . The later law gives no person except the members of the church a right to participate in its business affairs . There is no law which authorises any denominational body to interfere in any way with the religious or business affairs of the churches . " Doubt , of course , is expressed as to the constitutionality of a law which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the independent chartered churches of the State , by any denominational organization which might claim authority in their affairs , and thus would Interfere with vested rights . This point will be Investigated by the Plymouth committee , if the law is found to be in effect at this time .                     