@@673523

txt Owing to the failure of a number of Republicans to vote , the bill of Senator Bradley , ( Ind . Dem. , Kings , ) to legislate the Brooklyn Bridge Trustees out of office failed to get the necessary number , of votes when it came up on final passage in the Assembly this morning , and it was declared lost . This was a clear victory for the Democrats , and shows that the ebullition of last Thursday has not interfered with ex-Speaker Suizer 's ability to control the House with the assistance of Republican votes whenever he desires to do so . The vote was 64. to 48 , strictly party . One more vote would ' have passed the bill . The Democrats received the result with applause . The bill was in charge of Mr. Wray , ( Rep. , Kings . ) When it was announced Mr. Sulzer moved to recommit it to the Assembly 's Cities Committee . " It was another drive at home rule , " Mr. Sulzer said . The Legislature two years ago had passed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bill was but a vehicle for Senator Bradley , who wished to pay off a grudge . Senator Bradley had been elected by accident . He had introduced the bill because he had failed to get two men appointed on the bridge . " Senator Bradley , " said Mr. Sulzer , ? says he is not a Mugwump , but I ask , what Is he ? " Mr. Fish ( Rep. , Putnam , ) claimed that the Mayor of New-York favored the bill . This was denied by Mr. Sulzer . Mr. Fish then said that the Mayor of New-York had said he favored the measure , " and if he does not now , " said Mr. Fish . " we can not follow him . He changes too fast . " As a Republican Mr. Wray favored the bill . The Mayor of Brooklyn wanted it , and , as he did , the bill did conform with home-rule principles . . Mr. Sulzer contended that the bill was introduced by Senator Bradley because the Mayor of Brooklyn had failed to be elected President of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made certain charges against the Bridge Trustees which were not true , and that the Senator knew they were not . The bill was advocated by Mr. Ainsworth , who referred to Mr. Hennessy as " his peppery young friend . " Mr. Ainsworth reproved Mr. Hennessy for his actions and statements on the floor . After Mr. Finnegan had spoken against the bill the vote was taken . A detailed statement was called for and given , and the bill failed to receive the required number of votes and was lost . The vote was 64 to 48 . The House has passed the concurrent resolution of Mr. Hennessy providing for the election of additional Justices of the Supreme Court in the Second District ; also the Coggeshail ( Rep. , Oneida , ) bill to compel Factory Inspectors and Assistant Factory Inspectors to wear badges ; also Senator Mullin 's providing that contested-seat cases in the Constitutional Convention may be decided like those in the Legislature .                     