@@781932

txt When Col. Orsello discovered that Major Sessa was the author of the posters reflecting upon Mrs. Orsello and Miss Orsello , it was clear that the way was open to a " difficulty . " No high-spirited Southern gentleman could be expected to endure such reflections as these upon the ladies of his family , even though they were circulated only by word of mouth . When they were affixed to a telegraph pole , forbearance had evidently ceased to be a virtue . This is a mode of proclamation that in chivalric circles is restricted to the case of persons , for they can not be called gentlemen , who decline to obey a summons from those whom they have wronged to the field of honah . The usual form which the poster takes is a temperate statement that the subject of it is a coward . That there may be no affectation of misunderstanding , It is commonly added that he is a poltroon . He is thereupon expected to tear it down , and the author of it , in order to frustrate this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shotgun , and to discharge both barrels of it into the posted Colonel at the first sign of an intention on his part to destroy the description of him . This precedent was not strictly followed upon the present occasion . There has been a deplorable relaxation in the etiquette of difficulties since the war . Col. Orsello supplied his brothers and himself with three Winchester rifles , and lent revolvers to his friends , the brothers Solanito . Major Sessa , anticipating his purpose , laid in a store of 42-calibre self-cocking revolvers , and prevailed upon his friends Judge de Prisco , Capt . Portius , and Squire Don Freo to " heel themselves " with these weapons . All was thus in readiness for an honorable and chivalric termination of the difficulty . Col. Orsello informed Major Sessa that he and his friends were ready . Major Sessa , with a lack of chivalry which we regret to record , and which was entirely unworthy of a high-toned Southern gentlemen , as we ' now say boldly , seeing that the Major probably will not recover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not reach them , and endeavored to evade his enemy . His evasion was unsuccessful , since the Orsellos pursued him to his home , and " opened fire " upon his appearance at the window . They shot Major Besse. and Judge de Prisco , probably with fatal results , and they also succeeded in shooting through both legs Miss Annie Decker , aged thirteen , who was on her way home from Sunday school , and who was entirely unrelated to the difficulty . Readers who are not already in possession of the facts might suspect from the names of the combatants that this difficulty did not occur in Beloxi or in Tuscaloosa . The readers of the newspaper are already aware that , as a matter of fact , it occurred in the prosecution of a , feud among the Italian colony of Brooklyn , E. D. We admit that we have bestowed upon the principals ex-Confederate titles , " with the view of imparting verisimilitude to an otherwise bald and unconvincing narrative . " But although the difficulty did not occur in one of the States lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done so . and with a removal of the absurd assumption that a Southern gentleman ever needs to borrow a deadly weapon , the narrative would I be accepted as a tale of chivalry . That touch about the strange little girl shot through both legs , with the consequent assumption that the bullets of a vendetta have the right of way over all peaceful traffic , would of itself be conclusive . Thus we see that the temper and customs of the sunny Southland are much the same in either hemisphere , and are equally in either case incompatible with modern civilization .                     