@@674018

txt Kiamil Pasha 's dismissal from the post of Grand Vizier is a very serious matter in the present situation in Turkey . He has been generally regarded as the one man with the ability and good faith fairly to try to carry out the reforms to which the Sultan had given his formal assent . His dismissal seems to come practically as the answer to the grave communications made on Tuesday to the Government of the Sultan by the Ambassadors of the powers . These communications , which were made separately by each of the Ambassadors , were of such a nature that skepticism regarding the report of them was natural . But the report is now confirmed , and we are compelled to believe that , acting individually but on a common understanding , the representatives of the powers demanded that " immediate and adequate measures for the restoration of order be taken , " and 1 that this demand was backed by the distinct threat that " otherwise the powers , acting in concert , would take their own I steps in the matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such a length without ample ' authority definitely conferred and completely understood as to each of them by all the others . A. demand of this nature , accompanied with a menace , implies substantially , first , that the powers have reached an agreement as to what measures to be taken by the Turkish Government would be regarded as " adequate " ; second , that they have agreed as to what their " own steps in the matter " should be , and , third , that they are prepared to carry them out . It is in the light of these implications that the reply of the Sultan by the dismissal of the Grand Vizier , in whom alone the powers have had any reason to have confidence , becomes significant . As the facts now stand , this act of the Turkish Government is a deliberate defiance of the powers at the moment when they have made a concerted demonstration of their common purpose . Unless the reports , confirmed , as we have said , should yet turn out to be exaggerated , the Sultan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive him from his last foothold on the soil of Europe . Such a decision by the Sultan must be the result of despair . He has been for a long time the object of as much distrust and hatred by a part , perhaps the major number , of his Moslem subjects as have been felt toward him by the various Christian races . This animosity has been chiefly fanatical , though it has been aggravated by the passions born of Court intrigues and the jealousy of those whose share in the f its of corruption and rob .. bery has been satisfying . There has been plenty , of evidence that the Sultan , was far from feeling free to proceed to extreme measures against the persecutors of the Christians from fear of revolt . If , now , he defies the powers , it must be that his choice lies between a foreign and a domestic struggle . Heretofore there has been a pretty general agreement that the Sultan was safe in delay , because he could rely on the differences existing between the powers . That safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their Ambassadors reported on Tuesday . The Sultan makes a choice that for the moment gives him the semblance of supremacy in his own dominions . He becomes the leader of his immediate people , the Commander of the Faithful , the object of blind worship , the embodiment of the conquering spirit of Islam . But it must be for the moment only . ABDUL HA MID is not MAIMIOUD the Terrible , and the Mussulmans of Turkey are not the vanguard of an invading host , but the sullen garrison of a shrunken domain , which only the dissensions of their foes have allowed them to hold .                     