@@674710

txt What is evident in the political situation of Italy is that a majority of sixteen votes in a total vote of nearly 400 is not a working majority . It might be in a government of parties like that of Great Britain . It can not be in a government of groups , such as those of the Continental countries which have the forms of Constitutional and representative government , and of which Italy is one . But the Italian groups are constituted on a different system of crystallization from those of most other European countries . In Germany . for example , and in France , the nucleus of a group is , at least professedly , a political principle , a common way of regarding public questions . In Italy the nucleus is a leader or else a sectional interest , often a combination of the two . An aspiring politician needs , just as his predecessor in the sixteenth century needed , a band of condottieri who will vote as he tells them to vote , and the Parliamentary majority is apt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followers of the various members of the Ministry . That is one of the facts which make the peculiarity of the present situation . For the Marquis RUDINI is by profession a Conservative , and yet is at the head of what must be classified as a Liberal Ministry . The Marquis VISCONTI  --  VENOSTA , the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the same- Ministry , is also a member of the Right . He has retained his portfolio , rather against his own inclination , in deference , as it has been rumored in Rome , to the personal wishes of King HUMBERT . In the critical division of last Monday it appears that his personal following voted against the Ministry of which he was a member , and it is this defection that reduced the Ministerial majority to so narrow and precarious a margin . The alliance of RUDINI and ZANARDELLI , the Liberal leader , would apparently command a working majority of the Italian Chamber , but it would also apparently be an unnatural alliance . The Marquis DI RUDINI is an opportunist who would not be likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has defended the combination in advance upon the ground that it would prevent the formation of a homogeneous and irresistible party , which would threaten excesses in the way of Radical and anti-clerical legislation . It is by no means clear that in taking this course the Prime Minister is not consulting the public good as well as his personal ambition . His latest Ministry has by no means been unsuccessful . Italy has come out of her Abyssinian adventure better than she had any reason to expect . She is the smallest and weakest of the great powers , and she has undertaken to emulate the strongest in the size of her armament and in the nature of her policy . The result has been disastrous , as it could not fail to be . She has been unable to sustain her military and naval budget , ? and her finances years ago succumbed to a pressure beyond her resources . Yet Italian securities are now at par in Italian markets , and the budget for the first time in many years does not show a deficit . Nay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in certain taxes , which will benefit a hundred and fifty thousand taxpayers . These are services which the Italian voters and their representatives ought to appreciate in deciding the fate of the Ministry which has rendered them .                     