@@673095

txt It was to be expected that those who call for an extra session of the Fifty-third Congress beginning immediately after the end of the ' coming session of the Fifty-second Congress would have the hearty support of Speaker CRISP , and that he could rely for assistance in this matter upon those whom lie has made Chairmen of committees . Mr. CRISP perceives that the opposition to his re-election would be less formidable in March than in the following September or October , and many of those who owe to him their influential places in the organization of the present House perceive that in this respect their fortunes are bound up with his . Consequently we see the Speaker arguing vigorously for a called session in March , and several of his Chairmen joining in the cry that there must be such a session for a revision of the tariff in part , or at least for the election of a Speaker and the appointment of the committees . But Mr. Cuise and his immediate followers may as well understand that an organization of the next House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be acceptable to the great popular majority that has demanded an honest . careful , and intelligent revision of the tariff . The present House was organized with the apparent purpose of excluding from posts of influence those who were best equipped for good work in tariff revision and other departments of legislative labor . The best material was put in the background , and comparative inexperience was brought to the front . This is notorious . The next House should be organized in abetter way . The committees should be appointed with due regard to the equipment of members for the work that is to be done . It is work of the greatest importance , and all the ability of the Democratic majority will be needed . It is folly at any time to give veterans and experts the back seats and virtually to deprive them of power to shape legislation , but it would be most exasperating folly to cripple the next House in this way . We have heretofore set forth the reasons which should , svo think , prevent the calling of an extra session immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the calling of Congress in September or October is a course greatly to be preferred . So far as the coming revision of the tariff is concerned , wo believe that the work can be completed at au earlier date and will be much bettor done by a session beginning in September than by a session beginning in March , adjourned three or four months later , and resumed in December . In one interview Mr. CRISP suggests that the March session should be used almost exclusively for the election of a Speaker and the appointment of commit - tees , and that after the completion of this work an adjournment might be taken to December . Very naturally he is most deeply interested in the work of organization . But it is possible to enjoy all the advantages of an early organization , so far as the revision of the tariff is concerned , without holding in March a called session . The consideration of the question can be intrusted by a joint caucus of the Democratic members of the Souate and the House to a committee , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . by the new Democratic officers of , the departments , to do a large part of the preliminary work before the beginning of the session in September or October . By that time , also , it would be possible , we hope , to provide for the appointment of a Ways and Means Committee that would not prepare bills for removing the duties on manufactured.goods without disturbing - the duties on the raw materials out of which these goods are made . The arguments of a majority of those members who desire that a session shall be held in March disclose considerable ignorance of the difficulties that must be mot in the work of making a revision that shall be satisfactory to the people . We have seen one assertion that the revision can be made by a bill written in ten minutes . Certain gentlemen holding influential places in the organization of the present House would restore the old duty on sugar . Others would provide for the greater part of the revenue by an income tax . Others would " repeal ? the tariff . " These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberate inquiry made under the direction of better-equipped legislators and in the light afforded by the information which will be obtained and disseminated by the leaders of their party in the throe or four months immediately following the inauguration of Mr. CLEVELAND . The hasty assumption of certain misguided newspapers that those who oppose the calling ' of an extra session in March really desire to prevent a fair revision of the tariff should have no weight with intelligent persons . The real desire of those who prefer that Congress shall be called in September or October is that the revision shall be a good one , that it shall be made under the , most favorable conditions , and that the party to which the making of it has been intrusted shall make no great blunders .                     