@@673470

txt In The New-York Times of Feb. 8 there was a report that has caused a large amount of trouble in this city . It told of the proceedings of a meeting of Good Government Club E at which . James C. Carter and Richard Watson Gilder spoke about municipal government . Mr. Carter recapitulated the results of the assemblage held shortly before in Philadelphia to consider good government , and in the course of his remarks said : " The best showing was made for Boston and the worst for Baltimore . " This was the sentence that has caused the trouble . An afternoon paper copied it from The New-York Times , put it in capital letters , and repeated it in its news columns . Very promptly Mayor Ferdinand C. Latrobe who has been Baltimore 's executive for more than twelve years , although his terms have not been consecutive , wrote a long letter to Mr. Carter asking for a bill of particulars , and telling Mr. Carter that he evidently spoke from misinformation . Mr. Carter replied that his remarks referred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had no personal information of the political condition of Baltimore except that which came from reports made to that body . It . was a polite letter , and Mayor Latrobe was satisfied with it . The man who made the report to the Good Government Convention was Charles J. Bonaparte , who seldom pauses or halts in anything he undertakes . After Mr. Carter 's letter arrived , Mr. Bonaparte proceeded to prepare the bill of particulars for which Mayor Latrobe had asked . He gave it to a reform club in Baltimore , and it has been well reported in the newspapers . It was one of the most stinging papers of its kind that Baltimore has ever known , and it even surpasses the charges which Mr. Bonaparte made against Senator Gorman several years ago , when he publicly invited the Senator to sue him for libel . This is the concluding paragraph , and It is evident to whom it refers : " If knows anything of our politica/ history he tnust bitterly regret that Gravesend is not as Baltimore and 1893 as 1875 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had he been , perhaps , a little less personally prominent and left more of his work to his dupes , instead of six years in Sing Sing , he might well see before him eighteen years in the Senate and , perhaps , the . Presidency . " Mr. Bonaparte 's address , which was about 4,0uo words long , was mostly an arraignment of local scandals , especially the scandals of appointment . The humor of the thing Is that Mayor Latrobe claims to be the best civil service reformer among the Mayors of the country . Although he does not appear actively in civil service reform movements , his claim rests on the fact that he always appoints the same people to office . Mr. Bonaparte has very little influence in city politics , mainly for the reason that in a public address some time ago he compared public schools to soup houses and strongly condemned the whole system . As the feeling on the school question is especially strong in Baltimore , he has never been forgiven for the comparison , and in the least respectful of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still be occasionally seen . Mr. Bonaparte 's ability and courage , however , are everywhere acknowledged , and , as he is one of the wealthiest men in Baltimore . his statements are always respected . Mayor Latrobe is also wealthy and prominent . and the commotion caused by the eleven words of The New-York Times 's report has been the most diverting incident of politics since the new year began . Mayor Latrohe 's reply to Mr. Bonaparte is : " It 's nothing more than a scurrilous personal attack on me . I do not consider that he showed one instance of extravagance in city affairs or made a. single solid charge against my administration . I shalt say nothing further in reply to it . "                     