@@672778

txt The Cecil dynasty is now as well established in England as it was in Elizabethan days , when the founder of the family . Lord Burleigh , ruled the realm under the Virgin Queen . Mr. Balfour deserves attention on his own account , but just at the present men think most of the fact that ho is Lord Salisbury 's sister 's son . The distant and haughty manner in which the latter roles the House of Lords has all along been a curious anomaly in the history of the British aristocracy . Now we have his nephew hoisted into the saddle to lead and command the House of Common &; It will be very interesting to note how the Tory Party stands this piece of fine , old-crusted nepotism . Indeed , as I pointed out last week , the future of the Tory organization must , in any event , be a high 's - problematical affair . It drifted in a mere amorphous mass , like jelly-fish , under Mr. Smith . His death has rendered it necessary that it should take definite shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his uncle provides the party with a strictly aristocratic front , - with a Roman nose , a distinguished hawhaw manner , and buff gaiters over its patent leathers . When the next election comes , the Tories - will be beaten as easily and completely under Mr. Balfour as under another . The difference is that they will be politically , if not numerically , stronger afterward than they would otherwise have been . The existing feeling in the country has made it probable that when the Tories are smashed at the coming election they will be so badly hurt and demoralized that they will be for a long time unable to rally . The leadership of Mr. Balfour renders this less likely . He is destined to be a picturesque and powerful personality in British politics , more like Disraeli than Gladstone , but not less effective as a Tory leader on that acCount . In humble imitation of the great house of Cecil , the Smiths are going to establish a little family dynasty . In the representation of the Strand a stripling of twenty-two , fresh from Oxford , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to succeed his lather , and this means that he can sit in Parliament for the rest of his life , if he chooses , for the same shopkeeping constituency , even if he never opens his mouth in the Houses However , his friends and teachers agree in the prediction that when he does open his mouth great- things will proceed forth . Daring the week the entire Liberal press has been doing its utmost to gloss over and explain away Mr. Gladstone 's unfortunate expression of a desire that Lord Salisbury might be able to withdraw the English garrison from Egy pt before dissolution arrived . Their arguments , perhaps , have convinced no one as regards the iatention of his remark , but they have undoubtedly done a good deal to reassure the general public as to the attitude of the party , and have , moreover , made it clear that Mr. Gladstone 's usefulness is to be tacitly limited hereafter to the Irish question . Oh ! this unhappy and unending Irish question . Really this present situation puts too heavy a strain upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well and who have been for years devoting their time , money , and laborious advocacy to her cause . There is still a little group of those fourth-rase to tenth-rate politicians who were originally dragged off their feet by the tremendous personal force of Mr. Parnell and led into a windy and vehement warfare over they knew not what to the scandal of patriotic Ireland and their own deep disgrace . This nightmare of folly and insanity ended - with tragic suddenness , their leader being dead . and they having apparently fought for nothing , have that he should be the leader . One would think there must be an end to the struggle . They were offered vastly more generous terms of conciliation and peace than their own stupid behavior had warranted . Most of the wiser of them wanted to accept these terms , tut Leamy , the Redmonds , and one or two other malicious fools who suspected there would be no amnesty for them , raised a howl for more fighting and drowned the voices of their sensible colleagues . Even then there remained a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention of those melancholy and destructive persons known as Irish-American agitators . *nese men , whose criminal wrongheadedness has branded the history of their race with such episodes as the Cronin murder and the dyua mite outrages , of coarse leaped with delight at the hope of seeing the home rule party in Ireland hamstrung . Having for thirteen years done all the injury to Mr. Parnell they could , they burned now to turn his sad death to account in the same vicious , Itseetion They eabledheated exhortations to the waveringlittle Parnellite group to stand firm . and turned the balance on the side of faction . Of course , there is nothing dangerous in all tale . The Nationalists are quite able to carry eighty seats . They have all the re selectable Nationalists in Ireland at their back . They will secure and organize a Parliament within the next three years , but it is disheartening all the same to them , and to civilized people generally , to encounter these perpetual public exhibitions of harebrained frenzy , rancor , and idiocy by the dregs of their race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the programme at Cork is due . It seems likely now that there will be a contest there within the neat few weeks . Strong pressure will be put on Mr. Devitt when he lands at Queenstown to incluse him to stand . Whomever the Nationalists nominate they unquestionably will elect . For the past ten days I have been getting from various German sources a , reflection of what seems a general opinion in Germany that there will be war next Spring . This feeling has all sprung up since I was there at the end of August . Inquiry has failed to develop grounds for this pessimistic impression . but that it exists can not be denied . The Emperor William is reported to have dropped sundry remarks of a highly sinister nature on this subject , but nobody pretends to give their exact form . There may be nothing in it , ' but the sudden determination to try experiments , which , if successful , will lead to a reduction of the German military term from three to two years , suggests that the danger  --  whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction would enormously increase the number of drilled reserves and popularize conscription . But if there were a tolerable chance of peace , Germany would desire neither of these things . She already has more soldiers than she could put and maintain in the field at one time . The new move points rather to preparations for a long war in which fresh classes of troops will be successively called out to replace those which were used in France after defeat turned Napoleon 's fortunes . Meanwhile , the only visible occasion for an international rupture is one which concerns nobody east of the Vistula except the people of these happy sea-girt isles . It is becoming daily more evident that Russia has been up to her characteristically naughty tricks in Central Asia . Just what they are no one knows , and the whereabouts of Capt . Younghusband who is the only man who can tell us , are equally wrapped in mystery . But something has happened , it is clear , which must bring England and Russia once more into a diplomatic encounter . It is conceivable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to peace as providing a helpful diversion in home politics . Civilization does well to take note of thei fact that while the Russian Government is unable to prevent famine darkening the lives of hundreds of thousands of its poor people , it always has money to spend on piratical adventures like this in the Kashgar country , and it feels quite free to project and execute military works and alterations on a scale of expense and magnitude which even rich France would hesitate about . It is announced that all this huge loan just negotiated is to be devoted to building new roads and railways in Poland and other frontier localities entirely of a strategical character . These will not , even in a small degree , partake of the nature of relief works , because the soldiers will supply all the manual labor required . This half-civilized lack of a sense of proportion in things shows how Asiatic ) Russia truly is . Her inability or unwillingness to prevent starvation , while she pours out lavish millions in multiplying troops on the frontier , which no enemy threatens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nizam of Hyderabad to buy for himself a diamond for $2,150,000 while his treasury is in difficulties and famine is impending in his province . Luckily . the Nizam had a British President sternly to restrain his folly , but there is nobody able to prevent Russia from doing these monstrous and deplorable things . What widespread ruin and commercial collapse this crazy misgovernment works may be seen from the fact that there were last week ten failures of big Russian firms in St. Petersburg alone , with an excess of liabilities over assets of 8,000,000 rubles . The names of the firms are furnished to me , but they would convey no information to American readers . In each case the bankruptcy is ascribed to the bad harvest and the trade demoralization caused by the expulsion of the Jews . This is only the beginning . Within another mouth there will be a commercial panic all over Russia . Even in parts where the failure of the crops would not have ordinarily produced a famine blank ruin threatens men this year simply because for the past four or five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have they been knouted by the officials to extort taxes , but they have had their horses , live stock , hay , and agricultural implements seized and sold by the Government . America will have a startling story of Russian barbarism presented to it in a few weeks , when Dr. Walter Kempster , the last of the Government immigration Commissioners , arrives with his report , on which he is now at - work here in London . Dr. Kempster , who sails on Wednesday , has the very highest opinion of ! the Jewish population , particularly of the farming colonies , and is boiling over with indignation and horror at the inhuman treatment they are receiving from the Russians . Information is sent to me by underground railway from Moscow that Count Koffidey , the Cossack Chief of Police - whose brutalities in evicting the poor Jews of Moscow last March shocked the whole world , has for eight weeks been confined to his house by delirium tremens . He is also under a cloud of another character , being implicated with one of his subordinates , Lentollacky , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest has been aroused here by the reports of the PanMethodist Conference in Washington . with its hysterical scenes and tearful pledges of unity henceforth among English disciples of Wesley . Even the Noncomformist Daily Neirti has printed these reports in its most diminutive type . They are known  --  these emotional clerics  --  too well over here . The subsequent sessions seem to have exhibited their seamier side to American observers as well . The truth is , they represent a much lower intellectual and social grade than do the American ministers of the same denomination , and the relative prominence of their wretched bad taste , their conceit , and their insensate greed for advertisement are all stumbling blocks in the way of their piety here . They did more to wreck the home-rule cause in lead than any other clement iu politics . They can always be depended on when prejudice is to be appealed to or scandal circulated : but they are an insignificant factor in the actual religious and political progress of England . Curious stories reach ine of the important spread iu Austrian provinces of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude of the Bavarian old Catholics . I am told that two English clergymen who were investigating it . this Summer will silenty publish a work on the subject which will attract general attention . A. quaint phase of the movement is said to be a demand that the canonization of Torqueinada , which Pius 11. ratified fifteen years ago , shall be revoked , as the saintsLip of such a roan as that Grand luquisi tor brings discredit on the Church . This weeding out of the calendar is a novel thing in schismatic demands . Apparently Congress , ouaassembling in December , will have its hands full , but it would be a thing of mercy if some one could get through such a revision of the copyright law as would enable those whose property depends on its construction to understand it . Questions are constantly arising under it which nobody can settle , especially with reference to serial publications , and on other points various publishers here proceed upon wholly different readings of the act . There is no telling which is right and which is wrong . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there may be some printers in America who will be rejoiced to learn that there are fully 10,000 compositors out of work in London . This is said to be principally due to the clause in the Copyright act compelling the composition of a book designed for the American market to be done in America . Hence , to save double composition numbers of English publishers are now having the type set in Anierica , and then they print here from plates sent over . This causes great misery and suffering to English printers and their families , and the typographical union will make au effort in the coming session to secure Parliamentary protection . T. P. O'Connor has performed a remarkable tour de force in writing and issuing a forty-five-thousand-word life of Parnell inside of a week . It is published at a shilling , and is already in its fourth edition . Although produced in such an extremity of haste , it is a very graphic and well-connected story , with a , good deal of new matter and frank discussion from the inside of the late leader 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                