@@672470

txt One of the arguments presented to Congress in behalf of lineal instead of regimental promotion for subalterns in the army is the paper drawn up by Second Lieut . E. A. ROOT , Twenty-second Infantry , and forwarded through the War Department to the House Military Committee . Lieut . ROOT shows that eighty-three officers in his own grade at the time of his writing had seen their juniors in lineal rank raised to First Lieutenancies over them . Some of these had had this experience in as many as seventy or eighty instances , and in some cases the service of these juniors was not half as long as their own . His statistics further show that seventy-seven First Lieutenants had seen juniors carried over their heads to Captaincies , and with degrees of frequency varying from one to ninety times . The statutes in fact , and the army regulations founded on them , requiring that ' " vacancies in established regiments to the rank of Colonel shall be filled by promotion according to seniority , " are not considered as requiring lineal promotion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the infantry is always promoted . to a vacant Colonelcy of infantry , no matter in what regiment it occurs ; the senior Major fills a vacant Lieutenant Colonelcy ; the senior Captain is made Major ; but the rule is then varied to regimental promotion , and the highest First Lieutenant in the entire infantry , instead of getting that Captain 's vacancy , may wait years longer for his promotion . So it is with promotions from Second Lieutenancies to First Lieutenancies , and the rule just illustrated in - the case of the infantry equally applies to the cavalry and the artillery . Gen. SCHOFIELD , in his annual report for 1887 , dwelt on what he considered the evil effects of this system . " Uniformity in promotion under like circumstances , " he said . " is one of the most essential conditions of the efficiency of an army . Nothing else does so much to damp military ardor as the sense of hopeless injustice in respect to promotion . As an example of this , among the present First Lieutenants of Artillery the terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . So that , of two young officers starting under similar conditions and rendering essentially the same service , the one outstrips the other in the first stage of their career by ten years in the race for Promotion to the higher grades . The result of this is , under the present law of retirement , that the younger in years first reaching the highest grades retain them until all those who are older but less fortunate have passed the age of retirement . Thus , a large proportion of young officers having a few juniors in years promoted over them see at once that their cases are hopeless . " Gen. SCHOFIELD then gave statistics of the number of artillery officers who had in this way been debarred from rising to the higher grades . In his last report as commander of the army he took up the same topic , declaring that " the present system of promotion in the line of the army results in very great injustice to many officers . In fact , one-half of these officers suffer injury without cause for the benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is extreme , one officer being deprived of his promotion to the grade of Captain until he has served eighteen , twenty , or even twenty-two years as a Lieutenant , while another in the same arm of the service receives his Captaincy in eleven or twelve years , without having rendered . any special service to merit exceptional promotion . " Accordingly he recommended that hereafter promotions , from the grade of Second Lieutenant up to that of Colonel , " in the cases of all officers who are not now above the lowest grade , should be made according to seniority of commission in the arm to which the officer belongs , and . not , as now in part , by regiments . " It is but fair to say that some other officers whose opinions are eminently worthy of consideration do not agree with these views , and hold that the present system is right . Gen. SCHOFIELD himself proposes , as we understand , that the new method of promotion should begin with Second Lieutenants instead . of with the present First Lieutenants . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high a source , merit attention from Congress . Individual cases might be cited . in which officers have remained from twenty to twenty-three years as 11 First Lieutenant before reaching the grade of Captain . With a view to repair past inequalities in such instances , a bill has been introduced into Congress for giving the pay of the next higher grade to officers , up to a certain rank , who have had twenty years ' continuous service without promotion . Such a provision would . seem to be no more than fair , and it would be all the more so should the plan of lineal promotion fail to secure approval in Congress .                     