@@672467

txt Trouble was expected all along the line of the Central Road within the city limits to-day owing to the fact that the Pinkerton men were all known to be armed . These expectations were in part fulfilled . Nearly all of the Pinkerton men were withdrawn to-day from duty at crossings within the city limits in consequence , as their presence served to excite the frenzy of the throng of onlookers . The police took their place . The stoning of the Pinkerton men was continued to-day up to noon with no serious results . About 1 o'clock James Hatton of New York , a Pinkerton man , was patrolling the tracks in the vicinity of Van Woert Street . He claims to have been struck with a stone in the chest , while his companion who was on duty at that point was knocked down and severely hurt by a gang of roughs . Then he fired his revolver into the crowd , the ball striking a small boy aged fifteen years named Richard Dwyer . Dwyer received an ugly wound on the hip and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no time to fire another shot . The crowd surged around him , and , before the police could interfere , his clothes were torn oil his back . He was struck with lists and clubs , and presented a pitiable sight when rescued from the anger of the crowd by the police , who were obliged to draw their revolvers to stem the crowding mass of people . One policeman had his coat torn off him in the fight . Hatton was taken to the station house , when , after his wounds were dressed by the pollee surgeon . he was locked up on the charge of assault in the second degree . Hatton would surely have suffered death had the police not come to his assistance when they did . These occurrences aroused the passions of the spectators  --  mostly roughs and hoodlums ? as nothing else has since the strike was declared . Their number increased and the Chief of Police , fearing further trouble , established his headquarters in the station house near by and placed all the reserves at that point . At intervals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past the crossing on their way to New-York . About 3 o'clock one of these trains passed through the city . This train was stoned . When it reached the Broadway viaduct , the Pinkertons on top of the freight cars , carrying Winchester rifles , began a fusillade on the crowd standing In that vicinity . Four or five shots were fired , and resulted in the injury of Mrs. Thomas Hogan , who was standing on the stoop of her residence on a near-by corner , when a shot struck her in the right thigh , The , train went on . Mrs. Hogan was carried to her apartments , where the ball was readily extracted , and the Rhysleians say she will recover . After this incident Robert Pinkerton , who had charge of his forces here in person , called on . Chief Willard . He said his men had been assaulted continually , and that the firearms had been  --  put in their possession only yesterday that they might be used when necessary in self-defense and in the work of protecting the company 's property , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his readiness to turn over to the police any or his mon who committed a crime , and promised to investigate the shooting of Mrs. Hogan . Me was sorry innocent persons had suffered , and added that it generally happened that way . Still he would stand by his men against the wanton attacks of the roughs . Chief Willard expressed the belief that if the Pinkerton men had never been brought here the local police would have been abundantly able to cope with the situation . As it is , he fears there will be further trouble if these men stay here , and says that in that event the local autilorities , could not be held ? responsible as he had repeatedly informed Superintendent Bissell that the company 's property would be well guarded by his own inset if no outside force was brought here to inflame the passions of the " sympathizers " of the strikers . While the two chiefs were talking a third victim was brought into the station house . He was Frank Parks , aged eighteen , and had been shot in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men on a freight train which passed through at 4 o'clock . The boy claims to have been sitting on a post near a canalboat lying in the little basin , on which he is employed . Parks lives in Cansjoharie . A Pinkerton man who fired into the crowd at the Yanwoert Street crossing was pursued up the track to West Albany by Officer Dunn and captured . The officer brought his prisoner back to the city by train , on ' the understanding that the engineer would stop and let them off near the station house . The tram was not stopped , but continued on over the bridge to East Albany , where a crowd of Pinkerton men rescued the prisoner and handled the officer roughly . Capt . Davidson arrested a boy who was in the act of stoning a train , and later a man was arrested for the same offense.                     