@@672882

txt This evening about dusk , five miles west of this place , Emmett Snodgrass was shot and killed by his brother Isaao Snodgrass . The trouble between them had been brewing ever since Emmett killed his brother " Squire " Snodgrass , some two years ago . At that time Isaacs sent word to Emmett that he had killed the favorite brother . and requested him not to speak to him . This seemed to anger Emmett , and it was predicted that one of the brothers would be hurt should they meet . Last week Isaac was in town and Emmett met him and began his usual abuse or him . when Isaac told . him to go away and not bother him , saying , " Yon have killed one of our brothers ; do n't add another to the list . I do n't want to be killed , or to kill any one . " Yesterday Isaac had been to Brodhead on business . Emmett also went to Brodhead and they met there and a quarrel began , but bloodshed was avoided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and went to his home , about six miles southwest of this place , where he armed himself with a doublebarreled shot gun and started to go to the house of William Cash , a neighbor . Emmett left Brodhead with the intention of going to the same place . Cash 's house is off the main road and the brothers met at the turning-off place . Isaao says that when they met , Emmett jerked out his pistol and be raised . his gun . Emmett fired one shot , missing Isaao and hitting a small dogwood tree almost in line with Isaac . The latter fired , bringing Emmett and his horse to the ground . The wounded man rose and . staggered toward a fence by the roadside , when Ieaao fired another shot , which again bronglit Emmett to the ground ; but he I rose once more to his feet and made a dozen steps along the fence , while Isaac was hastily reloading his gun . Another shot laid him low , but the now desperate man fired another shot into the prostrate body . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten entered the left shoulder , and a number lodged in the body and legs . Two ' buckshot entered the horse 's head and some struck the shoulder . The animal died . Isaac ) rode a short distance to Nathan Faris 's , and informed him of the result of the deadly encounter . Mr. Faris went immediately to the scene and found Emmett yet breathing , but unable to speak . He died within a few minutes after the shooting .                     