@@672426

txt By the admission of four new States at the last session of Congress , and by forcibly and fraudulently Wrenching from the only one that ventured to elect a Democratic Legislature its two United States Senators , the Republican Party strengthened its hold upon the Senate for years to come . Its majority in that body was increased from two to ten , while five members *ere added to its slender majority in the House . Now it is proposed to increase this advantage still further by pitchforking Idaho and Wyoming into the Union as ready-made States by the mere passage of a bill accepting , ratifying , and confirming the Constitutions already adopted , and providing for State elections to be ordered by their present Governors within thirty days . These two Territories are even less fitted for Statehood than Arizona and NetvMexico , but these latter would be Democratic States , so they are left out . Idaho is little more than a big mining camp combined with an agricultural district peopled by Mormons , who are disfranchised by its new Constitution , while Wyoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a population equal to that of one Congressional district in this State , and yet each will have a vote in the Senate equivalent to that of New-York with all its vast stake in national legislation . The recent vote in that body on . th e free coinage of silver shows what motives and considerations sway the power that is accorded to these new States . Upon questions that seriously affect the highest interests of the whole country they have even more power in. the Senate than an equal number of the . great States of the East because of the reckless disposition of their representatives to coerce their party associates or to break over the lines and join with anybody that will support their greedy policy . The admission of these undeveloped Territories into the Union as States is an exhibition of party recklessness which indicates a lack of confidence on the part of the Republicans in their ability to hold the States that have heretofore supported their general policy . They are threatened with a loss of their ascendency east of the Mississippi River and even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are making a desperate grasp to make np the loss in the sparsely peopled region of the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific slope . The ten . latest States admitted into the Union , counting Idaho and Wyoming , which may be in before the week ends , have not together the population , the wealth , or the industrial interests of either New-York or Pennsylvania , and yet they have twenty votes in the Senate in determining policies which are to affect the interests of those great States ten times as seriously as they can affect those of an agricultural and mining region . And the admission of these new States is determined altogether by the purpose of securing an unfair advantage for the party that happens to control Congress and the National Administration . While that party is thus trying to Casten its control upon the United States Senate by making States out of undeveloped Territories it is also seeking to make Mike of its control over the House of Representa-tive bY constructing machinery for the national regulation ! of Congressional elections . This machinery is specially adapted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of Federal officials , and its purpose is to secure an increase of the Republican representation from that section , without regard to other consequences . One of the effects of peace and progress in the South has been the subsidence of sectional feeling and race antipathies . With this has come a tendency , altogether wholesome and desirable , f Of the colored voters to divide and to act with the whites upon political questions , under the same motives that determine the conduct of voters in the Northern States . It has Ceased to be true that negroes are necessarily Republicans and are always to be counted as such , but the purpose of this " Force bill " is to reanimate the old animosities of race , revive the sectional feeling ; and bring the colored voters again to the Republican standard , and to make their suffrages count surely for that party . It is a reckless and wicked Scheme and calculated to do infinite harm , but it is one of the desperate expedients of a party that is losing its hold upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to maintain itself in power . The loss of prestige by the Republican Party in the older States of the North , and the danger of their turning against it on account of the policy it pursues , furnishes the explanation of this desperate reaching ? out after new States and after the contra of ereetieiis in States where the sentiment Of the people is against that party . Bat such reckless expedients can only delay the calamity which the party is banking upon . itself Every gain it makes . by such methods Wit be offset by a further loss of owl-den-de and Of support among people intelligent and honest convictions . ' token . boroughs in ' the Rocky Mountains and black districts in the South will not compensate for the leas of stieh States as Ohio and Illinois , Minnesota , Iowa , and . Kansas , which is likely to be precipitated by the unscrupulous course which the Republican politicians are Pursuing .                     