@@673283

txt The philosophy of quarantine regulation is concisely summed up by Secretary CARLISLE in a letter of advice to Collector BEARD of Boston , wherein he says that , while the rules can not be relaxed , there should be no unnecessary delay or detention of vessels in enforcing them , " as it is the purpose of the department to facilitate commerce in every proper way consistent with the public safety . " The intimate connection of quarantine with the regulation of commerce which is implied in this statement is not always clearly recognized . It contains in itself the whole argument for a national quarantine . All rules which authorize the detention of vessels in our ports or interference with the landing of their cargoes or passengers pertain of , necessity to the regulation of foreign commerce , and over that the National Government has exclusive jurisdiction . The foreign trade of the port of New-York is not a local but a national concern , and whatever obstructs it affects business and property interests throughout the country . Those the Government is as much bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people against the introduction of infectious diseases from abroad . It is not only its policy to protect commerce , but to facilitate it " in every proper way consistent with public safety . " It is an absurdity to have the responsibility for protecting and facilitating commerce through the regulation of the entry of vessels at our ports under one authority and the responsibility for the protection of the public safety through the same means under a different authority . The Secretary of the Treasury instructs Collectors at the ports of the United States , in case entry is denied to any vessel in the enforcement of quarantine regulations , to telegraph to the Supervising Surgeon General of the Marine Hospital Bureau for the reasons therefor . And yet at our principal ports the officer who orders the detention acts under State authority , and the Surgeon General has no control over him and is not responsible for his acts . There is a suggestion here of the conflict of authority and the clash of orders that is liable to occur under the present mongrel system . The ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see that it is subject to no unnecessary hindrance act under a different authority from that which controls the officers charged with the enforcement of regulations for the public safety . While the Surgeon General of the Marine Hospital Service has nominal charge of the enforcement of quarantine regulations under the National Government , he has no authority over and no responsibility for the health officers at the principal ports of the country . Should there be serious occasion for the application of the quarantine regulations in the actual detention of vessels at this port , it would be almost impossible to avoid conflict of authority . There is decided peril in the continuance of the present system of divided jurisdiction , and we shall bo fortunate if we escape the demonstration of it before the Summer is over .                     