@@674413

txt The freak journals , without in the least Intending it , have performed a considera ble public service in giving with minute detail the particulars of divorces obtained in the far West by persons , whose real residence is in the East . The purpose of these journals was of course to appeal , in the first place , to the not very creditable interest which attaches to sexual litigation , and , in the second place , to the interest which the poor and hard-working are supposed to feel in the doings of the rich and idle , to which class the most conspicuous applicants for far-Western divorces belong . But , though published by way of appealing to salaciousness or snobbishness , or both , these stories really appeal to a different class of sentiments . They are calculated to excite the reflection what a shame it is that the laws of the various Commonwealths that make , up this country should be so different , and some of them so lax , upon a subject which so vitally affects society and civilization . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization , and it is I this fundamental institution that is attacked by these varying laws . The most obvious remedy for the diversity of laws is an amendment to the Constitution putting the subject under the control of Congress instead of the States . But such action would be contrary to the whole theory of the Constitution and subversive of the principles upon which the distinction between State and Federal jurisdiction is founded . Slavery and legal polygamy are the only " domestic institutions " with which Congress has ever undertaken to interfere even in the Territories . An attempt was , however , made some five years ago to secure an amendment to the Constitution giving uniformity , or , rather , a closer approach to uniformity , in the laws of marriage and divorce . An amendment to that effect was introduced iii the House of Representatives some five years ago . It did not undertake to give Congress complete con. - trol of the subject of divorce , but expressly reserved to the courts of the several States and Territories jurisdiction of " all cases arising between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the time the alleged cause of action arose . " ? Perhaps , with some . fanciful analogy to the case of inter-State commerce , jurisdiction was assumed for the General Government in cases in which the parties were residents of different States " when the alleged cause of action arose . " Of course , this would very sel : dom be the ease , since causes of action for divorce arise , as a rule , while the parties are living together , and consequently ? in the same State . The lawyers of the Judiciary Committee made an adverse report , which they sustained with cogent reasons , in spite of a dissenting minority report. ? That was the end of that proposition .. But the evil , instead of abating , has increased . The minority of the committee did not overstate the case when it said that if . the laws of every State differed from those of every other it would be possible-for a man to have as'many lawful , wives as there ' were States . Neither did it overstate the case when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loose laws on marriage and divorce " for the express purpose of encouraging immigration . " The remedy by Constitutional amendment being out of the question , it is hard to see what remedy remains except moral suasion . A number of States can not combine to pass a uniform statute . Such a combination would be ' contrary to the inhibition of the Constitution to any State to make an " agreement or compact " with any other State . Of course , any State may appoint a commission to consider the subject and recommend legislation , and this commission may consult a like commission from any other State . But the work of such commissions , or a conference of them , would not be birgling upon any State and would carry only the weight that might belong to it on account of it 's intrinsic reasonableness or the authority that the Commissioners and conferees personally carried . It seems , however , that this is the only hope . It is to this end that the efforts of the National Divorce Reform League have been directed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of success . Whereas when the subject came up in Congress but six States had appointed commissions , the ' report of the league for 1890 , just published , shows that commissions have now been appointed for twenty-nine States and one Territory . Every patriotic citizen must desire that the labors of these commissions may be successful and that a National scandal for which there is no National remedy may come to an end                     