@@673190

txt Among the nominations sent in yesterday that of Mr. JOHN S. SEYMOER of Connecticut to be Commissioner of Patents seems to be one of the best . Senator PLATT , Republican , of that State speaks in high terms of his ability as a patent lawyer , and he - has shown himself a man of great energy in the Senate of Connecticut , where he led. the Democrats in the long struggle over the Governorship . Of the other Executive appointments , that of Mr.-HENRY C. BELL of Illinois to be Second Deputy Commissioner of Pensions is noteworthy because it is a promotion based on eight years of faithful service in the bureau . Judge LURTON of Tennessee , to fill the vacancy in the Sixth Judicial District , is highly spoken of , and , so far as political considerations go , the nomination is a matter of justice . Secretary MORTON has made an admirable selection for the Statistician of the Department of Agriculture in Judge HENRY A. ROBINSON of Michigan . lie is the Commissioner of Labor fur that State , and one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of officers in the country . His appointment is iu the line of the excellent work done by Mr. AloaroN since taking office . There is nothing to be gained but discredit by such " snap " methods as were resorted to in the Assembly yesterday to bring the Personal Registration bill to a vote . It is such things that disgust honest and independent voters with a party that abuses its power , and that tend to induce them to help put it out of power . The personal Registration bill was passed by a strict party vote , and would have been passed sooner or later if regular and orderly methods of proceeding had been observed . In its present form it seems to us to be not only an unobjectionable , but a desirable change in the law . It is only in cities and incorporated villages that all voters are reouired to appear personally each year for registration , and that involves no hardship or serious inconvenience . inspectors are required . to place upon the voting lists the names of all persona within their districts residing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poll list of the next preceding election in such district , except the names of such are known or proved to have ceased to be qualified voters in the district . It is only new voters that are required to appear personally to be registered . These are reasonable requirements to prevent fraudulent registration and . voting and can not be regarded as unnecessarily strict . Only five members of the Assembly , three Democrats and two Republicans , finally voted against the bill allowing the State World 's Fair Commission to spend $300 , - 000 more in securing a worthy representation of the State in the Chicago Exhibition . All mystery regarding the commission 's past expenditures being dispelled and all its little extravagances being fully exposed , opposition to the additional appropriation practically disappeared . If there had been a full and candid statement in the first place , instead . of a disposition to conceal something . the appropriation would probably have been made weeks ago . The passage of the bill , which was induced by State pride and a desire to have New-York figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken as condoning the petty extravagances of the commission . It will have to be prudent in the future and be ready to account for its expenditures without any shuffling if it is to come out with honor in the end . The tempest brewing in the Senatorial teapot is in a fair way to be avoided . The Democratic " Ambassadors of States , " as the orators of the State rights party used - to delight to call them , have solemnly offered to the Republicans to allow the present officers of the Senate to draw their salaries until July 1 , thus , in the candid language of the proposers , " giving them three months ' vacation , with pay . " This , however , is too momentous a matter to be decided off hand . The Republican Senators will meet to-day to deliberate upon it , and negotiations will be resumed on to-morrow , or possibly deferred until next week . The one thing that is entirely sure about the matter is that this ridiculous higgling over a few petty offices by men who are charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are taking part in it on either side the amused contempt of all rational people who care to think about it at all . From a sportsman 's point of view , the result of the fiftieth boat race between Oxford and Cambridge is rather to be regretted . Cambridge is five races behind in the series , and has a greater discouragement to contend . with in the fact that this is the fourth consecutive race she has lost to Oxford , after having won four in succession . The life of an undergraduate , as such , is so short that four successive annual defeats are a very serious matter . The result is probably a matter of chance , in the sense that it could not have been averted by any foresight . The conflict is not between the theories of rowing , since for a good many years the two universities have held virtually the same theory of that art , and it would take a nice observer to distinguish between their several applications of the same . It is , in fact , a struggle between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an acknowledged theory . This physical power has , since 1889 , been on the side of Oxford so persistently that the undergraduate may be pardoned for believing that the victory of Oxford is a decree of fate . There does not seem to be anything that he can do about it . except to practice the virtue of resignation , for - which he may have no use in case the preponderance of brawn should next year go to the Cam instead of the Isis . The antiquarians of Cambridge may console themselves with the reflection that after four successive defeats , of which the last was in 1883. the university rallied and beat Oxford in the four races of 1886-1839.                     