@@674899

txt Another " Jackie " has achieved the reputation of a hero . He is Boatswain 's Mate Nevis of the gunboat Bancroft , and the tale of his valor is not unmixed with humor . One day last week the Bancroft , accompanted by the converted yacht Eagle , which had been covering the blockading station around the Isle of Pines , sighted a small Spanish schooner in Sigunea Bay . The Bancroft 's steam launch , in charge of Nevis and one other seaman , each armed with a rifle , was sent in to take the schooner . This was only a task of a few minutes , and the pretty launch returned with her prize  --  which proved to be the schooner Nito , little more than a smack and with no cargo . Her Captain was an American , and with him were his Cuban wife and seven children , all vowing loyalty to the Cuban cause . They pleaded poverty and that the Nito was their only means of livelihood . Commander Glover of the Bancroft promised to return her at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her to anchor near the wreck of the Spanish transatlantic liner Santo Domingo , sunk by the Eagle a few weeks ago . Then the Bancroft and Eagle cruised off to Mangle Point , where they happened to be put in communication with the insurgent , camp . Two hours later they returned . For a time nothing could be seen of the launch or the prize . Suddenly Commander Glover , who was scanning the waters with his glass , shouted to Capt . Sutherland of the Eagle , " By heaven , they have recaptured my prize . " The little schooner lay near the wrecked steamer , but the Spanish flag was flying from her mast , and , instead of only Nevis and his companion , she was apparently filled with men . Meanwhile the gunboat Maple had drawn up , and Commander Glover ordered her in to the work of rescue . With guns ready , she steamed toward the schooner , but the sight that greeted her was not what was expected . Nevis and his companions sat at one end of the boat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had his rifle across his knee , and was keeping a wary eye on a party of half a dozen cowering Spaniards huddled in the other end of the boat . The Maple asked for information and offered Nevis a tow , but he replied with e joke and declined the proffered assistance . Then it developed that in going to anchor he had observed two other small Spanish boats near the wreck of the Santo Domingo and had resolved to capture them too . He knew it was hazardous work but " bluff " carried him through . He took the Spanish colors of the schooner , ran them up and boldly sailed in . There were six men on the two other boats , and they watched the approach of their supposed compatriots with calmness that speedily changed to consternation when Hevis and the other " jackie " suddenly whipped their rifles to their shoulders and demanded an immediate surrender . The scared Spanish seamen lost no time in complying , and had the unique experience of surrendering to their own flag . Then , scorning all aid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most matter-of-fact manner reported his adventure to hie astonished commander . The capture was no mean one , for those six men gave important information to the American ship . They were residents of the little town if Cortez , Province of Pinar del Rio , situated about two miles from the San Domingo wreck , on what 19 called Pirates ' Lagoon , because in ancient days it was a favorite resort of the brethren of Capt . Kidd . The town has a pcpulation of 1,600 , and the only reason for its existence is that it serves as a depot for the Vuelta Abajo tobacco district , and contains a number of large tobacco warehouses . The Bancroft and Eagle would have taken the town , which is defended only by 100 soldiers , but they could not spare a permanent force to protect the women and children .                     