@@674196

txt Flossie Bernstein , the two-year-old daughter of John Bernstein , died Tuesday at her parents ' home , on Bay Thirteenth Street , near Bath Avenue , Brooklyn , from lockjaw . The child was vaccinated three weeks ago and appeared to be getting along nicely when she was taken ill . After being vaccinated she went into the yard and played in the dirt , digging the clay with a little spade . The vaccination irritated her , and , with her fingers covered with the clay , she scratched herself , and thus , according to her physician , inoculated herself with the tetanus bacilli . She became ill last Sunday and died in convulsions on Tuesday morning . She was burled in Washington Cemetery . As THE NEw-YORK TIMES has before stated , there are certain parts of Long Island that contain in the earth the bacilli of lockjaw . Health Commissioner Emery of Brooklyn says that the soil is full of tetanus bacilli , and that they caused several deaths which followed vaccinations a year ago , without doubt . Dr. A. E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the virus used in the vaccination was pure , as it came from the Health Department . Dr. Mayne , who attended the little girl , in speaking of the case , said : " The child 's death was due to tetanus ; but so far as the vaccine used was concerned I am sure that it was pure . The germs of tetanus are in the air as well as in the soil , but to breathe them is not necessarily fatal . In the vicinity of the south shore of Long Island , horses , as well as human beings , have fallen victims to the bacilli . In the case of the little girl her finger nails contained the germ , which , when brought into contact with the superficial abrasion , at once inoculated her system with the poison . " Dr. West of the Brooklyn Department of Health , in speaking of the soil of Long Island as being filled with this death-dealing poison , said : " The existence of this germ has been noted for several years past , more particularly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County , I believe , has the reputation of being the most infected spot . In the past three years , in Brooklyn , there has been an average of nine fatalities from the work of tetanus bacillus annually . The germ , when exposed to the air , soon succumbs . When it attacks a wound , it burrows down deep for the purpose of keeping away from the air . "                     