@@675359

txt Animated nature affords numerous examples of audacious courage . The peccary , a funny little pig of a beast , will fearlessly charge a rushing locomotive . Cats are said to look upon kings , and female poets annually send great quantities of verse to the editors of magazines . W. J. BRYAN 'S announcement that he is about to undertake a Winter campaign in the New England States , organizing Democratic clubs and stirring up " the latent spirit of the Democrats in that region , " promises a new and interesting example of . daring . We expressed the opinion the other day that New England was a rather unpromising part of the enemy 's country for the labors of Mr. BRYAN . Still , an impartial world will be curious to know what appeals and arguments he has kept in reserve for the New Englanders . We suppose any person whose opinions of American politics were worth anything would say at once that five of the six New England States are quite beyond BRYAN 'S reach . Since the greenback disturbance twenty years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last Democratic Governor nearly thirty years ago . In Vermont , the Republican Gibraltar , Democrats are so scarce that President CLEVELAND had some difficulty in finding enough of them to fill the Federal offices . The lamented RUSSELL was the only Democrat who has carried Massachusetts since the days of GASTON and B. F. BUTLER , who was not a Democrat . Rhode Island long ago got over the habit of being a doubtful State . There remains Connecticut , which Mr. CLEVELAND easily carried , and where Democracy is by no means extinct . There are a good many silver Democrats in Connecticut , but the State Convention last year adopted a sound-money resolution . Admitting that Mr. BRYAN might arouse enough of the " latent spirit " of the party there to get a serviceable delegation sent to the National Convention , what possible chance is there that he would make converts in sufficient numbers to carry the State at the November election ? The most that can be said about that State is that while a long succession of the most powerful miracles would be required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut over . Speaking the language of practical politics , both States are absolutely impossible for him , and impossibility has no degrees . He might practice his awakening art as well in one as in the other . Yet anybody would say he was a fool to waste any time in Vermont . We suppose no Democrat is so strong to-day before the voters of New England as RICHARD OLNEY . Yet the moral degradation of the party under the management of its present Populist leaders has been so great , and the confidence of the people has been so far forfeited since the poison of Bryanism drove it mad , that even Mr. OLNEY , receiving , as he would , many Republican votes and the solid support of his own party , would be considered extremely fortunate if he won the Electoral votes of Connecticut . The probability is , of course , that Mr. would ' Carry every New England State against any Democrat . As for W. J. BRYAN , whose doctrines are abhorred in every part of New England , and who is regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people there , this strength is so slight that his Winter campaign in that part of the country will awaken mirth and wonder in about equal measure . Then why does he visit New England , that hopeless country of the enemy ? It must be either to make sure of Bryan delegations to the nominating convention , or in the hope of winning votes that will add one or more of those six States to his " column . " If he is after delegates , this hunt in New England indicates a suspected weakness in the West and South . None of Mr. BRYAN 'S " enemies " had supposed he was short of delegates . Pretty much everything in the Union was conceded to him without a contest , except , perhaps , New York . But if it is Electoral votes , actual States , that he seeks in New England , is not this Winter campaign another and startling Proof that BRYAN is a man utterly destitute of political judgment , a. light-headed visionary , tipsy with fatuous ambition , who is dancing through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fools than himself ? If Mr. MCKINLMY should insist on making a thorough personal campaign in Texas , sober:minded Republicans would insist that a commission de lunatico pass upon his case before they were asked to renominate him . The present leaders of the Democratic Party probably look upon BRYAN 'S proposed New England escapade as a proof of his courage and his smartness                     