@@673932

txt A story is going the rounds here that Mr. Harrison has announced with positiveness that he is not a candidate for the Presidency , and would not accept the nomination of his party for that office if it should be tendered him . As the story runs Mr. Harrison unbosomed himself to Congressman Theodore L. Poole while Mr. Poole and Joseph L. Sayles of Rome , N. Y. , were here for the purpose of inviting Mr. Harrison to go to the State Fair at Syracuse and participate in the exercises of " Grand Army Day . " The request was made that Mr. Harrison should deliver a speech at the Syracuse fair . Mr. Harrison declined the invitation . " I have come into these mountains , " he said , " for rest and recreation , and I do not intend to leave them until my vacation is ended . " Major Poole , so it is alleged , was inclined to regard this reply of Mr. Harrison 's as final , but Mr. Sayles thought differently . He knew that the Major was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea into his head that if the Major should try again and beg Mr. Harrison as an old friend not to refuse to go to Syracuse the answer would be what was wanted . The Major said he would try . " General , " said he to Mr. Harrison , " look here a minute . " With that he called Mr. Harrison over to one corner of the tent , which is Mr. I Harrison 's abiding place . " General , " said the Major , " you must come . Now there 's a good feller . Do n't say no . " Mr. Harrison  --  according to report  --  stuck his hands down into his trousers pockets , and pondered for a moment . Then ne said : " Major , I will tell you why I do not care to go to Syracuse at the time you want me to . If I go anywhere now and make a speech , the candidates for the Presidency will say that I am a candidate for that office , and am going for political purposes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have not been , will not be . I do not want the office and would not accept it . " This is the story which is being told here . On whose authority it is told it is impossible to find out . Congressman Poole is not the reputed author of it , nor is Mr. Sayles . The whole thing sounds like a fake originated for the amusement of poll , ticians in a dull Summer season . It is not at all probable that anybody of sense will believe that Mr. Harrison would not accept the Republican nomination for the Presidency . " Do you believe the story ? " The New-York Times 's correspondent asked a well-I known New-York politician . " Might just as well ask me if I believe an elephant will eat peanuts , " he answered , " or a bear huckleberries. "                     