@@675235

txt Senator John T. Morgan , whose recent alleged expressions regarding the candidacy of William J. Bryan have created so much comment among Washington politicians . has issued another sta ' ement , In which he modifies some portions of his former remarks and amplifies other portions to a certain extent . Senator Morgan says : " It is hardly necessary for me , to say that I am making war on nobody or that there is no deep and dark plot back of anything I have said or done . I am not in the habit of making war on Democrats , and if Mr. Bryan is nominated I shall be found supporting him with all the enthusiasm at my command . " As for the delegation from this State , if the Democrats  --  the majority of them  --  think Mr. Bryan the best man to nominate , I will throw up my hat as high as the highest . I have said nothing that can fairly be construed as a fight against the brilliant Nebraskan or as a fight against any other of the many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The ideas I have advanced are given solely for the purpose of contributing toward Democratic victory . I want the party to win , if it can win without surrendering any of its principles . " I have studied the Chicago platform in the light of Democratic history more than most men , and I have always maintained that it is the grandest presentation of the true principles of Democracy that has ever been made . I believe in every plank in that platform and have always advocated it not in a general way merely . but in every way looking to the enactment into law of any of its principles . The whole idea of my talk was that we ought to all get together and elect a President if we can . " I find a lot of good Democrats ? as good Democrats as anybody , as loyal , as earnest , and as true  --  who do not believe it is possible to win with Mr. Bryan as the nominee . Even those who are talking most enthusiastically for his nomination are inclined to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to find a Democrat familiar with the situation throughout the country who believes Mr. Bryan has much of a chance for election . " Now , some people may cry out against this talk as heresy , but if it is true Lhat there is scarcely a chance to win with Mr. Bryan , I ain sure it is not heresy on the part of other Democrats to leak around and see if there is not some other man upon whom all Democratic elements might unite and , on the Chicago platform , elect him . "                     