@@781401

txt Wharton Barker , editor of The American , who poses before the country as the foremost leader of silver forces , recently secured the indorsement of sixteen Republican members of the United States Senate , pledging them to a policy of bimetallism and protection . This much secured , Mr. Barker to-day has issued an open letter to the manufacturers of the country , in which he makes the bold assertion that no protective tariff bill will be passed until the protectionists of the East shall consent to have silver coupled with protection . He further says that the responsibility rests with the manufacturers of the East to force the Republican Party to adopt his platform , and that only by so doing can they save the protective system . To ignore his platform , he declares , would mean the disruption of the Republican Party , through the alienation of the sympathy and support of those who put bimetallism before protection , and without whose support the passage of a tariff measure is impossible . In his letter Mr. Barker says to the menu-facturers : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Republican Party , or there will be no Republican Party . " The declaration of principles on which Mr. Barker founds his letter is as follows : Whereas . The difference of exchange between silver-standard countries and gold-standard countries is equivalent to a bounty of 100 per cent . on the products of the silver-standard countries ; and , Whereas . The cost of production in the Old World , and particularly in China and Japan , is less than products can be produced or manufactured in this country by American labor , without reducing our farmers , miners , mechanics , manufacturers , and industrial workers to the level- of Chinese coolies ; therefore , be it Resolved , That we are in favor of rescuing the people of the United States from such impending danger by removing the difference of exchange between gold-standard countries and silver-standard countries by the only method-possible , which is the free and unlimited coinage of silver at the ratio of 16-1 by the independent action of the United States , and we are in favor of a tariff which shall be sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and in European and Asiatic countries , arid that the protection incident to such tariff shall be equally distributed in every section of the United States and between the various products and industries of each State . The declaration is signed by H. TELLER , Colorado . FRANCIS E. WARREN , Wyoming . LEE MANTLE , Montana . GEORGE L. SHOUP . Idaho . J. C. PRITCHARD , North Carolina . EDWARD 0 . WOLCOTT , Colorado , JOHN H. MITCHELL , Oregon . FRANK J. CANNON , Utah . R. F. PETTIGREW , South Dakota . FRED T. DUBOIS , Idaho . H. C. HANSBROUGH , North Dakota . T. H. CARTER , Montana . GEORGE C. PERKINS , California . J. D. CAMERON , Pennsylvania . . C. D. CLARK , Wyoming . ARTHUR BROWN . Utah . Mr. Teller appends to the declaration this statement : " I approve of the above , but prefer to have the ratio 15 1/2 to 1 . " Mr. Barker 's letter to the manufacturers of the United States , dated Feb. 5 , is as follows : In sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the silver conference held in Washington , Jan. 22 and 23 , embodying the views of men prominent in that conference ? men of such diverse politics as Senators John P. Jones , William M. Stewart . Marion Butler , and Gen. A. J. Warner , as expressly stated by them , though for reasons of political expediency they deemed it unwise for the conference to adopt it at that time , and indorsed by sixteen Republican Senators , whose names are attached thereto ? Senators whose votes have made it possible to pass protective tariffs in the past , and without whose votes the passage of any protective measure in the future is impossible  --  and in urging you , as manufacturers , to sign this declaration of principles , already signed by sixteen Republican Senators . I have only this to say : You must indorse such a platform and force its adoption by the Republican Party , or there will be no Republican Party . For you to ignore this platform , for you to refuse to unite bimetallism with protection , means the disruption of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in bimetallism , and who believe protection without bimetallism is impossible , who see that the depreciation of silver acts as a bounty on exports from silver-using to gold-using countries equal to the divergence in the value of gold and silver , a bounty equal at this time to 100 per cent. , thus neutralizing any tariff we can adopt ; who therefore insist . and rightly , that to enact ' a protective tariff without at the same time restoring silver to its place as money , would be folly , and who see the utter uselessness as Protectionists , of giving their support to the Republican Party , if that party insists on negativing protection by joining it with gold monsmetallism , you will make the defeat of the Republican Party inevitable . Unite bimetallism to protection , and you will not only unite two policies identical in aim , but you will make possible the enactment of a true protective tariff , for by so doing you will gain the good will and for a measure embodying high protection and restoring bimetallism you can command the support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but who can do so no longer if that party is to become the party of gold monometallism , and without whose votes no protective tariff bill can pass the Senate . The responsibility rests with you , the manufacturers of the East . You can force the Republican Party to adopt the above platform . By doing so you can save the protective system . If you do not do so , you will lose the sympathy and you will alienate the support of those who put bimetallism before protection , and without whose support the passage of any protective measure is impossible . By indorsing such a platform as that already indorsed by sixteen Republican Senators and approved in substance by a number of other Senators , you can force its adoption by the Republican Party , you can reunite the Republican Party , make Republican victory and the supremacy of true American principles , the financial and industrial independence of the United States , assured , and make possible the ' restoration , in all its integrity , of a true protective system . The agricultural classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is done them . They are impoverished by low prices for their produce , prices fixed in competition with the degraded agricultural labor of silver-using countries for the European markets . Threefourths of our exports consists of the products of our farms . With agricultural staples we pay our debts abroad , and the prices , our farmers receive for their products are so low , and the burden of our debts , which they so largely bear , so great , that they are reduced to poverty and despair . The fall in farm produce must be checked , or our farmers will be ruined . They ask for legislation that will raise the prices they receive abroad for their produce  --  namely the restoration of silver to its place as money . If you , the manufacturers , will , not aid the farmers in restoring bimetallism , if you will not assist them to pass legislation that will bring them better prices for their - producets , as well as for the products of your mills , you can not expect , and you will not get , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you hope will enable you to sell your goods at remunerative prices . I therefore urge you to sign and.return promptly the inclosed blank , so that the ; Senators who have already indorsed the platform can see that you , the manufacturers , understand that bimetallism and protection go together , and so that , if they see promise of restoring silver as I money by joining their forces With the tree I trade party ; they will not burrilidly throw over protection , as they surely will if they see no prospect of securing the restoration of bimetallism through the Republican Party . Mr. Barker seems very proud of his platform and circular letter , but the chances are that in the course of a few days he may see a new light . It is inevitable that some of those to whom he has sent his letter will ask him why , if he calls himself a Republican , he is engaged in circulating a Democratic campaign document . The more Wharton Barkers there are in the country the better the prospect of a Democratic victory next November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Barker is enunciating sound Republican doctrine . He is logical enough when he urges for silver the same sort of protection that is given to other products of the country . Bimetallism and protection are , as he truthfully remarks , natural allies , and should travel hand in hand .                     