@@673908

txt President Cleve-. and arrived in this city at 12:42 o'clock this afternoon , en route for Gray Gables . His coming was unheralded , but C. E. Benedict of New-York and Station Master Keifer awaited him . When the station men and waiting trainmen saw Engine No 80 , - with two white flags flying , ? and drawing Vice President Thompson 's private car , enter the , station , they . knew there was a notable arrival , and a small ' crowd of them formed at the head of the train . The President was accompanied by Private Secretary Thurber . He wore a dark-brown cutaway coat and striped trousers . Escorted by Station Master Keifer and Mr. Benedict , with whom the President shook , hands heartily , - the President and Mr. Thurber steppell upon the big elevator platform and were lowered to the level of the dock . The four walked down to the Adams Express pier to board Mr. Benedict 's yacht , the Oneida . The Oneida was anchored 100 yards from the shore . Her steam launch was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President surveyed the rolling river and looked at the launch with distrust . The launch rose and fell with the waves . The President asked Mr. Benedict if the launch . were not too small . Mr. Benedict assured him that it was large enough and perfectly safe . Mr. Cleveland stepped quickly to the edge of the pier and was assisted aboard . The launch rode the waves like a duck , and in a minute or two the President was aboard the yacht . He went up the ladder at the side of the yacht with the step of a young sailor . The Oneida immediately steamed for Gray Gables . Very few about the pier appeared to recognize the President . There was no demonstration in the station . or on the pier . Say Mr. Jeroloman Bros a Pledges . Good Government Club A has adopted resolutions reciting that President Jeroloman of the Board of Aldermen , had been quoted as saying that he voted with the Tammany members of the Board of Aldermen , on the reapportionment of the City Assembly Districts because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , and that the club considers the remarks as a violation of Mr. Jeroloman 's pledge to the voters , that his official action would be non-partisan . The resolutions conclude : Resolved , That we request the council of Confederate ! Good Government clubs to take appropriate action on this breach of faith on the part of the President of the Board of Aldermen . Argentine 's Exhibit at Atlanta . Carlos Rohl , the Argentine Consul at this port , has been appointed Special Commissioner for his Government at the Atlanta Exposition . He said yesterday that owing to the short time for preparation , Argentine would not be able to prepare for such a display . as it would like to make . It would do what it could , however , and it had authorized him to transfer to Atlanta the World 's Fair Argentine exhibit , which is now held in Philadelphia as a museum .                     