@@781286

txt Open war has broken out between Senators Mason and Cullom . The former opposed three of the latter 's appointees whose names are now before the Senate by telegraphing from here to Senator Hoar to postpone action till his , Mason 's , return . Mr. Cullom , who is ill in Washington , was furious , and telegraphed for an explanation . Mason 's exolanation was : " When you show a disposition to accommodate my friends , I will accommodate yoi , rs . " This refers to Cullom 's unwillingness to indorse the candidacy of W. R. Kerr of Chicago as Consul to St. Gall , Switzerland . The preponderance of patronage given to Illinois so far:has fallen to Cullom 's friends , and Mason has lost favor with many of his constituents in consequence . In some cases . the President has ignored both Senators , and made appointments without consulting either . The breach between the two began with Mason 's election and has widened ever since . Mason was said be , coldly received at the White House , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but , although he admits sending the curt reply , he declines to talk further . The three appointments " hung up " are those of Hitch , Marshal ; Humphrey , District Attcrney , and Yates , Collector for Southern Illinois . Miss Ray Rosenblueth , the seventeenyear-old daughter of Dr. Mayer Rosenblueth , tried to drown herself in the Bronx River Tuesday afternoon . Her father is a well-known physician , living at 348 East Seventy-second Street . The girl , who , attended the Normal College , has been moody and despondent since she failed to secure a diploma after studying hard to pass the examinations . She dressed herself in her oldest clothes on Tuesday , fastening a dilapidated bonnet on her head , and putting on odd shogs . She then went to Bronx Park and took her stand on a rock projecting into the Bronx River . A couple of boys , one of whom was William Windheimer , sixteen years old , of Bronxville , were rowing in a boat some distance out . The girl beckoned them to approach , and asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They estimated it at twenty feet , and Miss Rosenblueth asked if'it were not a good place to commit suicide . The lads answered they were not in for anything of that sort , thinking that she was joking , and after chatting with her for a few minutes pushed out again into the stream . They were about 100 feet from shore when they heard a heavy splash , and turned to see the girl with whom they had been talking struggling in the river . The boys put about quickly and rowed to the rescue . A truck driver , who was passing at the time , forestalled them by jumping in and bringing the girl to shore . Patrolman Turpenny of the Park Police , whose post includes the point where the girl jumped off , took her to the neighboring cottage of George Moran , in a half conscious condition . Mrs. Moran revived her , and gave her a dry outfit of clothing . The girl refused to answer the questions that Turpenny and Police Sergeant England put to her , and not until threatened with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had fallen into the river while jumping from one rock to another in search of flowers . Turpenny says this is untrue , as there is only one rock at the place in question . and It is bare of flowers , but the girl was not arrested . She was taken ' home , and went up stairs to her room , where she locked herself in . Dr. Rosenblueth declared he knew no reason for her attempting to kill herself . She had everything in the world she wanted , and he had not thought that she felt so badly over her failure to pass her examinations as to wish to die .                     