@@674974

txt Thomas Greenwald , a private in Battery I , Seventh Artillery , was shot and Instantly killed last night while trying to escape from Fort Slocum , where he had escaped from the guard house . Private John Coates of the same battery escaped the bullets fired after him , but surrendered , and is now locked up . , Greenwald and Coates had been under arrest for two weeks , and pending the announcement of the finding of a court-martial held on them , did police duty about the fort . While at this work they succeeded in getting two suits of citizens ' clothing , which they exchanged in the guard house last night for their uniforms and then managed to get out of the guard house . It would appear one of them could swim , and the other could not . The one who could swim got out and obtained a boat which he brought inshore , where his companion was Waiting with the clothing which the swimmer had taken off to get out to the boat . While the man was putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded the countersign . The sentry was a private of the Twenty-second New York . Receiving no reply the sentry called for the Corporal of the guard . Sergt. Heck of the Twenty-second with two privates of the guard responded , the Corporal being on a call to another post . When the call was given the two men endeavoring to escape started to run , with the evident intention of hiding . The sentry who first challenged them fired , but not to kill . This caused another sentry to cross the path of the fugitives , who changed their course and came face to face with the detail of the guard hurrying to answer the call . Sergt. Heck recognized Greenwald and ordered him to stand . Coates appeared willing to surrender , but Greenwald did net , and the Sergeant lowered his bayonet , and as he did so Greenwald with a quick movement threw its point downward and brought the point to the ground and placed his foot upon it . He then tried to slash Heck with a razor , but could not get near enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole post , and the officers of the regulars and those of the volunteers hurried out to see what was the trouble . Col. Sinclair of the artillery had been out making observations , and was one of the first to reach the scene of the trouble . When he came up Greenwald was a prisoner , being menaced by the bayonet of the guard . Coates was standing calmly by , also a prisoner . Col. Sinclair ordered the men taken to the guardhouse and double ironed . The two prisoners in obedience to orders stepped forward , and the guard fell in behind . After taking a few steps both prisoners bolted . Col. Sinclair gave the order to fire , and the three designated privates obeyed . Just as the shots were fired the challenge of a sentry was heard . It was the sentry toward whose beat the men were running . As soon as the shots were fired there was a shout of " I 'm shot ! " ' r It came froth Coates . He was found a minute later , lying beside a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unhurt . - 'Greenwald fell in his tracks and never uttered a sound , after the volley . The heavy bullet entered the back of his head and came out in his mouth , killing him instantly . Coates was taken to the guardhouse and double ironed . The civil authorities were notified this morning and Coroner Banning held an inquest , and a verdict exonerating the officers and men was rendered .                     