@@672733

txt Having completed the details of its combination with the Anti , Lottery League for the support of a fusion ticket In the Democratic State Convention , the Farmers ' Alliance returned to its routine work and elected its officers for the new year . Farmer Adams was unanimously re-elected President , but Lecturer ? aloe , who headed the opposition to the " combine " and advocated a third party , was defeated for re-election . A resolution was then adopted , that advocating the Louisiana State Lottery is a suffieient cause for expulsion of any member belonging to the Farmers ' Union at present , and that it shall be made a test question for admission to membership in the future . Capt . Thomas S. Adams , who was indorsed yesterday by the Farmers ' Alliance of Louisiana and is I ikewise to be supported by the anti-lottery ' faction of the State in the light for Gubernatorial honors in the Democratic State Convention , was born in South Carolina , and is fifty-one years ago . He came to Louisiana thirty-nine years of age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been a resident ever since . When the war broke out he Joined the Hampton League , organized by Gen. Wade Hampton . He was promoted to a Captaincy for bravery . After the war he returned to East Feliciano poor in pocket and broken down in health , but he went into the field to provide sustenance for his wife and two children . Ho worked as a laborer and at times taught school . Any one who has seen him will not be likely to forget him , for he is decidedly unique in appearance . lie is 6 feet 3 inches in height , thin as a rail , and slightly bent . His face is emaciated but kindly , and his beard is closely cropped . He dresses soberly in black , with a slouch hat . Ile is a devoted Presbyterian , a total abstainer , but is very fond of a good cigar . In an interview this morning he said : The light will be strictly within the lines of the DemoRratio Party . I am a Democrat , and it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Democrats . The farmers will go into the convention and strive to win . and in any event they expect to abide by the result of the convention . " I am candidly of the opinion that the lottery amendment will be defeated , but that is only my opinion , as the result may be otherwise , for I feel that there are men who honestly believe that the amendment should be accepted because of the revenue it would afford to the State . I hope and trust that there will be as little of personality and bitterness as is possible this campaign .. I am a conservative man , and will do all in my power to make the campaign a friendly one . The talk of shotguns and slaughter is repugnant to me , for it sounds too much like the swashbuckler. "                     