@@672367

txt The first day of the latest effort of the Chicago Board of Trade to suppress the bucket shops , by abolishing its quotation department , ends in a distinct victory for the shops . The latter obtained their quotations without apparent dithoultsr , and the members of the board were put to endless trouble in obtaining quotations and transmitting them to their customers . It is true that in some instances the quotations posted in the bucket shops did not agree with those made on the floor or the board , but they were substantially correct , were obtained and bulletined in less than half a minute from the time they were made on the floor , and farnisned a basis for the biggest day 's business the shops have done in months . The bucket shop proprietors said they obtained their quotations from the runners between the big board and the open board , and they probably did . At all events , they had them and seemed to be satisfied with the situation . Many members of the board were anything but satisfied . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Chicago merchant or broker was unable to send a telegram from the floor of the board . It had to be traneaoted through a messenger , who would take a message to a customer or a quotation on the market from the floor or the board to a telegraph office down emir &; The big space allotted heretofore to the telegraph companies was empty , and the different trading pits were dotted here and there by small boys employed by the telegraph companies to collect quotations . The officers of the Board of Trade sows ordered the boys to stop this , however , and members who wanted quotations were oomnelled to gather them themselves and hand them to messenger boys , who thereupon rushed frantically down the stairs and- left them in the various oMoes . The quotations were then pat on the blackboards as usual , the only difference from the old order being that they were posted less frequently . The indicator dials , 80 long the arbiters of the nervous wheat pit , were still and valueless , and the fluctuations of the market could only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in corners . It had been openly given out that clubs or associations of members would be organizea and , by employing reporters , keep outsiders fully informed on the market changes . This was frustrated by posts ing in conspicuous places in the hoard room the following notice : " No Club , pool , or association of members will be permitted . direotly or indirectly , to collect market quotations on the floor of the Exchange . " The notice was a literal copy of a resolution passed by the Board pf pireotom This upset the plans of the houses which had clubbed together for the collection of figures for their own Use , and- it demoralized for a time the schemes of the outsiders . The opening bell started the business of the day with a rush seldom seen . With no indicators to guide the traders , the excitement and confusion was great . Those who had not been in the pit for weeks were struggling with others to do business . In wheat the day was one to be remembered . Yet the officers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . Said President Baker : " The Anal result will , I think , justify the position taken by the Directors of the board . " Secretary Stone said : " The volume of business transacted to-day was unusually large , and although it may have been carried out under some temporary inconvenience , that will adjust itself la a short time . " Ex-Congressman R. W. Dunham expressed about the average sentiment when he said : " I was very mush inclined to doubt the advisability of the action . If all the leading Exchanges of the country were to join with us In the fight , we could soon beat the bucket shops , but while Nevi-York and other large markets stand prepared to furnish their quotations , outsiders will trade on them . In my judgment . Nevertheless . since the position has been taken I am willing it should have a full and lair trial in order to Bettie the question definitely . " The action of the Chicago 13. pard of Trade in shutting down on quotations yesterday caused no embarrassment on the New-York Produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very successfully , and the transsalons were unusually heavy for this time of the year , there being 6,800,000 bushels of wheat and 4,800,000 bushels of corn bought . It was said that there were some large taxying orders received here from Chicago . There was no lack of Chicago quotas tons here , however . They were received plentifully enough through private sources . It was understood that the Ste* Quotation Company offered in the morning to serve the current Chicago prices , but the Exchange did not care for them .                     