@@674336

txt CHAIRMAN WALKER ON THE CURRENCY . In a recent interview published in The New-York Sun Mr. J. H. WALKER of Massachusetts , Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency of the House of Representatives , discussed the currency situation at some length . Two points he made that are of particular interest and which demand popular attention . One was as follows : " The people of the South and West have a right to complain of the fact that loans and discounts in those localities are made by vicious law fully 2 per cent . above the normal rate . ; . s ' Rates on loans and discounts , in order to pay existing dividends on the banking capital , are fully one-third , take it the country over , higher than they would ba were the currency of the country issued upon sound banking principles . Of course , this hardship rests most severely in localities where the highest rate of interest prevails . " It is a source of common prejudice against the National banking system , which took its start when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest on them was high , that their profits were extravagant . That certainly is not now believed to be the case by well-informed men . put in the South and West , as Mr. WALKER points out , where the banks still maintain their note issues , the diminished profit on circulation is necessarily made up by higher rates of discount . It is the general business public that suffers and must suffer . The second point made by Mr. WALKER is : " In a recent speech Senator SHERMAN declared in effect that in case of war the banking system of the United States would prove a failure . We know it did in 1861 , resulting in a loss to the Government of more than one billion of dollars in the conduct of the civil war . " This country has spent nearly 8500,000 , - 000 in the last ten years on its army , and nearly the same on its navy , and yet in case of war it would stand before the world absolutely destitute of the sinews of war , which to-day are sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The logical conclusion is that the very first duty of the party to which power was intrusted in the late elections is to take the Government out of the banking business altogether and to relieve it of all responsibility for the currency . The next is to establish a banking system " managed by bankers and without control or influence by any authority outside of themselves , more than is necessary to secure integrity and safety in the management of the banks . " It will be interesting to see what measures to accomplish these objects Mr. wAT.Trvitt 's committee will propose in the approaching session . .                     