@@675178

txt Gen. Otis cabled the War Department to-day that representatives of Aguinaldo were coming to Manila to seek terms of peace , and that the forces of the insurgents were scattering in the mountains . Following is the text of his dispatch : Manila , May Is . Adjutant General , Washington : Representatives insurgent Cabinet and Aguinaldo in mountains twelve miles north San Isidro , which abandoned 15th inst. , will send in commission to-morrow to seek terms of peace . Majority of force confronting at San Fernando has retired to Tarlac , tearing up two miles railway . This force has decreased to about 2,500 . Scouting parties and detachments moving to-day in various directions , Kobbe with column at Candava on Rio Grande . Great majority of inhabitants of provinces over which troops have moved anxious for peace , supported by members insurgent Cabinet . Aspect of affairs at present favorable . OTIS . Great satisfaction was expressed by War Department officials with the news contained in the dispatch of Gen. Otis . The belief was expressed that the end of the insurrection was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first commission and impressing the insurgents was everywhere commended . No doubt is expressed that the new commission , which . is on its way to Manila , will be ready to accept the favorable terms which Gen .. Otis has been ready to grant upon the actual surrender and cessation of hostilities . The dispatch of Gen. Otis was forwarded to the President at Hot Springs . Secretary Alger said that the situation was most encouraging , and that it was apparent that the Filipinos realized the strength ref. the United States and saw that resistance would mean extermination for them if they persisted in defying authority . Speaking of the part taken by the volunteers in the Philippine campaign , the Secretary said that , instead of wishing to be at home , they would not have missed it , as it was an event in their lives , especially as the hard fighting had been crowned with success . It is not tnought likely that Gen. Otis will permit himself to be deceived by the overtures of the insurgents , or that he will give consideration to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not sincere and final beyond question . It is not clear to the officials here what concessions Aguinaldo expects to receive , inasmuch as Gen. Otis , with the full approval of the President and his Cabinet , has repeatedly declared that he will consider nothing but the unconditional surrender of the insurgents as a necessary preliminary to any- negotiations for a cessation of hostilities . It is possible that the insurgent leader believes that he may make terms for the special benefit of himself and his Cabinet , and it is even possible that he has an idea that the United States may be willing to reimburse him liberally for the surrender of his army . It is suggested that Aguinaldo is merely looking out for his own interests in this matter now that the Filipino cause is lost , and will demand safe conduct out of the Philippine Islands for himself and a few of his chosen friends , together with sufficient money to enable them to live in exile for a reasonable period . The recent progress of the campaign in the Philippines has been rapid . Less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of San Fernando . where Gen. Mac-Arthur 's troops are concentrated , and in the neighborhood of Bacolor , with about 9,000 rebels . To-day Gen. Otis reports that the remnant of this force  --  about 2,500 men ? has withdrawn to Tarlac , over twenty miles north of San Fernando . It is probable that the remainder of this force moved east and joined the main body of the insurgents . which abandoned San Isidro yesterday and fled northward to the point from which Aguinaldo is now sending his . commissioners to sue for peace . If thi ? is a ruse to gain time , which none of the officials at the War Department believe , it will avail the rebels nothing , as the Americans will utilize the period during the negotiations in reconnoitring the country ahead of them preparatory to the resumption of operations the minute the negotiations fail . There is no absolute information at the War Department concerning the present strength of the American forces under . Lawton , and Kobbe , which have been operating against the insurgents north of Manila . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its maximum strength , would be 16,500 , but it is doubtful if their strength totals 11.000 men . Mac-Arthur 's troops , except one regiment , are volunteers . All of Kobbe 's men are regu-Jars , recently arrived Three of the six regiments- under Lawton also are regulars . There is one radical difference between the volunteer and regular organizations . Losses in the former are permanent , while the gaps in the ranks of the regulars are being filled constantly by new recruits . It is estimated that now has about 4,500 men for active service , Lawton about 5,000 , and Kobbe 1,500.                     