@@673829

txt An attentive reading of the Book of Joshua would strengthen our Mayor in heart and faith . It was upon Joshua , after the death of Moses , that the Lord imposed the task of leading the children of Israel across the Jordan into the Promised Land . It is plain that the Lord had His doubts whether Joshua was just the man for the work . He not only strove to allure him by describing the magnitude of the land which would be his , but used the most extraordinary language of encouragement and exhortation in order to stiffen Joshua 's backbone . " Be strong and of a good courage , " He said ; and again , " Only be thou strong and very courageous . " Yet a third time : " Have not I commanded thee ? Be strong and of a good courage ; be not afraid , neither be thou dismayed . " But the counsel of the Lord to Joshua in respect to the taking of Jericho is , it seems to us. of singular applicability to Mayor Strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compass the city about , and seven priests with trumpets of rams ' horns were to precede the Ark of the Covenant , and thus many times they were to go about the city . But when they made a long blast of the ram 's horn and the people all shouted with a great shout , the wall of the city should fall down flat . And the priests at the appointed time did blow a mighty blast and the people shouted and the walls did fall down flat " so that the people went up into the city , every man straight before him , and they took the city . " It is time for Mayor Strong to put the ram 's horn to his lips . No such faint and squeaking summons as he sent over the wires to Senator Lamy will shake the walls of the Platt citadel at Albany . If our Joshua is to do the work we set him to do he must square his shoulders , fill his lungs , and blow a blast that will make the paper weights jump on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist the impression that the Mayor grows fainthearted in his work whenever he falls to thinking about the Republican Party and the outlook for it in this State . We are very sorry to see some indications on his part of a disposition to dilly-dally with situations that demand bold action . He forgets that a party can be ruined rather more effectively by weak compromises than by strict hewing to the line of principle , no matter how the chips fly . Very naturally Mayor Strong would like to avoid divisions in his party . Possibly he fears that an attempt to fight Platt " to a finish " would arouse vindictive passions and engender a quarrel fatal to Republican success next year , The Mayor 's next friend , Mr. Charles Stewart Smith . taker a sounder view of the matter . He says , bluntly that the Platt Senators at Albany " are deliberately digging the grave of the party in this State . " That is true enough , and the Mayor 's hesitation and indecision help on the digging . In his unsatisfactory telegram to Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as little as possible regarding any bills before the Legislature , but that " the voice of the people expressed last November in New-York City was not in accordance with either of these bills . " Now , the Mayor is " the voice of the people " for the time being , and he should speak out . Why should he endeavor to say " as little as possible , " about bills before the Legislature ? The new Constitution gives him a qualified veto power . That implies the correlative right to give information to the Legislature and to express his opinion of pending measures . This is a privilege any Mayor at any time may exercise with propriety . It becomes an obvious duty whenever the Legislature falls under the sway of a Platt or other public enemy , defies the people of the city , and attempts to pass vicious laws . Mayor - Strong and Gov . Morton have it in their power to thwart Platt . They can certainly prevent his passing the bad police bills he favors , and we have the greatest . confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for support , can force the Legislature to pass the bills the city has asked for . The position of - the Mayor is really one of extraordinary strength . The only question is as to ' his own strength . If he hesitates and palters and compromises and placates he will ruin himself and bury his party and make " reform " la thing that no man of reputation and positive convictions will wish to have anything to do with for years to come . It is time for the Mayor to stop thinking about his party and blow the rain 's horn .                     