@@672437

txt Can the American Government afford to ignore the services rendered by one of the most distinguished men who ever made this country his home I Can it afford to grant in a spirit of significant diseourtesy the request of a Government like Sweden , whose children are numbered . byten thousands among our most loyal citizens 1 In a word , shall the memory of John Ericsson be honored by his adopted country , to which he has rendered the most valuable services , in any less degree than the country of his birth proposes to honor it I These are questions suggested by a survey of the arrangements now being made to restore to his native land the ashes of the world-renowned inventor , whose genius served , and perhaps saved , this country at the most critical period in its history . The United States ship Essex arrived at the Brookliu Navy Yard yesterday morning , and began preparations at once to receive the remains of John Ericsson , which , if present arrangements are carried out , will be carried on that vessel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Essex for so important and significant a duty as this is without doubt the greatest mistake the Navy Department has made in many a day . The Essex is a wooden ship built in the early sixties . She is classed bathe Navy Register as third-rate , which is the lowest rate in which She could possibly be included . She carries six guns of the old smooth-bore type . She has none of the modern improvements which make our navy to-day worthy of the name , her boilers are sadly in need of repairs , and even her capstan is disabled . In short , the Essex is a tub , selected , unhappily , to do a service for the man to whom this country in general and our navy in particular owes an enormous debt . John Ericsson began his services for the United States in 1841 , when he constructed the man-Of-war Princeton , the first steamship ever built with propelling machinery under the water line and out of reach of shot . From that time until he turned the tide of the civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted solely to the invention of mechanical devices , all of - which were employed in the navy of the United States . An engineer officer in the navy , in speaking yesterday of Ericsson 's services to the United States Government , mentioned , among other inventions of his , the following : The direct-acting steam engine . The sliding telescope chimney . Gun carriages , with machinery for checking recoil . Distance instrument for measuring distances at sea . The hydrostatic gauge for measuring the volume of fluids under pressure . The reciprocating fluid meter . The alarm barometer . The pyrometer . The calorie engine . " No man , " the ? Meer continued , " has so great a claim upon the gratitude of the American people as John Ericsson , and there is no officer in the navy , be his grade ever so high , who would not be proud to escort his remains to their last resting place . It is a duty that would appropriately fall upon one of the fleet Admirals , and the Government 's representative ship , on such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new steel cruisers , if not an entire squadron . " Inquiry at the navy yard developed the fact that the Pensacola was the ship that expected to be assigned to this service , with the Enterprise and Essex as consorts ; but through some unknown influence this arrangement was changed , and the Essex proceed to Stockholm unattended unless the orders are revoked . It was said yesterday by several officers that it was not too late to revoke the Essex 's orders , for the Philadelphia could be made ready for sea duty in twenty days , the Baltimore and the other new ships of the North Atlantic squadron might be detached . without affecting the future movements of the squadron , any one of the second-rate ships at the navy yard are ready for sea service , and the entire white squadron is on its way home from South America . Yet , from all of this available timber the department has seen fit to select the oldest , the least seaworthy , and the most insignificant ship in the naval service . The request to have Ericsson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Swedish Government through the State Department at Washington . No such opportunity for a gracious recognition of the nation 's obligations has occurred in many a day . When the fact was announced that the request bad been made , and that Government vessels would escort the remains to Sweden , it may safely be said that all the Swedish people in America became profoundly interested , for their reverence for the name of Ericsson is second only to that of patriotic Americans . That the Swedish citizens of the United States are disappointed with the selection of the Essex goes without saying . They are among the best of the foreign-born population in America . In the Northwestern States , where they are many , their influence upon the development of the country audits resources is one of the causes of the greatly-increased wealth of that section . ' Those who have lived among the Swedish people say that they are sensitive to a degree , a fact that contributes to the very natural resentment they feel at the selection of the United States tub Essex . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a TIRES reporter yesterday that a request had been made by Ericsson 's executors for the use of the Philadelphia or some other of the new cruisers , but that this request had been denied for reasons which he did not know . Mr. Raven was loth , very naturally , to express any sentiment of disapproval with the selection that had been made , but he did say that the Government of Sweden expected a handsome recognition of Ericsson 's services on the part of the United States , and that when the vessel escorting his remains arrived at Stockholm it would be received with honors seldom accorded . He mentioned the fact that the King of Sweden was a firm friend and a personal admirer of Ericsson during his lifetime , and that among Ericsson 's effects were found a number of autograph letters from the King . ** was also said that besides receiving royal favors from Sweden Ericsson was Knight Commander of royal orders in Denmark and Spain , recipient of the grand cross of naval merit from the late King Alfonso of Spain , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperor of Austria in behalf of science . He has received ' the thanks of the Congress of the United States , and at the time of his death was a member of various scientific institutions in Europe and America . These are reasons why the memory of so illustrious a man and so distinguished an inventor should be accorded the highest honors within the scope of the Nary Department . Humiliating indeed will be the spectacle when the antiquated little Essex enters the harbor of Stockholm , surrounded by the fleet of Sweden , Norway , and Denmark , and greeted by the welcoming cheers of a whole nation of proud people . It will not be surprising if , among the welcoming plaudits , there is sonde little resentment , for it will be plainly seen that this Government ? a Government of " foreign policies " ? has not only failed to do its duty toward itself , but toward those obligations of national courtesy that solidify friendly relations . Nothing could more clearly indicate the department 's shameful position in the Ericsson case than a comparison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half ago , when the remains of Gen , Paez were sent back to his native home in Venezuela . Gen. Paez was an exile who died in this country in 1873 . His remains were interred in the Marble Cemetery in this city . Upon the accession to the Presidency of Gen. Lopez , who was in a measure friendly to the memory of the dead man , his surviving relatives asked the State Department at Washington to send . the remains to VenezuelaThe request was complied with in a very commendable way . The Pensacola was detailed for the mission and the ceremony was made a subject for national gratulation . Gen. Paez was an exile . Although a worthy man and a staunch patriot , he had no claim upon this Government whatever , beyond that he died on its shores . Side by side with the services so splendidly rendered by John Ericsson , comparisons are impossible . The one was a stranger to our country and its people , the other was , in a measure , the country 's savior . Yet Gen. Paez 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handsomest of the second-class sailing ships , while the body of John Ericsson goes to his native land on the oldest and most insignificant third-class tub . The Pensacola was chosen because she was the finest ship on the home station ; the Essex seems to have been chosen because she is the poorest to be found anywhere , not only on the home station , but on every other station as well . Moreover , the passage to Venezuela , entailing a long voyage around the Horn , cost the Government three times as much money as will the passage of the Essex to Sweden . Another fact in this connection , is that the request to have Gen. Paez 's body returned was made by the relatives of the dead man , while the request for the return of John Ericsson 's body was made formally by the King of Sweden on behalf of a whole nation . When the Pensacola arrived . at La Guayra , her officers were welcomed with national honors and escorted by a body of troops to Caracas . Here the finest apartments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ball that cost $10,000 was held . in their honor . The same courtesies will probably be extended to the officers of the Essex when that ship arrives at Stockholm , but from beginning to end they will be humiliating . The officers thus honored can not but feel their reception ill-gotten and undeserved . As another instance the case of George Peabody may be cited . He died in London , Nov. 4 , 1869 . " His obsequies , " says Appleton 's Biography , " were celebrated in Westminster Abbey Nov. 12 . For the first time in history the gates of Westminster Abbey were opened for the burial of a private citizen of another country , and although the historic building was not Mr. Peabody 's final resting . place , it was only owing to his own desire to sleep by the side of his mother 's grave in his native land . Where the funeral service of the English Church was read over hits , Mr. Peabody might have reposed forever with the universal consent and approbation of the British nation . " The swiftest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bear his body across the broad Atlantic , and it was received from the ship-of-war Monarch by an American squadron commanded by Admiral Farragut and buried at Danvers , Mass. , ( now Peabody . " ) As before stated , it is not too late to- revoke the orders of the Essex . The Philadelphia can be made ready and reach Stockholm in the time that the Eases would require to get half way across . If not the Philadelphia , then the Pensacola , the Baltimore , the Yorktown , the Dolphin , the Enterprise , the Chicago , the Atlanta , the Boston  --  all of which are within comparatively easy reach , and any one of which would reflect honor and national pride , where the decrepit Essex reflects nothing but humiliating discourtesy .                     