@@674405

txt Arthur Palmer of Mamaroneck , N. Y. , was arrested at the Planters ' Hotel this afternoon . He had been at the hotel for a week , registered as Paul Jones . The arrest was made on a long-distance telephone message from Sheriff Johnson of Westchester County , N. Y. , who said that Palmer murdered his mother , brother , and sister nine days ago and fled to parts unknown . The Sheriff telephoned that Palmer had been traced to St. Louis and could probably be found at one of the hotels . During his stay at the hotel Palmer kept closely to his room . When on the ground floor he would find a secluded corner in the library away from the crowd . At 2:30 o'clock this afternoon Police Captain O'Malley and Detective Gocking located Palmer at the Planters ' . Manager Cunningham pointed him out sitting in a corner of the library . When told that he was a prisoner Palmer collapsed and had to be helped to the patrol wagon . He was in such apparent helplessness that ' officers did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Courts , Palmer was taken to the sick ward of the prison . The physicians found the prisoner suffering from ague and general debility . It was 8 o'clock before Palmer was sufficiently revived to be questioned , At 8:30 o'clock he was taken into the office of Chief of Detectives Desmond . Under a steady fire of questions Palmer at first made a weak show of indignation at his arrest . He denied that his name was Palmer , and said he was a land speculator from Denver , Col. Py degrees he broke down . Finally he admitted that his name was Arthur Palmer and that he had assumed the name of Paul Jones for business reasons . He said he left home on Sunday , the day preceding the triple murder . Without baggage he walked to Larchmont , two miles from his home , where he boarded the last car of an express train as it left the station for the West . The Western trip , he said , had been in his mind for a month , and when he left home all his people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek a location for a dairy . Gradually he admitted enough to convict him upon circumstantial evidence of the triple murder , but he stoutly denied all knowledge of the crimes , His constantly repeated remark was : " Wait till I get back to New York . Then you 'll know everything . " Palmer 's conflicting admissions and denials , his sunken features , restless eves , and hesitating , vacant manner of speech , indicate to the police that he was unbalanced in his mind . The first knowledge of Palmer 's presence here was received in New York early this morning , when a letter arrived there from him bearing a . St. Louis postmark . A full confession from the prisoner is expected .                     