@@781793

txt " We make the affirmation with much positiveness. " says the Philadelphia Manufacturer , which is published by one of the two powerful high-tariff associations , " that the chief , and probably the sole , beneficiary of the protective system is the workingman . " The Manufacturer should send for a copy of that interesting " Fat Fryers ' Guide , " recently published by our high-tariff neighbor , the Tribune , which shows that out of 399 millionaires in Pennsylvania 215 accumulated their great wealth in manufacturing and selling goods protected by high tariff duties . The statement of the PINKESTONS , submitted yesterday to the special committee of the House , is a skillfully-drawn performance . It amounts to this , that the Pinkertons hold themselves justified in furnishing " watchmen " to whomsoever is able to pay for them , and to equip and arm them , provided they are enlisted as officers of the law before they enter upon their duties . Now , anybody can employ watchmen to protect his property without asking permission of anybody else , and his watchmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property to the utmost . It remains true that the employment of special " watchmen " to risk their lives in a quarrel which is not theirs is an insidious and dangerous performance , necessarily adapted to embitter the passions of men engaged in a " labor trouble . " It is not by the employment of " private troops , " but by the employment of the regular public agencies for that purpose , that disorder can most effectually be put down and the majesty of the law most effectually vindicated . The employment of " private troops " necessarily weakens the public sense of responsibility , which ought to be kept as acute as possible . It is not likely that Congress can do anything to the purpose about the matter ; but it is to be hoped that the owners of threatened property will exhaust appeals to the civil authorities to protect them before taking steps to protect themselves by the employment of special armed forces . Owing to the absence from Washington of Senators IloAR , Wiesoie , and TELLER of the Senate J udiciary Committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court is in the hands of two Republicans and four Democrats for consideration , and Senator CAMERON is work-ing upon Om:Democrats to secure a " hanging up " of the nomination in the committee . As is well known , his opposition has DO bing to do with the merits or qualifications of Mr. SIIIRAS , but is duo entirely to the fact that he desired the appointment of another man and his recommendation was ignored by the President . This is a very poor ground for asking the support of Democratic senators , and Mr. CAMERON 'S plea with Messrs . COKE , PUGE , GEORGE , and V EsT of the committee is based upon the support which he gave their party in the last Congress in opposing the Force bill and iu the present one in behalf of the Silver hill . These Senators ought to be above yielding to any such plea as that iu a matter of this kind , and it will go far in the President 's mind to justify his disregard of Senator CAMERON 'S claims . If the nomination gets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is pretty sure to be confirmed , and the utmost that CAMERON can accomplish is delay until the absent members of the Judiciary Committee are on hand , which may not be during the present session . lie is not likely to compass the defeat of the appointment , and in no case can he secure one more acceptable to himself , and he ought not to be allowed to prevent the filling of the vacancy on the bench until next Winter . It is to be hoped that the petitions sent to Senator HILL asking him to use his influence against the Anti-Option bill will stir him to action in behalf of the interests of New-York . He voted directly against the sentiment of the State on the Free-Coinxge bill , and has yet to show any disposition to serve the people whom he is supposed to represent . He has an opportunity now of which he would do well to avail himself .                     