@@781280

txt The majority members of the two committees which have the excise bills in hand are not yet ready to report the Raines bill , with its amendments . It will be considered at a session of the committees , when the minority members are present , and may be reported Friday , though possibly not until next week . At the conference in Chairman Higgins 's rooms last evening , the majority members of the committees favored an amendment which will doubtless secure for them the gratitude of the saloon keepers in their own villages and towns . They proposed , in spite of their protestations that they are desirous of decreasing intemperance by a higher license , to reduce the prices of licenses in the districts where they themselves live . The taxes to be imposed on their own constituents are to be lessened . The Raines bill as originally presented fixed the license in cities and villages having a population of less than 50,000 and more than 5,000 at $350 . The amendment proposes to reduce this to $300 . The saloon keepers in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these saloon keepers live in Republican villages and cities in most instances . In the county or Senatorial district in which each and every one of the majority members ' of the two committees live except Mr. Hughes of Kings there are from one to four localities in which the saloon keepers will get the benefit of the reduction . Here are the members of the committees , with the towns which will be benefited : Senator Higgins has relieved the saloon keepers in Olean , Salamanca , Jamestown , and Dunkirk . Senator Krum  --  Johnstown , Gloversville , and Amsterdam . Senator Stranahan  --  Oswego . Senator Humphrey  --  Dansville . Senator Daley  --  Hudson , Poughkeepsie , and Fishkill . Senator Johnson  --  Owego , Binghamton , and Cortland . Senator Coggeshall  --  Utica and Rome . Senator Raines , who introduced the bill  --  Canandaigua and Geneva . In the Assembly Committee the temptation to make it easier for the saloon keepers in cities and villages of this class is equally great . Chairman Allds will have reduced licenses in his town of Norwich . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Bedell  --  Deer Park , Middletown , New-burg Mr. Witter  --  Owego . Mr. Rounds  --  Auburn . Mr. Miller  --  Olean and Salamanca . Mr. Warner  --  Niagara Falls , Lockport . Mr. Tupper  --  Binghamton . The opportunity for doing a good turn to one 's constituents presented by this Raines bill has seldom been equaled in the history of leeislation . The rate of taxation being an arbitrary one , it is possible for the men who have charge of the ' measure to fix the rates so that they will be as favorable as possible to their own localities . The Republican members of the committee seized this opportunity . Every man has done something for the largest cities and towns in his own county , and the proportion of State taxes which the large cities will pay as compared with the rural districts is made still more unequal , arbitrary , and unjust .                     