@@673566

txt Probably one of the reasons why so many people are seeking to have matters that properly belong to the domain of legislation " fixed and determined " by the Constitution , or to have various requirements and restrictions imposed upon the legislative power , is the difficulty that has been experienced in getting the Legislature to act wisely . But the cure for this should be sought in an improvement of the Legislature rather than a curtailment of its powers , and it is always within the reach of the people . If they will take a more zealous and intelligent part in determining who shall be candidates for the Legislature and exhibit more independence in choosing between candrdates of different merit , they can secure legislation that will accord with the demands of the majority . Whatever is fixed in the fundamental law can not be readily changed and should not be lightly modified , and consequently nothing should be imbedded in it which is not an essential part of the enduring fabric of government . The present Constitution of this State wisely leaves the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can determine what property shall be taxed and what shall be exempt from taxation , and prescribe the methods of assessing and collecting taxes . While theraare certain . principles of taxation . that may . be regarded as fundamental in legislation , they axe not fundamental in government , and the methods of applying them are subject to various considerations of public policy . Our Legislature has not dealt vary wisely with this subject , but that is because it has not been thoroughly understood and the public demand has not been definite and clearly directed . Systems of taxation are progressive and subject to modification , and it is at least doubtful whether it would be wise to circumscribe the power of the Legislature with respect to them . The question of exempting the property of churches and of charitable and educational institutions , which is the subject of an important hearing before several committees of the Constitutional Convention , is one of great interest , and it is one upon which opinion is greatly divided . The very fact that opinions differ ' so widely and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propriety of leaving it to legislation rather than trying to settle it at one stroke in the organic law of the State . It is one of those questions of policy that depend upon public opinion and require to be dealt with by agitation , discussion , and legislation , and to undertake to put it beyond the reach of these forces would bring the revised Constitution itself in peril . Proposed changes should be of a kind that all reasonable men can recognize as desirable on one ground or another . The plea for the exemption of Church property is based upon a use heretofore assumed to be for the general benefit and for no individual profit . That for the exemption of charitable and educational institutions has claimed not only a general benefit to the community , but the performance of a service which might otherwise have to be done in whole or in part at the public expense . The whole subject is one of controversy and dispute , one of policy to be shaped by public opinion from time to time , and consequently one that should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be much more safely left out of the Constitution than embodied in it . Taxation should be for public purposes only and the Legislature should have power to raise the revenue necessary for those purposes , but the methods of obtaining it may well be left to its discretion , which can always be controlled by the power that makes Legislatures.                     