@@672587

txt The statement made on Thursday in the Reichstag by Gen. VON CAPRIVI indicates , so far as it goes , that the colonial policy projected and introduced by Prince BisMARCK is to be abandoned by Germany . The present Chancellor was careful to explain that such measures as had been taken by the Goverament , or were in contemplation , with reference to negotiations in Africa , had been , or would be , taken after consultation and in concert with Great Britain . This is in itself an abandonment of the policy of the en-Chancellor , who had begun to acquire colonies and dependencies for Germany in Africa and elsewhere , not only without consultation with the authorities of Great Britain , but in direct and aggressive rivalry with that power . Whether Prince BISMARCK 'S colonial policy was well or ill founded , it certainly went much beyond the mere acquisition of convenient coaling stations for the German Navy , and amounted to a challenge of the pretensions of Great Britain the world over . Germany had shown a disposition to dispute the pretensions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Spain ceased to be a first-class power . Tho pretensions of Germany to be a naval power of the first-class are very recent . Her war fleet is not yet either the first orthe second in Europe , although her mercantile marine is growing perhaps more rapidly than that of any other European nation . But BISMARCK 'S colonial policy went much beyond either an increase of the German fleet for its own sake in case of a general war or the protection of the German mercantile marine . It contemplated the expansion of Germany through channels laid down and determined by the German Government , so that German emigration should be a gain and not a loss to the parent state . There is no denying that this was a great and fruitful idea from BISMARCK 'S point of view . The old saying remains true that England has colonies and colonists , Germany colonists but no colonies , and France colonies but uo colonists . If the stream of German emigration could have been deflected from foreign countries to new regions affiliated with the German Empire , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at seems to have been such a system of dependencies as was built up for Great Britain a century and a half or two centuries ago , a system , that is to say , of dependencies connected with the mother country in the first place by the strong tie of a common language and in the next place by reciprocal laws of trade that would make it to their advantage to do their trading with the mother country . At present the German emigration , of which most comes to the United States , is for all purposes lost to Germany itself . In the second generation the children of the German emigrants are to all intents and purposes Americans , and they are lost to Germany for many other purposes besides the conscription to the German Army . If the German emigrations , which could not be checked without the application of a Russian , or rather of a Chinese code , that could not now be applied to Germany , could have been directed to German possessions , the advantage to Germany , both in peace and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration we may take to have been the basis of BISMARCK 'S colonial policy . There were many difficulties in the way of reducing it to practice , but they were all difficulties which Germany is better fitted than any modern State to encounter and overcome . The very foremost of them was the opposition of England .                     