@@673421

txt One of the bills which Thomas C. Plata has caused to be prepared for subildssloia to the Legislature seeks to provide for a non . partisan Police Board in this city . ' MU bill is now said to be in the hands of Sena- ; tor O'Connor , and it is complete except for the clause which has to do with the clues ' tion as to who shall do the appointing . The bill provides for two Republican and two Democratic members , and the Probabil4 ity is that the two men who will be legislated out of office by the bill , should it be successful , will be Commissioner .. whose term expires next May , and who is a Democrat , and Commissioner McClave , who is a Republican , but who does not seem to be in full touch with Mr. Platt and the other Republican powers just now . The story goes that Platt and his co/4 leagues are willing to make an arranger ment with the leaders of Tammany Hall whereby the appointing power shall be vest ed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Platt has always claimed that he was unfairly treated in the arrangement , or " deal , " in 1889 , when the addle Lionel Police Justices bill was passed , because he did not have the naming of the two Republican Justices . It will be recalled that at that time Fred . erick S. Gibbs secured the appointment of his old political side partner , Clarence W. Meade , and that the other Republican ape pointed was Justice Taintor . There appears , however , to be a disposition on the part of the Republican managers to make an " arrangement " this year with " proper assurances . " T. C. Platt went to Albany yesterday . Chauncey M. Depew was on the train with him . Mr. Platt said last night that his visit had to do with the receivership of the New-England Road . As to Senator O'Connor having a non-partisan Police Board bill , he said that he had no knowledge of it , but that , of course , he was in favor of such a bill . He believed that Sen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boards , and he had no doubt that a bill providing for a non-partisan Police Board in this city would be introduced . Perhaps there would be three or four of them . Richard Croker was asked last night by a reporter for The New-York Times if he had heard of any arrangement between Mr. Platt and Tammany looking to the passage of a non-partisan Police Board bill with the appointing power vested in the Mayor . He said that he had heard absolutely nothing about it . When asked what his opinion of such a bill was , he said that he could not speak on the subject until the bill was presented in the Legislature . Mayor Gilroy , when asked if he had heard of any proposed " deal " or arrangement , said : " I know of no ' deal , ' arrangement , or bargain of any sort , in any manner or shape . " " What do you think of a non-partisan Police Board bill ? " he was asked . " I have always been in favor of nonpartisan Election Boards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I ain in favor of any board that has anything to do with elections and election appointments being non-partisan . Therefore , as our Police Board has to do with the appointment of election officials , I believe that it should be non-partisan . While I would not feel it necessary to go to Albany to urge the passage of a non-partisan Police Board bill , I would be in favor of it for the reasons stated . Should such a bill become a law , and should the appointing power be vested in the Mayor , I would certainly appoint two representative Republicans of New-York City as members of the Police Commission . "                     