@@675096

txt Advices from Manila dated Jan. 12 say : A more difficult problem than that with which the Governor General of the Philippines is confronted at the present moment it would be difficult to imagine , for unless the Filipinos recede from their position the situation in a nutshell amounts to this : The Americans must either fight and subdue the rebels or withdraw from the archipelago . As a matter of fact , the Filipinos have been and are being recognized officially all the time , because in order to avoid unnecessary bloodshed the American authorities have been compelled to treat with them . A striking illustration of the point occarred on Dec. 21 last , when the two forces were probably nearer a conflict than at any other period since the occupation of Manila . Upto that date the sentries of the two forces had guarded opposite ends of the Paco Bridge , a stone structure across a tenfoot creek on the outskirts of the city , , but in accordance with instructions the American officer of the day essayed to post his sentry in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , and when a protest was made informed the Americans that at 9 o'clock next morning they would fire upon the American line unless the sentry was withdrawn . At the appointed hour Atajor Gen. Anderson and some 4.000 men were on hand , but after a conference the Filipinos were recognized to the extent that the sentry was withdrawn to his former position , and the American troops marched back to their quarters . The issuance of Gen. Otis 's proclamation regarding the intentions of the Americans in the Philippines gave Aguinaldo the opportunity desired , and in less than twelve hours after the former was published the Filipino response was posted on the walls of the city . Its effect was instantaneous upon the natives generally , and their attitude was such that it was deemed advisable to keep the entire army of occupation in quarters and under arms in order that they might be ready if an emergency arose . The trivial incidents which occurred simultaneously in different parts of the city occasioned a false alarm at 2:30 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon , and the entire troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the echoes of the bugles had died away the whole force was under way , every company of every regiment being in its allotted position ready for action . While this caused somewhat of a sensation temporarily , the promptitude with which the troops responded to the call had the effect of restoring confidence . Meantime the insurgents have concentrated their forces on the outskirts of the city , and are strengthening their position every day . Orders have , however , been issued that they shall act only on the defensive , which indicates a disposition to avoid trouble if possible . In response to the conciliatory preclamation of Major Gen. Otis . issued Jan. 4 , Aguinaldo issued an official manifesto , in which he says : " Gen. Otis calls himself in the proclamation referred to ' Military Governor of the Philippine Islands , ' and I protest once and a thousand times and with all the energy of my soul , against such authority . I solemnly proclaim that I have never had , neither in Singapore nor in Hongkong nor here , in the Philippines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by writing , to recognize the sovereignty of America in this , my loved country . On the contrary . I say that I returned to these islands on board an American warship on the 19th of May last year , with the decided and manifest proposition to carry on the war with the Spaniards , to reconquer our liberty and our independence . " In. the proclamation of Gen. Otis , ne alludes to instructions written for him by His Excellency , the President of the United States , referring ? to the administration of affairs in the Philippine Islands . I solemnly Protest in the name of God , the root anti foundation of all justice and of all right , and who has given to me power to direct my dear brothers in the difficult work or our regeneration , against this intrusion or the Government of the United States in the sovereignty of these islands . Equally , I protest in the name of all the Philippine people against this intrusion , because when they gave me their vote of confidence , electing me , though unworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , they imposed on me the duty to sustain to the death their liberty and independence . " Lastly , I protest against this act so little expected of the sovereignty of America in these islands , in the name of all that has passed , of which I have proofs in my possession referring to my relations with the American authorities warrant prove in the most equivocal manner that the United States ? did not bring me from Hongkong to make war against the Spaniards to benefit the Americans , but to help us to gain our liberty and independence , for the attainment of which object the American author ities promised me verbally their decided andr efficacious co-operation . " And so you must understand , my dear . brothers , that , united by bonds which it will be impossible to break , such is the Idea of our liberty and our absolute independence , which have been our noble aspirations . all must work together to arrive at this happy end with the force which gives conviction already so generally felt among the people , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have already so far advanced . EMELIO AGUINAL.DO . " On Jan. 1 ) a second proclamation , purporting to have been issued by Aguinaldo , was published . It contained the statement that if the Americans attempted to move from Manila into the interior or attempted to occupy the Visayas by force , their act would be considered as a declaration of war , and the Filipinos would immediately begin their fight for independence . The publication of this proclamation was prohibited as much as possible on account of its incendiary nature .                     