@@673228

txt The dissolution of the Reichstag was the inevitable and indeed the threatened consequence of a defeat of the Army bill . In every legislative body there are very many members who are desirous to avoid , at considerable hazard , the expense and risk of a new election . The threat of a dissolution was thus one of the most effective weapons the Government could employ , and doubtless brought many waverers to its side . With all this , the majority against the bill that was the ultimatum of the Government ? a majority of 48 in a total vote of 372 ? was decisive , and would have been followed , in a , really constitutional Government , by the resignations of the Ministry that was responsible for the measure . Certainly it gives no ground whatever for hope that the Government will be more successful with the people than it has been with their representatives , upon whom it was able to exert blandishments that will not be applicable to the constituencies . The real meaning of the result is that Germany has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional Government and away from military absolutism . The recent publication by the Paris Figaro of some sonnets addressed by the late H. TAINE to his favorite cats has raised a considerable discussion in the Paris press as to the limits of newspaper privilege in such matters . In this particular case all decent limits were exceeded , because the sonnets were published without the consent of M. TA IN E 'S family and contrary to his known wishes as to posthumous publication . But the sonnets in ' themselves , had they been honorably obtained , were not unpublishable , either on account of their subject or their treatment of it . There is nothing very horrible in the interest of the public in M. TRINE 'S fondness for oats . Within no very long period the tastes and habits of some of our own writers have been described with much freedom by their surviving intimates . One gentleman has told us how Mr. LOWELL wore his hair and his collar , and how he gave a champagne supper in order to secure the empty bottles for his surplus cider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dish washing at Brook Farm ; still another HAWTHORNE 'S struggle in the same occupation , with the ptoblem of washing his dishpan and finishing with a clean dishcloth , and a highly-respectable magazine has informed us of a late poet 's embarrassment in the matter of dressing his infant . All of which , relating to men of the utmost reserve themselves , shows that the exact standard of " privacy " can not be established by authority , but must be left to the individual writer and his readers .                     