@@674981

txt A similarity of concern and doubt about the Republican prospect in New York State is . discovered at both Republican and Democratic Headquarters here . The Republicans are not quite sure that Senator Platt desired the nomination of Col. Roosevelt , and say that they find in reports of Republican apathy throughout the State Justification of the reports they are hearing that Mr. Platt is not imperiling his health to make Col. Roosevelt 's election ( el tain , but that if Roosevelt should happen to pull through he will not be able to point out any specific neglect or act of disloyalty to him by the Senator . - At the Democratic Headquarters qt was consideded amazing that Platt should consent to have so unmanageable a man as Roosevelt nominated . Democrats are sending word to Washington that Mr. Platt has said that no Republican candidate could be elected on the record of Black 's administration  --  Black least of all  --  and that Mr. Platt yielded to the popular demand for Roosevelt because it could do no harm to give him a w3rthlegs nomination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way for the campaign of 1900 . While the source of this information is not stated , there are indications that it is derived from persons friendly to Gov . Black and from Republicans who are chagrined because Black 's administration was indorsed while the man was refused the logical renomination to which , they say , his indorsement appeared to entitle him . Democrats are predicting that Van Wyck will get Republican votes in large numbers in New York City , as well as in the towns of the State . They are also inspired to hope that the neglect of Roosevelt by Republicans who did not favor his nomination may help the Democrats to secure considerable gains in the Congressional delegation . Some corroboration of this alleged Republican indifference in the State appears to be reflected in the departments . Republican office holders who know Mr. Platt 's aversion for independents , hear and discuss the reports about the enthusiasm for Roosevelt with incredulous smiles . " It looks to me like this , " said one of these office holders to-day : " If Roosevelt should happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' movement . If Roosevelt should be defeated Platt will let some one else call attention to the fact that it is easy to be mistaken about the strength of a ' popular ' movement and the drawing power of a temporary pet . "                     