@@781282

txt Major McKinley lett Cleveland at 7:10 this morning in the private car of Vice President King of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad for Canton . Breakfast was served en route , and the President-elect reached Canton a few moments before 10 . Senator Allison arrived from Pittsburg at 10:20 , and Gen. Felix Agnus of Baltimore on the same train . Senator Allison passed through Canton on the east-bound limited train about 2 o'clock this morning , but went on to Pittsburg , by the advice of his physician , who did . not want him to disturb his night 's rest or to venture out in the air at an early hour in the morning . Major McKinley and Senator Allison were very cordial in their greetings . Senator Allison showed some traces of his recent fling 's , but on the whole was looking almost as robust as usual . Very shortly , after reaching Major McKinley 's house , Senator Allison and the President-elect retired . for a private talk , and remained closely engaged in conversation until lunch ? eon was served . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a member of President McKinley 's Cabinet , and it is learned . to-night that this determination was reached some days ago , and that Major . McKinley learned of it through friends . The President-elect and Mr. Allison Ws. cussed Cabinet possibilities from Iowa and other States and talked over the whole political situation . The impression prevails here that Senator Sherman is likely to be Secretary of State , and Senator Allison , who seems to have this opinion , spoke of him in high terms , declaring that he would make a. strong and admirable officer at the head of the Department of State . Mr. Allison left for Washington at 2 o'clock . This is the second interview Major McKinley has had with Cabinet possibilities this week . His first talk was with Cornelius N. Bliss of New York , who spent Monday evening in Cleveland with the President-elect at the home of M. A. Hanna . Mr. Bliss returned to the East yesterday . and to-day there is a rumor that the post of . Secretary of the Navy was offered to him and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to have Mr. Bliss in Ills Cabinet , but it is believed that until he shall have selected a Secretary of State and a Secretary of the Treasury , no other Cabinet portfolios will be tendered or accepted . Gen. Felix Agnus of Baltimore lunched with Major McKinley and Senator Allison . He is strongly opposed to the appointment of James A. Gary of Baltimore to the Cab ? inet . Major McKinley returned to Cleveland tonight , and will remain there till the first of next week .                     