@@672462

txt For some time trouble has been brewing at the Charlestown State Prison , having its origin in the objection oft'the inmates to submit to the enforcement of the Bertillon system of measurements . The recent escape of Prisoner Moore and the unsuccessful attempt of " Chicken " Walsh , a notorious convict , hare served to keep matters unsettled , but for several days there has been no decided outbreak . This afternoon about 3 o'clock , however , the convict in the shoe shop refused to obey the orders of their keepers , and as if by some prearranged signal all at once set up a terrific yell , and missiles were sent flying in all directions , the windows on the north and west sides being entirely demolished . Then the convicts made a dash for the yard . A large express wagon standing in the inclosure was pushed toward the wail by a mob of over fifty men , but hi the excitement it was capsized .. This means of assistance being gone the crowd . rushed for the various walls . Instantly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but later to kill . Other officers of the in stitution were quickly at hand , and with drawn revolvers soon massed the gang in groups after a hard fight , in which clubs were freely used and many of the convicts ' heads suffered . Word was quickly sent to Police Headquarters , and in a short time about two hundred officers reached the prison in patrol wagons . The convicts were finally locked up iu their cells . Several of them were found hidden about the shops , and it was feared that one or two had escaped . The guard on the walls has been more than trebled , and a large number of police are massed in the yard and corridors , while fifty oz more officers guard the streets leading to the prison . After the prisoners had been locked up they continued their yelling for some time . The men were then taken from their cells singly and thoroughly searched . The rising to-day is said to have been instigated by ' ? Chicken " Walsh , one of the most desperate members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gang to scale the walls and escape durin5 the excitement which was sure to follow . Vo alter Evans , another of the Albany Street crowd , is said to have fired two shots from a revolver through the shop window at Sentry Moore , but without hitting him . Where he could have obtained his weapon is a mystery . In an interview with Warden Russell to-night , it was ascertained that while the casualties resulting from the afternoon were not numerous , the light was a sharp one while it lasted . and the trouble was the most serious that has taken place at the prison for many years . The Warden 's story is to the following effect : This afternoon at 5 o'clock the Warden felt morally certain that a crisis was at hand . He at once summoned the Police Sergeant from Station 15 , who was stationed at the police signal box near the prison entrance and who awaited a call for help . About 3 o'clock it came from the harness shop , where over one hundred men were employed . Quickly notifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where he found everything in the wildest confusion . Upon entering the shop he called upon those prisoners who were peaceably disposed to go to their cells , assuring them of his protection . About seventy-five men immediately formed in lino and marched to their cells . The others , however , at once rushed into the yard and into the other shops , endeavoring to reach the walls . By this time Capt . Gaskin 's policemen had reached the prisonyard . A short and sharp struggle ensued , during which one convict was considerably bruised about the head by the officers ' clubs and several of the officers received slight wounds . The- Warden . has seventy-eight men locked in strong cells to-night , although he is of the opinion that fully one hundred were connected . directly or indirectly with the movement .                     