@@674735

txt That American Is very unwise who al-1 lows himself to be influenced by the hostile expressions of a part of the Spanish press . The expressions are natural enough . They proceed from the humiliated patriotism of what has been a great nation , from which the last signs of its ancient greatness are about to be taken away . No intelligent Spaniard imagines that either Cuba and Puerto Rico or the Philippine ? Islands will belong to Spain ten years from now . It is more probable that she will enter upon the twentieth century with all her outlying possessions lopped off and reduced to the peninsula which she occupied in the middle of the fifteenth . That is so humiliating a prospect for a patriotic Spaniard that it ill becomes the most modern and progressive of the nations which have successively supplanted Spain in the leadership of the world to add to the humiliation . It is " manifest destiny . " " The stare in their courses fought against SISERA . " In proportion as we are strong and Spain is weak we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient with the petulant exhibitions of her weakness . Among the most pathetic of these exhibitions is the betrayal of the Spanish belief that " Europe " will intervene at the last to prevent her from reaping as she has sown . " Europe " has her own troubles . There is a definite dynastic reason for the sympathy with the reigning family of Spain of the reigning family of Austria . There is a general sympathy with reaction on the part of the " two young men " who have altogether too much influence in swaying the destinies respectively of Russia and Germany , and of whom one is asserted to have given expression to that sympathy . And there is in France , where the Spanish debt seems to be mainly owed , a natural desire that the security of the debt shall not be wiped out or diminished . But these are not among the reasons which impel modern nations to intervene in war . Not one of them amounts to a reason why any first-class European power should intervene in behalf of Spain , in accordance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her manifest destiny . Without doubt , if Spain could prevail upon the three powers which intervened to prevent Japan from reaping the benefit of her victory over China to intervene again to prevent the United States from withdrawing the protection under which Spain has engaged in the task of exterminating the native population of Cuba , the intervention would give us pause . But the expectation of such an intervention is wildly chimerical . An endeavor to resuscitate at the end of the century the Holy Alliance which constituted a monarchical propaganda at the beginning would produce such an opposition in Austria and in Germany as would force the governing classes of those nations to look at home . As for France , there is no evidence that her Spanish sympathies extend beyond French financial interests , and these would necessarily be enlisted in an effort to prevent an insolvent debtor from squandering what is left of his assets in fighting the inevitable . If Spain were illadvised enough to make war upon us , as the result of our insisting that she should recognize the inevitable and act upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be the " benevolent neutrality " and the most that we should have to fear would be the malevolent neutrality of Austria and Germany and Russia . The trade of the United States is a far more important object with every one of the Continental powers , Russia possibly excepted , than anything that an alliance with Spain could give them . Indeed , It is plain that the hope of European intervention is one of the resorts of desperation to which unhappy Spain is driven , and that well-informed Spaniards put no faith in it . The Carlist organ in Spain , which has been one of the most bitter of the jingo newspapers , adds a touch of burlesque to it . while admitting that help is not to be looked for from Europe , by invoking the aid of the " Latins of America . " Now , " the Latins ? of America , " excepting the Brazilians , constitute the nations which have successively thrown off the yoke of Spain because it had become intolerable . From the time when Spain invoked the Holy Alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost the ruling passion of their citizens . It is a feeling far more intense than the hatred that we had half a century ago for the British because it is far better grounded . Does any Spaniard expect that the grandchildren of the reconcentrados wham Spain is now endeavoring to starve to death will take her part in any quarrel against anybody ? The expectation would be no more absurd than is the expectation that the grandsons of the Chileans and Peruvians who emancipated their countries from Stupid and corrupt misgovernment should now espouse the cause of the misgoverning power . There is thus no interest and no effective sentiment anywhere in favor of intervention on behalf of Spain . There is one great nation , however , which has a vital interest in doing whatever may be necessary to be done to keep open her communications with the United States . That is the nation which imports twothirds of her food , which has on hand at any time but the supply of a few weeks , which looks for the greater part of her imports of food to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the first naval power in the world . We should neither ask nor need the help of Great Britain . but in her own interest Great Britain would be bound , in case of an embroilment of any , European power with the United States , to keep the way open for the ships That bear the wheat and cattle , lest streetbred people die . It is vital to her that the transatlantic traffic shall not be suspended or interrupted . A Spaniard who might be besotted ' enough to believe that Spain could conquer the United States , and willing to take the chances of war with us in the cause of exterminating the inhabitants of Cuba , might still not be so besotted as to embark in an enterprise which would bind Spain to interrupt our commerce with Great Britain . For success in such an enterprise would be the defeat of the United States and Great Britain together .                     