@@673429

txt There does not seem to be any reasonable doubt that the attack of the French negroes in West Africa upon the British negroes was a pure blunder on the part of the French officer who expiated it with his life . It is , indeed , inconceivable that he should have attacked a British force when and where he did knowing it to be British . So it is not likely that the encounter will have any directly serious consequences . It could not have such consequences unless the French Government were anxious to cater to the unquestioned popular hostility to the British that prevails in France at present , and were willing to make aFrench officer 's blunder the pretext for a quarrel ; which is not at all credible . So it is to be expected that the French Foreign Office will make , in a diplomatic form , the explanation of which everybody is aware , and will accompany it with expressions of regret . The incident will then be closed . Nevertheless it is a pity that it should have happened , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansive " colonial policy " of France will necessarily bring her into contact at various points with Great Britain , as the Bismarckian colonial policy brought Germany into such contact . No other nation can extend its borders much , in the outlying parts of the world , without danger of collision with the greatest of colonizing powers to which colonization is not a means of cheap glory , but a sober commercial employment , and even a national necessity . In order to prevent collisions the desire of " spheres of influence " has been introduced , and in general has worked very welL In this case , however , it appears that when the French troops committed the blunder of attacking the English , under the impression that they were hostile natives , the French troops were well within the British " sphere of ( Mee , " and consequently where they had no business . To the English public , if not to the English Government , this will seem to be an aggression much more serious than the attack , which , if it was unintentional , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes a collision between France and Great Britain more serious than it would otherwise be . It is ? true that France has her own grievances against England , though they are in fact grievances against the French Government of ton years ago , which missed the opportunity then offered to it of exercising a joint control of Egypt with Great Britain . If this grievance be both unreasonable and sentimental , Russian hostility to Great Britain has a more solid basis . The dismemberment of the British Empire would be a matter of congratulation both for Russia and for France . On the other hand , Great Britain , as Sir CHARLES DILKE the other day reminded her , has no friends in Europe . The tendency of such incidents as that of Siam and as this of Africa is to force England into a virtual if not a formal membership of the Triple Alliance .                     