@@672712

txt To-day the laddies of the naval battalion took their first lesson in gunnery on modern ships , and although it Is impossible to make crack gunners out of suoh material in a day and without ammunition , still the men took ' hold of their work with a will , and showed their armory training by the readiness with - which they handled the big ships ' guns . Bright and early the men were turned out of their hammocks on the Wabash , and after the morning mess had been cleared away all hands were got up , and the launches and cutters called away . The fourth division and two crews of the third , under command of Lieut . Weeks , nulled out into the stream and boarded the Newark . the second division and one crew of the third , under Lieut .. Paul , boarded the Atlanta , and the first division and one crew of the third , under Lieut . De Blois , boarded the Boston . As soon as the militia had cane aboard , the BMW companies and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each division . was divided into four gun crews of twelve men each , and posted at the big guns with the regular crews of the ships . These crews were taken in charge by the divisional officers of the ships and instructed in all the details of fighting the great guns . The first part of the lesson was oral instruction by the division officers in the duties of each man ; then the ships ' crews were ordered to man the guns , while the militia crews stood by and watched . As the order was given , there was a general commotion ; the gunners brought the sealed sights from their cases and set them in position , and got out the swabs and rammers ; the Powder monkeys and shell men opened the hatches , rigged the falls and shell tongs , and began to pass ammunition ; others brought out the cut- lasses , rifles , revolvers , and cartridge belts . All the movements of loading , aiming , firing , and cleaning the guns were gone through by the regulars , and then everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . From 9:30 o'clock until 11:80 the men were kept hard at work , and at seven bells the militia crews were ordered to clear away the boats , and they pulled back to the Wabash for lunch . During the drill the militia officers stood by and watched their crews at work , for to-morrow they must take command and put them through the same evolutions . At 1 o'clock the militia again embarked in the boats and pulled back to the squadron , and the afternoon passed in a similar drill at the secondary batteries or machine guns of the ships . This work occupied the men until 4:30 o'clock , when they pulled back to the Wabash for the night . This evening the officers of the naval battalion entertained the officers of the squsairon at dinner on board the Wabash.                     