@@674708

txt Pension Commissioner EVANS has justified the civil service law and regulations while he was trying his best to discredit both . It is perfectly apparent to any one who reads his testimony before the Senate Committee on Civil Service and Retrenchment that he believes in the thing the civil service law was intended to secure , which is faithful attention to duty , with intelligence , but he joins in the sneer at the name of the instruinentality that has been devised to take the place of the brutal system that a good many Tennessee Republicans and some other Republicans insist upon preferring . Mr. EVANS has signified to the Appropriations Committee of the House that he can after June 30 , 1898 , dispense with 100 clerks now employed in the Pension Bureau if he is permitted to choose whom he will dismiss . If Senators and Representatives will not interfere to save the inefficient men and women whom he will be glad to get rid of as idlers and mischief-makers , he promises to drop 100 clerks without impairing the efficiency of the office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator LODGE , he very candidly informed the committee that " inefficient clerks have the most influence to prevent dismissal , " and that he had little expectation that he would be allowed to dismiss them . As a matter of course , he did not expect that Senator LODGE and Senator PRITCHARD would vex him in this  --  way , but he very honestly doubted whether other Senators would refrain from trammeling him . The Commissioner of Pensions does not like bad clerks , the sort who devote their time to prolonging jobs , shortening the hours of labor , contriving mischief and blunders , or settling the affairs of the Nation in the headquarters of State associations . And he admits that some of the best clerks in the bureau over which he presides came in under the " spoils " system . Possibly many of them were there when the civil service law took effect in 1882 . If it had not been for that law , does he not know that they would have been lost to the bureau years ago ? None of them could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know his own power as Commissioner under the civil service law to dismiss inefficient clerks . For a man who is as outspoken as he is in formal opposition to the merit system , and who fancies he is talking on the popular side in Congress , Commissioner EVANS has made one of the best statements for the reform that have been uttered since Mr. LODGE and his committee began their , investigation . If he were more courageous to act upon his own convictions , his defense of the reform would be more straightforward , but it would not be more real than it must appear to be to every reader of his testimony .                     