@@672517

txt The report of Gov . Hill 's speech delivered in this city on Saturday night , which appeared in the New-York Sun and World of this morning , has created general Indignation among the Democrats of this city . The reason for this is because the Governor delivered no such speech here , and also because it has now gone forth that the Connecticut Democrats here indorsed the Tammany end of the New-York political warfare , Feeling has become so strong that several leaders of the Democratic Party have taken the trouble to deny that the Governor made any such speech , and have mused to indorse the report in the World and Sun . Luzon 13 . Morris , the candidate for Governor , said to-night that Gov . Hill made no such remarks as lie is credited with , and furthermore that he should have to look it over carefully before he could indorse it . Clarence Deming said that he did not believe the Governor ' made the remarks reported , but that it was very poor taste if he did so . Taleott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sargent deelined to indorse the remarks , Prof. Baldwin emphatically denying that they were made . It is understood that the report emanated from the Governor himself . as the copy of the speech was delivered by him into the hands of the New -- York reporters earlier in the day , front which the extracts as printed were taken and sent to New-York . Upon his arrival here , however , he was warned against hoisting New-York politics in New-Haven , and for that reason he abstained from doing so . The selection of a Chairman for the meeting has resulted in a bitter warfare which will be carried to the polls on Tuesday . Mr. J. B. Sargent Wag first selected for the position , but on Saturday the Town Committee threw him over and selected Alexander Troup to fill the position . This angered Mr. Sargent 's iriends , and several of them openly announced that they Would bolt the ticket on Tuesday and would also break up the meeting . Mr. Sargent endeavored to have Mr. Troup withdraw , but he was determined to serve recardless of the threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided that Mr. Sargent should entertain Gov . Hill and introduce Mr. Troup as the presiding officer . Air . Sargent joined the Governor at Willimantic , but upon reaching New-Haven he learned or the trouble and emphatically declined to be entertained by Mr. S.irgent , going of his own accord to the New-Haven House . Mr Troup presided , but the trouble which was anticipated failed to mature . In view of the anticipated trouble , Mr. Sargent requested the Governor to say a few words on local harmony , to pass over the difficulty , and in this respect the Governor complied , but the remarks as credited to him were never spoken , although they were undoubtedly given the reporters as printed . The New-York report of the speech have received no indorsement from any source here , and it is generally believed that there was a put up - ob to foist the extracts as printed In New-York on the people as his speech in behalf of Tammany , while his not delivering it here will give him a chance to deny that be ever made it and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at the satue time Tammany will have the weight of his influence just the same . The local papers gave three or four columns of extracts of the speech , but not a word which in any way could be construed as like the extracts in the World and Sun .                     