@@673001

txt The members of the First Baptist congregation in this city are in the condition of a nest of hornets stirred up by a sharp stick . They are buzzing around furiously , and the man who did the stirring up is getting a moral if not physical chastisement . The Rev. Ranson Harvey , who for five years ? three or which have been stormy  --  has presided over the First Baptist congregation , preached a pointed sermon Sunday . Under the cloak of an allegory he &andled; the misohiefmakers in his charge " scandalously , " as they characterized it , and in conolusion asked his hearers if they pro posed to treat their next pastor as they had him . The general sentiment among the church members is that the remarks were uncalled for . A minority declares that the pastor was too forbearing . The ROY , Mr. Harvey has contemplated resigning for some time , and although he has not actually resigned , yet he is expected to before September , when his vacation will end . The First Baptist Church is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its congregation numbers the most exclusive residents hero . President J. Monroe Taylor of Vassar College is a frequent visitor and has preached several times from Its pulpit . Years ago Matthew Vassar , the founder of Vassar , was its chief support , lnd a generation later it received substantial aid from Matthew Vassar , Jr .. and John Guy Vassar . The latter , at his death , bequeathed it a handsome legacy , which was defeated by the Court of Appeals but was made good by one of the Vassar heels . The trouble between the Rev. Mr. Harvey and his congregation dates from an illness of his wife several years ago . One of the women of the congregation Galled upon her and remarked that she had better get well and look after the young women who were flirting with her husband . This caused a sensible difference of sentiment between the pastor and his family and the church , and as the years have gone on the difference has widened Into a breach . Tne Baptist Church has been unfortunate with its pastors . Eight years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his eating pie with a knife . His successor was the Rev. Howard B. Grose , now of the Chicago University . He remained three years . when he was obliged to resign because his people thought he lived too high . The Rev. Mr. Harvey , the last offender , is an able preacher , and much sympathy is manifested for him here .                     