@@673963

txt Questions as to what women may , can , will , or shall do in politics are interesting but vague . One explicit example of what women have done , for what purpose , and by what methnds is worth any amount of discussion . Such an example is described , clearly and in detail , in a pamphlet ( No. 150 ) published by the American Academy of Political and Social Science of Philadelphia . Its title is " The Story of a Woman 's Municipal Campaign , Edited by Mrs. Talcott Williams . " It is a report submitted to the academy by " the Civic Club " of Philadelphia , an organization of women . The object of the campaign was to secure the electioh of women to the School Board of the Seventh Ward of the city in February . The ward is Republican . The women were nominated by the Municipal League and the Democratic organizations . They were not elected , but the campaign changed , in round numbers , about 1,000 votes in 5,5o0 , or more than 20 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of male politicians might well be proud . Considering the nature of the issue , the prejudice , ignorance , and indifference encountered , the complicated election laws , the bad character of many of the officers of election , and the fact that all the active work was done in ten days , it was a very remarkable result . It is needless to say that the methods were entirely holiest . They were also intelligent and practical and carried out with energy , skill , and with no waste of time , labor , or money . The general work was in the hands of a committee of the Civic Club . The ward consists of twenty-six polling precincts , or " divisions . " In each division three members of the Civic Club were appointed a committee , and others were added . Lists of voters were obtained from the proper officers , and each committee member had a list for her division . The chief labor was that of a house-to-house canvass , of which the objects were : ( 1 ) To verify the list and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ) to persuade the women of the house to influence the men to vote for the women candidates ; ( 3 ) to distribute and explain the sample ballots ; ( 4 ) to collect information and suggestions as to the schools from the parents of the children . thoroughly this was done appears in detail in the reports , and is generally indicated by the fact that in the ten days allowed 13,000 visits were made and 146 women were engaged in the work . There were , besides , public meetings , parlor meetings , and a careful system of inspection on election day . It is to be remembered that this nark was from the beginning absolutely hopeless and was known to be sr . It was meant simply to insert the edge of the wedge , and the authors of tile scheme understood that they were pledging themselves to future efforts even snore arduous , though possibly more successful . We have not in a long time met with a record of political and social action niece instructive and more encouraging than this little volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defects which men are fond of thinking must characterise women 's activity in such directions . Forethought , system , care in details , disci-. pline , organization , energy , and patience ? all these , which we are used to think belong exclusively to our sex  --  appear clearly , unmistakably in these modest pages . As the object pursued was a perfectly practical and sane object , it is refreshing to find so complete an adaptation of means to the end . We shall hear more , and much more , of the Civic Club of Philadelphia .                     