@@673511

txt We give this morning a number of instances investigated by The Times of pensioners who are drawing money from the Treasury for " disabilities " incurred in the service , the peculiarity of which is that they were not officially discovered until from twenty to twenty-five years from the date of their alleged origin . Another peculiarity of these cases is. that the men who are " suffering " from these disabilities do not , as a rule , disclose to an ordinary observer the slightest evidence of them , and are not prevented by them from earning their living in occupations which are usually supposed to require the full average amount of health and bodily vigor . We read of a man who carries baggage daily who is compensated for " injury of chest , back , and stomach " ; ' of a teamster and small farmer who is paid for " chronic diarrhea , hemorrhoids , malarial poisoning , rheumatism , shaking palsy as the result of sunstroke , and a shell wound over the left eye " ; of a coal heaver who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veins , " and another for " left inguinal hernia , " and so on . Does any one suppose if these men had been in the employ of a business man who had contracted to compensate them for any disabilities incurred while so engaged , that% they would have applied for , or would have received , such comptnsation , a quarter of a century after leaving that employment , and While ? able to perform daily-Work of the kind described ? We do not now speak of a mean employer who would fight a just claim , but of a fair and generous one who would honorably and gladly pay any claim-that could reasonably and decently be made . The question answers itself . No man Of ordinary intelligence would present or acknowledge anal a claim . ' Why , then , should cases of this kind be ? so ' frequent : that an investigation finds them by ' the dozen in a narrow ' part of a semi-rural region ? The inference that the Union soldiers of Northern New-York were of a particularly unscrupulous sort would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that these particular pensioners are worthless men , of less conscience or self-respect or sense of what Is honorable between men than their neighbors , or than the people of the ' State elsewhere . On the contrary , they are reputed sober , industrious , and respectable , and in all their ordinary relations undoubtedly are so . A like anomaly is presented in the cases of the medical examiners by whom the existence , nature , and extent of the disabilities are determined , and who also practically decide what pensions shall be granted for them . These physicians , whether the local examiners or the medical officers of the Pension Bureau , are in all probability men of fair standing in their profes- ? sion , who in private practice would scorn to do anything contrary to the code of professional ethics or condemned by the standard of conduct recognized in the communities where they reside . To refer again to the comparison with private business , they would not be likely , if engaged by either an employer or ernploy6 , to give the sanction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such cases . Why should ' they do so when the money comes from the Treasury of the United Stated ? The answer is not simple . Probably one powerful cause is the feeling that the veterans of the Union army are entitled to the utmost liberality in determining any claim and to the utmost latitude in making claims for service in the war , and both the applicants and the officials are more or less unconsciously treating the pensions as relating not to specific disabilities but to general ' merit . It is gratitude which is asked and granted . But while this feeling is natural and in itself entirely praiseworthy , it is plain not only that it leads to the possibility of grave abuses , but that it IS necessarily more or lees demoralizing to the character of an concerned . It certainly destroys any real distinction of an honorable character , and makes every pensioner , however much he really may have suffered or how great his sacrifice to his country may have been , regarded with ' a sort of good-natured indifference that is essentially insulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow-citizens who takes a semi-gratuity . And the men to whom a pension is really due , who have earned it and have a right to be proud of having earned it , are hopelessly and cruelly wronged by being involuntarily classed with those who have not earned and yet receive it . It is to these latter that a radical reform of the whole pension system is a matter of the strongest right .                     