@@673673

txt The ReV. Dr. Parkhurst spoke before an east side audience last night for the first time , and the dwellers in the crowded tenement houses showed a great desire to see and hear him . The occasion was a , meeting of the City Vigilance League at the De Witt Memorial Church , in Rivington Street , and long before the hour for the opening of the meeting the church was filled in every part , there being as many women as men , and the doors were closed . A great crowd gathered about the closed doors and made ineffectual efforts to enter , completely blocking the street , so that policemen had to be summoned to preserve order . The audience listened to Dr. Parkhurst with close attention , and applauded him frequently . Dr. Parkhurst said that victory for his cause has been foreordained by Almighty I God , and will surely come . " The man I want for Mayor , " he said , " must be a man who can be looked up to with respect , with a character so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to say against him . He must be beyond the domination of the ' bosses , ' either Democratic or Republican . The Mayor of this city occupies a position of peculiar privilege . He should be a Great Father , and he should look upon the citizens as his children , and should strive to make their lives sweeter , richer , and happier . He should have a warm spot in his heart for the workingman , and for the foreign-born people who live in this city . " A man came to me to-day with a sworn statement that he has been paying protection ' money to a Captain of police , and whose name has not been yet mentioned before the Lexow committee . How many are tarred by the same stick ? I do n't know , but I believe there is a very small minority who have not been corrupted . There is scarcely a man in office in this city who is not corrupt . ' Croker asked a friend of mine in Saratoga the other day if he thought I was really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and fresher than he was three years ago . ' " Dr. Parkhurst closed his speech with fan appeal to all to sink their partisan feeling in an effort for the purification of the Municipal Government Dr. Parkhurs ' was asked to make public the name of the Police Captain referred to by him and the name of his informant , but he absolutely refused to do so . Addresses were also made by the Rev. W. T. Elsing. pastor of the church , and the Rev. H. T. , W. E. Knox , and F. S. Grob.                     