@@672468

txt Walter Howe , a member of the Aqueduct Commission of New-York City , was drowned while bathing here to-day . Two years ago Mr. Howe purchased Glover Cottages on Beacon Hill . and here he spent his Summers with his wife and two eons , coming early and remaining late , making only such occasional visits to New-York as his business required . He was fond of outdoor exercise , and riding and swimming were his delight . He was an excellent swimmer , and at 12:30 to-day he went down to Bateman 's Beach to take his daily plunge . The beach is near Castle Hill and is dotted with the pavilions of Summer residents , built especially for the privacy and convenience of the bathers . The surf has been very heavy for several days , but this fact did not deter the stronger swimmers from taking their usual exercise , and a number of them were in the water with Mr. Howe . He must have been seized with cramps and carried down before he could signal to them , for his disappearance was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - friends discovered that he was missing , an alarm was given and prompt action was taken , in the hope of finding the body before life was extinct . A messenger hurried to the lifesaving station in this city , and a searching party was immediately organized . An hour passed in the search before the body was recovered . Dr. Turner and Dr. Mao Kaye labored for nearly another hour in the hope of restoring life , but without sucoess . Mrs. Howe is prostrated with grief , and the terrible accident has brought sadness to the entire summer colony . Arrangements will be made to transfer the body to New-York for buriaL Mr. Howe was one of the best-known young men in New-York , and he enjoyed the respect and esteem of all who knew him . A man of manly appearance and dignified carriage , he was positive in his views and clear and able in expressing them . A lawyer by profession , his extensive personal interests made him his own best client ; but be was by nature and training a patriot , and his principal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field he occupied the position of a reformer , and throughout an active career as Assemblyman , Commissioner of Schools , and Aqueduct Commissioner , covering a period of eight years , he was distinguished as a man of uncompromising honor and devotion to high principle . His political opponente respected him for his manly virtues . His tragic death will be a shock to the entire community . Mr. Howe was born in New-York , a fact which he was proud to acknowledge , May 3 , 1849 , and was consequently hi his forty-second year . He was graduated from the College of the City of New-York , in the Class of ' 68 , and from the Columbia College Law School in the Class of ' 70 . His father was a well-known merchant and left his family in affluent circumstances . Walter Howe was a student by nature , however , and with his graduation took up a systematic course of study in languages and literature , and was recognized as a good German and French scholar , an amateur artist in watercolors of recognized talent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasure in artistic gardening , and some years ago wrote a book , which was published in the Putnam Series upon " The Garden , " in which he sketched graphically and pleasantly the progress of ornamental gardening from the Roman period , his work embodying all the best things in ancient and modern literature upon the subject . In politics he was a Republican , but , while he was so identified , his activity in every department of political reform gave him rank among the independents rather than among the partisans . With Mr. Howe country and principle were always above party . He was a member of the Assembly in 1883,1884 , and 1885 , representing the Eleventh Assembly District . In the Assembly he was one of a Spartan band of young men who were distinguished for their bold and aggressive warfare upon all manner of political corruption . In 1885 he was made his party 's candidate for the State Senate , but was defeated by William C. Traphagen , although he ran away ahead of his party ticket in the district . July 31 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reform Board of Aqueduct Commissiouers , and in this , as in every other station in Die , he brought a keen intelligence , ripe sense of his responsibility , and conscientious devotion to duty to bear upon his Labors . In social life Mr. Howe was genial and companionable , and will be mourned by a large circle of warm personal friends . Ile was a member and in 1883-4 Secretary of the Union League Club , and a member of the Century , University , and Downtown Clubs . In the Century , where his loss will be profoundly felt and deplored , he was a member of the House committee . The Summer residence purchased by him at Newport adjoins the cottage of Abram S. Hewitt , and one of his recreations for the year has been the rearrangement and improvement of the grounds . He was happily married to a Miss Bruce some sixteen years ago , and leaves surviving him his wife and their two sons , aged fourteen and eleven years . The city residence of the family was at Madison Avenue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage . The aged mother of Mr. Howe , residing at the family homestead in Elizabeth , N. J. , was last night informed of her son 's drowning . A gentleman who has watched the course of Mr. Howe since his entry into public life , and who was personally acquainted with him , had this to say about him last night : " I never knew a man holding a public office who entered so heartily into the discharge of its duties . With him ? public office was a public trust , ' . and unlike many men of wealth who find themselves iu the public service , he devoted himself strictly to the business of serving the public in the broadest and best sense . From the moment ho was sworn in as a member of the As ' sembly of 1883 , Mr. Howe took a prominent part in all its acts . He was one of a quartet who left their mark upon the legislation of the State . Its other members were Theodore Roosevelt , Isaac M. Hunt of Jefferson County , and William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly turbulent one , for the Democratic majority was so large as to be unwieldy , and Speaker Chapin had difficulty at times in controlling it . The baser element of both parties organized for plunder and soon became known as the Forty Thieves . A fellow named Mortimer C. Earl of Brooklyn was one of the most offensive members a this group . Many were the battles which the quartet gave this organization and in them all Mr. Rowe was a foremost figure . Be was a ready debater , and knew how to measure his man . He was wont to say afterward that to the experience thus gained early in his public career he owed much of his subsequent good fortune and the reputation that he gained . As Chairman of the Prison Committee at a later session Mr.Howe made a study of the problem of convict labor , which was then vexing the State , and became a recognized authority I in its treatment . Public attention was attracted to his thoroughness , and those interested in the reform movements of the period sought and always obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a practical point of view was the fact that the leaders of his own party listened to his counsel and he would , had ho lived , have certainly played a prominent part in the politics of the future . " When Mayor Hewitt reorganized the Agueduct Commission and wanted a good lawyer and a man of affairs , Whose judgment was sound and who could be relied upon to guard the great work then in process of completion , he selected Mr. Howe , and he never had occasion to regret his act . In untangling the affairs of the Aqueduct Commission Mr. Howe 's services were invaluable . The people of this city , that portion of them at least who pay the taxes , will never realize the obligations they are under to Mr. Howe . "                     