@@674322

txt Republicans and sound-money Democrats in Virginia alike charge that " frauds of all conceivable kinds " were practiced at the recent election in that State , and that but for these the Bryan Electors would have been defeated . Similar charges have been made in Alabama and Texas , and the general fact is no longer denied that elections have been carried by fraud in the polling or in the counting of votes in some of the Southern States for years . It is said that the Republicans and their Democratic allies in the recent contest in Virginia will unite in a determined fight for fair elections hereafter , and will make that the overshadowing issue in the State campaign next year . A similar interest has been excited in other Southern States , and when election frauds are resorted to in a National campaign involving such issues as were at stake this year , interest in the question will not be confined to the South . It behooves the people of the South to relieve themselves of the odium and the peril that come from fraud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people , for the practice has gone far beyond the purpose of preventing " negro domination , " even if we admit that it was justified for that purpose . The only real danger in the negro vote comes from ignorance , and it is no greater in the negro vote than in an equally ignorant white vote . The suppression of the negro vote in South Carolina has had no better result than Tillmanism . An educational qualification that makes no discrimination on account of race or color is Constitutional and has existed in Massachusetts for nearly forty years . Nobody .. can find fault with the establishment of such a qualification in any Southern State , provided it is applied fairly and justly , and adequate provision is made for education , so that every citizen may have the opportunity of qualifying himself for the suffrage . The educational qualification and ample means for popular education should go together , and both are needed for the safety of the Commonwealth where illiteracy now exists on a large scale . They are especially needed in most of the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessary to have an educational qualification , but special efforts should be made to exterminate illiteracy altogether and give every citizen the qualification , whether it is required for voting or not . With the universal education of children under a compulsory system faithfully carried out , and with abundant means of instruction at the public charge , no citizen twenty-one years of age has any excuse for being unable to read . There may be exceptions in aliens coming here after they have passed that age , but under the naturalization laws foreign illiterates ought not to be admitted to citizenship , and none but citizens should be allowed to vote . Restricted suffrage is certainly a less evil than fraudulent elections .                     