@@673388

txt Henry Kinsella , janitor of the American Steamship Company 's offices , 6 Bowling Green . throw a pint of vitriol at Mrs. James Conway , wife of the janitor of the French Steamship Company 's offices , at 3 Bowling Green , last night . The acid struck the woman 's face and burned it so that she will be disfigured for life . Possibly one eye may be injured . Her neck and arms were badly burned . She is at Chambers Street Hospital , and three detectives are looking for Kinsella . His cowardly act is an incident in a bitter family feud which has existed for four years . Kinsella and Conway are step brothers . The former is about thirty-eight and the latter less than thirty years old . Mrs. Conway is an attractive-looking woman of twenty-eight . Both families have lived within a stone 's throw of the Battery for many years . and the warfare between them has been one of the established facts in the social life of that section of the city . The Kinsellas say that for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life burdensome to Mr. Kinsella He was for eleven years a fireman , having been Assistant Foreman of Engine Company No. 2 , in John Street , for seven years . A year ago he was retired from the department . The Kinsellas say that Mrs. Conway made complaint to the department . charging that Mr. Kinsella had once been in prison for stealing . This , they say , was why he lost his place . " Since then , " said Miss Kinsella to a New-York Times reporter last night . " the woman has made no end of trouble . My husband started a place up town and this woman drove him out of business by threatening to have his license revoked . She has come to the sidewalk and danced up and down before our house to annoy us . She has driven my husband to such a condition that he is like a raving maniac whenever her name is mentioned . She has made tt impossible for him to get work . I do n't believe he * . Frew the vitriol , but , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the woman herself . " Down at the Conway House Mrs. Mary Monahan , who is Mrs. Conway 's mother , told the other side of this unhappy family story . " The Kinsellas advied Mr. Conway to apply for the job of janitor of the French Line . " she said . " and , after the Conways had done so . they decided they wanted the job themselves . They tried to get it away from them , but could n't . Since then the women have had no doings one with the other . Once they had rooms adjoining to take care of . and sometimes Mrs. Kinsella 's help would sweep their dust right on the floors where my daughter had cleaned it . For all the four years they have had trouble , and the Kinsellas all the time trying to get the job away from them . " Whatever may be the details of the unpleasantness from time to time , the feud had become bitter . Mrs. Conway started at 8:10 o'clock last night to call on her mother . Kinsella concealed himself behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a small tin pail full of the burning acid . When the woman passed he threw the pail at her , and then ran down across the park toward South Ferry . That was the last seen of him . " Kinsella hasburned me ! " shrieked Mrs. Conway , blinded and in pain . The vitrol splashed all over the lower part of her face , some went upon her forehead and eyelids , and some upon her arms and hands . A boa saved her life , probably , by protecting her neck from a stream of the stuff . As it was , her neck was badly burned . She ran back toward Broadway , screaming . Several persons ran to her , and she was taken to the office of Dr. E. B. Turner , 30 State Street In a few minutes an ambulance took her to Chambers Street Hospital . At the place where the vitrol was thrown a policeman found a small tin pail , with some of the vitrol in it . He took It to the station house . Mr. Conway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sent out to look for Kinsella . Mr. Conway told a New-York Times reporter that Kinsella had threatened to kill him about a year ago , and complaint had been made to the police at that time . It was this which brought on the developments which resulted in Kinsella 's discharge from the Fire Department . " Only last week , " Conway said . " Kinsella threatened me again . His family used to annoy us in every possible manner . Hi " little girl has stood on the sidewalk and called out , ' Oh , you coward ' to me . " It was at first thought that Mrs. Conway would lose both eyes , but at the hospital it was said , after her injuries had been attended to . that one surely and probably both would be saved . But she will always have terrible scars on her face and neck .                     