@@674648

txt The Navy Department has issued a summary of the reports from the various States which maintain naval militia forces . These show a steady growth of this branch of the volunteer service . In October . 1891 , the total strength of the naval militia in the United States was 1,149 ; on Jan. 1 of the present year it was 4,037 . The service is still young , and its early growth will probably turn out to have been its slowest , but it does not increase with sufficient rapidity . There ought to be 25,000 men in the naval militia along our coasts . The only cause that can prevent recruiting must be a lack of knowledge of the nature of the service . One would naturally suppose that young men living on the coasts would welcome the opportunity to combine nautical pleasure with instruction . It is hardly likely that the absence of show from the uniform of the sailor prevents enlistment . That could only keep out men who would be useless if enlisted . The fear of having to do such work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ash whips may deter ' some young men from joining , but there is only a week of such work to be done in the year , and it is really not as laborious as the policing of a camp , which the members of the regiments have to perform . It is possible that the attainments required in an officer of the naval militia may cause some eligible men to hesitate because they believe the road to promotion too hard to travel . -A naval militia officer must be prepared to pass a searching examination in seamanship , management of boats under sail and oars , ship routine and customs of the service , infantry and field artillery tactics , ordnance and gunnery , the drills of great guns and secondary batteries on modern warships , navigation , and signaling . All of these subjects , except navigation , may be mastered by the gradual absorption of training as seamen in the militia . Facts go to show teat promotion is sure . The roster of the First Naval Battalion calls for sixteen divisional officers . Of these , nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present several vacancies , to be filled from the same source . The information and reconno tsa.nce work , for which the Navy Department relies so greatly upon the militia , affords mans opportunities for most agreeable Summer excursions in boats . The work itself is easily performed and combines pleasure with duty . It consists chiefly of detailed examination of the waters and coast lines in the neighborhood of each militia port for the preparation of answers to questions . upon them formulated by the Navy Department . The young men now in the service have entered upon this duty with great enthusiasm . There is a constant change in the duties of the amateur'man-of-war 's man which ought to render his work attractive . In all probability it is necessary only that the nature of the naval militia service shall be more thoroughly and widely understood to draw to it hundreds of young men who would find military work monotonous .                     