@@674716

txt Piracy is not made more respectable by false pretenses . When Germany seized Kiao-Chau Bay she made a pretext of the murder of German missionaries in China- But the pretext was so ludicrously irrelevant that even the Consecrated Person can not have meant it to be taken seriously . Because your missionaries have been murdered is no reason at all why you should demand a coaling station by way of atonement . The latest pretext of Germany is not quite so transparent . She conceals the seizure under the form of " a lease "  --  a lease for fifty years , of which the rental is not given . And her pretext is that she wishes for " the possession , in the same way as other powers , of a base for trade and navigation in Chinese waters . " This is a false pretense , for the reason that no " other powers " have any exclusive concessions . The Russian seizure of Port Arthur was , doubtless , meant to be exclusive , but it has been made since the German seizure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have been made to " other powers " are the cession of Macao to Portugal in the sixteenth century and the cession of Hongkong to Great Britain by the treaty which concluded the opium war of 1842 . But these are not precedents for Germany and Russia .. ' They are precedents against the pretension to acquire exclusive cessions . Both Macao and Hongkong are now open to the ships of . all nations on equal terms . There is a more recent precedent even more directly in point . France secured by treaty in 1858 the opening . to her trade of the Port of Nanking . England at once demanded and obtained permission to trade there on equal terms with France , under " the most savored nation clause , " which she has now raised against the exclusive pretensions of Germany and of Russia . There are now twenty-four treaty ports in which Germany and Russia have the same rights as England . It is quite true that England carries on virtually all the trade that Europe does with China . Our own trade amounts to about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. But England does the business because she has the best facilities for doing it . If Germany does not get what the Kaiser regards as her share , it is not because she has not already " the possession , in the same way as other powers , of a base for trade and navigation in Chinese waters , " and the pretense that she has not is distinctly a false pretense.                     