@@675241

txt The announcement from The Hague that the Emperor of Germany has instructed his representatives at The Hague to support the only proposal submitted by France , for the express reason that it was submitted by France , was the kind of thing that was to be expected from him . That curious combination of mediaeval knight and modern hustler is equally alive to the claims of chivalrous sympathy and of national interest . And it may very well be that his support of a French proposal , because it is French and irrespective of its merits , may do more to preserve the Peace of Europe than could be done by the formulation of the best-matured plan for mitigating the horrors or diminishing the chances of war . At the same time the report shows how natural and necessary it is that in an armed camp like Europe even a peace ! conference should be cemented into an international political conference . Doubtless every one of the leading military powers is represented by men whose chief object is to arrange separate alliances ? for their own countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their powerful neighbors in case of war , rather than to lay the foundations of a universal peace , in which probably few of them have great faith . This is natural , it is necessary and not improper , but evidently it tends rather to obstruct than to promote the avowed purpose of the conference . And it is rather absurd to reflect that each of the powers represented at the conference is also represented at the capital of each of the others by a military attachi " whose business is to find out all he can about the military resources and plans of the other country , whose function , in other words , is that of a high-class spy . The conference may still make some headway toward its avowed object of making wars more difficult , and they ! will be mane more difficult if they are made more deliberate . A sovereign ' State can not be prevented from fighting when it has made up its mind to fight or its rulers have made up theirs . It is an I attribute of sovereignty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State is no more the guardian of its own honor than an individual of his . And Undoubtedly , in the social conditions in which private war is recognized at all , the dueling code has done much to mid , gate it . A principal has the right to dieregard the advice of his seconds , and to insist upon fighting in spite of it . But if he does so , he incurs a grave responsibility . If such a safeguard as has been found effective in private war could he transferred to public war , without doubt the result would be a gain for the cause of peace .                     