@@781130

txt In spite of the vast difference in their aspect and conditions at the present day , the early history of South Africa and North America closely touches in several important points . Largely intermixed with the Dutch of the Transvaal as well as with the English colonies of South Africa is a race a part of which went to people what were then the British colonies of North America . As pioneers of civilization the part enacted by the Huguenots in the development of North America is well known . At Capt Town the Chief Justice of the Colony . Sir John Henry de Villiers . has just laid the foundation stone of the Huguenot Memorial Hall of the Dutch Reformed Church of South Africa , the clergy of which , by the way , in Cape Colony no less than in the Transvaal , are particularly loud at the present juncture in denouncing both from the pulpit and the platform ary attempt on the part of England at int ! midation , as they term it , of the South African Republic , In the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of Government Ministers , members of the Legislature , prominent dignitaries of the English , as well as of the Dutch Church , the Chef Justice referred to the numbers of Huguenots who escaped in spite of all penalties and precautions from France in Mb and managed to reach . England , Holland , North America , and South Africa . The inference obviously intended to be drawn from the address of the Chief Justice was that in spite of their present antagonism and their vast difference in thought and temperament , the fusion of the two white races at present dominant in South Africa must be the natural outcome of time and circumstances . Escaping in all manner of disguises to the Netherlands in a state of utter destitution , and being provided free passage thence by the Dutch East India Company , Huguenots numbering about 200 settled at the Cape , where , being proVided  --  with farms , they had still for some time to depend on the charity of the company . in spite of differences as great or even greater than those at the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Dutch have become one people in South Africa . As an instance of the ill-feeling that at first existed between the two races may be mentioned that the Huguenots requested to be allowed to establish a church of their own . The commander , Van der Stad , broke into a furious passion . He declared that the project was rank sedition , and that the French were the most impertinent and ungrateful people on the face of the earth . It was not only their own Church , he said , that they wanted , but their own Magistrate and their own prince . They should have nothing of the kind . In opta meeting the French resolved not to intermarry with the Dutch . Two hundred years ago the disputes about the Dutch and French languages were as vehement as they are now about English and Dutch . In contrast to this spirit is the system in vogue at the Cape at the present day . While in the Transvaal Dutch is the only official language , and no other is allowed even in the police courts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colony . Dutch as spoken in the House of Assembly there is interesting from the fact that it ranges from the best grammatical form of the language to the simplest colonial Dutch , or " tkarrot , " freed from the shackles of grammar , the two Dutch members of one village representing the two extremes . One highly objectionable feature of the Boers is their disposition to regard themselves as the chosen people of God , a disposition which their clergy do much to foster . President Kruger , by the way , has never sought to disguise his partiality ' for the Jews , to whom , although in common with the Catholics they labor under certain disabilities , some of the fattest concessions have been granted by him . On a recent Sunday set aside as a day of humi- I liation and prayer in the present crisis . from their pulpits in Johannesburg the clergy impressed on their flocks the necessity of regarding the Outlanders as a form of punishment sent by God for their sins . The ignorance of the Boer is profound and proverbial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between an Englishman and an American , since they both speak one language . Americans may , therefore , he interested to learn that one of the leading Dutchmen at Pietersburg. an Important town of the Transvaal , has been in the habit of parading the public streets and declaring before God that as soon as war is declared by Great Britain against the Transvaal he will shoot ever Englishman he may encounter upon the street , while tiny well-dressed children are to be seen toddling along the street clenching their fists and uttering ' fiercely at every Englishman they meet : " Voetzak U verdomde Roolnek ; ik zal vrachtig schieten ! " ( Get out of the way you damned Englishman ; I 'll shoot you straight. )                     