@@781022

txt The first attempt of Mgr . Satolli to excommunicate a priest In this country was in Swedesborough this morning after two weeks of a lively cross-fight between the divided congregations of St. Joseph 's Catholic Church in that little Jersey village His order was promulgated by the Rev. Walter T. Leahy , acting for Bishop O'Farrell of Trenton , and although he had the assistance of a Sheriff and two deputies , the sweeping provisions of the order were neither obeyed nor listened to by those affected . More than half the members of St. Joseph 's took a stand during the day which openly and deliberately defies the Apostolic Delegate and his authority , and to-night Father Leahy. doing the best he could under most adverse circumstances , had gathered under his banner but a fraction of the rebels . Having done this he excommunicated the others , along with the rebellions priest , and to-morrow will begin to reorganize the Church and straighten out its tangled affairs . It was a day of excitement , taken altogether , wnicn Swedesborough and Rome are both likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew on Saturday that word had come from Mgr . Satolli to use radical measures , if necessary , to secure control of the church , and when Lawyer Peter Backer with Sheriff Packer and Deputy Sheriff Garrison served their writs of ejectment and replevin on the Rev. William P. Trolley at noon and took possession of the church , everybody set their alarm clocks for an early hour Sunday morning . Father Treacy held a brief conference with his lawyers , Messrs . Shivers and Sooy of Mount Holly , and it was agreed to re-replevin the church and parsonage fixtures early Monday morning , so the church doors were locked and bolted . At 10 o'clock this morning the members of St. Joseph 's started for their devotions with two paths before them . One led to the main street of the town , where , in Howell 's Hall . Father Leahy. in the name of Satolli , asked all good Catholics to assemble that they might hear the orders from the Apostolic Delegate himself . The other led to the home of William Monaghan , a well-known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would say mass , as was his usual custom . Father Leahy 's congregation was a little the largest . He took the platform shortly after ten o'clock and spoke to the hundred devout men and women in front of him about the situation of affairs . He said he had come to take charge of their church , and that his first duty was to publish to them the excommunication of their old pastor . This he did in a formal declaration from Mgr . Satolli . Father Leahy in conclusion spoke a few - words to his congregation . " We are in a position of great danger , " he said , " and the Holy . Father to-day is giving us his especial attention . When the Church is obliged to summon legal assistance it acknowledges the gravity of its position , and We must needs move slowly . I shall not say mass . By next Sunday I hope to have a plane of worship in which we can continue until the courts force Father Treaoy to give us our church . It is not his , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's half of the congregation was of a different nature . The Monaghan house was packed when he said mass over a table for an altar , clothed in vestments borrowed from his brother . At its conclusion he addressed his congregation in quiet tones , introducing his remarks with the statements that he knew ho and they had just been excommunicated by Father Leahy . " But that , " he declared , " is not binding , and we are still Catholics  --  all of us . We meet here under peculiar circumstances , and I am reminded by the occasion of those old times in Ireland when priests were driven into eaves to worship and sought hiding places to say mass . I only ask you to support me until I get a hearing before the Holy Father . Mgr . Satolli is an Italian , a few months in this country , who takes it upon himself to excommunicate an American citizen who voted twenty-years ago . Is that in itself fair ! " To-day 's proceedings are the climax to a long series of difficulties between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Burlington , and his brother , the Rev. William P. Treacy of Swedesborough . The Rev. P. A. Treacy wasr , removed from the Burlington Parish because of his violent temper and the disturbance he caused in the parish . He was placed in the asylum for the insane and released on a promise to travel in Europe . All he did was to go to Rome and make charges against his ecclesiastical superiors and return . His brother , of Swedesborough , nas encouraged him . The case was given to Mgr . Satolli , who recommended that both priests be relieved of duty . They refuse to acknowledge either Satolli or Bishop O'Farrell , because they claim that their case is pending at Rome .                     