@@674779

txt The Cuban patriots are being encouraged by the President 's policy in a way that must commend it to every insurgent who has the permanent pacification of the island at heart . Some of those persons who have heard of the proposed co-operation of the Cuban and United States forces , but who have learned I little more than that such co-operation is I intended , and that steps have been taken to inform Gen. Gomez and other insurgents of the readiness of the United States to contribute assistance to them , have expressed doubts about the possibility of obtaining material aid from the Cubans . Whether it be small or great , it must assist in the plan of pacification , It is immaterial whether the base of operations to be established shall be at Matanzas or near it . The place to be selected will DO known to the insurgents , and in such - numbers and condition as may be they will be expected to press the Spanish on the land side and to contribute to the security of the invading forces . Desertions from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the c9nditions there say that as soon as the troops of the United States have made a lodgment on the island there will be many desertions from the towns to the insurgent army , and possibly some recruits from the Spanish forces , as some of the soldiers will be only too glad thus to escape the humiliation of later surrender . But this is not the result that the President most hopes for ; the chief expectation of the Administration is that , co-operating with the insurgents , the native and autonomist Cubans will see clearly their opportunity to strengthen the Government which the Cubans say they have established and which Congress hesitates to recognize . Whatever there is of Cuban Government will be at once extended and strengthened by the invaders , but more rapidly by the good management of the insurgents themselves , acting in an orderly and humane manner , ' to invite confidence and destroy any preconceived opinion that the Cubans are unfit for self-government . ? What the President Hopes . If pit could be so managed that the Cubans could have the opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would please the President better than a great victory by the United States forces alone . He has been encouraged to hope that as soon as the insurgents can be informed of the readiness of the United States to render them all possible aid , the friends of free Cuba will flock to the assistance of Gomez in large numbers , stand against Blanco and his troops , and , with the occasional support of the troops of the United States , strike repeated blows upon the Spanlards that will soon discourage them and lead to the evacuation of the island , which must be accomplished before the war is to end . It is understood that bad weather and the oncoming of the uncomfortable rainy season are to interrupt the efforts of the insurgents . The discomforts of that season will be as great to the troops of Spain as they will be to the insurgents . Added to the vexatious harassing that will be inflicted by the forces of Gomez and the vessels of the United States , the bad weather will be very depressing to troops already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation , and ignorance of the real situation , and the possible information verbally circulated in Spanish camps that the control of Spain is being broken . Probable Effect of the Blockade . By the time the co-operation of the Cubans and the United States forces has been effected the blockade will have caused much inconvenience , not the least of which will be the almost total deprivation of meat to the troops . If by chance the Spanish troops can see the flags of the United States and Cuba carried together in an engagement , it is believed that the effect upon the Spanish forces will be to rob them of whatever fighting spirit they may have left , after they have been subjected to rain and starvation for a short time , Only the army and navy men who have taken part in the consulintions with the Cuban representatives here are acquainted fully with the plans for bringing the Cuban and United States forces together effectively . Gen Miles was in consultation again to-day with Mr. Quesada and other Cubans to ascertain where the forces of Cuba can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a front that will be formidable . No Bull Run in This War . Gen. Schofield undoubtedly is fully acquainted with the plans , and with all arrangements to be carried out . " If Schofield has his way , " said a well-known army officer , " there will be no Bull Run in this war . " Gen. Schofield keeps busy , but he does nothing for the newspapers . He thinks the army can get along just now with purely sentimental help from the newspapers . He would like to have the campaign run with no interference from Congress or the sort of men who were constantly crying early in 1861 " On to Richmond ! " Until the War Department and the Navy Department are ready to begin the fighting campaign , they will not be hurried by any mere emotional shouting of " On to Havana ! " The President is increasingly confident that the participation of the insurgents in the liberation of Cuba will be not only helpful to a speedy termination of the war , but that it will prove to the country and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and capable of governing the island after they have achieved their freedom .                     