@@673528

txt Our Albany dispatches this morning contain interviews with two delegates to the State Constitutional Convention from the extreme Western end of the State , exSenator and Mr. Tracy Becker , both of Buffalo , in which they give some interesting opinions of what will or ought to be done at the convention . Neither expects any very radical change . Both consider an amendment as to city government imperative , providing a uniform plan for all cities and taking the power of charter tinkering out of the hands of the Legislature . There is no doubt as to the substantial soundness of this princi.ple  --  the home rule as to which thoughtful men of all parties are now very closely agreed . It is , of course , true that , if each city is Left to manage its own affairs under well-defined general rules , some of them will mismanage them ; but , on the other hand , it is equally true that the State Legislature does not improve matters when it interferes , and that a city is much more likely to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly traced . One of the Buffalo delegates to the Constitutional Convention , Mr. Becker , suggests a clause in the Constitution requiring " that voting shall hereafter be done by automatic devices , which will record the votes as cast . " Whether it be feasible or desirable to embody this provision in the Constitution , we are not prepared to say , but there is no doubt that the Constitution should leave no doubt as to the power of the Legislature to authorize this method of voting and of recording and counting the votes . This authority under the present Constitution has been questioned . The fact that automatic voting is entirely practicable by mechanical device has , we think , been established . The method has been proved in actual operation to secure absolute secrecy and accuracy ; to be intelligible , simple , and convenient ; to be much more rapid than any other known method , and to make fraud either in casting or counting the votes physically impossible . Nor is it expensive or complicated . It has advantages which have been sought , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in vogue , and it should be made easy for the people of the State to secure these advantages . Those Republicans who have suddenly become anxious to make " party measures " of certain " reform " bills at Albany are in danger of making some miscalculations . There is a suspicious partisanship in their eager zeal for the bill giving the Mayor of this city power to remove the heads of departments and appoint their successors on his own accession to office . They hardly conceal their hope , not to say their expectation , that if this bill should become law a Republican Mayor might be elected next Fall who would make a " clean sweep " before the end of February . Now , municipal reformers are in favor of this bill , not because they have any more desire for a Republican Mayor than for a Democratic Mayor , or because they have any more faith in the Republican machine than in the Tammany machine , but because they desire to have an independent Mayor , with power to enforce good administra-tion ? and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians and their organization should set out , under a law such as is proposed , to get control of the Municipal . Government for their benefit , they Would surely fail , and the result would be that all the power for which the bill provides would remain in the hands of Tammany . The real benefit of such a measure could only be obtained by the independent action of citizens who did not desire to displace one partisan control ; with another , but to set up a non-partisan control of the municipal business . Mr. Cleveland has written to Mr. Black , President of the National Association of Democratic Clubs , an emphatic and manly letter heartily indorsing the work of the association and urging it to still greater effort . The following passage in the letter is gooil reading for honest citizens of any party : " Your association has done much by way of educating our people touching the particular subjects which are recognized as belonging to the Democratic faith , but it seems to me that its best service has been an enforcement and demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most powerful when it strives for principles instead of spoils , and that it quickly responds to the stimulus supplied by an enlistment in the people 's cause . " Nearly every man in the Democratic majority in the Senate whose fidelity to tariff reform is open to suspicion is known as a spoilsman , and the suspicion may be said to be in direct proportion to his devotion to the spoils idea . No one can feel the bitter truth of his own statement more keenly than the President , for he knows that at every point Where he has been baffled in the pursuit of his high aims it has been by the open or covert opposition of the spoilsmen.                     