@@672928

txt It is probable that the sensitive minds of Wall Street and the still more sensitive minds of the European Bourses will be more tranquil to-day than they have been for some time . The long-feared 1st of May has come and gone , and there have been no serious disturbances . In one city of France a wretched fanatic exploded a bomb and was found torn and bleeding , the only victim of his insane attempt . In Liege , in Belgium , there were two explosions without loss of life . In Paris , Berlin , and Madrid , where the dread of violence was greatest , there was none whatever , while in London , where the regulations of the Government had been the least severe , and where there was a vast meeting  --  from 300,000 to 500,000 persons being reported to ! have been present in Hyde Park after a procession from the Thames Embankment ? there was not only no violence , but everything was as quiet and orderly as if the meeting had been one to protest against Bulgarian outrages or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our London correspondence yesterday , it is true that the cause for fear , so far as the use of explosives is concerned , does not disappear with the passing of " May Day , " but experience teaches us that the weariness which with the passage of time calms the fears of the general public is likely also to calm the excitement of the small number of criminals or lunatics from whom the dynamite outrages proceed . One substantial fact would seem to be fairly established by the almost completely peaceful record of yesterday . It is that there is not any necessary connection between the laboring classes and the dynemiters , and it is fairly to be inferred that ' the influence of the laboring men was used actively to prevent any demonstration of the latter on the day set apart by common consent for a labor manifestation . Therein probably lies the greatest hope of security for the public order and safety . When the working people act on the belief that their cause is imperiled and injured by the wild excesses of the dynamiters the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the feeling that they could plausibly pretend to be acting in behalf of a cause interesting a great multitude of people . Probably , indeed , this was not in some cases a pretense , but a genuine delusion . When it is dispelled by the working people themselves , one source of excitation will have ceased to aot . Meanwhile , it is reasonable to expect that in the long run the working classes will get a clear notion of the limitations imposed upon their plans and desires by the conditions of their own employments . Despite the " monstrous " demonstration yesterday in London in favor of an eight-hour day to be imposed by law , it must be remembered that the trades unions have.not yet been brought to give a majority vote in favor of a compulsory shortening of the work day . And even if the agitators succeed in getting a Iaw of that kind , it by no means follows that its repeal would not be demanded by the very people for whose benefit it is assumed to be intended . So far , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political action of the workingmen newly admitted to the electorate , it can not be denied that the tendency of the exercise of the right of suffrage has been rather toward conservatism than toward rashness . The course of events yesterday confirms the general confidence .                     