@@673328

txt The current number of the North American Review contains two articles on " England and France in Siam . " One is by Mr. GEORGE N. CUREON , M. P. , who has already , in the English reviews , written voluminously upon the subject , and who sets forth , with emphasis , the British point of view . This point of view is familiar enough by this time to all careful readers . It assumes that since Great Britain does , or has done , about nine-tenths of the trade with Siam , while Siam was still Siamese , Great Britain has a stronger interest than any other power in maintaining the independence of Siam , which has been so profitable to her . The advantages are also set forth , in Mr. CURZON 'S paper . of having a " buffer State " between England and France in the East . It , is shown how expensive and troublesome it would be for both parties if this " buffer " were to be absorbed by one of them and the English and the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we say , is well known already to all intelligent readers , though it is none the less satisfactory to have an authentic exposition of British interests made to a foreign audience . What we really want to know about , however , is the French point of view , and this is what purports to be stated , in the same number of the same magazine , by Mine . ADAM . As a matter of fact , the most careful reader may safely be defied to make anything whatever of this statement . He may be tempted to think that this is Mine . ADAM 'S fault , but he will revise and reverse that hasty and ungallant conclusion as soon as he reflects that he has not been able to extract the statement of which he is in search from any of the French official or unofficial papers bearing on the transaction . It is quite true that many European nations , and Great Britain more conspicuously than any other , have upon occasion adopted a bullying and truculent demeanor toward weak nations not European , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Penal Code of any civilized country would forbid if one man undertook to put them in practice against another . Bat in these cases the interest and the object of Great Britain , at least , have always been clear . Nobody has been in doubt about where she " came in . " On . the other hand , everybody is in doubt as to where France comes in , and what object she can have to attain by adopting toward Siam a bullying and piratical policy for which there is no ethical gratification , as is proved afresh when any French writer attempts a justification . Every impartial person will agree that the recent proceedings in Siam constitute a deep disgrace to the French nation . What such a person desires to know is what are the practical advantages for which France is ready to incur this moral opprobrium . That is precisely what nobody can find out , and what does not appear more clearly from the paper of Mme. ADAM than from any of the official utterances on the subject . As a great French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that galley ? It does not appear that she is doing , has done , or is likely to do , anything more important than to influence the French voter into believing that she is somehow gaining " prestige " in the Orient . As far as Siam is concerned , this prestige consists in embarrassing and obstructing a British trade which is to the French trade about as 30 to 1 . If there were any prospect that this proportion might be reversed , the French would have an intelligible motive , if not an excuse . But this motive is not made out at all . No Frenchman has undertaken to ' show that France - will gain , or even that Great Britain will lose , by the French seizure of Siam , except in so far as the greatest oustomer of Siam must lose by an interruption of commerce with Siam . French IndoChina is of no sort of benefit to France . It would be very.interesting to have a computation , going back to the establishment of the republic , of what Indo-China has cost and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a computation would show France to be a very heavy loser . That is not the way in which great colonizing powers , of which England is , of course , in modern times the greatest , have built up their empires . Either directly or indirectly they have made their colonies pay , and there is not the least chance that France can make her Asiatic colonies pay . She is , in fact , paying a very long bill for prestige , of a kind of which her commercial and political rivals , like Germany and England , ought to be , and are entirely willing to leave her in possession .                     