@@674008

txt A decision of considerable importance was recently made by the United States Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania in a case relating to alleged violations of that part of the interState commerce law which forbids discrimination in freight rates . It is well known that the commission has been unable to enforce this very important provision of the statute . It is extremely difficult to obtain essential evidence except from the principals in the unlawful and criminal transaction , and they have been upheld in their refusals to testify by the decision in the Counselman case that they were protected by the fifth amendment to the Constitution . It had been supposed that the statute which provides the .. t testimony so given by a witness shall not be used against him in any criminal proceedings was sufficient protection for the person testifying , but the court held in the Counselman case that it was not . After the decision in the Counselman case had been made , there was enacted the law of Feb. 11 , 1893 , which provided that no person should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inter-State Commerce act on the ground that his testimony would tend to criminate him , and then went on as follows : " But no. person shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction , matter , or thing concerning which he may testify , or produce evidence , documentary or otherwise , in any such case or proceeding . " The auditor of a railroad company having refused to testify before a Grand Jury as to alleged violations of the act by his company , and having undertaken to shield himself behind the Constitutional provision , was adjudged guilty of contempt , fined , and committed to the custody of the Marshal . He applied for a writ of habeas corpus , and the court ( District Judge BUFFINGTON and Circuit Judge AcHnsoN ) decides that he is properly held in custody . The statute of 1893 , the court says , unquestionably gives , the witness protection as broad as that Which is afforded by the Constitution , and therefore it is not open to the objections which , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the court in the Counselman case . Therefore " the Constitutional provision does not concern " this witness and others refusing to testify under similar conditions , and " the act which compels him to testify is not unconstitutional . " If this decision shall be confirmed by the Supreme Court , the way will be opened for the successful prosecution of those who violate the section forbidding discrimination .                     