@@672524

txt A great deal Of - euTiosIty Is felt here as to what sort of spirit will be shown by the Republican Senators and Representatives during the coming short session of Congress . Many Republicans express the hope that the legislators may come back next month sufficiently chastened by Tuesday 's defeat to be ready to act conservatively upon all measures . Others fear that the party managers will be Disposed to take revenge upon the victors while they can , and will go to the utmost lengths be . , teen now and the 4th of March to put offensive partisan legislation upon the statute books . The quoted Interviews with such prominent Republicans as have been willing to folk at all about the election have been carefully scanned , but little has been found to warrant the expectation that they will take the verdict as a ' warning to " go slow " this Winter . The declaration has been more than once made , since Tuesday , that the Force bill must he passed , and that means a straight defiance of the popular will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be passed under which the Democrats will be unable to repeat their Congressional victory in 1892 , and that means a display of the radical partisanship which the people have just rebuked so emphatically . Administration organs are already calling ' ipon the Republicans to see to it that such a reapportionment is passed this Winter . With this measure in the House and the Force bill in the Senate . the coining session will be an extremely iateresting one at both ends of the Capitol . The District Democrats have just had a little taste of the sort of spirit that animates the present Administration . After reading the returns from Tuesday 's elections they concluded that they could work off their surplus enthusiasm only by firing fifty-two rounds from a big canaen. to they obtained the necessary permit from the Commissioners of the District , and this afternoon they met on the " White Lot " to have their jollification . Before they could fire one gun the police interfered , and then the Democrats learned that Col. 0 . H. Ernst , the superintendent of Public Buildings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic salute to be tired upon a Government reservation , especially when that reservation was within sight of the White House and every gun could be distinctly heard by the President . The Democrat , ' finally fired their salute on a piece of ground over which Col. Ernst has no control , and then they went home to talk of the petty polities of this Administration . Two years ago the Republicans were promptly given a permit by Col. Ernst 's Democratic predecessor to tire a salute on the " White Lot " in honor of Harrison 's election .                     