@@672934

txt Perhaps it will be . " Jingo Jim " again , after all . There are intimations strong enough to give Mr. Harrison some fears of trouble at Minneapolis that , in spite of the very evident , feebleness and incapacity of Mr. Blaine , which Russell Harrison has not overstated , he will be rushed into and through the National Convention , and that . a ticket , with Blaine and Rusk at the head of it , will be presented for the consideration of the voters of 1892 . Even the Alger men are parties to this scheme , in which the only promise for Alger is that he is to be Secretary of War in place of " Steve " Elkins . That the Blaine people are willing is ascertained from a source entirely friendly to Mr. Blaine . The latest story about his case is about as follows : Only recently a statement was made from Washington as coming from Mr. Blaine. which , in effect , was an explanation of his letter of declination nearly two months before , or rather the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was that Blaine was " hounded " into writing It to get rid of certain petty officials in and around the White House , who , to serve Harrison , gave Blaine no peace , so persistent were they in their demands for something that would set at rest the question whether he was a candidate , by taking himself from the list of candidates . This statement was promptly followed , says this Blaine story . by a denial from the persons named as the Petty officials who had done the alleged " hounding , " who were able to say that they had never talked with Mr. Blaine about the matter and the publication , so far as they wore concerned , and presumably in all other respects , was false . It is a curious fact , continues this account , that the statement and the denial were both essentially true , which will be explained by another statement , which is now made on competent authority without any danger of contradiction : Very lately a member of the House of Representatives from the State of Maine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . of declination referred to was the result of " houndings " and pressure , almost constant , from persons near to President Harrison , among whom were two members of the Cabinet , to take steps to satisfy the public that he was not and would not be in the field as a candidate in opposition to Harrison . To rid himself of further - hounding , " Blaine , without consulting with any one , not even with a single I member of his family , although there had been an early understanding in the family circle that silence should be maintained on the question of the Secretary 's candidacy . wrote and caused to be printed the letter referred to . The letter , says this Blaine story , neither pleased the Blaine family nor disposed of him as a candidate , for the truth to-day is , contrary to reports that have been circulated , " the family " are not only not opposed to Mr. Blaine 's being a candidate should the Minneapolis Convention nominate him , but are more than willing that he should run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more statements , nor do anything that will seem to deny to his friends the privilege of planing him in nomination nor himself the right and pleasure of accepting the offer , should it come to him as the free action of the Minneapolis Convention . The Maine Representative 's statement , of which these are the outlines , mainly constitute the grounds on which the Republican leaders at Washington , New-York , and many parts of the country are organizing to oppose Harrison and nominate Blaine at Minneapolis . They have quite recently become convinced that they will bo in no danger of being halted by anything from Mr. Blaine , as others wore at Chicago in 1888 . It can be said on adequate authority , says this Blaine authority , that those who are leading the movement for Blaine 's nomination are at the present moment euoouraged as they have at no time been , to believe that ho will be the Republican candidate . It can be said , also , that in the Blaine mansion there is a light and a cheer which it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself again to an extent he has not for some time seemed to be in the eyes of the pubiio , before which of late he has made his appearance at times , in places , and in ways altogether unusual for him . This story is reasonable and probably true , and some of to-day 's events support It . Mr. B. Harrison would do well to look to the underpinning .                     