@@673402

txt That the Congress will have to deal with the question of taxing the earnings of corporations seems reasonably certain at this time . The Ways and Means Committee is still struggling with the it . . , rnal revenue features of the Tariff bill , and the majority has about reached the conclusion that a tax on what is left of the earnings of corporations after the cost of maintenance is deducted will be as popular as any other Method of securing revenue to meet the deficiency to be created by the Tariff bill . There is a difference of opinion regarding the rate of the proposed tax , but some of the members of the committee incline to the belief that it will not exceed 1 per cent . Atitheugh some of the Democratic mem ' bars of the committee still favor an income tax , it seems impossible that such a tax will be recommended . When the majority members first began the task of framing a Tariff bill , Mr. Cockran of New-York was the only mem ber who was pronounced in opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Tareney favored it , and appeared to think that it would be accepted by the majority when the time came for a decision . Now they find that Mr. Cockran has been strongly reinforced . Chairman Wilson and Mr. Stevens of Massachusetts were the first to follow his lead . It is said to-night that Messrs . Breckinridge , Montgomery , and Turner have also decided to oppose an income tax pure and simple . This leaves the friends of the tax in the minority . The idea of taxing corporations was brought forward when it became evident that the original proposition would not succeed . It is held by those who support it that the inquisitorial features complained of in connection with an income tax would cut no figure in levying the tax upon corporations , for the reason that the incomes of corporations are now largely matters of public information . This fact has had much to do with reconciling several members of the majority of the committee to the plan . The necessity of securing sufficient revenue to operate the Government and the difficulty of striking upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax as far from distastefuL It is expected that opposition to the scheme will develop in the House , but members of the committee say without hesitation that if the recommendation is made to the House the chances are largely in favor of its adoption . What the result would be in , the Senate . where corporations have many friends , is another question . It is an open secret that members of the committee whose opinions were over ruled in the preparation of the Tariff bill , look to see the House change many of the schedules . The item of wood pulp is one which is interesting many people in all parts of the country . At one time the duty was thought to have been fixed at 7 per cent . ad. valorem , on mechanically ground pulp . which would have been a reduction or about 8 per cent . The rate was finally fixed at 10 per cent . There was a determined effort to put wood pulp on the free list , and several prominent members of the committee entertained the opinion that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would be unwise to make this addition to the free list , and contented itself with reducing the duty about 5 per cent . The question is bound to come up in the House , and there seems to be a likelihood that the rate will be still further reduced . The Committee on Ways and Means has not accomplished anything worthy of note to-day . Monday morning there will be a meeting , when it is expected that the table showing the revenue to be secured under the Tariff bill in its present form will be ready for examination .                     