@@674465

txt It is said to have been Mr. CHAUNCEY DEpEw who laid down , as the first condition of success in after-dinner speaking , the necessity of " hanging somebody 's hide on the fence . " Whether the attribution of this sentiment to Mr. DEPEW is correct or not , there can be ' no doubt that a good many after-dinner speakers and some editors habitually act upon it . Not to come too near home , the present editor of The Saturday Review is impressed with the justice of it , and is conducting his newspaper in accordance with it . It evinces in almost every article a desire to flay somebody for the amusement of a reader who is assumed to demand a gladiatorial show , and to be so unfeeling as never to turn up his thumb at any degree of torture inflicted upon the victim . There are , however , difficulties in the way of carrying out this theory of journalism , and one of them is the British law of libel , This remains substantially what it was a hundred years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write whatever he liked about another Briton subject to the chance that a jury would say it was a libel . It is all very fine to have your literary critic , your social critic , your musical critic , your pictorial critic , and your dramatic critic skinning each a victim a week in your columns . But there is a chance that a British jury , with a good deal of common humanity , and no sense at all of " literary art , " or the neatness with which the skinning is done , will say you have done an outrageous thing and will mulct you accordingly . We do not know whether the dramatic critic has cost The Review anything in damages and costs , although he does his weekly best . But not long ago a substantial verdict was given against the paper in consequence of an article by its musical critic . And now Mr. PENNELL has recovered ? 50 , besides incidentally affording a cultivated public far more entertainment in the testimony of Mr. WHISTLER than it could possibly have got out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are obstacles in the way of slashing journalism , espe , cially slashing journalism of the heavyhanded English variety . If it becomes fashionable , in view of their recent success , for the victims of The Review to sue it for libel , its outlook will indeed be gloomy . Fifty pounds is not a great sum , but even ? 50 a week must be a considerable deduction from the profits of the paper , and it must be a very dull number that does not yield more than one promising libel suit . Moreover , the presumption of malice holds against The Saturday , since its criticism is unfailingly malicious . A few more verdicts and it may cease altogether to be a slashing journal .                     