@@673206

txt Some of the dwellers in the Croton Valley seem to think that if their drains can not open into the streams that supply this city with drinking water , there will be no place for them and no way of disposing of sewage . Bat a vast proportion of the peopled area of this country has no streams or ponds to receive the drainage of the villages and towns that dot its surface . These people who have been making a convenience of the reservoirs of the city 's water supply and the streams that feed them will have to do as country people do who do not live upon the banks of ponds and lakes , and they ought to have been compelled in all the years that the city has drawn its water from the Croton Valley to make such arrangements for drainage and the disposal of filth as they would have had to make if the river and its tribntaries had not been there , and to keep all their nuisance-breeding appliances at a safe distance from the water 's edge . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspectors in each district in this city from four to three and providing that two should represent the majority party and one the minority , the strongest plea in defense of the measure was that this rule prevailed in the rest of the State and the system ought to be uniform . A bill was defeated in the Assembly yesterday which provided for four inspectors throughout the State . to be equally divided politically  --  a measure that would have been fair to both parties and to all sections of the State . Its defeat by Democratic votes shows that the plea of last year was hardly ingenuous , and that the real object of the change then made was a. partisan control of election boards in this city . Absolute prevention of party advantage in the conduct of elections is the only sound policy . Undoubtedly the City Club has taken the right course in deciding to take affirmative , if not aggressive , action in municipal affairs . The reform of municipal affairs is a problem of hydraulics rather than of hydrostatics . If the club is not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " getting into politics , " the club is worthless as an agency for good government . At the same time its proceedings should show tact and skili as well as vigor . It is always well to bear in mind that Tammany is in absolute control of this city , and that the immediate redress of any municipal grievance can be obtained only by the favor of Tammany . Wherefore it is not wise to assume , in advance of a demonstration , that Tammany will refuse to redress a grievance before its attention has been properly called to the same and the Municipal Government appealed to on the side of its better nature before being threatened with penalties which those who threaten them have no power to enforce . There has recently been printed by the " Indian Rights Association , " 1305 Arch Street , Philadelphia , a report made by Mr. ROOSEVELT of observations made by him during a visit last Fall to the Indian reservations and schools in South Dakota , ' Nebraska , and Kansas . The Commissioner does not confine his attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has but little to say of that ; but he gives with much clearness and freedom his personal impressions of the condition of the Indians with especial reference to the progress of the policy of settling them on land of their own in severalty , to the methods of education on the reservations , to the influence of the outside schools , and to the general problem of practically " absorbing " the Indians . His views are marked by shrewd sense and independence , and as he approached the subject with a valuable experience in the life of the West , they have more than usual value . We commend the report to the careful reading of all those interested in the Indian question .                     