@@673173

txt The columns of our esteemed contemporary the Courrier des Etats Unis have for some time been enlivened , at intervals . by a controversy between M. ROUILLARD of Quebec and M. FRANCOIS TUJAGUE of New-Orleans upon the feasibility and desirableness of annexing Quebec to the United States as a cure for the evils from which that Province now suffers at the hands of the Anglo-Saxons . Neither of the disputants appears to conceive that the project is one in which the United States of America have some concern . It seems to bo agreed on both sides that we should be only too charmed by the application of a community of French Catholics to become one of the United States . We describe them in this way , not in the least invidiously or odiously , but simply for the purpose of designating the traits in the inhabitants of Quebec that distinguish them from the majority of citizens of the United States and that indicate the difficulties there would be in the way of assimilating them . There are about a million and a half of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in maintaining their traditions against the three and a half millions of their fellow-subjects . Those among them who experience this difficulty most keenly have a notion that it would be easier to maintain their traditions against sixty-five millions of American citizens than against much less than one-tenth of that number of British subjects , if Quebec were only elevated from . the condition of a Province in the Dominion to that of a State in the Union ; and it is this notion that M. TUJAGUE of NewOrleans sets himself the task of dispelling . We-must say that the strength of the argument appears to us to be with the mourner of the creoles of Louisiana , whom we take to be a man past middle age . lie sets forth that the French ? moles managed to maintain their traditions pretty well , and to form what TUACKERAY called " a quaint old France lingering upon the shores of the Mississippi " until the coming of the civil war . After that , however , was the deluge . The recent B. F. BUTLER was not , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obsolete and . inert civilization was exactly to be expected . But it was not from BUTLER , but from the succeeding carpetbaggers that the pleasant and helpless old civilization that had cheerfully stagnated from JEFFERSON 'S purchase to LiNcorasi 's proclamation of emancipation received its deathblow . The carpetbaggers were not respecters of persons , and even less of pedigrees . They divided the spoil among their own kind without the least reverence for the names that had impressed the boldest cotton factor of the period preceding the civil war with a certain awe . It was , according to our entertaining informant , the yellow fever that had kept away the Yankee down to that date , " the yellow fever that had always had the gift of inspiring in the Yankee a blue funk . " But when the Yankee had acquired the land and put his detestable methods of sanitation into operation , ho discovered that the yellow fever was a mere bugbear , and went on with his hellish work of throwing the creoles out of office and acquiring their inheritances under the color of law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the fate of the French Canadians if they permit themselves to be beguiled by the Yankees . To us there seems to be a good deal in this contention . It is true that the Yankee has not as yet put forth upon the French Canadians either his blandishments or his terrors , and that the " agitation " proceeds from the French Canadians themselves . It is even true that it is by no means certain that the Yankee would consider favorably an application for annexation from all Canada , and quite certain that he would not consider favorably an application from the French Canadians alone , among whom the agitation for annexation is most active . It is eighty or ninety years since the question of annexation began to be mooted on this side of the frontier , and that there was developed a powerful feeling against it . The American objections were twofold . One of them was the objection to letting in as citizens the Tories of the Revolution who had fled to the British possessions for safety , which objection is of course no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admission into the Union of a French Catholic State , which objection is as strong as ever . Nevertheless , we feel compelled to take sides with our reactionary friend from New-Orleans and against our impulsive friend from Quebec . The process of assimilation , - which began loss than thirty years ago in Louisiana , would begin at once in Quebec . The devouring and objectionable Yankee would spread himself over that Province , if it were once a State , with the most baleful alacrity , and the habitants who resent the rule of King Log would have very much better reason for resenting the aggressive and officious dominion of King Stork . There may be good reasons why Quebec should become an American State . but decidedly the conservation of the French traditions is not one of them .                     