@@674672

txt By far the most important business before the meeting of the Cabinet to-day was the text of the Spanish reply to the note of Minister Woodford . The abstract of it was submitted to the Cabinet just before the President left for Ohio , prior to the election , and it was then decided that there was nothing so urgent about it as to call for any action before the whole text could be read . It was this answer that sensational writers have misrepresented and insisted contained the promise of speedy hostilities . And now that the full answer has been considered , there will be no great haste in replying to it . The Cabinet officers have all denied the war reports , but their denials have been followed by renewals of alarming predictions . Some of the publications have gone so far as to assert that the Spanish reply was merely a polite one in form , and a cover for arrogant contempt of the United States Government , and its diplomatic officers . The reading of the full text of Sagasta 's reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic communications usually are , and its friendly tone was not hidden by any studied language of double meaning , unless it were so fine as to be beyond ordinary comprehension . Members of the Cabinet are hopeful that Spain will find a way out of the trouble in Cuba that will be advantageous to the Cubans . They all assert without hesitation that the President expects to so conduct negotiations with Spain as to continue friendly relations with that country . His policy is taking very closely the form of that of his predecessor . which was the policy of Grant and Fish , and that is evidently considered good enough for the present Administration . The desire of the Administration to discourage warlike stories of unusual and menacing preparations by the army and the navy is manifested by the care with which officers of the service make some explanations . From day to day reports appear of the placing of guns at fortifications here and there along the coast , and the work is described as being hastened by concern about the attitude of Spain . The very true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coast defense alluded to in the sensational way is part of the system begun in the administration of Secretary Endicott and now approaching completion . From time to time guns are finished , and the emplacements for them having been prepared , they are mounted for trial . Not a stroke of work has been done on-any fortification with reference to war with Spain or any other country that can be named .                     