@@781231

txt A strong effort is to be made in the coming charter election in Bayonne to send the " Big Eight " into retirement . This combination has ruled , despite the Mayor , during the fiscal year , and earned a somewhat unsavory reputation . Last fiscal year the Mayor had a bare majority . This year a petition to nominate him as a citizens ' candidate has about 500 signatures and is ready for filing His friends are also working to secure him both party nominations . Should they fail . Mr. Farr will run independent . Wellinformed men say he will certainly be elected by a good majority , although there is strong oppsaition to him among the machine leaders of the Democratic Party , to which he belongs . Mayor Farr has two supporters in the Council holding over one year and four opponents . A belief exists that the Mayor 's friends will elect their men , or those in harmony with Mayor Farr , in every ward . The First and Second Wards may go the other way . The Democratio city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not called . Republican city primaries to elect delegates will be held Thursday evening and the conventien Saturday evening . Republican ward primaries are to be held Thursday night to name ward tickets , except in the First and Fifth , where they will be held Aprll 27 and 30 . A chosen Freeholder is to be elected in the First Assembly District , Bayonne being the larger part . Demooratio primaries to elect delegates will be held Monday , and Republican primaries Thursday . Both conventions are to meet Saturday night . Ex-Councilman Timothy J. Cronin and Councilman Nicholas Carroll of Bayonne. and Mr. Woodmancy of Greenville desire the Democratic nomination . Ex-Assessor Henry J. Stilson and George B. Delamater of Bayonne are In the Republican field . While the district is usually Democratic by 400. the city gave President Cleveland SOO majority . This was unprecedented . A lively contest for Recorder is going on . John H. Besher running for a sixth consecutive term of three years . His Democratic opponents for the nomination are Collector R. Cadmus Combos , Patrick W. Connolly , John McDonald , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. Overbeck and W. 0 . Crane . Messrs . Besher and Overbeck have petitions ready for filing to run independently if necessary . Efforts to give venerable Judge Besher a Republican indorsement are being made . Judge Basher is the favorite now , with Collector Combes a close second .                     