@@672540

txt The total absence of any allusion to thewidespread Messiah delusion is a marked feature of the annual documents that deal with the Indian question . We may assume that the reports of Commissioner MORGAN and Secretary Nome wore made up before the current excitement broke out , and that the President has ignored it because they did , yet the existence of the delusion as a matter of importance was pointed out both by Indian Agents and army officers as long ago as last April , during the troubles at Tongue River . But if the Interior Department fails to give any information on this important point , it at least throws a side light upon some current causes of dissatisfaction among the red men , in saying of the Tongue River troubles in Montana that " the appropriations made by Congress have not heretofore been sufficient to furnish food enough to prevent hunger among the Indians . " Precisely the same lack is now reported at Pine Ridge , in South Dakota : , by Gen. BROOKE , who telegraphed on Sunday : " The Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give , them . " It is not to be wondered at if , in such circumstances , there are occasional depredations upon the cattle of the ranchmen . We find the further statement in the current report of the Secretary that upon learning that the census of the Sioux showed the number at Rosebud Agency to have been greatly overestimated , " action was immediately taken by the Indian Office to reduce the quantity of food for the delivery of which arrangements bad been made , " Whether the census was as little satisfactory to the red men as it seems to have been to many - whites we can not say ; but if , as is now alleged , the astonishing mistake of 2,000 in excess of the real number had been formerly made at Rosebud Agency , errors in the other direction may conceivably have been made elsewhere , so giving some bands less food than they were entitled to . The great work of the year has been the purchase of surplus Indian lands . Here again we are reminded of possible causes of dissatisfaction , apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sioux have given up millions of acres to the Government , the promises made to them a year ago have not yet been fulfilled , and Congress is now urged to make appropriations to fulfill them . The extent to which this eagerness for acquiring Indian lands has been carried is shown by- the fact that during a period of twelve months about 13,000,000 acres , according to Secretary-NOBLE , and since March 4 , 1889 , about 14,720,000 acres , according to the President , have been obtained . Within the limits , therefore , of a single year , fully one-ninth of all the lands held by Indians outside of Alaska have been purchased from them , and no fewer than eight commissions , at the latest report , were engaged in bargaining in various quarters for further purchases . It is lamentable that with such anxiety to get possession of these lands the stipulations made at the time of their purchase should not be faithfully and promptly carried out ; but the red man long ago became accustomed to such treatment . Taking this reduction of the reservations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , there is much to bo said in its favor , although it need not be put upon the high moral plane to which some official comment assigns it . The Sioux Reservation was a barrier in the path of direct communication between the civilized communities east and . west of it , and it was expedient to throw down a part of that barrier , if the red men would consent . The extension of the boundaries of Oklahoma may be defended on like practical grounds . Besides , the Indians of most tribes have more land than they need , since there is no longer much , if any , game on it , and they cultivate only small areas . We shall probably see still farther inroads made upon Indian land possessions until allotment In severalty , which is the declared policy of the Government , becomes almost a matter of necessity . The change of policy in this respect wrought even among the best friends of the Indian daring the last few years , has been most remarkable . It is not so long ago that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the foundation of our Indian system ; and even the proposal to run a railroad across a reservation , with full compensation for land taken , was indignantly repelled . Now the aim is rather to give the red men more advantages of civilization , and to try to substitute for the tribal relations those of American citizenship . It is this change of views which has made possible such a record as that of the past year , and which is likely to continue to turn Indian real estate into funded money , to be used for the support and advancement of the tribes . But in all such bareains absolute good faith in the fulfillment of the minutest stipulations made by the Government should be observed .                     