@@672432

txt The principal speech at the Fourth of July celebration at ' Woodstock last week - was made by Senator HAWLEY , and it was devoted mainly to deploring the criticisms and warnings of Bishop POTTER in his Phi Beta Kappa oration at Harvard , and defending the pension iniquity against the Bishop 's attack . Bishop POTTER spoke of some of the serious evils which beset the Republic in these times , dwelling especially upon the spoils system , the reckless spirit of extravagance in pension legislation , and the contempt openly expressed by public men for the moral law , so far as political action is concerned . That such a - Warning is timely and ought to be heeded is sufficiently evident , but it struck Senator HAWLEY with " amazement . " He sees no evils and he Wants no warnings . At least , such are his Fourth of July professions . But he - was in a warning mood himself before the Dependent Pension bill had actually passed the Senate and his party had . taken upon itself the responsibility of its extravagance . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the cost of pension legislation , and warned the Senate not to be " stampeded by claim agents . " But the bill having become a law , in his Fourth of July fervor at Woodstock , the Senator felt bound to defend it , and he declared that it " was slanderous and mischievous " in. the Bishop to make his attack . In fact , Senator HAWLEY could see no justification for any of Bishop POTTER 'S warnings . He deeply deplored " to hear men of eminent position and scholarly attainments speaking hopelessly of this great and wonderful Nation . " It was " picking up incidental occurrences and slight tendencies among small fragments of the people and declaring them to be the condition of the people . " This is the language in which a Senator of the United States , who is rather given to professions of a high standard of judgment and action in public affairs , dismissed the gigantic evils of the spoils systems , the demagogical squandering of public money in pensions to buy the soldier vote , and the elimination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and . he thought it was " about time these pessimists stopped talking . " Now , it so happened that Senator HAWLEY was followed at the Woodstock celebration by a cheerful " pessimist " in the person of the Rev. Mr. WAYLAND of Philadelphia , who seemed to be addicted to " moral ideas " and inclined to utter warnings . The discordant notes which he uttered must have jarred upon the optimistic serenity of HAWLEY , whom he reminded that talk was cheap and that it was easy to glorify things . But , he said , when the Fourth of July orator is asked to leave " poor old King George " and the tail of the British lion , and " to denounce the enemies that we are in danger from to-day , everything is changed . " That must have made Gen. HAWLEY wince a trifle . Hero , for instance , said the reverend gentleman , is the saloon . If we ask the Fourth of July orator to denounce the saloon ho says : " Why , I might as well retire from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ally of the saloon , the spoils system , " the orator says : " Pretty idea you have of practical politics . Why , what are we here for ? " So the reckless WAYLAND , with his unseemly regard for moral principle , went on trampling upon the sensibilities of the optimistic H. &wr...uy; with references to " monopoly " that needed to be denounced , the necessity of saving the country from " crimes which always bring their own punishment , " and the duty that " calls us to stand in opposition to power , even though that power takes the form of a misguided majority . " We are convinced that the Rev. Mr. WAYLAND was loaded with a charge against the pension extravagance , but refrained from letting it off out of a tender regard for Senator HAWLEY 'S feelings , for he closed by evoking a " warning voice " from a " thousand battlefields ' ) and from the " silent graves " of patriot soldiers , which came with this plea : " The Republic for which we died is in danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as we did from the perils which threatened it a quarter of a , century ago . " This " warning voice , " with its untimely utterance about danger to " this great and . ' wonderful Nation , " must have filled the soul of HAWLEY with weariness , and he must have thought it was time these dead and . buried pessimists , called from their battlefields and silent graves by the Philadelphia moralist , " stopped talking , " inasmuch as they were beyond the reach of pensions .                     