@@675278

txt If The Sun is correctly informed , the Washington and British Governments have about reached a practical agreement upon a basis of settlement , for a time , of the boundary between Alaska and the British possessions . The modus vivendi expected to be adopted , according to this report , contemplates the abandonmen ? by Great Britain of the demand for a free port on the Lynn Canal , pending final adjifstment of the controversy , the location of a temporary boundary that will follow the line of the Canadian Custom Houses except In the territory immediately north of the head of the Lynn Canal , the line to be drawn from the junction of the Chilcat and Tiehini Rivers to the Canadian station at Chilkoot Pass . Should this proposition be agreed upon , the British contention , or rather the Canadian pretension , would be greatly mod. ified . Klukwan , which has acquired unexpected importance in the eyes of Canada and the United States since Canada manifested a determination to include it in British territory , will remain under the flag and Jurisdiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States have insisted that it should , under . a proper interpretation of the BritishRussian treaty . ' But there appears to be a concession on our part , by which Canada , or Great Britain , is. permitted to advance the boundary seaward beyond the thirty-mile limit heretofore insisted upon by us . In the condition of things political in Canada , if Sir WILFRID LAURIER believes he can venture to accept this temporary arrangement , which may be permitted to run a year , although no specific limitation has . been agreed upon , it is to be assumed that behind the Premier there is a sentiment demanding a solution of this controversy by a method less strenuous , not to say sanguinary , than Sir WILFBIP LAURIER recently suggested as possible if the United States did not abandon contention that it is entitled to hold the coast for thirty miles from the mainland . The reassembling of the joint commiesion will not , it is intimated , be hastened , and will not be suggested for a definite date until it has been informally agreed that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . The temptation offered or to be offered to Great Britain is a free port on the Lynn Canal " under conditions entirely satisfactory to the United States . " That sounds a good deal like the earlier reports that an offer had been made from Washington to lease a port on the Lynn Canal for ninety-nine years . It is a suggestion that is likely to provoke earnest debate in the Senate , and its adoption would scarcely be unanimous . However , the intimations in such detail as they are given imply a disposition to admit that there is ground for our insistence upon Canadian respect for British treaty agreements in which we have acquired an interest . The spirit evinced is the encouraging thing . There are questions of more vital business importance to both Canada and the United States depending upon the adjustment of the boundary , and it is to be hoped that no time will be wasted in reaching them                     