@@674391

txt As the principal reason given by the Consolidation Commission 's Committee on Draft for providing in the Greater New York Charter for a Police Board of four members is the absolutely false one that the Constitution requires a board charged with police duties in connection with elections " to be composed of equal representation of the two dominant political parties , " it is worth while to point out that the committee has not provided for any such board . ? The Constitution is very explicit in what it really requires . It says : " All laws creating , regulating , or affecting boards or officers charged with the duty of registering voters , or of distributing ballots at the polls to voters , or of receiving , recording , or counting votes at , elections , shall secure equal representation of the two political parties which , at the general election next preceding that for which such boards or officers are to serve , cast the highest and the next highest number of votes . " There is no doubt about the meaning , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Police Board or other authority has airy chance for unfair discrimination in naming such " boards or officers , " because they must be " appointed or elected in such manner and upon the nomination of such representatives of said parties , respectively , as the Legislature may direct . " Hence candidates presented by the party authorities themselves must be appointed Now , what is the requirement of the proposed charter in regard to the appointment of Police Commissioners ? " No more than two of said Commissioners shall , when either of them is appointed , belong to the same political party , nor be of the same political opinion on State and National - polities . " A prohibition of agreement in " political opinion " on politics is. an absurdity in any law , for men 's opinions are supposed to be their own and subject to variation or agreement , according to the action of their own minds , and no self-respecting citizen can be said to " belong to " a party ; but , overlooking the ridiculous form of this provision , it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or any particular representation of any party . A Democratic Mayor would be at liberty under it to appoint two Democrats , one Socialist-Labor person , and one Populist as Police Commissioners ; or , a Republican Mayor might appoint two Republicans and two Prohibitionists . There are men who do not " belong to " any political party  --  Col. WaraNG has avowed himself of that kindand among them there is much disagreement of " political opinion on State and National politics . " If we should get a genuine non1parti- I san Mayor , he might appoint four just such unspeakable " Illugwumps " on the Police Board to the benefit of the public service and the confusion of the politicians . There would be nothing in this provision of the charter to prevent it , for there certainly would not be more than two of the same party or of the same political opinion . But while this does not provide for-a hi-partisan board , though it would ad , ' mit of it , and does , not require equal representation of parties , dominant or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in a ? manner that the Court of Appeals has declared to be unconstitutional . According to its recent decision , when the Legislature designates the authority of a city which is to appoint any of its local officers , it can not prescribe or limit the choice . If that authority is the Mayor , his power of selection must be left entirely untrammeled . He can neither be required to choose from one party or another or to divide his appointments between certain parties ; nor can he be prohibited from taking any one or more , or all his appointees from any party at will . That is the doctrine of the Constitution , intended to protect the right of home rule ; as plainly /aid clown by the court of last resort                     