@@672963

txt As early as 9 o'clock the early birds began to flock into the Wigwam , and took possession of the choicest seats , to the disgust of the late comers . An hour later the body of the hall was almost completely tilled , with the exception of the places set aside for delegates , and seats unoccupied in the gallery were few and far between . The attendance of women was much larger than yesterday . and the platform set apart for distinguished visitors was almost completely tilled . Everybody was on tiptoe of excitement , owing to the disturbing and conflicting rumors of tho morning concerning the new anti-Cleveland combination . And there seemed to be a very general apprehension of a coming storm . It was whispered about that a test vote as to Cleveland 's strength would be forced at'the earliest possible moment on the report of the Committee on Rules . " I hear that Mississippi is split , " said one . and " that 1111nols has gone to pieces . " said another , and ? that Morrison has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " or " that Stevenson will beat Gray , " or " that Cleveland will be beaten , after all . " All these ill-founded but exalting reports came into the great Wigwam with the people , and naturally added a good-des1 more to the in- terest of the preliminary proceeding than anything that occurred yesterday . ft was only necessary to look at the smiling fade of ex-Secretary William C. Whitney as he stalked in to feel sure that all these rumors were without foundation , or that they were merely the last dying throes of the opposition . There was a very general feeling among the spectators that this would be the last day of the convention , and possibly the last session , and everybody who could beg , steal , or buy a ticket was on hand to be in at the nomination of ex-President Cleveland . It was a wonderful spectacle ; there did not seem to be a single vacant chair in the entire auditorium ; even the aisles and spaces about the entrances were packed . The heat was not nearly so oppressive as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among the first of the notables to appear was Congressman Jerry Simpson , who looked smilingly , pleased with himaelf , no doubt , over the fact of his recent renomination . He stopped and chatted with two or three friends , and then took a seat in the Kansas delegation . A moment later in came George Foster Peabody of Brooklyn in earnest conversation with Oscar Straus , ex-Minister to Turkey . They stopped in front of the press seats and " swopped " the time of day with their noquaintances among the newspaper men . When Gen. A. E. Stevenson appeared he was immediately surrounded by a crowd of hangerson , who were anxious to shake hands with the man whom the Vice Presidential lightning might strike . Ex-Congressman Thomas Wilson of Minnesota , and Congressman W. M. Springer of Illinois held an animated conversation in the middle aisle just in front of the platform , which attracted considerable notice from the vehemence of gesture in which Mr. Wilson indulged . At a few minutes past 3.1 there was a shout from the galleries , which had evidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few remaining Hill sympathizers , which betokened the arrival of Creker , Gov . Flower , De Lancey Nicoll , James W. Ridgway , Gen. Henry W. Slocum , John M. Bowers , Lieut . Gov . Sheehan , senator McCarron , and exCommissioner of Streets Coleman , who led the way for the New-York delegation . They marched in to the tune of the Blaine war song so popular among the corridor shouters of Minneapolis . The New-York men were a long time getting settled in their places . Tammany was immeasurably happy that the waterspout turned on them yesterday was not doing business &gala; to-day . Murphy settled himself with a sigh of satisfaction that it would not be necessary to huddle under an umbrella again and make a public exhibition of himself , as was the case yesterday . Flower stood next to his seat , mopping his brow and taking his final orders from - Billy " Sheehan , who was laying'Idown the law with great earnestness . A moment later in came Josiah Quincy. the new member of the National Committee from Massachusetts , chatting away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Raines of Rochester was telling Editor Baker of the St. Paul Globe all about New York politics , and John 11 . Platt was hustling around with Sheehan , who had finished his lecture to Gov . Flower , among the delegates . A very tall man , with a tall white straw hat , create ( ' a ripple of amusement as he stalked up toward the Missouri delegation and shook hands with Gov . Francis . The band was doing noble work in keeping the tremendous audience quiet by rendering such good old tunes as " Marching Through Georgia , " " My Country , ' Tie of ' Thee . " and " My Old Kentucky Home . " It was a scene the like of which perhaps was never witnessed before at a convention .                     