@@673620

txt The Chicago Inter Ocean remarks that " in Illinois the great raw material is coal , which Mr. Cleveland insists must be put on the free list , " and then asserts that the removal of the duty on bituminous coal " would carry poverty and misery into the cottage of every miner in this State . " This is mere partisan rant . Will The Inter Ocean explain how it is now possible to export more than 1,000,000 tons of bituminous coal per annum into Canada from the mines of Illinois , Indiana , and Ohio , if the removal of the duty on Canadian coal would affect the coal industry in those States so injuriously ? In the fiscal year 1893 there were exported into the central Canadian Provinces from lake ports 988,605 tons of American bituminous coal . The quantity exported to the same Canadian Provinces in the fiscal year 1894 was much larger . The increase is indicated by the official statement that the total exports of bituminous coal were greater in eleven months of this year by nearly 40 per cent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other consumers cf soft coal in the central Canadian Provinces buy American coal and pay a duty on it of 60 cents a ton . Even with this tariff charge , American coal is cheaper to them than the coal of Nova Scotia . The removal of our duty on soft coal would not make a market for Nova Scotia coal in the Province of Ontario and the southwestern part of the Province of Quebec , where American coal is now sold in spite of the Canadian duty . The coal of Illinois , Indiana , and Ohio would still be exported to those Provinces . The manufacturers of iron and steel and other products on the Pacific coast would not , however , be required to pay a tariff tax on the bituminous coal which they are compelled to import from British Columbia and even from Australia , and the manufacturers in NewAngland would procure a part of their supply from the Nova Scotia mines at a price considerably lower than that which they now pay for coal from the Maryland and West Virginia mines in which Mr. Gorman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Provinces of Canada would still buy the coal of Illinois , Indiana , and Ohio , and it is absurd for the followers of in those States to say that the mining companies which export coal to Canada  --  beating the Canadian coal in Canada itself , in spite of the disadvantage of a tariff handicap of 60 cents per ton ? would be hurt by the removal of the duty now imposed by the United States on coal coming from Canada .                     