@@674306

txt A letter from Ambassador Bayard to a friend in this city is published here to-day , in which Mr. Bayard suggests that Democrats should refuse to support Bryan and Sewall , and says they should vote for Palmer and Buckner . Mr. Bayard 's letter , which was addressed to Samuel Bancroft , Jr. , Is as follows : " LONDON , Sept. 30 . " My Dear Mr. Bancroft : It seems scarcely possible that any one could be in doubt in relation to my personal opinion upon the very serious issues now placed before our countrymen by the machinery of the several political organizations . The evils which surround us and the perils that confront us have not grown in a night , nor have they come without warning . The dangers of disregarding sound financial principles have been distinctly foretold and reiterated ; and , looking over the last twenty-five years , as a representative of Delaware in the United States Senate , ' and as a citizen discussing elsewhere public measures and policies , 1 can not discern any failure on my part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legislation and financial and commercial policies which are responsible for the present perilous and distressing conditions . " In such a crisis language of reproach , of crirnination , and of recrimination would be useless or worse , and unworthy ; but each man , upon his own responsibility , must ask and answer the question whether men , collectively or individually , can , with justice or self-respect , abandon a just and vital principle in the hour of its exigency , and just when the necessity of its maintenance is greatest . and fly from the field when the assault is fiercest and courage is most needed to defend the right . Whether the principle is imbedded in the text of the written charter of our Government or is found in statutes intended to give effect to the Constitution , the measure of duty and fidelity is equal , and in these seasons of excitement , alarm , and passionate unreason , which are almost inevitable in the history of any nation , a patriotic , sincere , and self-respecting man will hear and heed the summons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the hour of their distress , the truths he has deliberately weighed and avowed it to be his duty to sustain for the welfare of the country to which his faith and allegiance have been plighted . The Power of Legislation , " When , therefore , a citizen , professing himself to be a Democrat , Is called upon by many , or by few , to yield his convictions and assent to the doctrine that Congress has the power and can rightfully exercise it by its legislative fiat to create values , and , regardless of their intrinsic or commercial value , to invest one or the other of the earth metals with any arbitrary rower as money and override and alter at legislative will or caprice the ratio of the exchangeability of such metals , regardless of the impairment of the obligation of contracts  --  his answer should be that such a claim of power is not consistent with a Government of limited powers as defined by our Constitution . but contains the quintessence of tyranny , dishonesty , and absolutism , and is destructive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of civilized society . It is , in plain words , a proposition to destroy the institution of property and break down every legal defense for its protection . " This one question , and its answer , sufficiently justify the prompt and absolute refusal of a constitutional Democrat to support , in any degree , the nominees of the Chicago Convention , ( Messrs . Bryan and Sewall , ) and the preposterous claims of legislative power contained in their platform , under which the credit of the Nation and the peace and order of society would inevitably perish . On the other hand , we have the Republican organization , whose measures and whose leaders have steadily created the dangers that threatened the country , and have made possible such a ticket and such propositions as were presented at Chicago . While compelled to recoil from the policy of compulsory pur- , chase and coinage of silver as an unlimited legal tender , yet it is insistently proposed to employ and intensify the profound powers of public taxation to prohibit commerce with other countries and thereby prevent revenue from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall prevent the payment and collection of other taxes necessary for the support of the Government , whose powers are exerted , directly and personally , upon each individual citizen , and over every part of land or water within its National boundaries . No Democrat Should Aid . " Every Constitutional Democrat can truly reply to such propositions that they are fraught with such gross iniquity between man and man as to be inconsistent with public safety , because it employs the most far-reaching and sovereign power known to Government to impoverish the weaker and poorer members of society , ( who form the great numerical majority , ) and aggrandize those already financially stronger ; that it extends a system which has already created inequality before the law , and subjects the industrious citizens to competition with their own Government , and their own money , drawn from them by taxation , and employed for the private profit of allied classes , who have established themselves as copartners with the Government in the exercise of inexoraaie powers of taxation over the entire population . " Such a perversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its injustice , and spreads broadcast the seeds of popular distress and just discontent , and this swells into a current which undermines respect for the law and confidence in the justice and integrity of the Government . Therefore , when candidates are presented , as are Messrs . and Hobart , upon a platform promising no abatement of taxation , but an intensification of principles so unjust and wholly out of harmony with the spirit as well as the letter of the charter of our liberties , every Democrat faithful to the principles of his party can properly Irefuse to aid the election of candidates avowing principles and policies that have so plainly led to our present dangers , and which are manifestly fatal to the welfare of our country . Palmer and Buckner a Safe Ticket . " But , happily , there remains a citadel and an asylum for the political conscience of any man honestly convinced that the path of duty leads him to keep steadily in view the great purposes for which our fathers ordained the Constitution of the United States , ' the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the insurance of domestic tranquillity ; provision for the common defense ; promotion of the general welfare , and the security of liberty to ourselves and our posterity . ' Such are the just ends of every political party in the United States , and parties have no right to exist except they are the means to such ends . Happily , candidates are presented upon a clear and unambiguous platform that assures safety to the financial honor of our country , to the honest business trapsactions of all its citizens without discrimination of race , age , sex , occupation , or fortune . " The personal reputation of the candidates of the National Constitutional Democracy , Messrs . Palmer and Buckner , is unsullied , and guarantees their fidelity to their pledges , and their election would go far to re-establish the moral health of our country . I hope and believe that in every State of the Union an Electoral and Congressional ticket will be placed before the people , and that every citizen may have the opportunity of recording his vote according to his conscientious belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Government of the land of our birth and dearest hopes . I am sincerely yours , T. P. BAYARD . " To Samuel Bancroft , Jr . "                     