@@673459

txt The biennial State election of Alabama occurs on the first Monday in August , and the preliminary canvass has already opened with considerable vigor . The conventions of the Republicans , Populists , and " Jeffersonian Democrats , " or Kolbites , and are all to be held to-morrow at Birmingham , but the State Committee of the regular " Democratic and Conservative Party " has fixed for the convention/ of that organization the comparatively late date of May 22 , and it is to be held at Montgomery . On account of the recent eccentric division of the vote of the State , the last Democratic Convention decided upon a representation of the counties on the basis of population instead of on the party vote at the previous election . The primaries to choose delegates to the coming State Convention are to be held on the same day throughout the State , May 12 , and the State Committee has decided that the Congressional Conventions and the primaries for the choice of delegates thereto shall be postponed until after the State election . The call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primaries , conventions , and mass meetings of the party as all who voted for Cleveland and Stevenson at the last national election , those who would have voted for those candidates but were prevented from voting , and newly-qualified voters " who will support the ticket nominated by the next Democratic State Convention . " When it was first announced that the Republicans , Populists , and Kolbites wells to inert sdpatate cbtiventiohn at the same place and Oft the same date , it was taken as an indication that they would form an alliance and unite in a common effort to defeat the regular Democracy . There was a tendency among the Republicans from the first to divide on that question , and , according to the latest reports , the sentiment in favor of putting up a separate State ticket has been increasing . De Lemos , Secretary of the Republican State Committee and Chairman of its Campaign Committee , has 11 been leading a movement having that purpose , ostensibly at least , while it was understood that Moseley , Chairman of the State Committee , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moseley is spoken of as a possible Republican candidate for Governor . It is not safe to rely much on the surface indications in this matter . Kolb and his Jeffersonian party will doubtless have the support of the Populists , as they did two years ago , after I which they turned in and voted for Weaver for President , such of them as did not return to the Democratic fold . The total vote at the Presidential election in 1892 was nearly 10,000 less than that at the State election , but the Democratic vote was nearly 12,000 greater . How far Kolb will retain or regain the Democratic support of 1892 it is impossible to say . His sole issue , apart from the issues to which the Populists are wedded , is his personal grievance , though he may count upon the disaffection of a certain class of Democrats with the National Administration . His grievance , or alleged grievance , is that he was defrauded of the regular Democratic nomination four years ago and cheated out of his election when he ran as an independent candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make much capital out of these claims . Not only is Kolb counting on " Democratic dissension , " but he is said to have revived Republican hopes and to furnish the chief stimulus for the movement in favor of a separate ticket . How serious this " dissension " will prove to be is very uncertain . There has been much discussion as to the question whether the State Convention shall " indorse " the National Administration . Those who show a spirit of hostility are made up of disappointed silverites and opponents of " free iron and coal " in Northern Alabama . They seem to have a candidate of their own for the nomination for Governor in the person of Capt . Joseph F. Johnston of Birmingham . Mayor Rich of Mobile , who has been talked of as a candidate , has written a letter squarely in favor of " indorsing " the Administration , while Congressman Oates has appeared openly in the field on the platform of an unequivocal support of the Administration and the declared policy of the national party . The probability now appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course for the party to pursue will prevail , and in that case he is likely to be the candidate for Governor . Then there will be a square test fight of the real Democracy of Alabama against all . malcontents within the party lines , all that have strayed off to Kolb 's " Jeffersonian " faction or landed in the ranks of the Populists , and all who still adhere to the Republican organization . Whether it will have to meet these heterogeneous forces in combination or be divided into two or more bodies is as yet uncertain , but in either case there is no doubt that the Oates policy is the sound and sensible one , and the one that is most likely to lead to victory in August , to say nothing of the hereafter .                     