@@675020

txt Emperor William today opened the Reichstag in the White Hall of the royal castle here in the presence of the members of the Bundsrath , the Generals , and other military officers , who were grouped around the throne , in front of which the Reichstag . Deputies assembled . The Empress sat in the Grand Balcony and the members of the Diplomatic Corps occupied the adjoining gallery . His Majesty , who arrived at noon , was accompanied by his sons and by the Persian Prince Mirza . After the Centrist leader , Lingens , had called for cheers for his Majesty , the Imperial Chancellor , Prince Hohenlohe , handed the speech to the Emperor , who read it in a , loud voice . One of the first bills mentioned was an anti-strike measure , providing for the punishment of those who intimidate non-strikers , but not interfering with the workmen 's right of coalition . After announcing the completion of the organization of the army , the Emperor said that Germany 's relations with all the foreign powers continued to be friendly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute to the maintenance of peace . Therefore , his Majesty hailed with warm approval the Czar 's magnanimous proposal for the furtherance of that object . Continuing , the Emperor referred to the assassination of the Empress of Austria as being a savage and ruthless act , which had caused him deep pain and which had evoked the most sincere sympathy throughout Germany . Referring to the anti-Anarchist conference at Rome , the Emperor said the readiness with which the invitation had been accepted by the powers justified the hope that its deliberations would have practical results . Alluding to the war between Spain and the United States , his Majesty said Germany 's neutrality was conscientiously anu loyally observed toward both belligerents . Then , dealing with colonial affairs . Emperor William pointed out the measures taken for the economic development of Kiao-Chau , declaring that , while conscientiously respecting the well-acquired rights of third parties , the German Government would direct its efforts to the further promotion of its economic relations witn China , which are yearly growing more important . There was a special passage in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject his Majesty said : " In order ? to avert the dangers involved in the traffic of unexamined meat , whether of home or foreign origin , intended for humans , the question of the general introduction of a system of inspection both of meat and of cattle intended for the slaughterhouse is being considered . The Federal Government 's bill regulating the subject will , I hope , occupy your attention during the present session . " The Emperor , in conclusion , said it was with deep emotion that with the Empress he had visited spots rendered clear to the whole of Christendom by the sufferings of the Saviour , and added : " The anxious desire of my three predecessors on the throne of Prussia was to erect there a place of worship of the evangelical confession . That is was granted to me to fulfill this desire and hand over the Redeemer 's Church at Jerusalem to the service of the Lord is a fresh lencentive to me to further employ the power vested in me by the grace of God in behalf of the eternal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentiments it afforded my heart a special satisfaction to fulfill the long-cherished wish of the German Catholics by the acquisition of property on Mount Zion , sacred to them by hallowed reminiscences . I cherish the hope that my stay in the Turkish Empire and the brilliant reception accorded me by the Sultan and the Turkish people everywhere will prove to be of permanent benefit to German prestige and the national interests of Germany . " His Majesty 's speech was repeatedly cheered . Count von Lerchenfeld , the Bavarian Plenipotentiary , then called for three cheers for the Emperor , after which Emperor William and his sons left the ball , and the Deputies proceeded to the Reichstag , where Herr Lingens took the chair as senior member . In the Reichstag the Imperial Budget was formally submitted with the estimated revenue , expenditure , and balance for 1898-99 . The estimated revenue is 1,554,530,650 marks . Of the ordinary expenditure 79,893,688 marks will be devoted to the army . 30,431 , - 500 marks to the navy , and 8,500,000 marks to salaries , harbor works , armaments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , China . Of the extraordinary expenditure 44.606,689 marks will he devoted to the army and 33,879.000 marks to the navy . The total expenditure will exceed that of the present fiscal year by 112,932,042 marks . The increased expenditure on the army will necessitate a loan of 89,921.189 marks . A bill increasing the peace effective of the army was also submitted . It provides for a gradual increase from Oct. 1 . 1899 , until by the year 1002 the peace effective reaches a total of 502,506 for the rank and tile . This will comprise 625 battalions of infantry , 482 squadrons of cavalry , 574 field batteries , garrison batteries , 26 battalions of pioneers , 11 battalions for the maintenance of communications , and 23 transport battalions . Another bill . which will come into force on March 1 . 1809 , deals with the reorganization of the army . It provides that the peace effective hereafter shall consist of twentythree army corps , of which Bavaria is : o raise three , Saxony two . Wurtemburg one , and Prussia and the other States of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " Germany is still menaced in consequence of her geographical position , while neighboring States do not cease their systematic warlike preparations . " It continues in this vein : " There is no doubt that the Czar 's manifesto furnishes a pledge that , at present , attack from that side is not contemplated , but disarmament has nowhere occurred , and , in present circumstances , it can scarcely be anticipated . " The Hispano-American war is then cited as furnishing a proof of the " dire consequences of a neglect to make proper preparations for war . " Special attention is dr two to the military preparations of France and Russia , and the preamble concludes by declaring that " a strong and well-organized army is the surest pledge of peace . " It is regarded as certain that the Army bill will be passed by a large majority . Passionate debates are expected over the Strikes bill . Emperor William 's reference to this measure is interpreted in some quarters to mean that he will dissolve the Reichstag if the bill is rejected . Considerable surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to the agreement with Bavaria about military judicial procedure or to the alleged new understanding with Great Britain . The evening papers note that the Emperor spoke of the Czar as his " dear friend , " and of Emperor Francis Joseph as his " faithful ally . " They argue , therefore , that the trend of foreign policy is unchanged and that the Triple Alliance is still in existence .                     