@@673159

txt A sensation was caused In btusiness , finanolal , and manufacturing circles to-day by the failure of Robert L. Walker , a prominent banker and capitalist , who made an assignment this afternoon to Hal K. Taylor , a well-known attorney , for the benefit of his creditors . The failure will be widespread in its effects . It will involve Gov. , and the indications are now that every dollar of property owned by the Governor will be swept away . During the past ten years Mr. Walker has been rated as a very wealthy man . He organized the Youngstown stamping company , taking a large block of stook , and has been its President since it began business . To-day the Commercial National Bank made a levy upon the plant of the Stamping Company to secure a judgment of $5,050 . This was followed by Mr. Walker giving mortgages to Gov. and Thomas Guy on a farm in Milton Township and his homestead in Poland . Six miles from here . Seeing that there was no hope of being extricated from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Attorney Taylor for the benefit of his creditors . As near as can be ascertained , the liabilities will reach $200.000 , is mostly paper for small amounts held by country banks . The failure is due to investments in properties and enterprises requiring a large outlay of money that havenot been as yet productive . In addition to the stamping works . he invested in the Girard Stove Works , coal mines at West Newton , Penn. , and Salineville , Ohio , and was also interested in a large number of smaller enterprises . This used up all the funds at his command and necessitated securing the indoreement of paper by friends . From boyhood Gov. and Mr. Walker have been the closest personal friends . When Mr. Walker requested the Governor to Indorse his notes the Governor showed no hesitation in affixing his signature without making any investigation . The Governor continued placing his signature on notes until the crash came . In response to a message Gov. came here to-day to ascertain the condition of affairs , and to learn whether he was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the banquet of the Ohio Society of New-York to-morrow night , but Will remain here and ascertain the extent of his liability . He said to-night : - All that I desire to say is that I will nay every note of Mr. Walker 's on ' which I am indorser , and not one will lose a dollar through me . " Figures were obtained to-night showing that Gov. is on $60,000 of the Walker paper . Mr. Walker has sustained a spotless reputation in the business community , and the failure is attributed to hie engaging in more enterprises than he could suegessfully carry through . He says he will turn over his home and every dollar he has in the world to assist in paying his creditors . The Girard Stone Works , in which Mr. Walker was a large stockholder , failed to-night . Assets , $30,000 ; liabilities unknown .                     