@@672566

txt The Democratic ) members of the Connecticut Legislature , after skirmishing all day , from the assembling of the body at 10 o'olook this morning up to 8 this evening , have executed a flank movement on the Republicans , which fills them with joy . The siege was a long and hard one . but the results they believe will put them in the best position possible for the ultimate possession of the State offices , the right to within has so long been in dispute . Before the Senate adjourned this evening It Sad passed not only joint resolutions which require concurrent action of the House to become Operative , but independent resolutions declaring the election of all the Democratic State officers . These are : Governor  --  Luzon B. Morris ; Lieutenant Governor  --  J. W. Allsop ; Treasurer , ? Marvin EL Sanger ; Secretary  --  S. J. Phelan : Controller  --  Nicholas Staub . It need not surprise the Republican to-morrow to find that the gentlemen named have taken the oath of office , by reason of this action . before a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take possession of the offices to which they are entitled . The consent of Judge Morris to such a course is the only barrier . He is so extremely conservative a man that it is doubtful if be will consent to this step , which his legal advisers have urged him to take . Instead of being here , in the thick of the fight , he is down at Willimantic , trying a legal cause , anti is apparently the least interested man in the State in the struggle now in progress . That struggle during the day has been a hot one . It began at the earliest possible moment by an attempt to secure possession of the canvass of votes and the " fair list " of the returns based upon this , which the law requires the Treasurer , Controller , and Secretary to make , and the latter to transmit to the General Assembly on the first day of the session . Long before the House had organized for business ? a tedious task , by the way  --  the Senate had completed Its organization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returns from the Secretary of state . These he refused to surrender , and he also refused to give them a certified copy on the ground that he proposed to send the returns to the House in accordance with previous usage , anti had had no time to compare his original returns with the duplicates he acknowledged to have in his possession , and so could not certify to them . The Secretary is a Republican , and his action was in accord with the Republican plan of campaign . It was a step which disconcerted the Democrats and blocked for the time their plan of campaign , so for hours they wailed idly but feverishly . In the meantime the House had got into a snarl as to the eligibility of some of its members . The place of a dead man in Avon was filled by a Democrat , who olaimed to hold over because under the Constitution he had the right to do so " until his successor was duly elected and qualified . " Another man , from Naugatuck , was given a right to vote because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of office . Several other similar oases gave the House its tall representation , 254. , with the exception of one absentee , whose seat no one claimed . All this was accomplished while the Speaker of the House of 1889 , whose duty it is to attend to the preliminary organization of the sucoeedlug body , was in the chair . This was Mr. Perry of Fairfield , a Republican . When all this trouble had been straightened out the Republicans came up smiling with a reposition not only to adopt as the rules of the ouse those of the last session but to amend hem so as to make a legislative day last inetinitely . This was done because the C nstitubon makes it imperative that the General Assembly shall receive and act upon the canvass of votes for state officers on the first day of the session and proceed to au election on the second day . in case they find that no candidate has received a majority of all the votes cast for the several offices to be tilled . A person named Walker , who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon himself to assume the Democratic leadership , led the members into what promised to be an interminable talking match , but the Republicans cafried their point by a strict party vote . This being out of the way , Allen W. Paige was elected Speaker , and tee day 's muddle , the worst one ever seen in a Connecticut Legislature , was begun . It was preceded , however , by air . Paige 's address , in which he particularly cautioned members to avoid the influences of the lobbyist , taking a leaf perhaps from his own experiences in the past both as a member pf the House and of the lobby . Speaker Paige bad at his bank ex-Speakers Perry , Hoyt , Harrison , and Schofield . and in his per- eon he had an overwhelming amount of confidence . The latter got him into a lot of trouble ; the ex-Speakers helped him out of a considerable portion or it . but Cashlag 's Manual and parliamentary practice were badly used up in the struggle . Mr. Paige had evidently heard of one Tom Reed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attempt was painfully ludicrous , for Mr. Paige was soon out of his depth and floundering In a sea of decisions always made in hisparty 's interest , but so contradictory that his advisers were astounded at his audacity . All of th s came about when Secretary of State ' Walsh sent the returns of the canvass of votes to the House to be acted upon in accordance with the law . The Republican proposition was So send these to a joint special committee , to be raised for canvass and report , and principally for the purpose of an investigation into the alleged irregularities as to the votes in certain towns incidentally referred to in the report of the State Canvassing board . The Democrats Instated upon a direct report upon the canvass , with no going back of the returns . The Hartford Walker talked and talked , arguing with tedious volubility that the returns of the canvassing board must be treated directly by the Legislature , which had no power to go beyond them in trying to get at the facts in the case , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report . The Republicans , conscious of their strength in votes , if not in the legality of their position , made but little attempt to argue the question . They were ready to act in concert and to one end That they did . Alter Mr. Paige had promptly crushed , with much more force than politeness , the minority , and had blocked them In every attempt to get a direct report as to the result of the canvass , the whole report was sent to the joint committee to be created by a strict party vote . then the talkative Walker tried to get the report immediately transmitted to the Democratic Senators , who were itching to get hold of It . He was defeated at every step , the parties voting Solidly . Then he offered a resolution declaring Judge Morris elected Governor , and that was tabled after a yea and nay vote or 134 to 116 , sine Democrat , Wadhama of Goshen , voting with the Republicans because he deemed it a discourtesy to even try to pass such a resolution when a report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The matter rested for a while , and a lot of tontine business was gotten out of the way . Walker had talked himself so hoarse that his voice was an almost inaudible whisper , and the Democrats felt easier . Then came the coup of the day by a quiet gentleman , Mr. Root of Waterbury , who hasbeen in consultation with tie Democratic leaders for weeks , and who knew their case all through . He modestly proposed that the canvass of votes be sent to the Senate by a special committee , in accordance with the request of that body made earlier in the day , and then bluntly refused Ander Walker 's management . He blandly said %e wished this done , so that the matter might be referred to a Joint select committee , the Senate member of which would be selected by that body on receiving the canvass and accompanyles report This proposition caught the Republimns napping . When the question was put they did not appear to know what to do , and his proposition was carried without a dissenting vote . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a declaration of the vote . This was demanded , but the Speaker would do nothing . he stated , until he had consulted with his advisers . He consulted , and under their advice made the declaration reouired , because he could n't do anything else . That was a big point for the Democrats , and Mr. Root quietly . but firmly and cautiously , pressed the advantage he had gained . Sam Pessenden rushed in from the corridor and Zound a seat near the Republican leaders , while Col. Hoyt and Lynde ' Harrison looked completely disconcerted . There was a rushing about on the Republican side , and finally ? vote was passed ordering the canvass transmitted to the Senate immediately . No time was lostain doing this , but why this was permitted she mass of the Republicans could n't tea nor could the headers . In the corridors the Republicans rushed about glatiesaly , and wanted to know if a break had vc.curred or if their managers had suddenly lost their heads . " How in thunder can we go back of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat of r was the query asked . but never answered . The ? ? hayseed " legislators were roundly denounced for giving over to the Demoorals the very thing they had been trying unsuccessfully all day to get possession of . A. blunder had been made , they were all confident , and then they rushed to the Senate Chamber to see what would be its effect . It did not take long todiseover . The overjoyed Democrats , who had been lounging about daring a recess extending from 11:30 A. M. to 5 es M. , were quickly reconvened . The coveted returns and canvass were safely in their possession and were accepted and tabled before a resolution recalling them could be received from the House . A select committee of three Senators  --  Pierce and Fox , Democrats , and Shumway , Republican  --  was appointed to canvass the returns and act on the report of the Board of Canvassers , and the whole lot of muchdesired papers was placed in their possession and the formal canvass was begun strictly in accordance with the constitutional provisions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Senate bad refused to adopt any rules , and had tabled a resolution making the joint rules of 1889 the joint rules of the General Assembly . Tuey preferred to act in accordance with the strict letter of the law and without regard to precedents . The canvass was quickly made , and the declaratory resolutions referred to were passed . based absolutely on the report of the State Canvassing Board , a body entirely Republican in its make-up . The ignored the extraneous matter injected by the board in its report , ou the ground that the Constitution required the Canvassing Board to report on the returns made by the Moderators as to the number of votes cast for each candidate , and on nothing else . The provision of statute law requiring the Moderator to return to the Secretary  --  not to the Convening Board  --  particulars regarding defective and illegal ballots cast , they refused to consider , on the ground that they were no part of the returns . Nothing but the " fair list " . required by the Constitution , It was Held , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigidly to that law . Then they adjourned until to-morrow morning , having completed the work required of them ou the first day of the legislative session . The House merely took a recess until to-morrow , although the Democrats caught the Repute Loans napping once more and almost made them pass a vote to adjourn before Sam Fessenden put on the brakes and saved them from this disaster . Now , as to the outcome of the day 's work . The Democrats have done all that is required of them on the first day of a session . They have canvassed the vote in one house and tried to do it In the other . They believe they have acted regularly in eve ry step takes , and the Senate will absolutely refuse to make any other canvass of votes on any pretext whatever . The Republicans have failed in their etiorte to force them to go behind the returns , and are practically where taey were before the Legislature met . They say they will never pass the Senate resolutions , but will , if the Senate 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , let the Democrats go before the people with State officers whose titles to their seats are smirched , and whose election is based upon ? ? irregular , untrue , and Illegal returns . " The Democrats do n't seem ton orey a bit about that , and rest content that the people will approve what they have done . The practical result of the day 's work is a deae. - 'oak between the two houses , and it means either a continuing in o Moe of Gov . Bulkeley au , the present State officers , or the seating of Judge Morris and his associate Demoorats elected last November , as the MILES stated a month ago would be the result . The only way Mervin can now become Governor is for Gov . Bulkeley to resign at some future time and thus hand the office over to him , as he still remains Lieutenant Governor , and would then succeed Bulkeley in the natural course of events , But this Mr. Bulkeley will never do , so the best-informed politicians believe , unless be sees an opportunity by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is hardly probable . for the granger element in the Legislature ' would never vote for him for Senator . There le a far greater chance that some of these grangers will vote to seat Morris than there is that they will submit to the continuance of a dead-lock which shall continue Bulkeley in the office . Ono of the managers of Senator Platt 's campaign insists that this will be done . The Senator will have a tight squeeze to get back to Washington for another term , as the Republicans have but four majority on joint ballot , and Senator Platt is not so popular as he might be with some of the Republicans in the Second District . His friends are working tooth and nail to secure his re-election , and it may require some Democratic votes to get this . These , It is said , may be bad it enough Republicans will vote to break the dead-lock and seat Judge Morris in the Governor 's chair . Such a deal is not out of the range of possibilities , for Mr. Platte friends have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return Platt this time and wait to gratify his own Senatorial aspirations until Senator Hawley 's term expires . eut the Senatorial pot has not begnnito boil very rapidly yet , and it will not begin until next week . The action of the House to-morrow on the election question way tend to clear things up a bit , or it may lead to an even more complicated snare than now exists and one that will require pretty shrewd management to untangle satistactorily to every one interested . Gov . Bulkeley is the only one up here who does not seem to care just how the disentanglement la made nor whether It is made at all                     