@@675279

txt It is reported from Kentucky that the friends of GOEBEL , the " regular " Democratic candidate for Governor , are intending to organize negro clubs and bring the negro vote to GOEBEL at the last moment . It is likely that this is one of the stories that the bitter fight in Kentucky has set going , but if it be not true the mere fact that it is expected to be believed is significant . For many years the idea was cherished by the more liberal leaders of the Republican Party that the true way to settle the race question in the South was to secure the division of the colored vote . This was one of the ends sought by the Administration of President HAYES in its Southern policy . It seemed at that time possible to divide first the white Democratic vote and then the colored vote , and if this could be done it was believed that the blacks would gradually secure white protection for the exercise of all their rights . The plan proved perfectly vain . The events of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close and disputed election by which he was seated in the White House , made the Democrats of the South too hopeful of winning the next time to allow any division among them . If this had not been the case the Hayes policy had little support in the ranks of his own party and still less from its leaders . The negro vote in the eyes of leaders like SHERMAN , for instance , was not counted on for elections , but for conventions . There was with these men little care for the rights of the blacks . All that was wanted from them was delegates , and the suppression of the ballot at the polls only served to keep the farmers of the Northwest loyal to the party of " justice . " The only practical result of the agitation of this plan was the gradual substitution of the tissuepaper ballot and Constitutional amendments for the shotgun as the means for preventing " negro supremacy . " As has been said , it is very unlikely that . GOEBEL will resort to any attempt to get his election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is a man of desperate temper . He has run up against an opposition far stronger than he had any idea could be aroused . The negroes cast about one vote in seven in Kentucky , or they would if they had their votes and used them . It is clear that GopuEL 's enemies think that he is callable of this device . If he should undertake it they might find it necessary to outbid him , and the longlooked-for spectacle of the blacks divided under white Democratic leadership might be realized .                     