@@781661

txt France has evidently regained possession of herself . Perhaps the death ' of President FAURE , or rather the shock occasioned by it , may have had a sobering effect upon the more excited . Parisians . At any rate , the swift and peaceful and ' Constitutional devolution of power to his successor has been very impressive , and its impressiveness has been rather emphasized than marred by the futile attempts to interfere with it by rioting . This rioting has had a sobering effect upon the mind of M. FERDINAND BRUNETIERE . It was in the name of the League of Patriots that be founded that the rioting was committed , and his explanation of his withdrawing from the council of the league is very satisfactory . It is much more satisfactory Olin any explanation he has givens for founding the league , and indeed it may be suspected that the true explanation of that performance is his well-known aversion to the novels of M. ZoLA . This aversion was quite strong enough to make it credible that when M. ZoLA took one side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination , be moved to take the other . Upon the whole the present aspect of France is very gratifying to believers in republican institutions . The silly and cowardly course of the Government in taking a pending case away from the tribunal to which it belonged , in order to satisfy the boulevard journals and the boulevard mob of Paris , might have been expected to work more mischief than it seems to have worked in fact . The election of M. LOUBET and his inaugural message tend to show both that Paris is not France and that the yellow journals and the street mobs are not Paris . Like his predecessor , M. LOUBET is the representative of the industrious , frugal , solid , and rational population which is the support of France as of every other civilized country . What BITREE said a century ago of the British agitators seems to apply equally well to the Parisian agitators of to-day . " Because half a. dozen grasshoppers under a fern make the field ring with their importunate chink , pray , do not imagine that those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : that , of course , they are many in number ; or that , after all , they are other than the little , shriveled , meagre , hopping , though loud and troublesome insects of the hour . "                     