@@674695

txt A number of the larger stockholders and officers of the steel rod and wire and nail manufacturing companies throughout the country met at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel yesterday for the purpose of pooling their interests and arranging the values of the properties that will be operated by the new organization . The meetings will last several days . Among those who attended were Judge Gary of Chicago . John W. Gates . President of the Illinois Steel Company ; George Oliver and Henry T. Oliver of Pittsburg , J. H. Parks and J. C. Pierson of Boston , Judge Dewey of the Washburn 8 : Moen Company , Worcester : Mr. Chisholm , representing the Horse Power Nail Company and the Cleveland Rolling Mill Company of Cleveland ; I. L. Ellwood of the Ellwood Company , Philip J. Moen , William E. Rice , G. H. Ten Broek , and D. J. Wolff of St. Louis . " Let it be understood , " said Judge Gary last night , " that this combination is not a trust and none of the laws of the country will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase the plants of the several concerns . Prices will be lower and the plants can be operated more economically when associated . " What will the capital be ? " " I can not say , " said Judge Gary . " It will take a large amount , probably something more than $ ( 30,000,000 . Some of the concerns will be purchased on a cash basis , while others will take stock in the new concern . " The matter of consolidation had been advanced before . It originated with John W. Gates , President of the Illinois Steel Company and one of the largest stockholders in the Consolidated Steel and Wire Company . " There is no truth in the report that J. P. Morgan directed the consolidation , " said one of the men at the meeting . " Mr. Morgan 's house will underwrite all the stock they can get , and outside of that his concern is not interested . The matter of consolidating the steel and wire plants is solely with the companies represented . " The organization of the new company is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been approached has been asked to submit its own estimates of . the value of its plant . The plants will be inspected and appraised by men appointed for that purpose . Until this is done nothing can be accomplished toward a complete consolidation . Some of the concerns have submitted their estimates . There are several yet to be heard from . It was said that Mr. Morgan would name the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the new corporation , and that the representatives of the Boston and St. Louis concerns would likely become officers in the new company . The meetings , according to the views of one of the representatives , will be held at the Waldorf from time to time until the matter of organizing has been settled .                     