@@672339

txt The bill introduced in the Assembly of this State by Mr. BLUMENTHAL to extend exemption from taxes in the case of property used by certain associations devoted to charitable and humane objects , so as to include that held under lease as well as that owned by the associations , is calculated to direct attention to the whole subject of exempting valuable real estate from taxation on any ground . If the matter receives the consideration that ought to be given - to it the demand is more likely to be in favor of a restriction of this policy of exemption from taxes than of its extension . The policy has grown up gradually , and mostly upon a principle which is really inconsistent with the theory of our Government , until it can fairly be said to have become subject to abuse . The principle of exempting church property from taxation can hardly be called I sound in a country where the Church is assumed to be supported by the voluntary offerings of the people , and each ecclesiastical organization is supposed to be maintained by those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State is expected to make no contribution to promote forms of faith or sustain methods of worship . The complete separation of Church and State and . the freedom of the people from any public exaction for the support of religion is one of the primary principles of our system . But this practice of exempting church property from taxes is in effect a link between Church and State , and it operates to increase taxation upon other property and thereby enforces to that extent a general tax for the support of the churchgs . In this city real estate to the value of many millions of dollars pays no tax because it is owned and occupied for religious purposes , and as a consequence other real esifate must be taxed , , at a higher rate to afford the needed revenue . This additional tax is to all intents and purposes a tax upon the people at large for the support of the churches and other organizations holding exempted property , and is exacted without reference to the will or choice of those who pay it . And it must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who hold real estate , and a majority of whom might not object to it , but by all who occupy real estate , whether as owners or tenants or as customers of the owners and tenants . It is really a tax upon all for the benefit of church societies of various denominations . The plea in justification of this practice is the benefit which the churches bestow upon the whole community in their promotion of morality and good order . Much force would be allowed to this plea if it were plain that the value of the property from which taxes are remitted is fully devoted to producing the benefit claimed . But when liberal areas of land in the most desirable locations , where lots are most costly , are occupied by ornate and expensive structures , used mainly if not solely for the worship of the members of the congregations that own them , it is not strange if persons who do not belong to those congregations , who do not sympathize with their forms of belief or methods of worship , nor believe over much in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should question the justice and propriety of an indirect tax upon the people for their support . It is not to be wondered at if they claim that the people who pat so much money in these lands and buildings for purposes which are practically a private affair of their own should pay taxes upon the property as those do who establish social and literary clubs or private schools . Whatever may be said of the general policy of allowing churches some exemption in the matter of taxes , there is a very general feeling that it is carried too far . In the case of institutions whose work is wholly or mainly charitable or eleemosynary the principle is somewhat different . Exemption from taxes upon the property held by them and used for their purposes is claimed on the ground that they do a work which otherwise would have to be or at least might legitimately be done at the public expense . On this plea some of them not only hold their property free from taxation but receive direct contributions toward their support from the public revenues . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of private charity and public benefaction rest upon different principles , and - when they are mingled together the taxpayer does not know how far he is compelled to contribute to what is a legitimate matter of public obligation and how far he may be forced to aid private sectarian or charitable enterprises of which he does not approve . Charity ought to do its " perfect work " from its own resources derived from motives proper to itself , and the public should bear the burdens which belong to it on well-defined principles of public obligation . It is an advantage in matters of taxation to apprehend clearly not only where the money comes from and how it is raised , but where it goes to and what it is used for , and there are confusion and waste when the principles and methods strictly belonging to public collection and disbursement are lost sight of . The mingling of religion , charity , beneficence. and taxation does not diminish the aggregate outlay for the various objects involved , but rather increases it in its ratio to the results accomplished , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equity and just obligation . Like almost everything else connected with taxation in this country , this is a matter that stands in need of reconsideration and reform .                     