@@672702

txt Was there ever a more perfect specimen of the perverted ingenuity of minds possessed with one idea than is shown in the letter of the German Catholics to the Secretary of the Holy See on the subject of foreign Bishops in the United States I According to this . curious document , it is of the essence of the Constitution of the United States that people of every nationality shall be allowed in perfect freedom to profess their oWn religion and use their own language . Therefore any ' plan , by which Germans or others coiling to this country shall be prevented from abandoning their language or neglecting their religion is a work of Americanization to which Americans should offer no objection and for which they should be rather grateful than otherwise . We wonder if this style of reasoning impresses any one . It can hardly convince any one who needs to be convinced of the soundness of the purpose sought to be justified . It must irritate any one who has any prejudices to be removed . It will be peculiarly nnpleasing to Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits , or sentiments of any part of the people of the United States strengthened and who would , on the contrary , like to see them modified as rapidly as possible . And even those who can not see the fallacy of assuming that Americanization can consist in doing actively and systematically what the Constitution merely permits and who may be puzzled by the appearance of logic lathe argument are no more likely to accept it . As f . r the scheme itself , it is as characteristic of its source as is the twisted logic by which it is sustained . Here are certain benevolent and zealous Romanists who have organized - under the patronage of St. RAPHAEL a number of societies for work among Catholic emigrants to the New World . and especially to the United States , whore most of the Catholics worth saving to the Church come . Their work is partly that of pure philanthropy , such as giving the emigrants needed information , assisting them iu their bodily wants where necessary , guiding them to homes and work when they arrive . But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtless with generous energy , is clearly subordinate , in the minds of the St. Raphaelites , to the religions work of keeping the emigrants under the influence of the Church . And as to this there is certainly ground for uneasiness for those who believe that only within the fold of Rome can salvation be reached and perdition evaded . According to the statistics which these societies have gathered , the Roman Church has lost sixteen out of twenty-six of all whom by affiliation and heredity it ought to have retained of Europeans coming to this laud of " sunlight " and freedom of thought . No one will quarrel with this purpose , but no one can be prevented from commenting on the means by which it is to be pursued . The idea of the followers of ST . RAPHAEL is that the only way by which the faithful can be kept from slipping out from the loving embrace of the Mother Church is to ' man the episcopate in the United States with Bishops , of various nationalities , who will be able to select priests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flocks ? in the tongue native-to eaoh. , The German Bishops , forinstance  --  and they will be the most numerous if the scheme be carried out  --  with their German priests , familiar with the language , customs , and feelings of the Germans , would ; be able better to guard them-against the dangers that beset them . These dangers are somewhat numerous , but the chief among them plainly is the public schools , the " godless " schools of the Republic . Among the others ; are the benefit societies in which misguided lOatholics join to unite their little savings ' in a common fund , from the investment of which provision may be made for illness , - old age , or accident . The.peril from these , ' is that " they cause the regulation of all ' the lives without any consideration of religions duties , " Exactly how foreign . Bishops and priests can prevent this we do not see . Either the poor must go without . the benefits they get by their daily sacri- ' fices or they must get them under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruel ; the latter , though it might add to security in the next world , would hardly increase the security in this , the priesthood , admirable as its spirit is , not ' being by nature or training or organization fitted for the profitable care of trust funds . Anothersource of danger isthe undue cost of religion to the faithful , and here again the remedy scarcely seems fitted to the evil . Unless the churches are to be run more economically or money is to be provided from outside , the course of things will scarcely be changed . So it is pretty plain that it is the schools . from which the foreign prelacy and priesthood are to save the Catholics of their own nationality in this country . Here , we ad-. mit , there is danger  --  very considerable , very constant , and not easily avoided . But we venture to think that the scheme proposed would hardly meet it . In fact , we are persuaded that to the extent that the Church undertakes to meet it it will alienate more and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Church is now absolutely freeto found all the schools it chooses to pay , for . If it does not found more , it is because its members will not give the money . If it seeks ? as it has done  --  to get money from the public Treasury , it will not only fail in the long rnn , but it will awaken opposition far more hurtful than all its. - schools can neutralize . It is not surpris-. ing , in view of all these facts , that the Pope , who is a shrewd man , declines to accede to the request of the St. Raphael societies .                     