@@674609

txt Extraordinary precautions to-day were taken to take care of the President on account of the Mayor having received an unsigned note telling him to be on guard against a proposed assassination of Mr. because of the appointment of Mr. Powderly . President and party arrived here at 10 o'clock this morning as guests of the Ohio State Board of Agriculture . They were preceded by James Wilson , Secretary of Agriculture . With the President came Mrs. , Senator and Mrs. Hanna , Secretary and Mrs. Alger , Col. and Mrs. Myron Herrick , Webb C. Hayes , and other personal friends . Upon arrival the Committee on Reception appointed by the Board of Agriculture escorted the President between lines of police to carriages . The crowd in the vicinity of the station was immense , the weather being fine , and the attendance at the fair very large . Col. John S. Poland , in command of the Seventeenth United States Infantry , and Col. Colt , in command of the Fourteenth Ohio National Guard Infantry , received the President at the station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading the way , to the Great Southern Hotel , which assigned rooms appropriate to the occasion . Enroute to the hotel the President was welcomed by thousands of people and handsome , patriotic decorations of buildings , to which he responded in the usual way . His face being very familiar to citizens of Columbus and Ohio , the outpouring of people evinced more of the feeling of a warm welcome home to.a great personal favorite than anything else to which the scene might be compared . Luncheon having been served at the hotel in the regular dining room and to which all table guests of the house were admitted . as usual , the President and party took carriages for the fair , overtaking the military , which had gone ahead " to rest in the shade , " as desired by the President , until he came to them at a point near the entrance . It is variously estimated that between 75,000 and 100,000 persons were gathered on the grounds to greet President , but only a fraction of this number were able to hear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's day at the fair , and thousands of little folks were scattered through the crowd . President directed his remarks in part to them . The Seventeenth Regiment , United States Army , and the Fourteenth Regiment , Ohio National Guard , acted as his escort . After visiting the Grant cottage , the President held an informal levee in the office of Secretary Miller . There was great cheering when the President and his party appeared on the balcony at the east side of the main exposition building . The balcony was beautifully decorated . After the applause which greeted the President subsided the Fourteenth Regiment Band played " America . " anti the Vit St. assemblage took up the familiar strain . making a great chorus . Secretary Miller of the State Board of Agriculture introduced the President , who said : Speech at the Fair Grounds . " My fellow-citizens , I feel that it is almost a nopeless task to undertake to make myself heard by this great assemblage of my fellow-citizens . It is peculiarly gratifying to me , after more than eighteen months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return to these beautiful agricultural grounds to meet my old friends and my fellow-citizens with whom for so many years I have been associated in the past . If I had been asked to select a greeting motet agreeable to myself , it would be that greeting which the committee has prepared of the children of the schools of the State assembled on these grounds today . Applause . " The presence of 40,000 school children commands our affection and inspires our hope , and I congratulate the children of Ohio that they enjoy exceptional opportunities for education at the hands of the Government of the State . No other State has higher common school advantages than the State of Ohio . And it is gratifying to know that half a million children every day in our State crowd the doorsteps of our public schools in thirst for knowledge to fit them for the grave and responsible duties of life . There is one thing of .. which the United States can proudly boast , and that is our public school system , where the boys and girls from every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all of their fellows all of the advantages of public instruction . I congratulate you all for that . Blessing* for School Children . " I am glad to meet these school children here to-day . Children 's day it is to you now , but in a little while it will be citizens ' day with all of you . Upon you in a little while will rest the duty as well as the responsibility of carrying on the great political fabric established by your fathers and bearing the glorious old banner they have so proudly borne in the past . Great applause . God bless the schoolchildren of Ohio , God ble.is the schoolchildren of America , and give them intelligence , morality , and patriotism , and with these elements dominating our citizenship , our institutions are safe and our Republic may be glorious forever . I thank you and bid you all good afternoon . Great applause . At the conclusion of the President 's speech he was the recipient of an ovation from the school children and assembled multitude . Brief speeches were also made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grounds the Presidential party returned to the hotel . In the evening a complimentary dinner was given by the State Board of Agriculture to President , and a brief informal reception followed . The President will leave for Canton to-morrow morning . The letter warning the Mayor against a plot to assassinate the President " because he appointed Powderly " is regarded by the Mayor and Director of Public Safety as a hoax . They both state that it was never considered seriously . Gen. Alger to-night declared the publication of the letter was an outrage .                     