@@672747

txt There is one phase of current politics the treatment of which by the Republican State Convention will be watched with much interest . It has been semi-officially announced that Mr. ANDREW D. WHITE , former President of the great university at Ithaca , will be the " Maanimons choice 17 of the delegates ' as candidate for the office of Governor . it would be inquiring top curiously , perhaps , to ask how Mr. WHITE reconciles it with his dignity to take a nomination which can only be secured to him in advance by the machine managers . That is a question for Mr. WI:Errs himself to decide . He can not very well prevent his fellow-citizens from speculating about it , but it is his self-respect that suffers most by the operation , and that ought to be of more importance to him than the opinion of others . There is another matter which is one of real public concern , and which Mr. WHITE and the convention whose nomination he has consented . to take can not decently evade . That is the abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the convention were about to nominate a nobody , or one of the ordinary politicians bred in the spoils school , with no distinct knowledge of the principles of sound and honest administration , and with a conscience dead to the evils of the policy a patronage , it would make no difference what was said on this point in the platform , or whether anything were said . But the conspicuous selection beforehand of Mr. WHITE puts a very different face on the question . Mr. WHITE is an avowed believer in the reform of the civil service . lie knows what it means and why it is necessary to the healthy public life of the American people . He ought to be ready to sustain its principles wherever they are directly involved . They are involved directly and intimately in this campaign . The first principle of civil service reform is that the use of pub-. lie effices for partisan ends is always and everywhere wrong . Mr. WHITE knows very well why this principle is inevitably true . He has had experience and observation of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done by " patronage . " He does not need to be told that it is not confined to the Government itself or to the various branches of the Administration . It is bad enough there . It destroys the independence and manliness of those who take office . It makes them the servants of those whom honorable men must despise . It requires sacrifices of selfrespect , and even of common honesty , and renders service which ought to be a source of honor , suspected if not degrading . But beyond that , and worse than that , is the demoralization of politics , the perversion of that action of the citizen which should be at once a matter of duty and of pride . It puts the management of party affairs into selfish and generally into corrupt hands . It makes a fair expression of the honest sentiment and opinion of the people always difficult and sometimes impossible . It makes the republic  --  the res. publica  --  not a public but a private interest . It pollutes party activity , which in itself is not merely respectable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and greedy , sharp , cunning , unscrupulous men alone , or chiefly , take it up and find their profit in it . All this Mr. WHITE knows as well as he knows the history of his country . He has seen it from afar and from near . .. pd he knpwst top . how it the standard of charUnited States than in other nations whose people are no more intelligent or honest than our own , if , indeed , they are as much so . Perhaps it is not too personal to say . that he knows that it is the one reason why he himself has not advanced as far in public life as he otherwise would have done . Now , with this knowledge and in the actual situation of politics in the Union and in this State , with his own candidacy for the highest executive office outside the Presidency offered to him in advance , what will Mr. WHITE do or say on this question , During the last two months he has seen the Collector of the Port of New-York forced from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his great department illegally , dishonestly , or dishonorably to promote the renomination of President Ilannison. lie has seen the vacancy filled by an appointment universally accepted as the recognition of Mr. PLATT as the " Boss " of the Republican Party of New-York . He has seen the new Collector desert the office of whose real duties he confesses himself wholly ignorant to go up into his own county and preside over a factional fight . He will see that this same official is a delegate from that county to the convention whose nomination is promised to Mr. WHITE . If he watches the course of politics he will see at a hundred points all over the State the choice of delegates who are to honor him with that nomination not merely influenaed , but dictated , by Federal office holders whose interference in the party is an outrage , an insult , and a nuisance . We repeat , What does he propose to do or say about it ? This is not an idle question ; with all respect to Mr. WHITE , it is not an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a cultivated man , recently the honored President of one of the greatest educational institutions in the State , he is a representative of culture and scholarship , which , we take it , means of intelligent and trained honesty , in public life , and he should be to the youth of the State an example of what they may be or ought to be in the life of the State . He stands where he can rebuke and check what he knows to be a crying evil and shame . Will he do so or will he profit by it ?                     