@@673530

txt Nelson Jarvis Waterbury died . last evening at his home , 13 West Fifty-sixth Street , of pneumonia , after an , illness of three days . He caught cold Wednesday while attending to business at his law office , 32 Nassau Street , and it settled in his lungs . Dr. Loomis and Dr. Bartholow of Philadelphia were called to attend him . Mr. Waterbury was Samuel J. Tilden 's first law partner . He was born in this city . in July , 1819 . He was the son of Col. Jonathan Waterbury and Elizabeth Jarvis , and was a grandnephew of Bishop Jarvis of Connecticut When Mr. Waterbury was only nine years old his father died and he soon afterward - was employed in the office of Wells &; Van Wagenen , at that time the leading law firm of this city . Samuel J. Tilden was reading law on the same floor . Young Waterbury , as he advanced in years , became deeply interested in politics , on which account he had a falling out with his employers which resulted in his leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started a law office together . Mr. Waterbury 's ability as a lawyer and a politician attracted the attention of Gov . Wright , who appointed him Judge of the Marine Court , which necessitated a severance of partnership with Mr. Tilden . He served as Judge four years , when he was legislated out of office , and he resumed the practice of law . In 1S55 Postmaster Isaac B. Fowler appointed Mr. Waterbury as his assistant Mr. Waterbury was the first man to establish a sub-postal station in this city . Mr. Waterbury was elected District Attorney in 1858 , and took office Jan. 1 , 1859 . He served only one term , being defeated three years later for re-election . While District Attorney , he tried two famous murder cases . The first was of a man named Stevens , who poisoned his wife . Mr. Waterbury suspected him of the crime and caused the woman 's body to be exhumed . Prof. R. Ogden Doremus analyzed the contents of the stomach , and on the evidence thus obtained Stevens was convicted . It was the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case was that of a man named Jeffards , who murdered his stepfather and shot a witness to the crime . Jeffards was acquitted of his father 's murder , but Mr. Waterbury placed a detective on his track . Jeffards finally confesed the murder to the detective and was arrested and tried for murdering the second man and was convicted . He was sentenced to life imprisonment and was killed by a fellow-convict Upon retiring from the District Attorneyship , Mr. Waterbury was appointed by Gov . Seymour Judge Advocate General , and during the Governor 's term he carried on the negotiations with President Lincoln for State troops and assistance . He was active in the management of affairs during the draft riots . When Gov . Seymour left office , Mr. Waterbury went into partnership with the late Henry Wilder Allen , who became Justice of the Court of Common Pleas . In iSes Gov . Hoffman appointed him one of a commission to revise the State statutes , and he was the compiler of the Code of Civil Procedure now in use . Though opposed to Tweed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he also defended Harry W. Genet before the Senate Investigating Committee and in the criminal courts . Mr. Waterbury was a member of Tammany Hall until Tweed rose to power , when he left the organization . After Tweed 's fall he returned to Tammany and remained in it until a disagreement with John Kelly led him to resign again . He returned to the organization in 1890. being an admirer of Richard Croker and Mayor Gilroy . The latter , he declared , to be the ablest Mayor the city had had during the last thirty years . Mr. Waterbury took his son , Nelson J. Waterbury , Jr. , into partnership ten years ago . Mr. Waterbury married a Miss Gibson of Massachusetts . His widow and three daughters and one son survive him . He was a member of St Thomas 's Protestant Episcopal Church . The funeral will be held at the house to-morrow morning .                     