@@673635

txt Ex-Senator J. Sloat Fassett arrived here on the night train from Elmira yesterday morning . He was interviewed by a reporter for The New-York Times , who found . him in a particularly happy frame of mind , owing ? to the handsome manner in which his Republican friends in Chemung County treated him on Thursday night . The unanimity with which they indorsed his candidacy for the nomination for Governor he considered to he one of the most pleasing incidents in his political life . In reply to an inquiry as to whether he is In the fight for the nomination to stay until the convention decides the matter , he said : " My name will surely be presented to the convention for its consideration and action . " Three years ago , without any solicitation , direct or indirect , on my part , the Republican State Convention unanimously conferred the nomination upon me . To-day the political situation presents substantially the same issues that were paramount then , with this difference , that through the action of the Denfocratic powers in this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues ? have been intensified and broadened . " The field is an open one , and my friends will make a determined effort to occupy it , with the expectation that no improper coercion of any kind from any source will be resorted to . " " Will you remain in the field after Mr. Morton returns , it he declares himself to Cunard Steninwhip Campania . ( Arrived Yesterday from Queenstown , Lowering the Transatlantic Record Three Hours and Eighteen Minutes. ) be a candidate ? " Mr. Fassett was asked . " Surely . I see no reason whatever why my attitude should be at all affected by the determination of Mr. Morton , one way or the other . Re would be a formidable opponent , and his candidacy would make it necessary for my friends to work all the harder . " I respect Mr. Morton very highly and recognize his strength in the party , but I do not expect to stand aside In the interest of any candidate until requested so to do by the action of the convention . There will probably be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be chosen . ' To the final decree of the convention , after an honorable contest , matter how spirited , we all must bow . Mr. Morton himself will be among the first to recognize this principle . " Mr. Fassett - returned home yesterday to look after the fences that inclose the counties that surround Chemung. 