@@675159

txt Of course , Capt . CoGH:LAN committed a serious indiscretion in the remarks he made at the Union League dinner in his honor and that of his officers . Of course , he would not have made them if he had not for the moment been wooed by the courtesy of his hosts and the hilarity of the occasion into forgetting that the dining hall of the Union League , with reporters present , is not the same thing with the smoking room of that or any other club and a party of a few friends . That his casual remarks would be telegraphed abroad , and that they would be telegraphed to Berlin , among other capitals , was . doubtless the last thing that could have occurred to him . If it had occurred to him it is to be presumed that he would have confined himself to the fighting at Manila , which lasted a few hours , and have ignored the subsequent ? lunation which lasted for weeks and months , and consequently made a much deeper impression than the battle of Manilla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is , of course , nothing in Capt . COGHLAN 'S recital of the international incidents in Manila Bay which was not already known in outline to the hearers of his speech and to the readers of the report of his speech . That does not in the least diminish , perhaps it even increases , the interest of his relation as that of an eye-witness . But it ought to allay any international irritation that might at this late day otherwise be felt in consequence of so frank a disclosure . Except the averments by Admiral DEWEY that the German colors could be bought anywhere for half a dollar a yard and that the German flag could be flown by anybody who chose to fly it for his own purposes , it is not at all upon the ground of its novelty that Capt . COGHLAN 'S relation should ruffle the sensibilities of any German ; and the accuracy of these two averments will scarcely be disputed . Capt . COGHLAN 'S description of the subsequent quietude of the German squadron , and of its causes , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be regretted that it should have been made upon what turned out to be a public occasion . It is the more to be regretted because the German Government has officially made a full and handsome apology for the misbehavior of its naval representative at Manila . The incident is , therefore , so far as concerns any official action by our Government or any official declaration by any representative of it , effectually closed . It must not be supposed that it cost Germany nothing to make an apology which , for anything that appears , was entirely spontaneous , for misbehavior which a large part of the German press had applauded as entirely correct and patriotic behavior . Not only was it officially explained that Prince HENRY superseded Admiral vox DIEDRICHS because he was more popular with American naval officers , but the conduct of the German Admiral at Manila was distinctly disavowed and disapproved . As to the facts there is no question . And really the German official explanation of them is virtually the same as the unofficial British explanation . This latter is attributed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book upon the Philippines , to Capt . CHICHESTER , R. N. A German cruiser entered Manila Bay when Admiral DEWEY Was in command of the squadron blockading it , and proceeded , ignoring the fact that the port was blockaded , to pick out her own anchorage , when she was brought to by a shot from the flagship , which her commander remarkably interpreted as an insult to Germany . Desiring to make things easy for the German commander , Capt . CHICHESTER repaired on board the Olympia in his behalf and explained to Commodore DEWEY , as he was then : " You see , Sir , the Germans have got no sea manners . " It is quite true . Whoever doubts it may be recommended to read STEVENSON 'S account of the troubles in Samoa . Germany , as a sea power , is so young that much may be forgiven to her naval officers . But the most characteristic German naval performances in Philippine waters last Summer as well as in Samoan waters twelve years ago imply as great an ignorance of international law as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be expected , and is not to be so easily forgiven . We suggested the other day that a professorship of deportment should be added to the German naval curriculum . When it is seen how seriously the absence of instruction in deportment militates against the career of Germany as a world power such a department will doubtless be added . In that case the indiscreet frankness of an American naval officer about the untutored performances of German naval officers will be of real value and advantage to the naval authorities at Berlin                     