@@672852

txt The Washington Post this morning printed a story that has been told in fragments for several days , but which the reporter of that paper has been able to construct with fuller information than other writers have obtained . After alluding to the way In which Minister Montt was " tricked " by Blaine into assuming that there was to be a speedy settlement of the Chilean dispute by arbitration , when it must have been known by Mr. Blaine that the power of the Administration was being exerted to secure a settlement ' without first con. sidering arbitration , the story told by the Post Is as follows : " A few weeks ago Senator Hale gave one of his artistic little dinners at his magnificent residence on the corner of Sixteenth and K Streets . Among those present were Secretary Blaine , Senators Cameron and Allison , Marquis Imperial ! , the Italian Charg6 d'Affaires , and Mayroyeni Bey , the Turkish Minister . There may have been others . After dinner , and while the gentlemen were enjoying their cigars , the conversation turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Blaine became acutely excited , and at last he broke out in a violent denunciation of the idea that Chile should be dealt with harshly . He declared that , although the ' Valparaiso incident ' Was nothing more than a drunken squabble in a disreputable slum , signifying nothing , the Chilean Government had already apologized for it ten times more than ours had done for the brutal and barbarous massacre of Italian citizens in NewOrleans . " At this Marquis Imperial ! is said to have bowed in his best style and complimented the groat Secretary on his magnanimity and statesmanship . Mr. Blaine then went on to characterize in the severest terms ' the disposition to exact further concessions from Chile  --  this at a time when the President was notoriously resolved to do that very thing  --  and wound up by declaring in the most emphatic manner that if the Administration should adopt such a policy as that , he repudiated it , and Wanted to be so understood . " This speech ended in a complete and almost tragic silence , and so , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the incident terminated . It is hardly necessary to say that the disclosure of this episode , although it may be but incomplete , has created an almost unprecedented ex. citement . It adds the closing and the culminating page to the Blaine chapter in the history of the Harrison Administration . " A gentleinan who agrees with Senator Hale , in describing the story as inaccurate , admits that it had this foundation in truth : That Mr. Blaine at all times favored a resort to arbitration , that he regarded the Baltimore offense as less serious than the attack upon the Italians at New-Orleans , and that he had no sympathy with the menace of Chile by the naval forces of the United States . Still , Mr. Blaine has been awry before , as the hat-smashing incident in the Senate Appropriation Committee , when he denounced the bill , abundantly proves .                     