@@672753

txt Ellen , a tall , raw-boned woman , forty-one years old , was shot in the left breast yesterday by Patrolman John Fay of the Fifth District Court while attempting to prevent the arrest of her husband . When the ambulance arrived the woman held a cloth over her wound with one hand while with the other she knocked down three men in rapid succession . The combined energies of four men were necessary to put the woman under subjection . The affray occurred on the canalboat Kate , lying in the Harlem River . off One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Street Patrolman Fay . who had a warrant from Justice White of tho Fifth District Court , went on board the boat at 3:50 o'clock yesterday afternoon to arrest Thomas , whom the warrant charged with assault . is a bad character . The circumstance which led to the issuance of the warrant was an assault which ho committed upon Joseph Bannon of 2,255 Third Avenue , who Is employed in Paine 's flour mill , near the spot where the *anal boat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 's victim was severely injured . When Patrolman Fay went on board the canalboat , ran into the cabin and shut the door . Fay ordered him to come out and avoid trouble , and when he refused , the officer forced an entrance . Then an exciting struggle began , in the course of which the officer found it necessary to draw his pistol . By this time Mrs. had taken &; hand in the fight She looked her arms around the officer 's neck , and twisted it as though It wore made of rubber . The officer fought desperately , and in the confusion his pistol went oft Capt . Westervelt of the Twenty-ninth Precinct was standing on the Third Avenue bridge when the abet wax tired , and he ran to the canalboat in time to had Mrs. bandaging a wound in her left breast . Fay had pounded into subjection , and he surrendered himself and his prisoner to the Captain . Both were locked up at the Twenty-ninth Precinct Station in East One Hundred and Twenty-sixth Street . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bears an excellent reputation . He has a wife and two children who live in East One Hundred and Sixth Street . Be expresses great regret at the shooting of the woman , but explains it on the ground that ho lost control of the pistol in the struggle with the woman and her husband . Mrs. was removed to the Harlem Hospital after a long struggle . At the hospital door she again resisted , and she only consented to an examination when she had become weak from loss of blood . The wound was found to be a dangerous one and doubts were expressed as to the woman 's recovery .                     