@@780957

txt Ernest V. Utter , bigamist and the hero of two remarkable jailbreaking escapes , has been recaptured the second time , and is again lodged in the county jail at Goshen . Utter was formerly employed as a brakeman on the Ontario and Western Railroad , and Sheriff Johnson found him yesterday passing under the assumed name of Murray and working as one of the new men who have replaced the strikers in the Central Railroad yard at Albany . The romantic story of his first escape from the Middletown jail in his second wife 's clothes is familiar to the readers of THE TIMES . He escaped for the second time from Goshenj ail on the night of Aug. 2 , In company with George H. Cauldwell , a noted professional burglar , and John W. Hill , colored , under indictment for atrocious assault . The last two named are still at large . Utter was recaptured through his devotion to Jennie Griffis , his second wife , who is a respectable young girl living with her mother near this city . Alter he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed friend here , inclosing a note to Jennie Griffis , which he requested the friend to deliver to her privately . The friend turned the correspondence over to Sheriff ' Johnson . Utter refuses to disclose to the Sheriff ' the identity of the outside parties who furnished him and his comrades with the tools with which they effected their escape from the jail . His trial for bigamy will come on at the Orange County Court of Sessions Sept. 15 . Dr. McGlynn talked last night at Cooper Union to a roomful of enthusiastic listeners , who could not fail to be attracted by thil an-nouncement of his subject , which had to do with politics and the clergy . The dootor commended the clergy for taking hold of the so-called mu-nicipal reform movement , but he doubted the correctness of the means by which they hoped to attain the end . He followed out the line of his old arguments concerning the vice of riches , which , he said , was the root of all evil in politics . He thought that the clergy could not effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this true source of politicalcorruption , and he doubted their willingness to do this at the expense of their wealthy parishioners . Dr. McGlynn had no doubt that the Federal , State , and City Governments were all very impure , and , judging by the applause that greeted his opinions , everybody present thought co , too .                     