@@675338

txt The controversy over the selection of an architect for the New York Custom House was finally settled to-day by the approval by the Secretary of the Treasury of the report of the commission appointed to examine the plans of the competitors . The commission recommended the appointment of Mr. Cass Gilbert of New York , and the approval of that report makes Mr. Gilbert the architect of the New York Custom House . Assistant Secretary Taylor , in discussing this matter to-day , said : " There has been an unusual interest taken in this matter , and the final decision was arrived at only after the most thorough investigation of all the acts of the commission . When it was known that the report was favorable to the selection of Mr. Gilbert Prominent public men of New York entered a protest against the approval of the report . Nine of the competing architects filed a protest with the President , asking that the report of the commission be set aside and a new commission appointed , although one of the nine protestants subsequently telegraphed the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake . " The report of the commission was made some time ago to Assistant Secretary Taylor , but as Secretary Gage was absent , action was delayed at the request of prominent citizens of New York until his return . In order that all parties might be heard and the fullest discussion had as to the methods and report of the commission , Assistant Secretary Taylor invited all the competitors to present to the Secretary , either verbally or in writing , their opinions as to whether or not the report of the commission should be approved and - the reasons for their conclusions . Answers were received from all of the competitors except two . Nine , including Mr. Gilbert , favored approving the report , eight protested against its approval , and one made no recommendation . All of the competitors outside of New York favored approval . In New York one-half of the competitors favored disapproval , and the other half either favored approval or made no recommendations . Judging from what was said last night by Cass Gilbert , the architect whose plans for the new Custom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there seems a strong probability that the failure of the effort to have the jury 's award set aside will not be the end of the matter . Although Mr. Gilbert would not say so in so many words , he intimated that he intends to take action against the architects who signed the petition against the Judges 's decision , which was ' sent to President . " You can say for me , " said Mr. Gilbert . who was seen just after his arrival from Washington at the Holland House , " that I am naturally very much gratified at the outcome of matter , and that I shall do my best tcnnake the building in every way a fine thing , and worthy of its place and of its object in the largest sense of the term . The evidence upon this matter was settled upon its merits . Secretary Gage has always fully investigated all questions that came before him for decision . He has certainly done so in this instance , and has given everybody an opportunity to be heard . " Asked what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some of the unsuccessful architects . Mr. Gilbert said : " I have turned that matter over to my attorney , George C. Squires , and if you wish any further information I will refer you to him . All I wish to say now is that the insinuations contained in that petition were absolutely false and unwarranted . I shall certainly do what is necessary to protect my reputation from such grossly unfounded and libelous attacks . Although I , personally , would prefer not to stir up trouble , I can not let such a matter pass unchallenged . " Mr. Squires was afterward seen . He declined to say what the present plans of his client are with regard to action about the architects ' protest to the - President , but gave some particulars with regard to the manner in which the agitation against Mr. Gilbert was pressed in Washington . " I went with Mr. Gilbert to Washington , " said Mr. Squires . " on Wednesday , upon the invitation of the Secretary of the Treasury . On our - arrival Mr. Gage showed us a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Senator Platt . It was in the form of a letter to the Senator from Lemuel E. Quigg , and contained the same charges as appear in the petition of the unsuccessful competitors . Mr. Gage also gave me a copy of the architects ' protest , and said that he would hear Mr. Gilbert and myself upon the charges on Thursday . I prepared an answer to the charges in the form of a short brief , and on Thursday we again called upon the Secretary , who heard what we had to say , and told us that we should receive his decision to-day . Yesterday morning we called upon Mr. Gage again . We found that he had gone to attend a Cabinet council . He had , however , left word that he intended to bring the matter up before the council and would r otify the department of the decision arrived at . We called again in about an hour , and Mr. Taylor , the Assistant Secretary , told us that Mr. Gilbert had received the award . Later on a letter was sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Custom House . " It seems that when Mr. received the petition from the architects he sent it at once to Secretary Gage . The memorandum filed by Senator Platt was rather more lengthy than the petition , but it contained exactly the same arguments , which resolve themselves into a reflection upon the honesty of the jury . " In spite of the lateness of the hour at which he returned to this city , a number of Mr. Gilbert 's friends called upon him last evening to congratulate him upon the outcome of the matter . The plans for the new buildings will not be made public for about three weeks , it being the rule of the Treasury Department not to make architects ' designs public until the bids for the construction of the buildings have been advertised for . The news of the approval by the Secretary of the Treasury of the award of the jury was received by New York architects with general satisfaction . Since , the agitation to have the award set aside was begun well-known members of the profession have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names were to be attached , ? but have given their opinions freely when assured that their names would not he published . One well-known architect said yesterday : " I do not see that Secretary Gage could have done anything else after the Need York and Philadelphia Chapters of . the American Institute of Architects had stated their wishes in such an unmistakable way . I think that even those architects who signed the petition to President that the decision of the jury be set aside realized very soon afterward that they had done a foolish thing . At any rate , though some of them were at the meeting of the New York Chapter on Wednesday evening , there was no real opposition to the resolution , and , as I see by this morning 's papers , some of those who were said to have signed the petition now declare that they did so under a misapprehension . Had the jury 's verdict been set aside it is difficult to see how any architect could have grumbled in future if the Federal authorities chose to ignore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architects do not believe in that system at all , and the American Institute has officially declared that the direct appointment of architects is to be preferred . You can find that on the circular giving the minimum scale of professional fees that a member of the institute may charge . However , that is not the question , and so far as public buildings are concerned , I personally believe in having competitions . '                     