@@673059

txt If the Rhode Island Democracy will go to the polls on Nov . S with the solid , unbroken front which they presented in convention to-day , the Eleotoral vote of this State will be cast for Cleveland and Stevenson . For forty-eight hours prior to the gathering the Executive Committee of the State Central Committee were diligently at work straightening out difficulties , with the result that tale morning factional differences of all sorts had disappeared , and the Republican bosses and Republican press . which had predicted a repetition of the disgraceful scenes attendant upon last April 's election , found themselves woefully disappointed . Democratic prospects never appeared brighter in this State than they do tonight , and the tight here will be a close one . Mayor Honey of Newport presided over the State Convention . He made a spirited address . in which , after touching upon national issues , he practically informed the Republican bosses of the State that , despite their recent gerrymander of his city , political life would become a burden to them ere the Ides of March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and was bound to remain so . The platform adopted congratulates the country upon the nomination of Cleveland and Stevenson , denounces the Tariff bill , the Sherman Silver not , and the Force bill . It declares for a new Constitution for this State , and indorses the principles announced in the platform adonted by the National Convention and set forth in Mr. Cleveland 's letter of acceptance . For Presidential Electors , Rowland Hazard of South Kingstown , Joseph Banigan of Providence , Nathaniel B. Church of Tiverton . and Olney Arnold of Pawtucket were nominated . Mr. Hazard is a very large woolen manufacturer , and is a Cleveland independent . He divided his profits with his employes until the workings of the act , when an increased tariff on some articles used by him rendered this impossible . He is willing again to adopt that policy with an adjustment of the tariff laws upon the lines enunciated by Mr. Cleveland . Mr. Banigan is another large manufacturer , and is President of the Woonsocket Rubber Company . Mr. Church is head of the fishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen of the State and a former commander of the State National Guard . Congressman Oscar Lapham was renominated in the First Congressional District , and Congressman Charles H. Page In the Second . The differences between the leaders in the latter district were settled by the withdrawal of Mr. Carroll and the insistence by many that Mr. Page reconsider his determination to withdraw from public life . The opinion of the party managers alter the convention was that there was an excellent ohanee of carrying the State for Cleveland and of re-electing Lapham . The fight in the Second District will be close , with chances favoring the Republicans .                     