@@672972

txt The Times will say to-morrow : William F. Harrity of Pennsylvania will be the next Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . Everything in political life is uncertain , but the abets prognostication has the seal of certainty . Heretofore it has been considered settled that the successor of Calvin S. Brice would be William C. Whitney , and that Mr. Harrity would aid him as Chairman of the Campaign Committee . Yesterday , however , Mr. Whitney made the following declaration : " A groat many persons have been good enough to mention my name in connection with the Chairmanship of the Democratic ) National Committee , but I will not take it under any circumstances . " Mr. Harrity was seated to-day , after noon , in the comfortably-appointed office of the President of the Equitable Trust Company when this declaration was read to him . " Mr. ! lenity , you are to be the next Chairman of the Democratic National Committee . Every objection you may make to that proposition will be met . You will not be permitted to hescape the responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his revolving chair and said : " I do n't see how any one can arrange that for me . " " Nevertheless it will bo done : You will be placed in such a position that you will not be able to avoid the duty . " After rubbing his forehead for a few minutes , Mr. Harrity said : " I can scarcely believe that such an honor will be thrust upon me . It is , in fact . a matter that at present permits of no discussion . The wishes of the candidates for President and Vice President have not yet been given utterance . Besides , the votes of the members of the Democratic National . Committee must determine the matter , and even the date of meeting of that body has not been fixed : The general voice of the party , however . has named W. C. Whitney for the place , and I am free to confess that , with him as a leader , I would sacrifice much , roll HD my sleeves , and accept any subordinate position under him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there are many reasons why I would not wish to consider the acceptance of the National Chairmanship of the Democratic Party , even if I were thought of for the place . In the first place , I would be reluctant to assume such a grave responsibility with so little experience as my tutor . Tao contest will be a severe one . While I believe that the chances of political fortune favor Mr. Cleveland in the ratio of at least 6 out of 10 , I am of the opinion that some one of the agility of Mr. Whitney should lead the Democratic forces . " In the second place , I know that there are many , very many members of the Democratic Party who are far better equipped for the position than I am . " In the third place , I feel that I do not ' possess the experience and knowledge which are requisite for such a high office . I am a young man . When the more suggestion of such an honor is made to me , I feel a timidity , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a mock Modesty ; it is a self-recognition of my frailties . " But I am - willing to Worn for the party . " continued Mr. Harrity , most earnestly . " I am blessed with a robust constitution . I have been able to ' work tor sixteen and eighteen hours out of every twenty-four without sutlerDig thereby , and thus I have combined both business and politics without injury to either . " But if I were asked to accept the position of National Chairman I would have to consult various interests before I made a reply . I would have to consult those with whom I am associated in business and discuss with them whether or not I would be seriously neglecting their affairs for the next three menthe . " Then I have never abandoned my law practice . To be sure , Mr. James M. Beck attends to the active part of it . but I keep in touch with it , and can always be seen by any clients and have made a livelihood from it . and I certainly do not wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to consult Gov , Pattisou . I am a member of his official family , and if I wore made the National Chairman of the Democratic Party - while I would not neglect my duty to the State yet , for the next three months , I could not give the office all the attention I do now . - All these matters would have to ho considered and , in view of them , I do not see how I am available for the position suggested . I can only say that I do not want the office , but I am willing , under Mr. Whitney , to do anything to serve my party . " To this it need only be added that Mr. Whitney and the controlling influence in the Democratic National Committee have determined that Mr. Harrity shall he the Chairman , and Mr. Whitney will give him every aid in his power . The committee will meet about the middle of July .                     