@@673196

txt A Liberal Party meeting was held at the Foreign Office to-day , at which Mr. Gladstone presided , to discuss the position of business and the course of the Liberals in Parliament . It was proposed by Mr. Gladstone that the Irish Home Rule bill should be put on a second reading on April 6 , and that it should have precedence of all other business every day excepting Wednesdays , and also that the House should sit in the morning on Fridays . Mr. Gladstone expressed a hope that the party would give the Government all the aid in its power to expedite the home rule issue and the Parish Councils bill , and assist the Government in lighting obstruction . Henry Labouchare suggested that the Ministers as well as private members should curtail their speeches on the home rule question . The Right Hon. William Vernon Harcourt , Chancellor of the Exchequer , said that if the Liberal Party only acted with prudence and according to proper rules of discipline , it would soon carry to a successful issue the glorious policy with which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a general purpose was shown to act compactly in support of home rule and the other great Liberal issues . In the House of Commons to-day Mr. Balfour , leader of the Unionists , spoke at length on his motion , of which he gave notice last Thursday , that the Irish executive be censured for condoning serious offenses and thus bringing the law into general contempt . Ho made his attack upon the Government with exceptional vigor and evoked cheers from the opposition benches . The present deplorable state or affairs in Ireland , Mr. Balfour said , was largely the consequence of a compact between the Governinent and the forces of disorder . The Ministry had made with the Irish party an agreement by which the administration of the law was being defeated . According to the terms of this unwritten concordat. the Government had coquetted with amnesty and had discouraged dishonest tenants , through the Evicted Tenant 's Commission , to disown their obligations , and to treat the landlords as a law-abiding people would treat malefactors . The Government had fomented outrages by suspending the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dynamiter &; The Government had not hesitated to take steps which were in direct antagonism to the decisions of the courts . Had not a Judge of a high court of justice declared that the Chief Secretary for Ireland bad acted illegally in refusing police protection to those whose duty it was to enforce the law against defaulting tenants ? A new reign of terror had been established . This was a high price for the Government to pay for Irish suppert . Disgraceful as were all these disorders , there was no sign of an ( Wort to stop them . Mr. Morley , Chief Secretary for Ireland , directed attention to the fact that this was the fifth vote of censure moved within eight weeks . The right honorable gentleman , moreover , had failed to justify his motion with one new fact or one fresh argument . The leading charge against the Government was that it had a concordat With the Irish Party . He would not deny that the present administration tried to govern Ireland in sympathy with the ' rise people . lCheers. if that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being a party to it . As to the specific charge that he had refused police protection to those who enforced the law . he would say that he had declined to protect night seizures and he felt justified in this action . Mr. Morley then rebutted lu detail Mr. Balfonr 's assertion that agrarian crime in Ireland had increased under the Liberal Government . With a multiplicity of statistics he proved that under the present executive this class of crime had decreased 11 uer cent . Ile admitted that there had been three cases of boycotting under the present Ministry to two cases under the last Salisbury administration , but added that all the Oases had been taken in hand by the Government . Mr. Gladstone reproached the Opposition with resorting to a license of language which it could not possibly justify with facts . The present Government , he said , had as great a desire and as strong an interest as had any of its predecessors in preserving law and order in Ireland . The present Government had , however , different views as to the best manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and clemency for coercion . The results already apparent proved how succesefully the new policy operated . The present Government aimed at laying the foundation of order in the hearts and understanding of the people of Ireland . The Liberal Party refused to believe that the Irish people were atilicted with some peculiar curse which Prevented them from appreciating the blessings of civilization . The Liberal Party believed the Irish people were as capable of being governed on approved principles as were the peoples of other countries . The present effort of the Chief Secretary for Ireland was to realize in practice the fruits of this belief . Lord Randolph Churchill introduced his speech for Mr. Balfour 's motion with a short eulogy of Mr. Gladstone and an allusion to his " fascinating eloquence . " He defended the course of obstruction adopted by the Opposition . He pronounced the proposed vote of censure more than justified by Mr. Morley 's endeavors to hush np and conceal Irish crime from the knowledge of Parliament . He charged the Government with having set aside illegally an act or Parliament when it abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Balfour 's motion resulted in a majority of 17 for the Government , the vote standing 319 to 272.                     