@@675272

txt " We violate no confidence in saying that the correspondent who writes us from the Adirondacks in praise and support of a recent editorial article under the above title is a physician . But one need not be a , physician to know that the continuance , during the Summer weather of those who can afford to take long Summer vacations , of the artificial and fashionable manners and customs of " society " in the Winter is much more than a nuisance to the adults who desire to employ their vacations for rest , It is a positive injury to the immature and adolescent from whom , no doubt , proceeds the greatest effective demand for it . And this is precisely where the trouble occurs . There can - be no question that to the great majority of men and of women past thirty , or thirty-five , Summer " functions " are a mere bore . One likes to meet one 's friends , but one does not like to " dress " in order to meet them . When the body-coat or even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the door , " rest " flies out of the window . The Summer resort in which " functions " occur and , " evening clothes " are necessary is , to sensible and mature persons , no Summer resort at all . The multimillionaire , poor man , and and the multimillionairess , poor woman , may find that their " social position " constrains them to keep on doing all Summer what they have been doing all Winter . But , in general , the tendency to_the functions and evening clothes is determined by the younger and more importunate members of families . The fathers of the families , if busy professional men or merchants , the mothers of families , if domestic and peace-loving women , yield to the importunity with sighings . Of course this is all wrong . It is part of the fatuous American good nature , especially of the fatuous American parental good nature , upon which foreign observers have remarked with wonder and just reprehension . The boys and girls , these foreigners have observed , " . run " American society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the elders to the youngers has its amiable side . It ' ven has its beneficent side , and the greatest benefit it confers is that long ago noted by THAckErtAv that American parents have more of the confidence of their grown-up young than parents of any- other nationality . But evidently it may be carried too far . It is carried too far when it induces parents to acquiesce in projects for the Summer season whereby they themselves are certain to be  --  bored , and , which is of more importance , the young people ? in whose importunity they acquiesce are certain to be injured . There is no sort of occasion for it , Of course , people who summer where the head of the house can , go every evening are scarcely in question . But people who summer where the head of the house can appear but . once a week can find places in plenty , within reach of New York , Where they will not be , put to shame by not producing " evening clothes " and en-. gaging in functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shore or in the hills . The persons who resort to them are naturally shy of talking about their charms , lest the multimillionaire should invade their solitude and give " course dinners , " at which evening clothes are obligatory . Then they know that white- , winged peace will take her flight . But it is their . parental duty to put their parental feet down at this point and to insist that the Summer vacation shall be a Summer rest .                     