@@674688

txt George R. Blodgett , counsel of the General Electric Company in patent cases and one of the best-known patent lawyers of the country , was shot , and it is thought mortally wounded , by a burglar early this morning . The shooting occurred at Mr. Blodgett 's residence , at 11 Front Street , this city . Shortly before 3 o'clock this morning Mr. Blodgett was aroused by his wife , who said that some one had entered the house and had come into the sleeping apartment . Mr. Blodgett sprang out of bed and encountered a burglar , who began backing toward the door that opened into the lighted hall . The burglar ordered him to ' throw up his hands . A moment later Mr. Blodgett sank upon his knees . It is not known whether he did this to escape a threatened shot , or in jumping quickly forward in the direction of the burglar he tripped and fell into that position . But while he was In that position , with his head toward the burglar , the latter fired . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right of his spine and took a course downward . In the excitement of the moment Mr. Blodgett did not realize that he had been wounded . He arose quickly and pursued the man down the front stairs , but the latter , who was several steps in advance of him , escaped through the front door . The ' wounded man collapsed a moment later , and on the arrival of assistance , was . carried into the house . He is at present in a critical condition . The attending physicians found . ' It impossible to locate the bullet by probing , but the X rays revealed it in the pelvic cavity . The physicians are fearful of an internal hemorrhage or acute peritonitis , and have little hope of Mr. Blodgett 's recovery . The General Electric Company has offered a reward of 33,000 for the apprehension of the man who attempted to murder Mr. Blodgett , but thus far no trace of him has been discovered . Two or Three in the Gang . Mrs. Blodgett , the only witness of the shooting , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had no weapon with him . An early report that several shots were exchanged between himself and the intruder is accounted for by the fact that Mrs. Blodgett , as soon as she could find a loaded revolver , threw open one of the windows and discharged it several times to arouse the neighbors . An investigation showed that there were two , and perhaps three , burglars in the gang . They had cut the telephone wire leading into the house before commencing operations . The men evidently had been in the house a eonsiderable time , as.they had searched several rooms . A pile of Mr. Blodgett 's clothes had been placed in the front ' hall , and under them were his little daughter 's silver knife and fork . The men had gathered in another heap a quantity of much more valuable plunder . All that they managed to carry off were a number of silver spoons and an old-fashioned silver sugar bowl from the sideboard of the dining room , the latter having the maker 's name marked in old style stamped letters and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few small trinkets . The police in all directions have been notified of the crime and of the large reward . Another Murderous Assault . A member of the same gang that entered Mr. Blodgett 's house is supposed to have committed a murderous assault about two hours earlier in the little hamlet of Town House , five miles from this city . The victim was John Cochrane , a farmer . Cochrane was in town yesterday afternoon with a load of poultry , butter , and eggs , and collected quite a large sum of money , and it is supposed that the burglars knew of this . Cochrane was awakened by two men in his room at 12:30 o'clock . He sprang up and grappled with one of the intruders . The second burglar hit Cochrane a terrific blow over the head with the butt of his revolver , knocking him down and rendering him unconscious . After assaulting Cochrane the burglars bound and gagged his aged wife and a young boy who lives with them . They then ransacked the house . The sum of money which Cochrane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not find it . They secured a few dollars , how- , ever , a gold watch , and a few trinkets . Cochrane remained unconscious for a considerable time , and when he recovered he dragged himself to the house of the nearest neighbor and gave the alarm . A fruitless search was made for the burglars . Cochrane 's condition is serious . Mr. Blodgett 's Career . George R. Blodgett is a descendant of an old New England family , and was born in Bucksport , Me. , in 1862 . He was prepared for college at Phillips Academy , Andover , Mass. , and entered Yale in 1680 , being graduated with honors four years later . Soon after his graduation he was appointed an examiner in the United States Patent to the bar . He began practice in this city in 1888 , and a year later moved to Boston , where he entered the firm of Benton &; Blodgett , counsel for the Thomson-Houston Electric Company . In 1893 he became associated with the General Electric Company , and when year later its headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chief of the patent department of the company . He soon attained a position of great influence in the General Electric Company , while in his private practice he gained a National reputation by his conduct of the case of the Tannage Patent Company vs . Zahn , as a result of which the control of a large portion of the tanning business of the country came into the hands of the owners of the Schultz patents . It has been said of Mr. Blodgett tl at no other lawyer in the country was his equal as an expert in electrical matters . F. P. Fish of Fish , Richardson &; Storrow. counsel for the General Electric Company , speaking of Mr. Blodgett last night , said : " He is one of the few men whose loss I would be absolutely irreparable . " Mr. Blodgett was married six years ago , and has an infant son .                     