@@674800

txt The plans for the invasion of Cuba by the United States forces remain unchanged . The elusive performances of the Spanish squadron have postponed the execution of a. part at least of the programme , but it has been altered in no important particular . The determination to dispatch to the island as soon as practicable an army of not less than 50,000 men competent to meet and cope with the forces of Blanco still stands . But the time has not yet come when it is practicable to do this , for the simple reason that the army is not ready to be sent to Cuba . The 16,000 regulars massed at Tampa are prepared to go anywhere at any time . The majority of the volunteers gathering at Tampa , New Orleans , Mobile . and Chickamauga are not prepared to go anywhere , and will not be until they are uniformed , armed , equipped , and have some training in the art of war . All this will take time . The best judgment of military experts is that it will require not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put 35,000 volunteers in condition to reinforce the regulars for the army of Cuban invasion . It is thought by many trained officers that Mere time than that ought to and is likely to be taken . It is recalled that Gen. Scott spent six months training and drilling his army before he invaded Mexico , and it is not contended ; that the invasion of Cuba is any less formidable undertaking than the conquest of Mexico . The inglorious experience of Bull Run is a favorite illustration of the unwisdom of putting recruits to the serious business of War too soon . There is one portion of the Cuban programme , however , which may not be delayed much longer , That is the dispatching of an expedition , made up almost , if not entirely , of regulars from the Tampa camp to make a landing on the Cuba coast , throw up fortifications , and clear the way for the coming of the army proper later on . It is not settled that this will be done , but strong arguments are being used in favor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war largely in order to save the reconcentrados from starving , but that , as a result of our present plan of campaign , we are making their starvation sure , and rendering it likely that many of the insurgents will ' suffer something akin to the same fate . To n.ake some move toward relieving these people is , it is urged , commanded by every consideration of humanity even if it be at great risk . A force of 5,000 regulars , landed at an available spot on the coast of Cuba would , it is contended , be able to do something toward relieving this suffering by establishing a depot of supplies which could be drawn on by the insurgents . Further , it is argued in favor of the seizure of a. landing place without delay that the undertaking is becoming more difficult every day , and that the regulars could not be better employed than in providing fortifications to protect the debarkation of the main army when it is ready to rrib  --  Vd. , The longer the occupation of ' a landing place Is delayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has for throwing up fortifications and mounting batteries along the coast which will cause trouble when the real invasion begins . The advocates of this movement believe it would be easy for a force of the strength mentioned to hold its own with the protection the blockading squadron could afford . There is no prospect , however , that even a preliminary movement of this nature is likely to be undertaken immediately . For the present at least all military movements will await the result of the manoeuvring of the squadron in West Indian waters .                     