@@673653

txt After three months ' investigation of the discipline of the police force of the city ? conducted by direction of the Commissioners  --  Superintendent Byrnes has made a report of the results of his inquiries , with certain recommendations of his own . He finds that the police are doing their duty fairly well in the enforcement of the laws , with the exception of the excise law . One reason why they fail there is that under an absurd rule adopted three years ago , through the solicitation of a so-called " citizens ' alliance , " policemen are forbidden to enter saloons in citizen 's clothes for the purpose of obtaining evidence of illegal sales of liquor . Such a rule could have no other purpose than to prevent a strict enforcement of the law , for it is a matter of course that a policeman in uniform could not get evidence unless there was some sort of assurance that he would not use it . The Superintendent recommends that this rule be rescinded . Another difficulty that is encountered in enforcing the excise laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the offenders . Unless the evidence is very clear , they are discharged , with an implied rebuke of the arrest , and in other cases they are held in nominal bail and go back to their illegal practices without serious molestation . The Superintendent says nothing about the common charge that liquor sellers pay for immunity from arrest , but perhaps , in view of other investigations that have been going on , he did not consider it his duty to look into that . Neither does he speak of the undoubted fact that there is no effective public sentiment in this city requiring a strict enforcement of some of the provisions of the excise law , though there is a very decided sentiment against discretion in that respect being made a source of corrupt profit . The Superintendent refers to the difficulties and drawbacks of suppressing " disorderly resorts , " and thinks the subject should be dealt with " candidly " by the Legislatuve . There may be some doubt about the policy to be pursued in respect to these places , but there is no doubt about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own profit . These matters do not relate strictly to the discipline of the force in a technical sense . On that Mr. Byrnes speaks very plainly , and he makes it clear , without directly saying so , that the main difficulty is that the Superintendent 's command over the force is hampered by rules of the department and by political influences . It will be remembered that The Times some time ago showed the demoralizing effects of the membership of police officers in certain so-called social organizations , which are in effect political clubs . The Police Captains and even subordinates on the force met Commissioners , district leaders , and other politicians on an equal footing in these clubs , and an inevitable consequence was the substitution of political " pulls " and personal influence for a ready submission to rules and official authority and a reliance upon a faithful performance of duty . Superintendent Byrnes distinctly recognizes this as a serious evil , and recommends that policemen be not allowed to belong to political organizations . He refers also to the fact that promotions do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of negligence , and desires to see that corrected . Another obstacle to enforcing discipline is the comparative independence of the authority of the Superintendent allowed to the district Inspectors . In short , the main trouble is that the commander of the police force is not permitted to command it , but is hampered by rules and by influences that make it impossible for him to maintain the thorough discipline that is necessary to complete efficiency . This is the evil which the Legislature was asked to remedy last Winter by giving the Superintendent full authority over the force under his command , ' but as it did not suit the purposes of certain politicians nothing was done . In reality , it is in the power of the Commissioners to do all that is necessary if they choose .                     