@@672821

txt Our controversy with Chile is approaching a conclusion . It is learned that the latest communications from efinister Egan are of a character to discourage the diplomatic attempt to induce the Chilean authorities to express any regret at the assault upon our sailors in Valparaiso or to mate any reparation ? for the killing of the men of the Baltimore . Mr. Blaine was absent from the Cabinet meeting to-day , and an evening - paper says that his failure to attend was in consequence of " business atithe State Department . " That business was imperative . The Secretary of State was engaged upon the preparation of the American case against Chile . When it is made um the President will incorporate it in a message to the Congress . That message , relating the American account of the hostile course of Chile , will present such a grievance of the United States against Chile that there can be no doubt about what the course of the Congress will be . Up to this time the mope ) have had only scrappy information about the incidents preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sailors of the cruiser Baltimore . But the Government has received many dispatches and letters that enable the Departments of State and the Navy to make up a record calling for very decided treatment by this Nation , if the respect In which the United States holds itself is to be demanded from nations with which the United States are supposed to enjoy friendly relations . The United States are entitled to hold the Chilean authoritiei responsible for mob violence , if it could have been prevented by the action of the Chileans in seeking to perform their duty under treaty stipulation . If Chile was not responsible for the actions of the mob in Valparaiso , the disavowal of the mob 's acts and an expression of regret for the assault-and its results would have removed every cause for insisting upon an immediate apology , for the regret would have been regardhd as all the apology that diplomacy could ex ; pea , pending a judicial investigation . There has not been a word of regret from Chile since the news of the killing of the Baltimore 's men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Baltimore 's sailors has been followed by many petty acts of enmity by the people , all inspired by a feeling of hostility ' assumed to be a continuation of the feeling that led to the killing of the bluejackets , none of which has been disavowed by Chile , and the Legation of the United States has been singled out as an object of conspicuous and repeated annoyances which ought to have been pre= vented . To the Aeministration this course has seemed to indicate a determination on the part of Chile to be understood as defying the United States . To submit to such a course will inevitably , the Administration is aware , subject the President and his advisers , as the Trustees for the people , to the charge at home of trifling and will encourage more serious manifestations of . disreepeet abroad . When Mr. Blaine has completed his statement the President will take it in hand , and , prefacing it with an introduction of his own and , pert baps , adding some language that he deems essential to impress the Congress with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send it to both houses as a special message . In a temperate way , and following tradition in the forms of presentation , he will indicate to the Congress his conclusion that the indifference to our requests for reparation by the Chilean Givernment amount to manifestations of hostility , and that , in order to assert the demands of the United States effectively , the President will request that he be permitted to use the naval and military forces of the United States to constrain that rest:lea which can not be secured through the ordinary diplomatic channels and by the employment of the respeettul agencies of the State Department There can be no doubt about what that message will mean . The message itself ought to surprise no one , for the President has himself promised , in his annual message , to send it to the Congress . The Congress will undoubtedly agree with the President in regarding the stetLucie of Chile hostile . It will give the President the power to declare that such is the situation , and it will further grant him the power to employ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States - anon Chile . That will require the authorization of the expenditure of money and the passage of appropriation bills to meet the expense of moving fleets of vessels and bodies of men to South America . The Congress will scarcely be divided on this subject The House may be made up of Democrats and Republicans , but they are all Americans wnen a question of this sort arises . The precautions that have already been taken by the Navy Department in the way of assembling vessels in the Southwest will bo found to have been - wise , and such other preparations as are necessary to be made can be hastened forward with great eelerizy . Should the President send his special message on Chile to Congress to-morrow , as it is now thought not improbable he ' may , it is considered almost certain that the holiday recess will be either abandoned or reduced to one of unusual brevity . To give up much time to pleasure when decisive measures were called for would " weaken the force of such measures taken later .. The Appropriations Committee will be exposited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for extraordinary expenditures , and the Foreign Affairs Committee will need to prepare a bill to authorize the use , by the President , of the force necessary to sustain the demands of the Government upon Chile for respectful consideration of the request made for an expression of regret and an indemnity to the families of the killed . If an expedition to Chile is made necessary , the indemnity may be made something more than it would have been if there had been a decent and timely expression of regret It is said at the hio.vy Department to-day that the United States isUot at present making any active preparations for trouble with Chile . All the new vessels in the navy have been put in effective condition , and there is nothing to do now but to wait and see what move Chile will make . Confidence in the belief that Chile will yield without a light is somewhat weakened by the information that the provisional Government , which will remain in control until Dec. 26 , is making every effort to strengthen the navy , both by hurrying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by repairing the vessels they now have , which were more or less injured in the late civil war . It should be borne in mind , in all estimates of Chile 's naval strength , that she now has two vessels that were not in the late war at all  --  the cruisers Presidents Pinto and Presideute Errezuriz. which were delivered to Bale:meads by the lerench contractor 's when it was too late for them to be of use to him . They are vessels of 2,080 tons displacement and 19 knots speed . Each of them carries four 5.92-inch guns , two 4.72-inch guns , four small rapid-tire guns , and six machine guns . They are vessels of about the same size and general character as the Detroit and Montgomery , recently lauached in Baltimore , but inferior in battery pow These two vessels , the armor-clad Almirante Cochrane . the Esmeralda , and the torpedo cruisers Lynch and Condole make up the really efficient list of the Chilean Navy- , to which must be added the Capitan . Prat , when completed . The remaining ten or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the old monitor I:Mescals In a war with the United States . especially if they get possession of the Capitan Prat , they could make a stubborn tight , but there could be no doubt of the ultimate result . as the United States could send , including auxiliary cruisers superior to many of these vessel. ) , a much stronger force into the fight .                     