@@672819

txt " Steve 7 ' Elkins 18 to be in the Cabinet The intimations made from week to week for several months that the representative of the Berens group in the star route business , Blaine 's handy man at National Conventions . Blaine 's partner in railroad and other ventures . the botcher and bungler of the Bering Sea seal arrange-. meat with Great Britain , the general political busybody who has hung about the edges daaffairs since Harrison became President , was to be Secretary of War were verified this morning when the name of Stephen B. Elkins was sent to the Senate . Although the Administration had in a way prepared the public mind for this appointment , the news gave everybody about the capital a start . The name of Elkins was familiar enough , suggesting , as it has whenever mentioned , all sorts ofjobbery flourishing under the protection of power , but nobody could understand just exactly why , at this time , when the Administration was supposed to need strengthening in public estimation , it should be deemed important to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man as Secretary Proctor by a jobber and a political adventurer whose very name has been a constant suggestion of trickery and jobbery . There would Scarcely be more surprise and disgust if on Monday , when the Senate meets again . the President should send to the Senate fur Secretary of the Interior , in place of Mr. Noble , Stephen W. Dorsey. the " soap " distributer in 1880 , the " blocks of five " man of that company . One of the most interesting of the many explanations made to account for this scandalous appointment was cue that held it to be not an not of good will from Harrison to Blaine or to Elkins , but a cowardly suarender by Harrisouto Blaine 's impudent demand . This explanation says that after the elections of last Fall , when the Republicans were feeling apprehensive about the Presidential campaign of next year , Blaine reopened the negotiation that he had begun months before for the introduction of Elkins into Harrison 's political family . Blaine was tired , it seemed , of being alone iu the Cabinet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in which he was " tolerated , " and had come to the conclusion thatit was about time he was permitted to associate with at least one man who was friendly to him and believed that he was fit for better things than manufacturing popularity for a President about whom the public was altogether indifferent In this frame of mind Mr. Blaine informed the President that if he expected to keep his Secretary of State he would appoint Mr. Elkins to the War Office when Mr. Proctor left it . The Secretary of State gave it to be understood that unless this favor was granted Mr. Blaine would feel constrained to leave the State Department . It would be impossible to explain his departure in a way that would shield the President from the suspicion of harsh treatment of Mr. Blaine , and that would be followed by a more or leas ' extensive revolt in the party that might , in spite of Mr. Blaine 's efforts to the contrary , assume proportions threatening to party success . Instead of defying such auguries and menaces the President , overlooking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrendered to Blaine , and brought Elkins into the Cabinet so that " Jim " could enjoy congenial company . It will take some time to see all there is of Elkins , just as it will require many columns in which to tell all that is remembered about him . Some Missourians here are of the opinion that records can be found in Missouri that wsta show , in good black and white , that Elkins , iiiPthe outbreak of the war , was in the service of the Confederacy in Missouri , and that he remained in that service until it became apparent that the other side would win . The reports sent here reached the White House , but the President has either been assured that they were exaggerated or was so frightened by Blaine 's menace to break the party in two that he did not dare to make too strong a point of it . The element of " bargain " has been suspected and intimated . Blaine , Itwas asserted , was to repay the boon of Elkins 's appointment by writing a letter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except those over which ho could have no control would he permit himself to be a candidate for President in opposition to the wishes of Mr. Haralson . There are two opinions here about this report . One is that Elkins 's appointment does not at all impair Mr. Blaine 's prospects for a nomination . The other is that it is Blaine 's declaration that Ike is not to be a candidate . The first is considered childish , and as an imputation to Blaine of a spirit of self-sacrifice and submission that would be quite unlike him , unless he is really so changed by ill health and apprehension about the future that he is no longer the " Plumed Knight " of his eloquent friend Ingersoll . The West Virginia Democrats who express their opinions do not believe that the appointment of Elkins will so change the political feeling of the State as to put it in the Electoral College on the Republican side in 1892 . Elkins has put up a handsome house in the State ; he has owned some mines there . operated several railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has never become known to anybody except capitalists , he has only recently aspired to exercise political power there , and he has never ventured to expose himself to the test of popularity by becoming a candidate for office . The President has seen a good deal of Elkins since becoming the head of the Nation . Elkins has slid in and out of town unobserved , being now upon the President 's ear and now upon that of Blaine . He has been the entertainer and guardian of the Executive person at Deer Park and elsewhere , and has found time and opportunity , particularly last Spring , and used his freedom of access to the seat of power to involve the Administration in what appeared to be an attempt to hoodwink . While his friend Blaine was pretending that Sir Julian Panneefote would not consent to a close season . Elkins was assuring Secretary Foster that the seals were so abundant that it was absolutely unnecessary to stop the slaughter of them . When this trickery was discovered , and the President , during the convenient illness of Blaine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement for a close season , a sufficient basiS had been afforded for suspecting that Elkins 's efforts in behalf of the North American Company were not likely to be disinterested , any more than were those of Russell B. Harrlion , whose efforts were felt in the same direction . In securing Elltins 's appointment , it is not at all probable that Mr. BlaMe took the trouble to remind the President of the star route scandals , of the Maxwell land grant steal , or of the gigantic claim against Brazil that Blaine and Elkins endeavored to enforce . Elkins 's part in the notorious Jewett claim is easily ascertainable if reasons were to be sought for questioning the propriety of putting him in any office . This was a claim to which the attention of Secretary Bayard was directed during the Administration of President Cleveland . It came to his knowledge as a part of the business of the State Department left unfinished by : dr . Blaine . James C. Jewett of New-York City claimed to have discovered deposits of guano in the Island of Fernando de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewett obtained a permit from Brazil to remove portions of these deposits for experiment , with a conditioned promise of a contract under which he should receive a certaLu percentage . He fitted out two small vessels for purposes of exploration , but his agreement with the Brazilian Minister of Agriculture excited so much hostility in Brazil that the Minister was forced to resign , and his successor canceled all the agreements with Jewett and officially informed the United States of his action . Jewett 's actual losses , according to his own figures . were $27,339 . He presented to the State Department a claim against Brazil for more than *50,000,000 . The claim was , of course , a gross exaggeration of any possible right of recovery of such damages . Secretary Evans twice rejected his claim . When Secretary Blaine came in he reopened the case . Jewett retained Mr. Stephen B. Elkins as his attorney . On Aug . S. 1851 , Mr. Blaine , in a disnatch to Minister Osborne in Brazil , reversed the instructions of his predecessor and wrote to Mr. Jewett stating that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stephen B. Elkins , Esq. , your attorney . " To Minister Osborne Mr. Blaine said emphatically , speaking of the rescinding of the Jewett contract and the claim for $50.000,000 damages . " I am not sufficiently informed as to the law of Brazil to know how far its formal requirements as to the mere question of right and title would nullify this action by its Government . but I do know that in justice and in equity a responsibility has been incurred which can not be escaped . " Notwithstanding the efforts of iiir . Blaine in behalf of " Stephen B. Elkins , Esq. , your attorney , " this preposterous claim slept during Mr. Frelinahuyeen 's administration , and Mr. Bayard , after a careful examination of the facts , declared : " finch a claim , so stated , shocks the moral sense and can not be held to be within the domain of reason or justice . It would be an act of international unfriendliness for the United States tt lend themselves in any way or to any degree in urging , much less enforcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or design to remain , on terms of amity . I , therefore , return the protest as inclosed by you and deolme to transmit it to the United States Minister at Brazil or to instruct him to present it officially or otherwise . " This ended the business , unless , perchance , it has been reopened since Mr. Blaine began business " at the old stand " for the benefit of " Stephen B. Elkins , Esq. , your attorney . " The confirmation of Mr. Elkins as Secretary of War may give him opportunity to throw the case into the hands of a lively man , and with the recovery of the $50,000,000 from the Republic , of Brazil he ought to feel fully repaid for his rebuke at the hands of so " unpatriotic " a Secretary as Mr. Bayard . Senator Faulkner of West Virginia said of the nomination : ? It will not make West Virginia Republican . To any mind it means that Harrison regards Blaine as out of the race for the Presidency . As a political move in the State it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court , is a more popular man than Elkins. but Elkins has been racing him hard for control . Possibly by joining the factions the two appointments may assist the party , but not to Increase the vote . " Representative Pendleton of West Virginia said : " The appointment of Mr. Elkins retires Blaine from being a candidate for the Presidential nomination . He has always been Blaine 's most confidential manager , and would hardly be taken into the Cabinet if Blaine were a candidate . It means Harrison 's nomination , as the influence of Blaine. the managing and manipulating skill of Elkins , and the whole weight of the Federal patronage will be all-powerful in a Republican convention .. They will all be thrown for Harrison , and he will be nominated . For many years the Republicans have had high hopes of carrying West Virginia . This'appointmeat will inspire them with renewed coerage , as they will anticipate powerful help from the Federal Administration and great financial aid from their national committee . Mr. Elkins is a man of ability . He can make a tirst-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture than he is generally supposed to have . He is not popular with West Virginia Republicans , as many of them hardly regard him as a resident of the State and have hardly any acquaintance with him . To-day he is almost an unknown man to the masses of the Republicans in West Virginia . Had Goff received this appointment it would have meant more danger to the Democrats . Elkins will not add to the strength of the Republicans in West Virginia , but his work within the party ranks will most powerfully aid Harrison 's campaign for a renomination . No doubt a hard battle will be fought for West Virginia , out the Democrats will win . They are united and aggressive , and will stand shoulder to shoulder for tariff reform . The people have educated themselves on the tariff ; and education makes tariff reformers . "                     