@@673930

txt The Police Commissioners held a secret session yesterday afternoon , and made a new election district in the city . The new district is in the Twenty-first Assembly District , and was made necessary by the Constitution . It covers a portion of Central Park and lies within the park . The boundaries are Ninety-sixth/ and One Hundred and Tenth Streets mid Fifth and Eighth Avenues . There were four voters in this territory last year . They are men employed in Mc-Gown 's Pass Tavern . In arranging the new schedule of election districts under the new apportionment this year , the upper portion of Central Park north of Ninety-sixth Street was made part of the Thirty-second Election District of the Twenty-first Assembly District . After the Commissioners had approved the boundaries of the new election districts in the city , it was discovered that in including that portion of Central Park referred to in the Thirty-second Election District , the boundary line on the west crossed Eighth Avenue , which is a Congressional line , and under the new apportionment the Congressional line can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commissioners decided to create an additional election district to include Central Park from Ninety-sixth Street to One Hundred and Tenth Street and Fifth to Eighth Avenue . The boundaries were adopted , and the new district will be the Forty-eighth Election District of the Twenty-first Assembly District . This will make the total number of election districts in the city 1,380 . Chief Clerk Allen of the Election Bureau said that on account of the Congressional line running down Eighth Avenue , it became necessary to make a new district of the territory on the upper end of Central Park . " There Is one thing about it , however , " said Mr. Allen ; " we will have to erect a polling booth and have a set of election officers there on the registration and election days to receive these few votes . There were four votes from 's Pass Tavern last year . But we can not erect the polling booth inside the Park because our police have no jurisdiction there . The booth can be placed just outside of the Park on the north side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these few votes it will be necessary to have a full set of Inspectors of Election on duty on the days of registration , as well as poll and ballot clerks on election day . "                     