@@781351

txt Daniel Sharp Ford , for more than forty years the proprietor , pubUsher , and editor in chief of the - Youth 's Companion , died at his borne on the Fen-way early this morning . He had , in spite of advancing years and frail 1Lia ; th. been actively at work in the oversight and control both of the publishing and the editorial departments of the great establishment he nad built up . until within a few weeks of his death . Mr. Ford was born at Cambridge , April 5 , 1822 . In early life he : earned the printers ' trade . and while still a very young man formed with the late Rev. Dr. John W. Olmstead the partnership of Olmstead &; Ford . publishers and editors of the Baptist weekly newspaper then known as The Christian Watchman and Reflector . In 1837 they purahaced from Nathaniel Willis , its founder and editor for forty years , the Youth 's Companion . Mr. Ford had an ambition to make The Watchman the leading religious paper in the country , and devoted his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting as editor of The Companion . Differences as to policy between the partners led to an amicable separation of interests and a division of the property . The division was by lot and greatly to Ml ' . Ford 's regret The Companion became his share . In order to avoid confusion of accounts , it had been published for some years under the fictitious and wholly invented firm name of Perry , Mason &; Co. , and under that form it has continued to be published to the present time . Mr. Ford transferred all his energies to the development of The Companion , and to him are due the marvelous growth and the present standing of that paper . His business insight and foresight , his inventive genius in devising new ways of increasing circulation , his ready adoption of methods I proposed by others , and his courageous expenditure of money In the process , stamped his as one of the great publishers of the country . No man ever kept a more watchful eye upon the contents of his paper , down to the most insignificant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of - Mr . Ford has never once been printed in The Companion , for he was as modest as he was strong , and shrunk from public mention of himself , his deeds and his achievements . Mr. Ford 's life was also a life of widespread benefaction , of deep religious feeling , of constant well-doing . No list of his benevolences could be made now , nor could have been made even by him . He was devotedly attached to the Baptist denomination , and naturally turned most frequently to the assistance of those of his own household of faith . The Ruggles Street Church of this city was very largely indebted to him , and one of his characteristic benevolences was sending its male quartet.abroad to complete the musical education which has made the organization famous . He leaves a wife and a daughter , who is the wife of Publisher Hartshorn of The Household .                     