@@674064

txt The Monroe doctrine Was the subject for discussion at the dinner of the Massachugatts Reform Club tonight . The principal address was made by Prof. John Bach of Philadelphia , whose masterly exposition of the Monroe doctrine recently published in THE NEW YORK TIMES is regarded everywhere as the best paper on the subject that ever has been published . Prof. 's address this evening was a strong , scholarly production , and greatly impressed his listeners . In the course of his address Prof. said : " One great peculiarity of the English language is that it requires , sooner or later , annotations . We had a President years ago who put up a notice to the crowned heads of Europe , telling them not to trespass on the New World . " Now , to-day , there comes a gentleman who takes down the notice and hands it back to us . " In the excitement following Cleveland 's message , we have forgotten what Lord Salisbury has really said to us . The British Premier insists that the Monroe doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does apply , and we shall announce that fact to the whole world , and maintain our position , " The Monroe doctrine is not international law , but that makes little difference . Our forefathers established a republic , but that did not make a republican form of government necessarily one to be recognized by the nations of the earth . During our Nation 's infancy , Washington founded the doctrine of non-interference in the affairs of other countries , and his successors have followed in his footsteps . " When the Monroe law was promulgated we had 10,000,000 inhabitants , and extended to the Pacific . Furthermore , we were not the only republic in America . Then came the Holy Alliance , toward which Great Britain was opposed for trade reasons . Presid6nt Monroe , in the hour of danger , announced to the world that thereafter no European Government should be allowed to extend its system on this continent , saying it was necessary to defend republicanism in America . " This message was directed for all time . " Now , if the Monroe doctrine is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " The South American republics can not , so it falls to us , the great Republic of free government . " Are we to continue this doctrine or abandon it ? " I insist we must continue it . For Americans must remember they are at the beginning of things , not at the end . " As to whether we are right or wrong in the Venezuelan question remains a matter of opinion . Have we any definite knowledge of the work of ' England in the South American Republic ? Like discussions arose in regard to boundaries in Maine and Oregon , and Great Britain settled both districts with her subjects , making her usual claim of occupancy . " Now this is advanced as an argument in the present case . If England is on Venezuelan soil it is manifestly our duty to protest . Years ago no man dreamed that European powers would contend for African territory , as now obtains . Why , then , deny the possibility of a similar grabbing process occurring in South America ? " If President Cleveland is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming events . But , above all , I trust that posterity will not be in a position to say that the people of 1896 disavowed the Monroe doctrine . " Prof. Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard spoke for the critics of the Administration , making a talk that was painful for its lack of patriotism and intelligent understanding of the subject under discussion . .                     