@@674721

txt Tart- 1 . A.ML13 027E1 AND THE PARSES The announcement that Mr. PARSONS has " resigned " his Place as Superintendent of Parks can not mislead anybody . It is evident , upon the face of the announcement , to anybody who knows anything about the matter , that he has ? been forced out . He was exactly in his right place . His talents , his training , and his experience were all such as to make the place of Superintendent of Parks congenial to him , and his occupancy of it valuable to his fellow-citizens . We may be quite sure that he would not have quitted it unless it had been made too hot . to hold him . But why should he have been forced out ? We are unable to deny that Mr. PARSONS is a gentleman , a man of education , and of decent associations . But he is not a " reformer " in particular , and certainly he is not a " legacy of the Strong administration . " He is a park maker and park keeper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of politics under half a dozen municipal administrations , Including those of GRANT and GILROY . Under the Strong administration there was nobody in the Park Board , excepting Mr. STILES , who knew anything about parks . After the death of Mr. STILES , Mr. PARSONS must have been very lonesome . But the more lonesome he was , the more useful he was . It is a priceless boon to a Commisssioner who has himself no aptitude for his special work to have a counselor at hand who can explain to him , gently but firmly , when he is in danger of making an ass of himself and attracting to himself the derision of that part of the community which knows anything about the matter . But it is not the first mistake of the kind which has been made under the present administration . It is the same kind of mistake that was made when Mr. GREENE was dismissed from the Dock Department . It seems to portend a general dismissal of the experts from the executive departments , of the men who hold their places by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on civilized principles , are considered as a permanent staff , not to be changed with their superiors or through the exigencies of politics . It is reasonable to suppose that the removal of Mr. PARSONS portends some very wild work In the Park Department . It behooves all citizens Intelligently interested in the parks to redouble their vigilance now that there is nobody left in the department itself whose name is a guarantee that projects of vandalism shall be effected without official remonstrance .                     