@@675067

txt Although William A. E. Moore , ex-United States Consul at Durban , South Africa , is to be taken to Sing Sing Prison to-day to begin serving his nineteen years ' sentence for assaulting and robbing Martin Mahon , the in Lprietor of the New Amsterdam Hotel , his case has not been abandoned . It has been appealed and will be brought up as soon as possible in the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court . Abraham Levy , Moore 's lawyer , said yesterday that any statements to the effect that Moore 's case was to be given up as lost were entirely erroneous . " I want you to say for me , " lie said , " that I am confident Moore 's sentence will ultimately be reversed . Even if he is guilty , the punishment should be fixed to fit the crime . Nineteen years ' Imprisonment is entirely too heavy a pena ty for the crime with which he is charged . Should it be that his case is not Eatisfactorily disposed of by the Appellate Division of the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The decision of Justice Nash , handed down on Saturday , which denies my application for a certificate of reasonable doubt will not affect further proceedings in the case . I appealed from the decision before I made this application , and asked for a certificate of reasonable doubt only in order to keep Moore , it possible , from being taken to the pitnitentiary . I suppose now he will go ? there to-morrow to begin serving the sentence tmposed by Recorder Goff , and in case the sentence is lightened hereafter the time he now serves will be placed to his credit . " The decision of Saturday shows only the views of one man regarding the outcome of the trial , while on the other hand when the case comes before the Appellate Division five Justices will pass upon the case jointly . " No attempt was made yesterday , Mr. Levy said , to obtain a bondsman for Mrs. Fayne Strahan Moore , who is accused of being her husband 's accomplice . Mrs. Sarah Strahan of Atlanta , Mrs. Moore 's mother , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until her daughter 's case is disposed of . She would have been here during the trial , he said . but for the fact that she is an invalid and was unable to leave Atlan at that time . Mrs. Strahan has several thousand dollars ' worth of property In Atlanta and she is willing to pledge it as security to any one in this city who will furnish bail for her daughter . Mr. Levy said yesterday he had no doubt that bail for ? it 's . Moore would be obtained to-day . Mrs. Moore was visited by no one at her cell In the Tombs yesterday except her mother , who , accompanied by two Sisters of charity , " ailed upon her In the morning . The prisoner seemed in good spirits , and not in ' the least worried over the fact that she is to be taken to court again to-day . Her mother 's assurance that bail would be secured without delay seemed to have cheered her . Mrs. Moore . acdording to Assistant District Attorney , will be taken before Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning , when a date will be fixed for her trial . " We shall keep on trying this case . " Mr. said , " until the woman is either convicted or acquitted . " In speaking of this assertion of the Assistant District At torney , Lawyer Levy sail yesterday that he was puzzled to know whether Mr. really meant what he said . " I have always been convinced that Mrs. Moore is innocent of the crime charged , " added Mr. Levy , " and am still convinced of her innocence . I believe she will be acquitted if tried again . " Moore 's last Sunday in the Tombs was comparatively uneventful . After a light breakfast he obtained copies of all the morning newspapers and read closely all the accounts regarding his case . He and his wife did not meet and probably will not see each other again before he is taken to Sing Sing .                     