@@672498

txt The conference committees of the three antiTammany organizations  --  the People 's Municipal League , the County Democracy , and the Republicans  --  met in Parlor 2 of the Brunswick Hotel at 8:30 o'clock last night to arrange a plan upon which all the anti-Tammany forces could effect a union . Each of the conference committees was a sub-committee of the special committees appointed by the three conventions . Thar People 's Munieipal League 's conferees **Wheeler H. Peckham , the Rev. Dr. Howrrd ' Crosby , Horace E. Darning , Gustav H. ' Schwab , James P. Archibald , and the Rev. R. Reber Newton . This committee held a meeting at the league headquarters in the Victoria Hotel preliminary to the meeting at the Brunswick . The committee appointed at the Republican Convention in Webster Hall Monday night met at the Cumberland at 4 P. M. and selected the following sub-committee to attend the conference at the Brunswick : Sheridan Shook , CoL S. V. R. Cruger , Jacob M. Patterson , William H. Bellamy , George B. Deane , Bernard Biglln , L. L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican machine were discussed at this meeting , and when the sub-committee went to the Brunswick it knew about what it wanted on the ticket The committee of the County Democracy , consisting of one member from each Assembly district , decided upon by the Counties ' Convention in Cooper Institute Monday night , met at the New-Amsterdam Club and delegated its powers to the following sub-committee : Maurice J. Power , Lawrence Wells , Timothy S. Campbell . William P. Mitchell , D. Lowber Smith , John W. Goff , and John Hayes . The conferees met at the Brunswick at 6 o'olock and adjourned for dinner until 8 . Then the conference was secret , and a man was on guard at the parlor door while it was in progress . When the politicians heard that the conferees were in session they were in a state of great excitement to learn the result . It was freely predicted that the conference would result in the selection of a union ticket . This belief was predicated largely upon the fact that during the afternoon it was announced at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the League would reconvene in Scottish Rite Hall to-morrow night , and the tickets for that convention were issued . This , however , was done with the understanding that the convention would be postponed if such action was made necessary by the conference committee at the Brunswick Hotel meeting . In the subcommittee of the Republicans there were two straight-ticket advocates  --  Col. S. V. R. Crnger of the Eleventh District and William Brookfield of the Twenty-third . Wheeler H. Tackham presided , and it was stated at the outset that the conference was in the interest of good government . CoL S. V. R. Cruger opened the discussion with a speech favoring the nomination of a Republican to lead a union ticket . His arguments were much the same as those he used in asking the Rebublican Convention for a straight ticket . He believed that it was time the Republicans should have a representative in the Mayor 's chair . The Rev. Dr. Howard Crosby made a speech in which he said that he had been a Republican for years and would like very much to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubted the wisdom of such a nomination , and on that account he favored the selection of a Democrat to head the ticket Jacob M. Patterson , Chairman of the Republican County Committee'sExecutive Committee , concurred in what Dr. Cosby had said , and urged the necessity of selecting a Democrat to lead the fight against Tammany Halt Police Justice Maurice J , Power of course took this view of the matter also and presented reasons why a Democrat should be nominated . The discussion lasted for some time , but the only persons at the meeting who argued a Republican for Mayor were Col. Cruger and Mr. Brookfield , The decision was finally reached that a Deineerat should head the anti-Tammany ticket , and this conclusion was practically unanimous . This CMS the only decision reached at the conference . No candidates were talked over , nor were any suggested . Nor was the arrangement of the rest of the fusion ticket discussed . The conference adjourned at a late hour to meet again at the Brunswick Hotel at 10 o'clock to-day . The committee of Republicans appointed at Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock this afternoon to hear the report of their sub-committee , and the other sub-committees will also make reports to their parent committees . At yesterday afternoon 's meeting of the Republican County Committee that section of Jacob M. Patterson 's resolution of Monday night inquiring whether it was possible to defeat Tammany this year with a straight ticket was answered by 16 votes against such a possibility and 4 votes in favor of it . Those who thought a straight ticket could defeat Tammany were Leaders Shea , Brooteld . Cruger , and Sol Smith After last night 's conference at the Brunswick Judge Power said that it was merely for the interchange of views and that it bound no one 's furore action . " The only business transacted , " he said , " was to decide that a Democrat ( should be nominated for Mayor . "                     