@@673324

txt Mayor GILROY , in reply to an application from Mr. GOMPRRS , President of the American Federation of Labor , yesterday made some remarks that are perhaps capable of being misconstrued or distorted . Mr. GOMPERS had applied to the municipality to help the unemployed and relieve their distress by " making work " for them . There is reason to believe that the distress and the number of unemployed have been considerably exaggerated . The Russian and Polish Jews who turned out to be counted the other night called themselves in resolutions " thousands upon thousands , " but impartial estimates made them only a few hundred , and they bore no more signs than usual with their class of privation and distress . The most trustworthy sources of information about the extent of distress are the charitable organizations , and they do not report a situation that is very unusual or alarming . However that may be , it is plain that the municipal officers have no authority to make work for anybody , any more than they have to give away the money of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the lawful ways . To hold out expectations that the municipal work is to be increased for the sake of giving more employment would be to mislead the people concerned . The Mayor did not really do this , but he might be misunderstood to have done it , and in such a matter it is important to guard against misconception . On the other hand , there is very good reason why the city should push to completion the works that are already authorized by law . Hard times are the best times for a corporation or an individual to make improvements for which the money is already in hand , for the reason that the improvements can then be made cheaper than at any other time . By pushing such works as are already authorized the city can take advantage of the labor market and do the work for less money than it could do when private employment absorbed all the laborers . That it will incidentally relieve distress by this course is a consideration that may properly appeal to a humane official in his individual capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of his official action . In fact , however , all the work which the authorities can lawfully put in hand at once does not amount to very much . It does not amount.altogether to so much as either the laying of the cable in Broadway or the laying of the cable in Third Avenue . It would not have a considerable effect in mitigating the distress of the unemployed , and it would be worse than worthless for this purpose if it were permitted to be made the occasion , of forming a-select and favored class of workmen .                     