@@674305

txt The elaborate paper by Judge W. J. GAYNOR , which THE TIMES published yesterday . is probably the best statement of the strongest argument that can be made on the Bryan side in this canvass by any person who wishes to be reasonable . It is for the most part dignified in manner and bears all the marks of entire sincerity . It is obviously based on extensive reading , on intense contemplation , and on observation that was fair in purpose and believed by the author to be adequate . It is , however , not a direct argument for Mr. BRYAN 'S election , which is nowhere distinctly recommended ; it is indirectly such an argument only in the spirit of strong disapproval of Mr. BRYAN 'S chief opponent and the party represented by him . In fact , the one definite measure proposed by Judge GAYNOR is one that Mr. BRYAN would reject  --  the reference of the whole financial question to a commission to be appointed , after the canvass , by " the Congress , or , better still , the Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period that would be required for the work of such a commission and for debate and action upon it in Congress , of the present system . Nothing would disgust Mr. BRYAN more than the suggestion that he should follow a course so radically opposed to his own statement of the situation . Nor is this the only respect in which Judge GAYNOR fails to support Mr. BRYAN and his peculiar policy . His very statement of the question with which he undertakes to deal logically leaves Mr. BRYAN 'S policy open to complete condemnation . He holds that the issue of the canvass is not whether we shall maintain the gold standard , but how we shall change to what he calls the joint standard , whether in co-operation with other great commercial and financial powers or by the adoption of independent free coinage of silver at the ratio of lti to 1 . That is a correct description of the issue between the Republicans and the B , - yanites . But Judge GAYNOR carefully refrains from saying and from trying to prove that the radical , sodden adoption by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bim ( tallism . On the contrary , the indefinite postponement proposed by him to await the report of a commission , the decision of which is , of course , not to be anticipated , is , so far as it goes , what v. ould be secured by Mr. election . In short , Judge GAYNOR 'S carefully pr , pared essay is really only an extended explanation of his own views on the abstract question of the standards . As such , we are forced , with entire respect to its author , to say that it is neither novel nor convincing , nor even especially informing . It is vitiated by what in fact , though certainly not in intention , are serious assumptions . The Judge starts out with the declaration that " the money standard of value which itself appreciates in value more than commodities in general , thereby correspondingly increases all debts and at the same time correspondingly depreciates the money price of commodities and property in general . " This is a confused and awkward statement of the generally received proposition that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He next proceeds to the assertion that " the rise in the value of gold since 1873 , and the consequent addition to all fixed charges and debts and fall of the money price of commodities , have made a long period of falling markets and hard times ; apd the end of it is not in sight , and , it would seem , is not to come , I venture to say with deference , until the joint standard is restored . " This statement , which contains the gist of the whole article , involves several of the assumptions to which we have referred . It has never been shown that there has been a rise in the value of gold since 1873 as measured in commodities generally . As to some it has risen , as to others  --  human labor especially , the most important of all ? it has in all civilized countries distinctly fallen . As to others , it has remained practically stationary . Still less has it been shown that . the " fall of money prices of commodities , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the rise in gold so far as that rise is due to the scarcity of gold  --  which is what Judge GAYNOR means . Other forces far more important  --  the progress of invention , for example , as pointed out by Mr. BRYAN a couple of years since  --  have had much more to do with the change . Still another assumption is involved in the statement that when " the joint standard is restored " " falling markets and hard times " will come to an end . The period of distress which took place throughout England and the Continent , marked by the disastrous failure of OVEREND , GURNEY &; ( 1869 , ) took place before " demonetization . " The troubles of 1806 and the panic of 1873 in our own country occurred when , according to Judge GAYNOR , we were under the " joint standard . " What possible assurance can we have that like experiences would cease when the " joint standard " is restored ? The assurance Judge GAYNOR gives is in the following : " The successful working of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1573 was as follows : Each metal being legal tender , when one fell below the other in market value , debtors sought it to pay their debts with it , thereby raising its value by making a demand for it , and at the same time 1 ? ssening the value of the other by making a lack of demand for it , which inevitably brought the two metals forthwith to their mint parity again in the market . Sometimes gold fell , and sometimes silver , bat this automatic system , controlled solely by economic law and force , at once balanced them to their joint level , thereby maintaining the most stable money standard which the world has ever had . This is a matter of actual experience and history . Linked together by law as joint legal tender , whichever metal tended to rise or fall at a given time by reason of the economic law of supply and demand was held down or up by the other through the operation of that same economic law . " Is it sf.fe to accept this as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that bimetallism continued for a certain period when variations in the market ratio of gold and silver were slight . That the slightness was due to bimetallism is an assumption . The European nations that had the system one after another abandoned it when the variations began to increase . Judge GAYNOR says that the first was the cause and the second the effect . The French Government , when it took the step , declared exactly the contrary . We have not the space at our disposal to follow the Judge in his minor statements . Those we have analyzed show , we think , that his contribution to the theory of finance is unimportant . His contribution to the canvass is , as we have pointed out , ineffective because all he actually proposes is postponement by appointing a commission . We shall get postponement  --  which is clearly necessary ? by defeating Mr. BRYAN .                     