@@673569

txt The movement for " suffrage reform " in Louisiana brings out some interesting admissions as well as some significant claims . There is pending in the Legislature at Baton Rouge not only a proposed constitutional amendment qualifying the suffrage , but a bill providing for the Australian ballot system . There is no question that the main purpose in view is to restrict the negro vote , but , according to e-staltittions adopted at a public meeting in New-Orleans , it is in the interest of a perfectly free , secret , and pure ballot and an honest count of the votes actually east . " The question was said to be a " great moral one , which underlies all our rights and liberties and social order . " The Picayune , speaking of " the means that have been used in times past to control the political power of the State , " admits that they included " the intimidation of voters and the stuffing of ballot boxes , " and says that it is a " terrible reproach upon the State . " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat the Republicans are used to defraud the majority of the citizens , " but the only cure that anybody sees lies in a restriction of the suffrage through an educational or property qualification , accompanied by safeguards for secret voting . Two or three weeks ago the Board of Health in this city discovered , by means of an Inquiry suggested by the shipment of some tuberculous beef to this market , that a dairy herd in Orange County was dangerously infected with tuberculosis . The information was sent to the State Board of Health . On Sunday last two more carcasses of tuberculous beef were found in a slaughter house on the east side of the city , and it was ascertained that the cows had been shipped from a farm near the Harlem Road , between Goldener 's Bridge and Purdy 's Station . If it shall appear that milk from this farm is sold , notice will be given to the State Board . This is all that the city health authorities can do with respect to such discoveries made beyond the city limits . What the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the inspection of dairy herds for the suppression of this disease , under the statute , was discontinued some time ago . At last accounts it had not taken in Orange County the action which the notice sent by the city board undoubtedly required , and it seems quite probable that information as to this later discovery will not greatly excite its activity . The shipment of the milk of consumptive cows to this city ought to be prevented ; it is impossible to prevent the sale of it here after it has been received .                     