@@674290

txt The final test of the airship Albatross was made yesterday afternoon by William Paul , the inventor , and proved a failure . The party of experimenters had been waiting for two weeks at Dane Park , Ind. , for a favorable wind with I which to test the invention , and the opportunity came yesterday . It required eight men to put the machine upon the ways . Mr. Paul climbed into the frame hull , and adjusted the rubber life buoy around his neck , as if expecting to encounter water , At 3 o'clock the man in the airship shouted " All off ! " The ropes were cut , and the " bird " slid down to the end of the chute and stopped . The quartering wind had proved sufficient to arrest descent by friction of the runners against the off side . Again the craft was placed at the top of the ways . Ropes were fastened to the bottom and four men took positions to accelerate the start with a heavy pull . The wind for a moment seemed not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the moment had arrived . " Once again  --  let her go ! " sang out the inventor . A chop at the anchor rope , a swift scoot down the ways , and the Albatross was off . It was a plunge into empty space , with sixty-nine feet between Mr. Paul and the level of the sandy beach ahead of him. , For an instant it seemed that his craft was making for the beach . The next Instant a gust straight from the east hit the Albatross and she tilted perceptibly as the starboard wing caught the wind . The head turned to the west . Mr. Paul shifted his weight to hold the craft for the water . He was not quick enough . Already the machine was out of its course and a plaything for the adverse current . The momentum acquired was increased by the wind striking the craft now squarely aft . It darted like a hawk after a quarry , wheeling- still more upon Its course , until it ran almost for the hill again . Not more than a hundred feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapidly , beat into a clump of trees , and fell . The craft rested upon its left side , with the left wing shattered , a number of ribs smashed , and other damages . Paul was not thrown off his feet . owing to the side rails , which he clutched , with desperate energy , but he sustained a bad cut over his left eye and several bruises . The inventor says the exoeriment was unsuccessful because of the quartering northeast wind , and that but for this he would have made a flight to astonish the world .                     