@@674444

txt The daily dispatches from this city have mentioned the fact that the President is no longer a prisoner , afraid to venture into the streets to take a walk , although some accounts by careless observers have given the impression that the old rush of office-seekers is here at the old business . Everybody does not willingly admit the reason for the comparative freedom of President , but there is no doubt Whatever that his exemption from the pressure of such an overwhelming horde as that which swooped down on President Cleveland twelve years ago is the establishment and extension of the civil service law ' , and regulations . The people cf the country evidently have faith in the maintenance of the law by the new President , thus leaving him exposed only to the importunities of those who hope to pick the important offices outside of the classified service . As the number of ex-members of Congress and ex-officeholders who desire to be appointed , or reappointed , is greatly in excess of the whole number of offices worth ; having , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a class instead of making selections which would seem to amount to unpleasant discrimination . The success of one makes the rest bolder and more importunate . A " Tip " from the President . The rumor has floated about to-day that the President let it be understood that the fact that a man has held an office will not necessarily assure to him the reappointment to the place , and that will be some advantage in securing men who have not had opportunity to be " burden bearers . " Some of the applicants for office suggest that the Government is considered as a. sort of infirmary for decrepit politicians . Having yesterday paid his respects to the Postmaster General , Senator Platt to-day called upon the Secretary of the Interior and staid about long enough to enable him to say a few words of greeting to Mr. Bliss . The new Secretary of the Interior surprised some of the clerks of the department by getting down to work in a fashion to which none of them have been accustomed , calling to his aid two stenographers to write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up different batches of correspondence dictated to them . Warner Miller at the White Rouse . The newspaper outposts at the White House were greatly interested to-day by the almost simultaneous appearance of ex-Senator Warner Miller , J. Stoat Fassett , and J. E. Milholland . Mr. Fassett was supplied with an opportunity to secure a Postmastership by the death on Friday of the Postmaster at Elmira . It is not known whether he asked the President to appoint Mr. Milholland to be Collector of Customs at New , York , but the application of W. F. Wakeman to be Appraiser seems to have taken him out of the way of any other candidate for the Custom House . Mr. Platt saw the Postmaster General yesterday , and may , have directed his attention to the Elmira case . Territorial fights are proverbially hot . Quite up to former struggles is that of the different cardidates for Governor of Arizona . Ex-Representative M. H. McCord. formerly of Wisconsin , is leading in the fight for the Governorship , being indorsed by the leading Republicans and the principal Republican paper of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offenses , and this fact is being quoted to the advantage of L. A. Goodrich , a Michigan man , who has the approval of Secretary Alger . W. D. Penrose , brother of Senator Penrose of Pennsylvania , is backed by Penrose and Quay . There is a full list of candidates for the other Territorial positions , and they are crowding each other hard . The first Postmaster commissioned under the new Administration was I. R. Allen of Fair Haven , Vt. , vice W. F. Howard , commission expired The signatures of the President and Postmaster Genral Gap were affixed to the commission to-day .                     