@@672763

txt It begins to look as if President Harrison was about to try the temper of the country by favoring a policy of acquisition , in the hope of infusing something like spirit into the record of his Administration . From hints dropped semi-officially and by persons supposed to be very guarded in their utterances - on all questions of policy , it is learned that small schemes of annexation , in both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans , are about to he brought forward . The island of St. Thomas , which was once reached for , is now desired again , and there is inik- of an effort to revive the lost Hawaiian treaty of the practical cession of the Sandwich Islands . The Mole St Nicholas and Samana Bay are not the only points in the West Indies that the Administration has in view for a.possible naval station . Longing eyes are again being cast In the direction of the Island of St. Thomas , which is to the eastward of the Island of Haiti , and more directly in the present route of the steamer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track that will be followed by European - vessels to the Nicaraguan Canal . This island is owned by Denmark , and it is understood it can be had for a consideration . In 1S67 a. treaty was negotiated for its purchase and was submitted to the Senate . The price named was $7,500,000 , which the Senate thought too large . It is not probable that Denmark has reduced the price , and if ? Mr. Blaine should renew the treaty , the Senate might be as economical as in 1867 . The island is of some commercial importance and its value will be so greatly enhanced by the construction of the Nicaraguan Canal that it may be worth $7,500 , - 1 ) 00 . The adavantages of St Thomas ove ; . St. Nicholas Mole are chiefly that it can be more easily defended , and that it is manifestly better to have a naval station on United States territory than on territory belonging to another nation . which might involve the country more or less In the affairs of that nation . While it is probably true that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no disposition to abandon the Mole St. Nicholas , and If there is no chanoe of getting the former , the latter will be accepted . The possession of both would not be undesirable , as the mole commands the Winds ward Passage , while St Thomas commands the Virgin passage on the east and the Mona passage on the west . The action of the Administration in Hawaiian matters will be watched with a great deal of-interest . The mall which arrived in Washington from Honolulu to-day brings lettere which show that the future of the islands Is the general topic of discussion there now . The natives , as a rule , do not favor annexation to the United States , and would be satisfied with the present state of affairs if the Government were not so entirely in the hands of the foreign element The more intelligent of them realize that , if they continue to decrease numerically at the present rate , they will aeon be-in a hopeless minority and that then the kingdom will in all probability pass find e foreign controL As American Ideas dominate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among the foreigners , some of the American element favor American annexation at once , while others would prefer a protectorate . The British party in the islands is satisfied to let things drift . in the hope that some opportunity may occur for England to get afootholcL There Is strong reason for believing that Mr. Blaine will this Winter revive a treaty which he negotiated with the Hawaiian ' Minister in 1889. ? and which would ketve effectually established the American protectorate over the islands . This treaty provided for the permanent and exclusive cession of Pearl River to the United States as a naval station . The Hawaiian ( tovernment was to bind itself not to enter into any treaty relations with any foreign power without the previous knowledge and consent of the United States , and the United States was to have the right to land troops on the Islands at any time . In return for this surrender of national autonomy , the Hawaiian Kingdom was to enjoy absolute free trade with the United States in all articles except intoxicants , and the Hawaiian sugar planters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to American producers of sugar . King Kalakaua , who was then living . would have signed this treaty but for the persuasion of his Attorney General , Mr. Ashford . a Canadian . who saw in this treaty the end of British influence in the islands . Since then the bill has put a bounty on sugar . and . by the failure of this treaty , the Hawaiian planters have already lost hundreds of thousands of dollars .. The result is that . if the treaty was again under consideration , Queen Liliuokalani , much as she would dislike an American protectorate , would be forced by public opinion to sten It . The loss of the sugar bounty is directly responsible for much of the talk among Hawaiians in favor of annexation .                     