@@674717

txt Mayor VAN WYcifs outburst of indignation at the members of the Board of Education for having employed a small number of teachers from outside of the city , to which we have already alluded , deserves criticism from another point of view ; it shows a much stronger interest in New Yorkers seeking employment as teachers than in the vastly greater number of New Yorkers seeking the best schooling for their children . It is plainly- the right of the people of New York , who support the schools and use them , to get the very best that can be given them for their money . This right is peculiarly clear ' and sacred in the case of the great body of persons of moderate means who not only use , but must use the public schools , because they can not afford any others . And this class , it must be remembered , pay more of the taxes in proportion to their means than any other , because their taxes are paid in rent , which they can not escape . It is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers are necessarily produced in the City of New York . Teachers are not a product of a particular soil of which we have the monopoly . They are a product of natural gifts , which may exist in natives of New Jersey or Michigan or even of Ireland , and of training , study , and experience , which may be had in other places than the Boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx . But if it be an unjustifiable assumption that New York necessarily turns out the best obtainable teachers through some providential grant , any like inference from the known facts is still more unjustifiable . The plain and undisputed truth is that the schools of New York have in the past not been the best places for the training of teachers . Neither the schools especially devoted to that work nor the general schools in which teachers must get their experience and develop their talents , nor the system of appointment and promotion have been such as to give us the best teachers . All these conditions have been distinctly inferior to those prevailing in other parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average public school , but the best examples of public schools here , have not compared favorably with those of very much smaller and less wealthy cities . Unquestionably it is sound policy that the teachers of New York shall generally be trained in New York schools , when the latter shall have been raised to the highest level they can reach . Such a policy , properly guarded , tends to create a healthy pride among teachers and pupils and enables the city directly to secure the advantage of the training which has been given at its expense . Even so , it would always be a foolish and narrow thing to refuse to seek special talent and skill in many of the higher grades , from whatever part of the Union they could be got . And to restrict the city in its choice to its own teachers when these and the means of producing them are notoriously inferior , is to deny the people who use the schools and depend on them what is their plain right . From such a policy no one would gain except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a class to whom the vital interests of the great body of the people ought to be sacrificed , though they may excite deep interest in the minds of politicians to whom teachers ' places are merely so much patronage which they " need in their business . "                     