@@674999

txt Only a very wise man could talk as much as Col. Roostwka.T has talked in this campaign without wearying the voters . Exalted wisdom is not among the Colonel 's gifts , and we see unmistakable signs that a great many voters are tired of his speeches , tired not only of their endless number but of their emptiness and poverty of thought . His discourses have evidently been prepared with a view to captivating the audiences his voice could reach . He has taken no thought about the vastly greater number who never go to political meetings , who are reached only through the newspaper reports of the candidates ' speeches . All the claptrap about the war , all the crude and tawdry stuff about keeping the flag where it has been planted , and the cheap theatrical trick Ja parading a few Rough Riders through the State , even the overworked " if " with which the Colonel has prefaced his all too brief observations on the canal scandal , may have passed muster with the crowds that have flocked to his meetings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the candidate by the wisdom and the soundness of his utterances as they read them in cold and dispassionate type . Col. ROOS'EvELT forgot this great class of voters . A good many of them who had previously resolved to vote for him have within the last week been driven away by his foolish speeches . VAN WYCK or BACON will have their votes . Judge VAN WYCK 'S speeches have been not many , but straightforward and sensible . They have been thoughtful , not lacking in force , and have abounded in attacks upon the administration of State affairs by the Republicans , yet he has not made a false step nor uttered a sentence that would drive away a vote . He has grown in the public estimation from the first , while ROOSEVELT , setting out with the advantage of having been much more conspicuously in the public view , has steadily shrunk . Men who never vote anything but the Republican ticket and will vote it this year admit that VAN WYCK has made a wise campaign and ROOSEVELT a foolish one . The bustle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two hundred speeches and is shot through the State on special trains making threeminute addresses to cross-roads crowds doubtless impress the politicians , but the people seem to be very little affected by such tactics . FASSETT made an immense number of speeches , yet he was beaten by nearly fifty thousand votes . As we have said , a candidate who Is set to make so many speeches ought to be a very wise and able man . Half a dozen speeches showing real thought and power would impress the voters more than two hundred simply talks from a car platform . Both candidates have carried burdens , but ROOSEVELT 'S have been the heavier . The canal scandal , which he dodges ; the very bad administration of Gov . BLACK , which he indorsed and approved in his speech of acceptance ; the Raines law , vicious in itself and the direct cause of the spread of vice in this city ; the metropolitan elections law , which contains a decree of outlawry against New York City ; the extravagance of Republican State Government , which imposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Algerism and , both in serious disfavor with the people of this State ; and the policy of " imperialism , " continually preached by ROOSEVELT , which has made conservative voters afraid of him as an unsafe man . There remains PLATT , a boss very much abler and more dangerous than the Democratic boss in this city . VAN TiTYCK 'S burdens have been , first , CROKER , who became a millstone about the candidate 's neck when he raised an ugly feeling in this city and to some extent through the State by dictating judiciary nominations ; and second , the silver record of the Democratic Party . PLATT offsets CROKER , and ROOSEVELT has declared allegiance to PLATT as boss . The Republicans have been unsuccessful in their attempts to raise the silver issue . There may be Democrats who left their party for good in 1896 , but the fact that gold Democrats like - Mr . HohnsLownh , Mr- SHEPARD , Mr. PPABorir , . - Mr . PERRY BELMONT , and Gov .. FLOWER , support VAN Wyck " . shows- that --  if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible . As the canvass looks at its close , Judge VAN WYCK ought to carry the State by a good majority . The two uncertain elements . are the dissatisfaction with Republican administration at Albany and at Washington , which if it proves to be general up the State Will Cause many Republicans to stay at home , and the resentment at Chimph 's arrogance in this city . Either one of these forces may exert a determining influence . Yet both defy measurement . '                     