@@673115

txt We have noticed from time to time in the Portland Oregonian some carious assertions as to the attitude of consumers generally in the West toward the tariff policy of the Democratic Party as it has been defined by the election of Mr. CLEVELAND . On the 10th ult. we urged that the reduction of duties on finished products of manufacture should not be preceded by the removal of duties on raw materials , but that all the changes should be made at the same time in one general bilL It is generally understood that the duties on a considerable number of raw materials are to be repealed , and that the duties on the manufactured goods into which these materials enter are to suffer a large reduction . We pointed out that if there should be an interval of several months or a year between the passage of several bills putting raw materials on the free list and the corresponding reduction of duties on finished goods , the manufacturers would be able , in any industry whore a combination exists or can easily be made , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ho should derive from the legislation with respect to raw materials . The Oregonian finds in these remarks a text for a discourse in which it is asserted that a policy requiring the untaxing of raw materials and the reduction of duties on manufactured products would be " the most effective nursery of Trusts and combinations it is possible to conceive . " It would , our contemporary says , enrich existing combinations and breed a swarm of new ones to " raise the price of finished goods to the American consumer . " The Oregonian also says that this has been perceived by THE TIMES . Therein it has been misled . Our contemporary in Oregon overlooks the fact that our assertion was conditioned upon the retention of the present high duties . We said that it would be possible for manufacturers , " under the shelter of untouched high duties on finished products , " to deprive the consumer of the advantages which he should derive from untaxed raw materials . This is the strongest argument in support of the proposition that all the changes should be made at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a raw material is removed , the duty on the finished product is cut down , say from 80 to 30 per cent. , a combination using this raw material is not enriched . It is punished , and . the consumer is benefited . The reduction of the duty on the finished goods compels the combination to reduce its price to the consumer , and wherever a combination exists it should be the aim of the revisers to make such a reduction in the duty on the manufactured product as will compel a reduction in price to the consumer exceeding the reduction in cost of raw material . This policy would not breed or enrich Trusts ; it would tend to destroy them or to curb their greed . It would compel at once a large reduction of prices and force manufacturers into active competition , requiring the practice of economy and the utmost possible improvement of processes , with a still greater reduction of prices to the consumer in view . The Oregonian asks why the duties on finished goods should not be " removed entirely , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its editorial columns , that " the duty on every manufactured article should go with the repeal of the duty on its raw material " Nothing else , we are told , " will suit the people whose votes made CLEVELAND President " The Oregonian will pardon us , we hope , for saying that a paper of its political affiliations can not have been commissioned to speak for the great majority disclosed at the polls on Nov. 8 . Perhaps it has been led to believe that a majority of consumers in the West hold the opinion which we have quoted , but if this be so we are confident that it has been deceived . The entire removal of the duties a- 0- ? 0i-es on finished goods at the time when the duties on certain raw materials are taken off would prostrate and possibly ruin scores of great industries . No party that does not desire extinction can afford to put in force such a policy . The protective duties could not be wholly withdrawn at once without the most disastrous effect upon the manufactr ures and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bylegislation to wipe out the present tariff at one blow would thereby commit suicide . The policy defined by the election of Mr. CLEVELAND looks - to no such folly . It does not call for action that would ruin or paralyze ' the country 's industries . It looks to a reduction of taxes , the removal of burdens , the restraint of greed encouraged by taxation , the punishment of the greedy beneficiaries of prohibitory imposts , and to the attainment of these ends without injuring any interest that deserves to be treated with consideration . The first step to be taken in the great work of substituting a good and equitable tariff policy for a bad one will be , the removal of duties on certain raw materials , and simultaneously a large reduction of the duties on the manufactured goads that contain these materials . With untaxed materials our manufacturers will be stimulated to increase their output and improve their products . Because of the restraint imposed by the much lower duties on goods , consumers will from the beginning enjoy the advantages derived from the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the intelligent application of this policy many of our manufactures would at the end of a few years require only a very small duty on finished products , or possibly no duty at all . But the interests of the entire population  --  consumers as well as manufacturers  --  clearly forbid the withdrawal of every particle of our tariff duties at one sweep . It is fortunate that the work to be done will be controlled by intelligent and careful men who can not be induced to support a policy of destruction , but are determined to put in force , with due deliberation , a polioy of justice that will preserve and encourage rather than destroy or injure those interests which deserve to be preserved and encouraged for the common good .                     