@@781726

txt Some of the organs of what has been happily called the " inverted Mugwump " sentiment affect some hilarity at what they assume to be a contrast between Mr. CLEVELAND 'S first appointment to the Postmastership of New-York and his second appointment , made just now . They argue that because Mr. DAYTON has been an active and efficient politician , in the sense of taking an active part in political organizations , and because Mr. PEARSON was no politician at all , but only a Postmaster , being , indeed , a Republican , so far as he had any polities , therefore the appointment of Mr. DAYTON shows the oonversion of the President from the merit system to the spoils system of filling public office . It is difficult to believe that this view of the matter is sincerely held by any newspaper writer of New-York , or that such a writer can assume , except with his tongue in his cheek , that the appointment shows the President to entertain any other view , either of the Presidency or of the Postmastership , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no question at all that ) for the Postmastership Mr. PEARSON was the fittest man . He had brought the postal service of New-York to apitch of efficiency which it had not reached before and has not reached since . Under what difficulties and discouragments he had done this was well known to his friends , and presumably was made known to Mr. CLEVELAND before he was reappointed . The public was in no position to make allowances , and indeed found no allowances to be made , seeing that the service , however it might fall short of Mr. PEARSO .. N 'S own ideal standard , was an ideally good service , so far as the New-York public was concerned , being very much better than anything it had ever had before . Not to reappoint Mr. PEARSON when the facts of his service had been made known would have been a clear dereliction of duty . The implication that in order to be true to the principles of civil service reform it was necessary for the President to promote somebody already in the office is an implication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for proved efficiency in 1893 as was Mr. PEARSON in 1885 . But , in fact , there is no such person . The service has not been ideally good under Mr. VAN COTT. nor even reasonably satisfactory . A proposition to reappoint Mr. VAN Corr upon the ground of his efficiency , as Mr. PEARSON was reappointed , would have been received by the mercantile public with incredulous astonishment , and would have been so received if Mr. VAN COTT had " served up to " the Postmastership , as Mr. PEARSON did , instead of being appointed to it for reasons with which his efficiency in the discharge of its duties , proved or presumed or probable , had nothing whatever to do . We entirely believe that there are among Mr. VAN COTT 'S subordinates men who could have provided New-York with a much more satisfactory postal service than he has furnished . But in recommending such a subordinate for appointment to , the Postmastership it would have been necessary to explain , in the first place , that he was not responsible for the actual condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was necessary only to point to the actual condition of the service and to show that he was the man who was responsible for it . In other words , proved efficiency is the only reason for retaining a man at the head of a great business corporation like the New-York Post Office , and in the absence of proved efficiency , such as was shown on behalf of Mr. PEARSON , efficiency must be presumed , as it is very strongly presumed in the case of Mr. DAYTON.                     