@@673875

txt Among those who have closely followed the doings of the two members of the Dock Board , now called " reform , " there is a growing conviction that , whatever stray be Mr. O'Brien 's or Mr. Einstein 's ideas of a proper administration of this important city department , it is not the one which is held by those who believe that actual reform can best be obtained by an inquiry as to the efficiency of employes and a consequent regard for civil service rules . There is evidence that the new board bas evaded , as far as possible , the requirements of the civil service , and that in place of its 400 discharged employes it has substituted 400 men recommended in squads of twenty by as many Republican district leaders . There is a civil service regulation which became operative May 1 . It requires , among other things . that laborers and dock builders in employ of the city shall be selected from a list of eligible candidates , furnished by the Civil Service Cornmiseion . In the old Dock Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was not Tammany . Therefore , when two of Mayor Strong 's appointees took office as Dock Board Commissioners , it was expected that something would happen . That something did happen . Four hundred men , whose names appeared on what is known as the " reserve list , " were ordered to be disnpssed , Commissioner Phelan , the then only Tammany Commissioner on the board , strongly protesting , and urging that the men should have a hearing . He was overruled , and the men were disTnissed in a body . It was said that incompetency on their part had been charged . Moreover , it was urged that the Dock Board 400 , or at least a majority of them , were not regularly in the employ of the city , but formed simply a reserve list from which labor could be drawn when Ivan ted . All this was done ostensibly in the name of reform . And also in the name of reform , which now appears to have been taken in vain . the appointment of other men to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and good care was taken to see that the change took place before the important date , May 1 . No regard was paid to civil service rules in making the appointments . And , as there was no special work to be done at the time or immediately thereafter , there was no legitimate cause for haste in filling that " reserve list . " The significance of it all lies In this fact : Through a curiously-framed regulation , the Dock Board is empowered to draw from this reserve list at any time any men that it wants , independent of the civil service or any of its rules . And The New York Times is reliably reformed that the 400 men who were appointed to fill the places of those dismissed were simply appointed from twenty lists sent to the " reform " Commissioners by twenty Republican district leaders , no questions whatever concerning capacity or worth being asked or required . A few of the new Dock Board officials made a half-hearted effort to deny this yesterday . But the evidence is too direct to admit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is recalled that a bill repealing the Lawson bill , enacted one year ago , is now pending in the Senate . The Lawson bill made it obligatory on the Dock Board to h : ye its work done by contract , except where minor expense was involved . Under the law , all dredging costing more than a250 had to be done by contract , and all otter work rated at more than $500 was placed in the same category . If the Lawson bill is repealed , and it is in a fair way toward annulment , the repealer having already passed the Assembly , it - will be seen that the patronage of the department will be an important dispensation for any who seek to use it for partisan reasons . Thus aptly directed , the Dock Department can easily be converted into a political machine . There are indications that nothing which tend to further that end has teen neglected . Of course , the en masse discharge of the entire reserve list and the immediate reappointment of other men before the civil pervice regulation and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The recommendations from politicians which secured the appointments of the present re ? tainers might also have been accidental fa ? vors from riparian experts who have only the general welfare of the city in view . D3ut impartial observers , and especially those who have a preference for that sort of reform which a majority of citizens declared themselves for last November , are inclined to look at the proceedings of this board with distrust . If Mr. O'Brien meant anything at all , what did he mean when , after the dismissal of the first Thu who gut their conga , he was asked by one of a party of three newspaper men the reason of dismissal . " Inefficiency , " he alleged . " But what was the real reason ? " persisted the spokesman of the party . Whereupon Mr. O'Brien looked knowingly at the trio and said confidentially : Well , they were not on the right side , you know . " One of the reporters made a comment on the candor of the admission , and Mr. O'Brien said , cheerfully : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you know . Your papers are all backing us up , and wo n't allow you to say anything against us . " Here are some other facts for Mayor Strong to consider . The old board managed to transact its work with the assistance of four stenographers . The new board wants an additional two or three , although the amount of clerical work has not increased . That story has already been told . Some new features were added to it yesterday . It seems that when the increased clerical force was projected , a messenger was sent to the Civil Service Commission for a list of eligible candidates . It was alleged yesterday that the list was returned , and a list formulated by the - reform " Commissioners was sent to the Civil Service Board instead , and that the men whose names appeared upon it subsequently called at the Criminal Court Building , where the board meets , for examination . Then an extra stenographer for the President of the Dock Board was appointed , and without any reference to the Civil Service Examiners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New-York Times yesterday that the new appointee is not a stenographer at all ; simply an amanuensis to Mr. O'Brien  --  for which he draws $1,500 per year . In the way of curtailing expenses of the department , Charles J. Friedman was apEinstein Monday as Secretary to Treasurer Einstein at a salary of $2,000 . His predecessor , E. V. Gregory , who was summarily dismissed , drew a stipend of $1,500 . Commissioner phelan , whose secretary Gregory was , protested against his removal . His protest was unheeded . When the new secretary appeared , there was something in his appearance that attracted the notice of one of the Dock Board officials . " Where did you get him ? " Mr. Einstein was asked by the curious one . " Oh , he is a cousin of my wife , " was the reformer 's reply . Commissioner Einstein was seen by a reporter for The New-York Times yesterday . The reporter met him in the hallway of the Dock Board 's reservation at Pier A , and had accompanied him as far as the door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interlocutor 's identity . At the door he paused . " What paper you from ? " he asked . The reporter told him .. " The Times , " said Mr. Einstein , " said last Thursday that we were fakes , hypocrites , incompetents . " The reporter nodded . Now , I want to say , " resumed Mr. Einstein , " that . I consider that as sraise from The Times . " The reporter made a note of the Commissioner 's views . Mr. Einstein glared a moment , and then said , excitedly : " You are not going to print that , are you ? " The reporter said something about doing so , and the Commissioner banged the door , and the interview was at an end . Mr. Terry , the Secretary of the board , Professed ignorance as to the exact number of men who had been appointed or dismissed , and referred his questioner to Chief Engineer Greene . The latter said he had kept no record of changes . EVERYTHING FOR REPUBLICANS . Why State Democrats and GermanAmericans Complain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the New-York State Democracy and the German Reform Union that the Department of Public Works is not being conducted in conformity with the platform of non-partisanship , on which Mayor Strong was elected . They claim that the department is being conducted as though the victory of last November over Tammany Hall was a victory for the Republican Party alone , and that almost all of the patronage is going to Republicans . They think that if Mayor Strong is conducting his office on the principle of nonpartisanship , the same principle should control in the bestowal of patronage by the important appointees of the Mayor . While a few State Democrats and a few members of the German-American Reform Union have obtained small places in the Department of Public Works since Commissioner William Brookfield was appointed , the great majority of all the appointees and all of the new appointees to important places in the department are Republicans , and the whole department has been steadily and is now almost completely Republicanized . There are more Republican Assembly district leaders serving as heads of the bureaus in the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same capacity under the Tammany administration . It is also true that almost all the removals made since Commissioner Brookfield has been in control were made for political reasons wholly , and not on the ground of inefficiency or neglect of duty . Such removals are defended upon the ground that the reform administration was charged by the people at the polls with the duty of turning the Tammany men out of office , and big and little employes of the Department of Public Works have been turned out for this reason . Commissioner Brookfield himself has openly stated that the business of turning men out of their places was very disagreeable to him , and that he finds no pleasure in affixing his signature to a paper that will take employment from any man who is doing his duty . He contends , with truth , that the only thing that will remedy this condition is civil service carried out logically and faithfully . Something in this direction will be done now in the department under the rule of the Civil Service Commissioners requiring the registration of laborers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But this rule went into effect only on May 1 , and prior to that day large numbers of the Democrats who were laborers and subordinates in the department were turned out of their places and Republicans were appointed to fill them . Like in the Dock Department , great haste was made in making appointments before May 1 . In one day alone , about 300 laborers and subordinates were turned out . In filling these places the Republican Assembly district leaders who are affiliated with the Brookfield faction of the Republican Party in this city and apparently as , much to do as the Tammany district leaders had in the old days . The Platt Republican district leaders naturally had very little to say as to . the distribution of the patronage . The Brookfield leaders , however , did very well . For instance , Isaac J. Leslcind of the Fifteenth Assembly District ha ' " placed " about ' a dozen men lathe department ; Stephen Simonson of the Seventeenth Assembly District has " placed " eighteen or twenty ; H. C. Piercy , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so have John W. Jacobus and almost all of the other Brookfield leaders . In the Sixth District Hilliard , the old leader , and Huber , the anti-Platt leader , have about divided this patronage . The civilservice registration will check them to a considerable extent now , but most of the places have been disposed of already to men who have " pulls ' with the leaders . ' In selecting his heads of bureaus , Mr. Brookfield has in most every instance selected not only Republicans , but Republican district politicians , who affiliate with his faction in the Republican County Committee . He contended that , without the aid of four or five of these district leaders , the combination which resfilted in the victory of last Fall could not well have been made , and he openly announced that he would reward them . He has appointed John Simpson , Republican leader of the Fifth Assembly District , Superintendent of the Bureau of Streets ; John C. Graham , the Brookfield leader of the Twenty-fourth Assembly District , under Gen. C. H. T. Collis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . Johnson , the Republican leader of the Twenty-seventh Assembly District , Water Register , and William Henkel , the Republican leader of the Twentieth Assembly District , Superintendent of the Bureau of Incumbrances . E. P. North , who was appointed Water Purveyor , is a Brookfield Republican , but is not a district leader , never having been active in polltics . So the politicians agree that , despite the non-partisan character of the platform on which Mayor Strong was elected , practical politics is just as rife in the Department of Public Works as ever . .                     