@@673968

txt Nothing could be more unexpected than the letter of Emilio Castelar congratulating Gen. Martinez de Campos on his recent achievements in Cuba . In the first place ; it does not appear what Gen. Campos is to be congratulated upon , except upon saving his own skin from the Cuban insurgents , in spite of the imminent peril to which it has been exposed . In the next place , Emilio Castelar is about the last Spaniard whom we should expect to see congratulating a Spanish official even upon his success in maintaining for the time being a position which is not permanently tenable , as the history of Cuba for the last generation shows , and in denying for a little longer to that unhappy island the benefit of being governed in its own interest and not in the interest of the Spanish officials who grow rich as Cuba grows poor . The letter of Castelar shows that we in this country have not properly taken account of the sentiment with which Spaniards , even the most advanced , the most intelligent , and the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British tenure of Ireland is in some respects analogous to it , but no Englishman goes about declaring that the retention against their will of an unwilling and unfriendly people is the brightest jewel in the British crown , and that Ireland , in spite of appearances to the contrary , is " the ever-faithful isle . " What the rational English anti-Home Ruler says is that Ireland is so near England , and so hates England , that England can not afford to allow it either independence or any considerable measure of local selfgovernment . If it were as far away from England as Cuba is from Spain it would have been let completely go before this as a possession that cost more than it came to , while any measure of local selfgovernment short of separation that seemed to be demanded by Ireland would have been very cheerfully granted and with practical unanimity . Evidently the case is very different with Spain and Cuba . It is plain enough that Cuba , in its present condition , is a source neither of honor nor of profit to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its complete independence would be a. menace to Spain . In these circumstances , that the leader of the Spanish Liberals should publicly offer his congratulations to the commander of the Spanish forces in Cuba upon having thus far thwarted the aspirations of the Cubans seems like a stroke of intentional irony . It is only just to add that the reply of Gen. Campos to these congratulations seems equally ironical . Certainly a satirist could say nothing more severe of the letter of Castelar than that " it was inspired by his feeling of loyalty as a . Spaniard , reinforced by his splendid fancy . "                     