@@674772

txt A dispatch to The Daily Telegraph from Barcelona , via Pans . says : " Grave apprehensions are entertained in the highest Government circles that the issue of war may be decided , not by valor and enthusiasm and dogged perseverance , qualities of which the Spaniards possess an abundance , but by reserves of coal and victuals , of which they have made but a scanty provision in Cuba . It appears that in respect of coal in particular they are incomparably worse Off than they have hitherto imagined . " The Spanish Government , firmly believing down to the very last moment that peace would be preserved through the intercession of the Pope and the powers , neglected to lay in sufficient provision of coal , despite the representations made to them by one or two far-seeing naval officers . Besides this , it is believed , they never once inquired of the British or other neutral Governments whether coal would be regarded as contraband of war . The result is said to be a state of things which may be fraught with unpleasant surprises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the secret were anxious to overthrow the Cabinet on other grounds before the beginning of war , for patriotic considerations forbade a public discussion of the country 's weak point on the eve of hostilities . The short time allowed for the deliberations of Parliament rendered this intention difficult of execution ; and the Liberal Cabinet , which conducted the negotiations , will be allowed to bear the responsibility for the results during a conflict . This alarming story comes from an excellent source , quite above all suspicion , even of hostility to the Cabinet . " If , as I fear , events should demonstrate its truth , the close of the war may also be the end not only of the Liberal Government , but of much else which is infinitely more worthy of respect than any political party , and which enjoys the sympathy of all Europe . I hear that extreme depression prevails among the few who are initiated into this painful secret . "                     