@@673262

txt One of the strangest illustrations of the patience , or at least the endurance , with which our people are accustomed to put up with outrageous nuisances is to be found in that queer development of commercial competition , the " puller-in " of the Baxter Street clothing store . The solicitation of custom from the passers-by on the sidewalk has developed into the employment of stalwart bullies who actually pull persons into the stores and intimidate them into buying clothing which they do not want . There have been numerous cases of actual assault and personal injury , submitted to without effort to bring the perpetrators to justice . It is bad enough to be solicited on the street , with the persistency that ordinarily prevails only at charity fairs , to buy something which one does not want , but when it comes to being dragged in and compelled to buy or take the chance of being knocked down and dragged out , one would suppose that the spirit of American independence would revolt . But the Police Captain of the precinct in which this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would gladly get evidence to send the pullers-in to prison , but complainants will not appear against them . They are probably not afraid to do so , for nothing but a resolute stand would be necessary to suppress the while gang , but they will not take the trouble . A man who has been hustled into one of these murky holes where cheap clothing is sold and hustled out again , either with bruises or with a new and in-voluntary outfit on his person , usually pockets the affront rather than go to a police court to press a complaint for assault . It is the same spirit that in-. du.ees our people to stumble over sidewalk obstructions week after week without any concerted effort to have them cleared away , that puts up with dirty streets and air laden with dust with only an occasional spasm of protest , and that permits street cars and elevated trains to be overcrowded and uncomfortable without doing anything to put an end to the imposition . But- that the " puller-in " should be allowed to flourish is evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they will not complain or support their complaints with evidence , the authorities would be justified in suppressing the nuisance by preventing all obstruction of the sidewalks by these bold highwaymen . The police need no formal complaints to stop such lawless performances on the public streets .                     