@@674430

txt The Central Labor Union at its meeting on Sunday denounced a bill which has been introduced in the Legislature providing for the printing and binding Of certain books to be used in public schools by the labor of convicts in the State prisons . This is one of the shifts to which the State is driven to give employment to prisoners under the restriction of the Constitution , and it is somewhat doubtful whether it is admissible under that restriction . The opposition to this bill comes especially from the Binders ' and Printers ' Unions , and it is evidently based upon the fact that it is proposed to give work to convicts which would otherwise be done by " free labor . " But that is equally true of the work to be done in making clothing and shoes and other supplies for the inmates of asylums , hospitals , and other charity institutions . In So far as manufactured articles are needed in the public institutions of the State and the " political divisions thereof " and would have to be bought and paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of convict labor upon them takes work from those who would otherwise make these supplies to be sold to the institutions . There is no escape from what is called the competition of prison labor so long as convicts are employed in the production of anything which would be otherwise produced . If , for instance , a certain number of cheap shoes were produced in the prison at Sing Sing and sold in the market , they would take the place of perhaps an equal number which would otherwise have been made elsewhere . But if the same number are made and sold to asylums , hospitals , and other institutions , to be worn by their inmates , they take the place of an equal number which would otherwise have been made elsewhere and sold to those institution 's : What difference does it make in the competition of prison . labor with free labor ? The " Labor " argument against " prison labor " carried to its logical conclusion would result in forbidding all productive , labor in. prisons . It is based upon the supposition that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free labor , because it produces something which might otherwise be produced out of prison . This is no more true if the product is sold at its market value in the open market than if it is furnished to public institutions which would otherwise have to buy it at its market value . And it applies just as much to labor in building for the State or making roads as to any other labor , assuming that the work is something that would have to be done and paid for in any case , and , if it is not , the State is not justified in doing it by convict labor , for the public pays for that in supporting the convicts . There is no escape from the competition of convict labor , if convicts are to be productively employed and not made a sheer burden upon the production of others ; but this " Labor " argument is based upon a delusion . It is no disadvantage to free labor to have convicts pay for their subsistence by their own productive work , and no advantage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense . Provided prison labor is properly managed and its product sold at its actual market value , it is an economic benefit to the State and to the workingmen of the State and not an injury to anybody . The muddling of this question has been due to a demagogic yielding to ignorance and lack of reason                     