@@674907

txt We have no wish to question the entire sincerity of Gov . BLACK 'S instructions to the Attorney General to bring judicial proceedings against all the offenders implicated in the report of his Canal Investigating Commission , nor have we any doubt that the special counsel , Judge COUNTRYMAN , will proceed with all practicable industry and speed to carry out the work assigned to him . But there are two points in the situation brought out by the commission 's report which the public can not ignore and which are not to be reached by the course now taken by Gov . BLACK . As to both of these his persona and official responsibility is direct and complete , and will not be changed by anything that the courts can do . One is that the improvement of the canals , by far the greatest work in the term of Gov . BLACK , has been from the first fully within his knowledge  --  it being his duty to know all about it , and has been outrageously and corruptly mismanaged . The other is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov BLACK has shared in its advantages and has hoped and planned to obtain a still greater share . Not only will it be a long time before anything can be done by the courts to bring individual offenders to justice , but when that is done , if it be done , the chief 0. iender will escape . The Governor himself will not be indicted or punished . We call him the chief offender because he had complete power to prevent the offenses committed and because he is an accomplice before and after the fact in the offenses , has profited by them , and has expected and sought to continue to profit by them . This is harsh language and we regret to use it toward a man who has shown some definite impulses toward virtue , but it fits the facts , and nothing less harsh would do so . The root of the trouble with the canal improvement is the abuse of official power for partisan gain . This abuse has taken various forms . One is the employment of favored contractors at extravagant compensation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommended by the politicians . The other is the distribution of a large number of offices under the Superintendent of Public Works as party patronage , without testing or considering the fitness of the persons appointed . This has been done at times by the utter disregard of the civil service law of the State , at times by its evasion through the assignment of men selected without examination to the work and pay of places requiring examination . But these tricks were rendered unnecessary by the " starchless " law which Gov . BLACK procured and which gave the appointing officers practically full discretion . Whatever the form of the abuse , it was within the power of Gov . BLACK to know of it and prevent it , and it was his duty so to do . If he was ignorant of what was going on  --  which we do not believe  --  he was willfully ignorant , and his neglect to stop or prevent it was also willful . As the abuse was for the building up of the machine which gave him his nomination originally and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he has benefited by it . His conduct and his motive were essentially corrupt . If the executive officer of a corporation were detected aiding and conniving at the misuse of its funds and the mismanagement of its affairs for his own advantage , every one knows what would be thought of his honesty and what would be done with him so soon as his employer got at the facts . That is the case of Gov . BLACK , and if his employers ( the people ) were sure of the right man to put in his place , they would make short work with hilt                     