@@675311

txt From Tile Jacksonville ( Fla . ) Times-Union ( Dem . ) On all sides we realize the existence of men who will find it impossible to fraternize with either of the two great parties next year . From every State come complaints against both . The dissidents are men of character and ability . Will the dissatisfaction crystalize into opposition to be felt at the polls ? Will there be a secession from either party such as we saw in the Mugwump war on Blaine , or will the disgruntled sulk in their tents and only offset each other in practical results ? It is true also that the bonds of party discipline are relaxed . Men who claim to be Democrats refuse to support the regular nominees in Kentucky , and those who claim strict party fealty declare they will not vote for Nash in Ohio because Hanna has taken charge of the campaign . But , while the party lash is no longer a terror , and while men think and investigate for themselves now as never before . the American is eminently practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do mare than throw away the vote that might be cast for a third party in the coming Presidential election . Even the members of temperance societies refuse to vote for the prohibition candidate . Disgust with one 's own party may carry a ballot to its opponent , but we do not believe that the various third tickets will make even as good a showirfg as they did in MG . But this will not make surprising some very radical changes from the results of the last election . In many States the ' margin is very small , and little change would be necessary to affect the electoral vote . The conditions now observable forecast this very plainly . In Kentucky the two factions of the Democracy are bitterer toward each other than toward the Republicans , and the result is doubtful , with all assuming airs of confidence . In Ohio the campaign is one of Greek against Greek , and fortune may upset the nicest calculations . With the necessity for a. concentration of effort in the President 's own State , what may we not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by , the persistency with which they claim gains in the South . They do not believe themselves when they profess such faith , but it has its weight on those doubtful ones who read the signs about them and can credit anything of us  --  like the old woman who resisted the evidence of the clearest facts at home , hut creditet the existence of mermaids in the sea . Consistent skepticism is rarely found : the follower of Ingersoll always whistles when he passes a graveyard at night , and wears the hind foot of a rabbit on his watchchain . But where the negro lives in a respectable minority there you find Democratic majorities with absolute certainty . Such Democratic strength as that of Kentucky is easier to overcome than the weakness of a black belt . We speak not of the logic involved , but adduce the fact as one upon which practical forecasts may well be founded ; the negro States are all safely Democratic . The States the Democrats may lose will he influenced by the agricultural prcsperity which came upon them like a thief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on that account . The revolt against will grow out of opinions as to " expansion , " the treatment of the soldiers , and dissatisfaction as to the measures of punishment meted out to Eagan and Alger &; Co . The President has done all that he could to secure the support of the soldiers that have returned home  --  he has spoken to them with fulsome flattery on every possible occasion , and promises as to pensions fill the air . But not all the States to which regiments have been returned are shouting for . Yet , with all these influences at work , we do not believe the dissatisfied partisans will affect the issue next year . Disaffection in the two parties will balance each other , no third party will endanger the triumph of either , and the President will be elected On the great issues dividing the two principal political organizations . Both will promise economy , both will advocate putting the soldiers of the Spanish war on the pension lists with the old veterans , both will declare against the trusts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues will take the same ground . There remains the battleground of the financial plank , unless Congress declares for the gold standard before the campaign is on  --  in which case the Republicans will stand on fortified ground . Here the Democrats must make the hardest fight ; will the Nation reverse its decision ? Neither party will try to shift position  --  both are entirely willing to fight it out on that line if it takes all Summer , and we shall see a battle royal .                     