@@781278

txt Albert Smith , one of the local leaders'in the late railroad strike and a friend of Eugene V. Debs , President of the National American Railway Union , said to-day : " At the beginning of the recent strike Debs told me that he did not expect to win the strike . He had a purpose in having the strike ordered . " He believed that a strike at the time that the American Railway Union was called out was the only way by which the laboring classeS would be brought to see that they could do nothing for themselves as long as they were not politically organized . The strike , he thinks , will bring about this organization , causing the men to break away from the old political parties . " Mr. Smith says that Debs will be a candidate for some office , probably Congress , and that the work of organizing political bodies will be begun soon . John McBride , President of the United Mine Workers , who is spending a few days at his home , said to-day : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential election a political union between the American Federation or Labor and other labor organizations and the People 's Party that would lead to success . While there are extremes on both sides , the two forces have much in common and are capable of planning a platform satisfactory to all . " Convicts at Tracy City are in a state of mutiny , and as a result two men are dead and two others are suffering from slight wounds . The convicts this afternoon loaded a pipe with explosives , placed it in a coal car , and attached a slow fuse to it . Deputy Warden Nelson and assistants were passing along another entry to bring the conviots out for the night , and when they arrived opposite it the bomb exploded . Nelson was instantly killed and Guards Terrel and Thurman were slightly wounded . A negro convict named Pete Hamilton was killed by a volley from the other guards . There were 115 convicts in the mines at the time . Seventy refused to surrender , and remained inside . They say they will not come out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strike corninisSion appointed by the President , has called a meeting of the commission for organization , conference , and preliminary work , to be held art the Department of Labor , this city , Monday next at 10 o'clock . It is Mr. Wright 's desire to have the commission organize and begin work without delay . Controller Fitch said yesterday , in reference to the statement of Matthew J. O'Rourke that $15,000,000 or more of duplicated bonds had been issued in the Finance Department , that if any reputable man , such as Henry C. RoUt inson , would ask to be allowed to examine all the books and evidence in Mr. Fitch 's possession , he would grant him the privilege without an order from the Supreme Court . " They do n't need thumbscrews to find out whatever Is in this office , " Mr. Fitch said . " Everything is open and aboveboard . We are ready at any time for investigation . " The repairs to the steamer Miranda , which collided with an iceberg while conveying the Cook arctic expedition north , are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resume her voyage tomorrow afternoon . Only three or four of the party have withdrawn , Reports from Labrador say there is an unprecedented quantity of field ice and icebergs this season , making navigation almost impossible . This will probably prevent the Miranda from getting any distance north . The Republican State Committee to-day voted to hold the State Convention at Music Hall , Roston , Saturday , Oct. 6 , at 10 A. M. Congressman William Coggswell of Salem was chosen Chairman of the convention , and the Committee on Resolutions will be as follows : George F. Hoar , Chairman ; George Von L. Meyer , Merrill E. Gates of Amherst , Judge George E. Lawrence of North Adams , and the Hon. Leontine Lincoln of . Fan River .                     