@@674810

txt Washington has palpitated with excitement to-day over news which the Navy Department would not corroborate that Admiral Sampson had met Admiral Cervera in the Windward Passage and had destroyed the Spanish fleet . The news came from London , but up to a late Hour Secretary Long admitted , with great regret , that he was unable to support it With any information he had received from Admiral Sampson or any other officer of the United States . During the forenoon the report was circulated about the Navy Department that the Secretary of the Navy had received a long I dispatch and that it was from Admiral Sampson . This story was accepted by all who heard it as containing confirmation of the press dispatches from Europe , but after inquiry it seemed to have arisen from the fact that a dispatch had been received from Admiral Dewey giving information of the situation in Manila . It was somewhat gratifying to those who wondered how Dewey had been getting along without reinforcements in a place surrounded by enemies , but there was so much confidence in Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not been deep anxiety on his account , as there is now on account of the fleets in the waters of Cuba and the Caribbean Sea . Letters from Key West , arriving late or becoming public to a limited extent long after they have reached Washington , convey the information that about everything that can steam , sail , or be towed has been forced into the service to assist Admiral Sampson and Commodore Schley to box up Admiral Cervera and force him to give battle , if he has not escaped . Not a word of the elaborate preparations , except by way of roundabout hints , has come from Key West , the newspaper correspondents having been put on their honor not to give intimations of operations that can assist the enemy in. the slightest particular . The Administration Confident . All the tali ( in the meeting of the Cabinet to-day indicated the confidence of the Administration in the early receipt of good news from Admiral Sampson . One Cabinet officer who expressed the greatest eagerness to hear from Sampson and Schley , and who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be " great , " admitted that the outside limit of time in which it was expected that the vessels of the United States and Spain must meet had passed yesterday , and that official information might arrive at any moment either that Cervera was bottled up or that his fleet was at the bottom of the ocean . " I do not look first for unofficial information , " said he , " for the reason that the commanding officer of the United States forces has concluded that he can get along quite as well and without as much possibility of injurious observation if he excludes newspaper beats . as he has done . " The Administration is determined that if Cervera will not fight , but manifests a determination to get away and return to Spain , to follow him up and " kill " his fleet before it can reach its own side of the Atlantic . To do this might require the sending of coal ships along with the United States fleet for some distance , but if any accident should happen to . any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run out , Admiral Cervera would have to run the risk of destruction , or else abandon a disabled vessel in the hope of getting off with the others , or perhaps be overtaken by single ships until the whole fleet was gobbled up . It is calculated by naval officers that the Spanish fleet has now about exhausted its fuel , and that it can not undertake the difficult task of retreating . The only honorable outcome to Spain is for Spain 's ships to try conclusions at once , while the coal bunkers and the food supplies are not completely exhausted . A Battle Considered Inevitable . There will be no news now from Sampson or Schley until one or both of them has tested the inclination or ability of Admiral Cervera to fight . Naval officers laugh at the suggestion that if Cervera should give the United States ships the slip the vessels of Sampson 's and Sc'hley 's fleets would be again withdrawn to Key West to be used as convoys to protect the transports in moving the army to Cuba , leaving Cervera to stay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Admiral Sampson , " said a naval officer of experience and spirit , " is reasonably free to move and act as he chooses . He ' has the opportunity to carve a place in our history alongside of that of Dewey . You will not catch him coming back emptyhanded to hear the gibes of a disappointed people . Explanations will be of no avail if he does not render a good account of himself under his Instruction to seek and destroy the Spanish fleet . If he does that explanations will never be asked for by anybody . And I think that to-morrow will bring the opportunity for us to cheer for Sampson and Schley along with Dewey . "                     