@@672674

txt A dispatch from Muskegon to . the Democrat says : ? ? The fire which visited this city very early in the afternoon yesterday has never been paralleled In its history . Hundreds of people have been rendered homeless and destitute . with their all swallowed up in the cruel flames . Women and children wander homeless along the streets and are moaning , and weeping over their losses . If the city authorities do not immediately interpose and make some arrangements to house the homeless , extreme suffering will certainly follow . " The fire originated in an old frame barn belonging to Luman Hamblin and called the Hamblin Barn . It was situated on the south side of Clay Avenue , between Spring and Pine Streets . The alarm was sent in at 2 P. M. , and when the Fire Department arrived upon the scene the barn was entirely destroyed . A strong wind from the lake swept the flames to the south , and other dry franie structures were soon caught up by them . The first residence that became a victim to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' which is inhabited mostly by a low class of people . This in a little while was completely destroyed . At this point the wind shifted a little to the west , and the business portion of Pine Street was made accessible . The Cummings House was the first to fall and all the stores on the east side of the street were swept away . The lire crossed over Pine Street to Webster Avenue and followed a direct course to the south , leaving bar , a block behind . At 4 o'clock the magniticent residence of Matthew Wilson , a wealthy lumberman. took fire , and was soon in ashes . The Court House was the next to follow , and only the walls remain . The inmates of the Jail were conduoted safely out and imprisoned at the City Hall . Thecounty records were loft in the vaults . When Apple Street was reaohed every business house on Pine Street was in ruins , with the exception of several at the north end of the street . At the Court House Square the path of the fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a scope of two blocks . The strong wind made it impossible to get the flames in cheek , and as the greater part of the building were wooden everything was favorable to their progress . The appeal for help to outside cities was promptly responded to , and the firemen fought heroically , but almost uselessly . Toward 6 o'clock the German Lutheran and the Terrace Street Holland Churches fell victims . The elegant mansions of Baker , Wesley Wood , Peter Sansiff , Alderman Fleming , James Hutchinson , William Owens , and H. J. Hoyt were  --  burned . At Ionia Street the wind settled somewhat and the firemen got the flames considerably in check . Since then they have been constantly gaining on the fire and prevented it from further spreading . The territory that is now devastated is eleven blocks long and from one to two blocks wide . Owing to the great confusion it is impossible to get anything like a correct estimate of the loss , but it will probably reach in the neighborhood of $500,000 . In tho destruction of the Cummings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death . Two unknown children were reported at the Police Department as having perished in the fire . It is also known that Harry Stevens , Assistant Postmaster , and son of Postrilaster Stevens , who was suffering from pneumonia , died while being carried out of the house . ? The origin of the fire is unknown . All the factories and sawmills were closed , and the employes turned out and assieted in fighting the flames , to which for a while the entire eastern portion of the city seemed doomed . Citizens of all grades worked together to save life and property and assist in comforting the unfortunates. "                     