@@781720

txt It will probably be admitted by everybody whose opinion is worth taking upon such a subject.that the coins of the United States considered as objects of art are far from satisfying . This , however , has never been the opinion of the Director of the Mint . Of course , if it had been , that functionary would have taken some steps to amend the faults which he perceived . The Director of the Mint , however , has never been selected with a view to his qualifications for judging the ' esthetic merits of coins . There was not long ago a Director of the Mint of whom au acquaintance declared that when he was appointed he believed that his functions had to do with the manufacture of juleps . This was the same functionary who was waited upon by a deputation of esthetic and public-spirited citizens who announced their desire to confer with him touching an improvement of our coins . The official superintendent of our coinage asked in surprise what was the matter with our coins , and what improvement his visitors desired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syracusae coin of the best period , but the wrathful Director set forth that anybody who wished the coins of the United States to look like that was an idiot - with whom he desired to hold no parley , and he ejected the deputation - with every circumstance of contumely . Whether this story bo exact or not , it is " well found " in that it illustrates fairly enough the official attitude of our Mint toward the claims of art . In our coinage , as in every other department of what may be called our official art , we followed for a long time with unquestioning fidelity* the model of Great Britain , which was for such a purpose considerably the most ineligible country in Europe . Onvsubsidiary-Silver coinage still shows this unreasoning imitation . The sealed full-Length figure , with a Phrygian cap hoisted , at the end-of a pole , is directly imitated ; from the figure of Britannia on the British coins . There it at least has an intelligible meaning . It was very likely the contemplation of Britannia with her trident on a British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Grave mother.ot majestio works , From her isle-altar gazing down ; Who , God-like , grasps the triple-forks , And , King-like , wears the  --  orown . " There is something about this image , even ill-modeled on a copper coin , which is calculated to inflame the patriotism of a Briton , but there is assuredly no reason why an American should be inspired - with enthusiasm over the imitation , of this image on a- quarter or a half dollar . It is even worse done as a matter of design than the original , audit conveys no meaning whatever to any American citizen . If the average citizen were asked what the figure symbolized , would he be likely to say America , though in fact it represents Liberty , and what Liberty is  --  doing on . a rock - with an alpenstock nobody can possibly-conjecture . This device is possibly the worst of all our coinage , as the best is very possibly-the ? buzzard " dollar , but the best is not creditable and does not fairly represent the artistic skill of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coinage is convenient and . effective . The decimal system id coming to be recognized as the best Mali matters of measurement and ... weight and scales of value . The " quarter " in our coinage is the only anomaly , its value not being an even fraction or a multiple of ten , but the anomaly is probably now too dimly imbedded in our commercial habits to be removed . The system of our coinage leaves very little to be desired , but the execution of it leaves agrectt deal . It is gratifying to note that Mr. LEECH , the resent Director of the Mint , is alive to the desirableness of improving our coinage , and there is reason to hope that the competition he has advertised to the artists of the country will bear good fruit . The designs called for under the official circular are to be submitted June 1 . Of course , the great majority of them will be quite incompetent , and a considera-ble fraction of them quite absurd . Nevertheless , the honor of designing the coinage of his country is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is this honor more than the value of the prize that will stimulate the artists of the country if they are to be stimulated at all . In order to bring out their efforts , it is necessary , in the first place , to assure them of a competent tribunal . If Mr. LEEen-were to announce as judges of the competition artists of national standing , there is no doubt that skillful and trained artists would be glad to submit their designs to such scrutiny and that the result would be a great improvement in the national coinage.                     