@@673332

txt There is a notable decline in the fervor of the talk among members of Congress as to the repeal of the tax on the notes of State banks . This is in part due , no doubt , to the fact that it is clear that the country has made up its mind to get the repeal bill through first , and put everything aside until that is done . In part it is due also to the fact that the advocates of State bank notes have had a chance to show what can be gained by the mere use of the authority of the State instead of the authority of the United States , and have really not been able to show that anything would be gained . The former influence upon the course of discussion has clearly been the stronger . There is a steady tendency to concentrate all efforts upon the business immediately in hand , and to let everything else wait . When the repeal bill has been passed , undoubtedly the State bank question will be revived . It is well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and see how we shall stand when the discussion is renewed . In the first place , it is well to remember that we shall be in no immediate need of more currency , and that , therefore , we can and ought to take plenty of time to consider the question before acting . In the next place , it will be judicious and even necessary in due time to provide for an issue of additional currency when there is a legitimate demand for it , and for this purpose there is nothing so good as a properly-secured and properly-regulated bank circulation . What the security and regulation should be is the most important question , and second to that is the question whether State or Federal enactment will provide it the better . The argument commonly used that under State banking acts we shall be flooded with notes of uncertain value we do not regard as being so i important as it is generally thought to be . It is true that when we had State bank notes some were bad and some were good , and the circulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuisance and a source of loss . But the conditions now are very different . Population has grown , business has extended , communication is very rapid as to transportation , and the practically instantaneous telegraph and telephone has taken the place of the slow and uncertain mail of those days . The standing of a bank in Florida or Oregon would be more accurately known to-day in New-York than was the standing of a bank in Western New-York thirty years ago . It is our opinion that if the State banks were allowed to issue notes today , their circulation , if the notes were not perfectly good , would be so limited in time and area as to offer very little temptation to issue them , and the positive evil effects would be chiefly local . At the same time , the negative evil effects would be considerable . We could get on with a currency that could be successfully watched . We should get on far better with one that did not need private waching , with one uniformly and . universally sound , and as to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain that this can better be accomplished by Federal legislation than in any other way , because it has been accomplished for thirty years . We must nevertheless acknowledge that in the matter of circulation the national bank system is not perfect . On'the contrary , as to some important requisites it is , and almost from the start has been , very defective . It does not in any sense give an elastic currency . The circulation has expanded and contracted , not with the real demands of business : but with reference to the supply of bonds and the rate of premium , and . these have often worked directly against the interests of the business community . This difficulty should be avoided in the future , and it can be , but hardly , by a mere change in the Securities Pledged for circulation . It is a constant and , in our judgment , a decisive objection to circulating notes secured by bonds and , stocks of any kind , that the value of these , and therefore the credit of the notes , is influenced unfavorably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most needed . What Congress will probably be called upon to do when the time arrives to take up the question is to enact a law providing for note circulation which , so far as the law can make it so , is amply secured by the assets of the banks , and is guaranteed by the United States Government , which shall hold a first lien on those assets , and shall accumulate a suffloient safety fund to meet all demands upon it . If provision be made for the actual redemption of the notes , we shall then have a currency which will be profitable when honestly needed and cease to be so when not needed , and which on that account will be practically and automatically elastic . These are the principles which we be Hove will guide action when the time comes for action , which is not yet .                     