@@781346

txt Capt . G. F. P. Wilde Of the cruiser Boston has protested easiest the promotion of Col. Miller to be a Brigadier General as a reward for the capture of Iloilo , on the ground that this capture was effected entirely by naval forces under the command of Capt . Wilde , and that it was not until after the capture had been effected that the place was turned over to Col. Miller , who , up to that time , had nothing to do with its capture . Capt . Wilde 's action is indorsed by Admiral Dewey . Capt . Wilde 's protest comes too late to be effective , as Cbl . Miller was promoted a Brigadier General Feb. 15 in recognition of his services in the caPtUre of Iloilo , and was retired in that grade March 27 by operation of law on account of age . He was in command of the expedition sent from Manila for the capture of Iloilo , and the cruisers Boston and Petrel were sent with him to render assistance . While the vessels of the expedition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their defenses and fired several shots at the Petrel , which vessel was anchored nearest the shore . The commander of that small warship asked and received permission of Capt . Wilde of the Boston to respond . At this time , according to naval advices , Gen. Miller 's army transports were far out in the roadstead . Without communicating with Gen. Miller the two warships opened on the shore batteries and soon silenced them . Lieut . Nib-lack of the Boston landed with a battalion of marines and sailors and took possession of the town . They captured the insurgent flags on the Governor 's house and on the batteries , and turned the city over to Gen. Miller on his arrival , an hour or so later . They kept the captured flags , however , in spite of Gen. Miller 's demand for them . This is the naval story of the battle of Iloilo . The official report of that engagement first received in Washington was made by Gen. Miller to the War Department , and simply announced the surrender of that city to the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon this report . and in view of the fact that Gen. Miller had but a few weeks more to serve on the active list , the President appointed him to a vacancy then existing in the list of Brigadier Generals . He is now on his way home from Manila , and is expected to reach San Francisco in a few days .                     