@@674484

txt The following dispatch to The Associated Press has been sent from Athens by way of Brindisi , in order to escape the censor : " It is probable that no . Minister ever better deserved humiliation and dismissal than M. Delyannis , the former Premier . A little more than three weeks ago he declared everything was prepared for war . But , until the beginning of the fighting , no preparations were made to resist a possible invasion of Thessaly . A few trenches were dug in front of Larissa , and one or two earthworks were erected . But ten days ago ( the date the dispatch left Athens is not given ) not a spade had been used to erect batteries or earthworks to defend the exits of the half dozen passes leading to the Thessalian Plains . All the preparations made were to invade Macedonia ; but even the preparations to invade Macedonia were hopelessly inadequate . " A military expert who made a tour of the centres where serious preparations might have been expected says in one arsenal , commanded by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of shell and only one field piece and one mountain battery . The principal depot supplying ammunition to the army in Thessaly only had a reserve of 1,200 rounds of shells and a few hundred eases of cartridges . Near Athens there is a good powder factory ; but the cartridge cases have to be imported , and there is an imperative demand for them . It is understood that many hundred thousands were ordered In Austria , but it Is not known where they are , their transport being delayed by the Austrian Government . The gun ammunition is almost exhausted , and a Scotch foundry at the Piraeus has been ordered to cast shells in haste . " There are now in Athens 18,000 Reservists who have been called to the colors , and who are wandering in the streets in tattered civilian clothes . The Government has no uniforms or cloth , and the Government 's stores are without rifles . The Government , for weeks past , has been appealing to merchants to sell rifles , of which ' 200,000 of the old Gras pattern , discarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being sold to members of the Ethnike Hetairia . Society , ( National League , ) at about $1.87 each . It was the inability of the Government to provide rifles for the recruits which led to the riot of Tuesday . " At Patras , a French steamer brought a cargo of rifles , and a mob seized a lighter full of the weapons . " On Tuesday a revolution seemed inevitable , the whole business quarter being looted , and the guard for the palace having refused to leave the barracks . Affairs were so serious that many officers from the warships at the Piraeus landed in plain clothes , but with uniforms in their portmanteau , In order to be In readiness to defend the palace and the royal family . In this connection , marines and soldiers were held in readiness to disembark from the warships at a moment 's notice . "                     