@@674361

txt Populist Senator Allen disturbed the serenity of the Senate to-day by his unexpected motion to take up the Dingley bill without having consulted the Populists of the Senate before making his motion . To the Republicans ' who had yesterday referred the question of action upOn that measure to their steering committee , to await the advice of that group of Senators after consideration had been given to the chances of securing a vote that would be decisive , this motion , which the Republicans in part felt constrained to vote for , is embarrassing . Senator Allen declines to talk about his plans . but it is understood from some of his colleagues that he intends to insist upon a discussion of the tariff question , with the usual freedom of choice to Senators as to whether they shall talk on finance or on any other question that seems to them most important to be considered . Republican Senators and Representatives who have looked at the division of the Senate in the next Congress , and who have seen that it will be difficult to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than ever inclined to suggest that the speediest and most satisfactory outcome of the cemand for tariff legislation will be the passage of a bill amending the existing ' tariff in some particulars , chiefly with the object of obtaining sufficient revenue , and the abandonment of any attempt to obtain a bill that will be absolutely acceptable to those manufacturing and agricultural interests that have expected a return to high protection as the result of 's election . Representative Russell of Connecticut said this afternoon that it seemed evident that it would be as wise to take such legislation as could be obtained now , as it would be to defer the tariff effort until later , with the prospect then of an opposition that Would be only less in degree than it would be now . While the Republican vote in the Senate is short of the number required to pass a bill , there are some Democrats of protection proclivities , he said , who would vote for a moderate measure , and any other measure would be as difficult to pass in the next Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to insist upon the adoption of a silver amendment as the price of consent to the passage of a Tariff bill has not been asserted by Senator Allen , it is assumed by Republicans that such is the intention of the silver men , both Populists and Republicans , otherwise the silver Republicans would have had no reason to remain away from the Republican caucus . Mr. Allen does not want to have a Tariff bill passed . The Republicans could not refuse to take up their own bill . The Nebraska Senator 's motion compelled them to vote with him to do something against which they had voted in their own caucus . Senator Aldrich entertained the Steering Committee at luncheon in his committee room at the Capitol to-day , and the motion of Mr. Allen was freely discussed . The general opinion of the Senators present was that Senator Allen had no desire to pass the bill , but simply wishes to open a silver discussion . When Senator Platt of Connecticut was asked whether he thought it possible for the Republicans to pass a tariff bill at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass a bill with thirty-eight votes ? " A large party of woolen manufacturers is here to urge the passage of the Dingley bill . They say that unless the tariff on woolen goods is increased now their opportunities for profitable filling of orders will be lost for a whole year ; that orders are placed at this time of the year for the Spring season , and that postponement of action until Spring will deprive them of the chance now presented of securing a market for goods and the employment of large numbers of persons . A delegation of fifty members of the Manufacturers ' Club of Philadelphia arrived here to-night to urge upon the Senate the passage of the Dingley bill . They will visit the Capitol to-morrow in pursuance of their object .                     