@@673377

txt There are more honest men in Brooklyn than there are rogues , no matter how many fraudulent voters , corrupt police officials , and dishonest election officers may be included in the latter category . If Brooklyn 's honest men will only perform , with their whole heart , the task which rests upon them the reign of the rogues will , on election day , reach a violent and an immediate end Brooklyn is encouraged in its survey of the outlook by memories of the tremendous obliterating , annihilating defeat of the Tweed ring . Up to the very last moment it appeared that everything was in the hands , at the mercy , at the disposition of Tweed and his fellow-bandits . He owned the courts , he owned the police , he owned the Legislature , he owned the Aldermen , he owned the heads of departments , and all the tremendous enginery of the local Government . But the honest men desired their own again , and got it . Tweed died in jail . His stolen money vanished like leaves before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Pasha 's household , died in their youth . One of his sons died in a lunatic asylum The other vanished . And the honest m -- n got their own again by voting for his downfall . It is believed by veteran political observers that the more lurid and vulgar ring of Brooklyn can , and will , in like manner be dissipated , like a poisonous cloud , if the voters of the city do their duty . With the broken ring will vanish the despicable controls which have made the various public departments mere weapons of the ring . Among these departments is the police , which , like that of Tweed , is dominated absolutely by the " machine " and is one of its cogwheels . The attitude of this department toward the battle for restoration of popular rights and belongings is best illustrated by this anecdote : The transparencies of the Eighth Ward branch of the Brooklyn Democratic Club , at 623 and 6231/2 Fourth Avenue , were destroyed by a gang of the " ring 's " ruffians Wednesday night Members of the club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notified the police and asked for protection in advance of the outrage . After the members of the club went home Wednesday night the gang raided their headquarters and induced the watchman to open the doors . Then the transparency inside and the one outside were torn down and destroyed Edward A. Curley , J. J. Morrison , and another man called at Police Headquarters yesterday and saw Deputy Police Commissioner Dallon , the official trombonist in ordinary to the " ring , " to whom they rehearsed the facts . " We demand protection from the police , " Mr. Curley said . " You can have protection , if you request it , " said Mr. Dallon , sternly , " but you must not demand it . " The attitude of Superintendent Patrick Campbell of the same Police Department toward the fraudulent-vote outrage is thus defined by that aged and amiable officer himself : " I have n't had any order from any one with regard to those matters , " said the Superintendent yesterday , " consequently , I have done nothing about it If I receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so , but not otherwise . No complaints have come to me , and I have no authority to move without instructions , or orders . " The spectacle of the amiable and aged Police Superintendent of Brooklyn waiting anxiously in his comfortable easy chair for the order which he confidently expects from , that trumpet-toned order to move which never arrives , is really a pathetic one . Colonizers have trooped into their rat holes . " Slick young thieves from the Bowery , " as testified to by an Italian observer on Atlantic Street , ' are roosting unchallenged in ten-cent lodging houses in the interest of the ring . " Public officials are , without interference , harboring " lodgers , " unknown by name to their wives and their domestics . Brooklyn has become as full of conspirators against the franchise as a warren full of rabbits . Most remarkable of all , the " floater " vote has become a topic of hourly conversation and calculation among the henchmen of the ring . Superintendent Campbell himself may be as fully apprised of the atrocious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , but all he would say yesterday when disturbed in his posture of expectation was : " If I receive any instructions to move in the matter , I shall do so , but not otherwise . I have no authority to move in the matter without instructions or orders . " The orders this worthy and venerable officer expects are orders from the Police Commissioners , and probably suggestions from " Boss " and Mayor Boody . But these " regular " Democrats have carefully refrained from making any protest against illegal registration . Superintendent Byrnes of New-York , on the other hand , is a self-propelling police machine . He does not ask for " orders " and " instructions " when he is advised the law is being violated . He has no programme which he carries out . He acts . He called a meeting of his subordinate commanders a few days ago , and , instead of delivering himself of a dull homily on the necessity of seeing that public peace is preserved , said the law against illegal voting must be and shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made responsible for his district and bidden to carry out the mandates of his chief . Speaking of the tramps , &c.; who falsely register their votes unprevented and unintimidated , as they do in Brooklyn , Mr. Byrnes said of their kind in New-York : " It is just as well to keep tally on these folks , and I have not been idle since the first day of registration , and have not cast aside any rumor of colonizing that has come to me . Will I say if I found any of these rumors tp have foundation ? I answer with , ? Ask Mr. Nicoll . ' I have consulted him from the start as the proper authority- in the circumstance . " Superintendent Byrnes did not wait for anybody 's " orders and " instructions " before he moved . So soon as he had established his ev5clence , from personal observation . he soultt.t District Attorney Nicoll and laid the fruits of his discoveries before that official . Indictments of " floaters " followed that visit . In Brooklyn , Chief Campbell 's friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying any attention to the " rumors of colonization , " which , in New-York , at once set Superintendent Byrnes moving . " Chief Campbell is nothing if not official , " said an independent Democrat last night . " Everything must reach this punctilious stickler in proper form . He has not been officially ordered to investigate the cheap lodging houses , and he has not visited them . He has not been officially instructed to hunt un the ' floater ' vote , and he has let it alone . Nobody has commanded him officially to mot 's , and the good old man stands stock still . It is time that this amiable , easy-going old man should be replaced by a younger and more active man . In New-York , Superintendent Byrnes has found it in the line of his duty to visit the office of District Attorney Nicoll to consult with him . Superintendent Campbell , in Brooklyn , has displayed his sagacity by keeping away from District Attorney Ridgway . It is only fair to the latter Superintendent to state that in Brooklyn that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Superintendent Byrnes has done without ' getting an order from the Police Commissioners . If Mr. Campbell were to do in Brooklyn all that Mr. Byrnes does in New-York , he would draw down upon himself the unbounded rage of his superiors . " The honest men of Brooklyn need not abate their heart of grace because the rogues are active and the officers who are charged with putting them down do nothing , " said Col. Bacon yesterday . " If the honest men will do their duty on election day , it will not only be the rascals who will be annihilated . The officials who protect them and the officials who let them alone will all go down with them in the crash of ruin . " The Bureau of Election officials are as apathetic as the police . A reporter for The New-York Times inquired at the bureau yesterday whether the Commissioners of Elections had taken measures to ascertain who the men were whose names do not appear in the Directory of Brooklyn , and whom , nevertheless , they had appointed registrars , inspectors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 600 election districts in Brooklyn . Commissioners Cotton , Republican , and Russell , Democrat , said they had not . They had trusted implicitly in the honesty of the leaders and officers of the ward organizations of both parties , who had dictated the appointments . They had no means of ascertaining whether the addresses given were correct or not , as the appointments were made , in every case , upon recommendations of the party leaders . " Do you intend to take measures to find out whether the men live at the addresses they have sworn to in their application for appointment ? " they were asked . They answered : " No , we do not . There is no precedent nor necessity for it . "                     