@@673834

txt The absence of direct information to-day bearing on the various foreign complications in which the United States is more or less interested has started the gossips to talking again . A number of stories are afloat relating to the alleged attitude of the AdToinitration . There was a regular meeting of the Cabinet to-day , and the gossips have it that a difference of opinion developed between the President and Secretary Gresham regarding the Alliances affair- and the general foreign policy . As the Cabinet meetings are not held with open doors , and the members of the Cabinet have not shown lately a disposition to depart from the plan of secrecy which they have adhered to so rigidly since March , 1893 , the value of this and kindred reports easily may be estimated . It would be strange if the Venezuelan , the Nicaraguan , the Peruvian , and the Spanish troubles should not be considered by Mr. Cleveland and his advisers , - and stranger still if the untenable position assumed by the Spanish Minister should be ignored . There is no evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the matters now occupying public attention So far as the Allianca affair is concerned , no step will be taken at present to enforce the demand for reparation contained in Mr. Gresham 's dispatch to Minister Taylor . It Is known at the State Department that the Spanish Government is confronted with serious danger of a revolution at home , and , in the circumstances , it is not regarded as necessary that the Spaniards should be forced to take a position with regard to the Allianca outrage which it is believed ? they voluntarily will assume , if sufficient time shall be given them . If Spain was not now dealing with revolutionists in Cuba and would-be revolutionists at home , it is more than likely that Mr. Gresham 's first dispatch to Minister Taylor would have been followed before this by a peremptory demand for haste on the part of the Spanish Government . The Muruaga. incident possibly remains in abeyance . because of the disposition to do nothing to add to Spain 's difficulties . Sefior Muruaga has been as silent as the grave to-day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to criticise the Administration , now ' have great difficulty in approaching him , and the most that he will say is that he does not care to be inter-Viewed . The contention between Great Britain and Nicaragua is not worrying the State Department . Great Britain is assumed to be anxious only to induce Nicaragua to pay indemnity for the banishment of British citizens from the republic . It has not been contended that the Monroe doctrine was enunciated with the idea of aiding Central American or South American republics in evading responsibilities which they might bring upon themselves by ill-advised action . Nobody with knowledge of the situation is alarmed over the unsupported statement of aafew jingoists that Great Britain proposes to take possession of Nicaraguan territory . No dispatches were received by the State Department to-day , according to a high officer , . bearing on the situation in any of the countries in which trouble is apprehended . The Hawaiian mail steamer has not yet reached San . Francisco . Pending her arrival , Minister Thurston preserves strict silence on the subject of his falling out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to take the Windward Passage on her way to join Admiral Meade 's fleet has given rise to speculation regarding the probable fate of a Spanish war ship which might mistake her for a merchantman and try to make her heave to . The Columbia is pretty well known in Southern waters , and there - is little likelihood that any of the commanders of the Spanish vessels would fall into error concerning her identity . In view of the long list of Spanish aggressions in Cuban waters on American merchantmen , such an error doubtless would be relished by American shipowners trading in those waters , and possibly by the men on the Columbia                     