@@672378

txt It has just come out to-day that the majority in the House NA:Tose to out short discussion on the Tariff bill by caucus action . At the close of the caucus Thursday night a resolution was introduced providing that , after the Tariff bill is taken up in the Committee of the Whole for discussion , the speeches shall be limited to members of the Ways and Means Committee and such members of the House as they may select , to whom they will yield the portion of time allotted to them . The rule is to control the majority and the minority alike . That is an indication that it is the intention of the leading men on the Republican side to fix a limit of time for consideration of the bill before proceeding with the de . bate . The resolution was not acted upon , but it was the understanding that it was to be brought up again in the caucus to be held Minday night . This will be as hard on the Massachusetts delegation as it will on the Democrats , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxed hides and increased duties on wool . It will also be regarded as a hardship by those opponents of tree art who do not believe in approving the free-art clause , Just to put a feather in Minister Reid 's diplomatic oap , and who expected to have the free-art clause stricken out , after a long ? and lively debate . The Washington ** will to-morrow print a statement by the Hon. William L. Wilson of West Virginia , one of the best men of the Democratic Party In the House of Representatives , and who was recently chosen to be Chairman of the Democratic League . He Rives some opinions on the bill , and leading topics of discussion in Congress that are expressed with clearness and spirit . As to the bill he says : " What do I think of the billl Why , that it ought to have its title changed . It should be coated ? A bill to bamboozle the farmer , pay oft the Republican debts of the last campaign , and provide for the expenses of the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a duty of 15 per cent . on hides to hoodwink the farmer , who will not get the benefit of it So far it alleges to protect the agriculturist , yet it outs the duty on sugar , which is a blow at the planter . " One would imagine that , if the Republican Party really desired to protect any farm laborer. it would certainly take care of the poor negro . It is the negro who makes the sugar crop of Louisiana . When it is a question of protecting him in his right of suffrage , which they claim is abridged , the land rings with their appeals in his behalf . But he has no place in a Republican tariff bill , made to catch votes , or to sow the seed of a campaign corruption fund . They expect to gain no political advantage in Louisiana , and sate nothing for the negro votes in that locality . They must make a show of reduction , so they out sugar as an interest out of which no fat can be fried for the corruption fund @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I find that home wool has brought better prices , as a rule , under moderate tariffs , than under high protective tariffs . This has been the ease in Europe as well as in America . Some years ago Mr. A. H. Rice of Massachusetts stated the case in the House  --  it was in April , 1860  --  and gave the statistics to prove that , when wool under 20 per cent abroad was free , although the importations were heavy , yet the prices of domestic wools were higher . This was because of an increased consumption . He also made the significant statement that New-England manufacturers asked no increase of tariff over the very low rates then existing . It is certain that free wool should increase the pries of domestic wool because of increased demand . The duty proposed in the bill is admen prohibitory for certain elasisee . Then to compensate the manufacturer the duty on woolen goods is to be increased . In fact , in nearly every case . the consumer is to be taxed an additional sum solely in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read Speaker Reed 's speech and noted that ho said that the Republican Party would pass a tariff bat which would be satisfactory to the people . Mr. Reed speaks in the very teeth of history . No proteotiv party has ever passed a satisfactory tariff bill , and none ever will or can . Every protective tariff bill passed has been followed immediate . ly by agitation for its repeaL Protection is like the drinking habit  --  the more you take of it the more you want , and the lees able are you to bear it , until finally a collapse must come . A satisfactory protective tariff is au ' impossibility . The people at large are never satisfied with it . All the protected latexes &; do not get an equal share , and even those which get the lion 's share want more . " The fact is , the only tariff that ever satisfied the people was the Democratic Walker tariff of 1846 , That was a genuine revenue tariff , and , although it was fiercely fought and ' the prediction made by Web @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary expenses of the Governments it proved so successful that it became necessary still further to reduce it eleven years afterward , and the reduction was not even made a party issue . That revenue tariff took the tariff question out of politics entirely , never to reappear until the Republican Party resurrected it . " So satisfactory was this Democrat 's revenue tariff that the great men of manufacturing New-England finally yielded support to it , and Mr. Seward , a leader of Republican thought in his day , said in 1857 that party polities did not enter into the consideration of the question at all . I wish I had the time to give you the statistics . It is enough to say , however , that under that tariff the country entered upon a eareer of development and prosperity that astoniehed the world . " There is only one way to get the tariff Ism out of politics again , and that is to pass a Revenue Tariff bill . The agitation will go on until that Is accomplished , and it will be , sooner or later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to which all others are subordinate . Republican extravagance , political methods , outrages against suffrage , partisan election laws , and corrupt and useless expenditures are issues , of course , in some of which the people do not take so much interest as they ought . but the question of taxation of the many for the benefit of the few is the issue in which the people are most interested . " After enumerating a number of pledges that have been broken by the party , Mr. Wilson says : " And ' what has become of their platform pledges to the cause of ' civil service reform ' They are violated every day in the year , and many times In every day . Removals are being made constantly without other cause than that the places are wanted for Republicans who have done service to the party or to the appointing power . Thirty-five thousand Republican Postmasters have been appointed . and that , too , either for personal political motives on the part at the appointing power or at she suggestion of Republican Senators and Representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remove charwomen and negro messengers and watchmen to make room for Republicans , and competent chiefs of divisions innumerable have been dismissed or degraded to make room for inexperienced or lees efficient clerks whose politics better suited department or bureau chiefs . " Will trey pass the partisan election laws 9 Certainly they will . True It is that there has been a great deal of idle talk about several Republican monikers supposed to have tender political consciences , but there is nothing In it Whatever is agreed upon in caucus will be sealed with the sanction of the law by President , House , and Senate . The Spring elections , so far from turning theta out of the path , will only make them the more determined to pursue it , and every device that ingenuity can invent to take elections out of the hands of the people and put them under the control of Federal officials and Federal returning boards will be adopted . "                     