@@674816

txt The Times publishes this morning a two-column letter from an American correspondent , dated Washington , May 23 , in which the writer says : " Let us publish a bit of disagreeable truth , as it will do us no harm in the long run , much as it may excite anger for the moment . Although America must have known a year ago that war was inevitable , her army is not fit to move . It is much like that of France immediately before the war of 1870 . With this difference , that the American troops have confidence in their immediate superiors . " The writer continues with a serious indictment of the " terrible condition " and " lack of organization " at Camp Tampa , which he says is " largely due to red tapeisrn at Washington or to that military appendage misnamed the staff . " He comments on the fact that " in a hot and pestiferous climate men are compelled to wear Winter clothing , eat Winter rations  --  fat pork and beans , with no fruit or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh fruits and vegetables are going North to the NEW York and Chicao markets . He declares that " from drummer boy to Colonel the army is of excellent materi.0 and says he would not know where to seek braver men or more Intelligent officers , but " a painfully large number of officers have been given commissions for purely political reasons , and they command but little respect at the hands of their men . " While the Spanish Army is , in his opinion , a formidable fighting machine , he doubts whether 10,000 American troops could now be sent to Cuba in " proper condition , " and he asserts that " no machinery exists whereby such an army could operate as a single united command . " He goes on to say : " The American press , with rare exceptions , hushes up the seamy side of the war , partly from ignorance and partly from deliberate purpose . The class of men sent to the front to report military operations are the same as would be sent to investigate a divorce scandal or a negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and professional secrecy keeps the mouth of the soldier shut , a member of the Cabinet has confided to me that he is opposed to sending troops to Cuba until in a I fit condition , but that it is impossible to oppose the popular clamor . " The letter concludes as follows : " If President would tell the people the facts honestly , he might be defeated in Congress ; but he would have the satisfaction of having done his duty . "                     