@@672428

txt There is a feeling among the leading Democrats of the city to-day , that the Hendricks unveiling yesterday was taken very unfair advantage of by New-York 's Governor , Hill , to boom his Presidential chances , and by Indiana 's ex-Governor , Gray , to boom his Vice Presidential chances ; and there have been many expressions of disgust at what was really a breach of hospitality on one hand , and a sly little game on the other . The invitation sent to Gov . Hill was identical with that sent to every other person whom it seemed necessary to invite to the unveiling exercises , and there was no good reason to expect that Mr. Hill would do more than formally to acknowledge receipt of the card sent him by the committee . The small part of the business seems to have been done by ex-Gov . Gray , who is ever alert to the promotion of his own political chances . The Hendricks Club was very nice to Mr. Hill , because , with the recollection of an imaginary animosity between Mr. Cleveland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seemed the proper thing to do as well by Mr. Hill as possible while he visited upon Hoosier soil . Then Mr. Gray and his son pulled the wires that connect with the ex-Governor 's own personal organization , the Gray Club , and that band of patriots turned out to do honor to Mr. Hill , whose favor was desired by Mr. Gray . Thus the size of the Hill boom in Indiana is easily gauged . It was a one-day boom , and the local Democracy woke up this morning to realize that it had been " worked " not so much by Gov . Hill as by his wily friend , Isaac P. Gray . The unfortunate ? Hill complexion that was given by Gray and his friends to the Hendricks memorial exercises was a peculiarly ungenerous one to Judge John A .. Holman , the prime mover in the work of securing funds forthe monument . Judge Holman ift a gentleman who stands high in this community for broad culture and gentlemanly qualities . He has been interested . In the economic and civic reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name , and to find himself standing sponsor , as it were , for Hill 's baptism with the water of the Wabash has not made him feel kindly toward those who duped him . The speech which Gov . Hill delivered before the Hendricks Club last night , purporting to be extemporaneous , was a carefully-prepared bit of oratory written at Albany . The manuscript was given to the press agents here and to such Correspondents as wanted it . One enterprising press agent secured what appeared to be the Only available copy , and Mr. Hill 's secretary did some lively skirmishing to see that all the naTiers desiring the speech should have it . The Sentinel , the State Democratic organ , a warm Cleveland advocate , gave scant mention to the Hendricks Club boom party , and published but brief extracts of the Hill speech . Mr. entrance Into politics in Indiana was decidedly unfortunate in a most essential particular , and that is as to the friends into whose hands he fell . The Gray variety of Democracy is of a kind that is passing out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is facetiously styled by the derisive appellation of the " unwashed . ' it belong Mr.Eeon Bailey , known as " Tomtit " and a tin-horn politician , quite rivaling the Republican Tin Horn and Peanut Club ' that so enthusiastically boomed Harrison during the last campaign . Sim Coy , the tally:sheet forger , who did time for his sins in behalf of the slum politicans who ran the County Democracy hero for a few years , is another one of the Gray Democracy , which , further interpreted , means the Hill Democracy . " Goose " Edon is ex-Convict Coy 's right-hand man . Coy was running his saloon yesterday and could not participate in the Hill reception , so the Job devolved . upon Eden . Mr. Cleveland refused to pardon Coy when that worthy aim his colleague , Eernharaer , were in the Michigan City Penitentiary , which may account for the unfriendly feeling which these delectable spirits cherish toward Mr. Cleveland . It may be worth while to mention that what Mr. Cleveland would not do Mr. Harrison has done , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two tally forgers were pardoned . It is a well understood fact that all the political ambition that Mr. has lies in keeping Gray clown . Gray 's friends attempted to effect a reconciliation about six months ago , which was announced as an accomplished thing , but halt night 's proceedings reveal the old enmity still alive . If Mr. arc-Donald had not coins home Gray - would have been cook of the wallc , but the sagacious exSenater came home in time to keep Gray away from the door of Hill 's bosom . Mr. 's antipathy to Gray and the Gray crowd is the natural distrust that a man of learning has for a fellow-citizen who permits ambition to drift into hoggishness. and whose rhetorical accomplishments are as unspeakable as those of a Bowery boy . To-day , after the heat had cooked it and boiled it down , the swing into the Hoosier circle by Mr. Hill seemed a good dual smaller than it was last night . Tho sine unwashed hand of Mr. Gray is seen to have been manipulating the wires , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-convict. are revealed as his assistants . Some of the best class of Democrats were dragged into the thing , as were some worthy and estimable Republicans , but the indecent turning of the day into a hill and Gina. , rally was inspired and executed by Gray and son alone .                     