@@781118

txt Two men giving their names as Dunlop and Turner and describing themselves as " gentlemen servants , " were arraigned in the Marlborough Street Police Court yesterday , charged with having in their possession twenty-eight diamonds , aggregating ? 3,000 in value , for which they were unable to give any satisfactory account . Dunlop said they had got the diamonds from an old Hebrew in Halton Garden .. Turner said he was last employed by a gentleman in New-York , and had left that situation in February last . The men were remanded for a week without bail . Police Inspector Froest searched the lodgings of the men , and found there jewelry worth ? 30,000 . It is pretty clearly established that the jewels are the proceeds of the robbery of the residence of I. Townsend Burden , in New-York , in December last . Inspector Froest said to-day that he had often seen Dunlop and Turner within the last few days in the neighborhood of Bond Street . From their dress , manner , and general appearance he thought there was something suspicious about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertain their character . He had not expected , however , to find the Burden robbers , and , as a matter of fact , had no description of them . The circumstances were that he and Inspector Hare virtually seized them without any particular pretext , and searched them in the street . They found two packets of diamonds in Dunlop 's breast pocket , and , after locking their prisoners up , went to their lodgings , where they found ? 30,000. worth of jewelry and diamonds , many of the gems being loose stones , a quantity of which were contained in chamois leather belts . Inspectors Froest and Hare believe they have secured the entire proceeds of the Burden robbery , and a claim for the reward has been sent by them to Mr. Burden'a solicitors . Dunlop and Turner on Wednesday visited the establishment of Streeter &; Co. , jewelers and lapidaries , at IS New Bond Street , and offered several gems for sale . Mr. Streeter recognized the value of the stoner and noticed that some of them had been removed from settings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable him to better appraise their value . Dunlop and Turner agreed to have the stones cleaned , and a meeting was arranged be ' tween them and Mr. Streeter for yesterday . These facts and the ignorance of precious stones displayed by the would-be vendors excited Mr. Streeter 's suspicion , and he I communicated with the police . Dunlop and Turner kept their appointment , but Mr. Streeter refused to purchase the gems . Policemen were waiting outside , and the two men had hardly left the shop when they were arrested . This version of the circumstances that led to the arrest discredits the story told by Inspector Froest , who was apparently trying to impress-the reporters that the capture was due solely to his acumen . There is no doubt that his version was incorrect and that the arrests would not have been made had it not been for Mr. Streeter 's suspicion that the men were trying to dis ? pose of stolen goods .                     