@@781019

txt The instructions issued by the Secretary of the Navy to the United States squadron on the coast of Chile at the be-ginning of the Chilean disturbance have been made public . Secretary Tracy says that " these instructions have been rigorously adhered . to thronghout . In no single instance have they been departed from . They prove conclusively that the charges of partiality made by the Eng-lish newspapers are untruths , and that they have been invented In order to prejudice the Chileans against the United States for com-mercial purposes . " The instructions are as follows : NAVY DEPARTMENT , WASHINGTON , March 26 , 1891 . SIR : When the ' United States flagship San Francisco is ready for sea . you will proceed with her to the waters of Chile . South America . relieve Rear Admiral W. P. McCann of the command of that part of the Pacific station , and protect American interests . The duty thus imposed upon you calls for the exercise of groat discretion . owing to the Stoppage of communication the department is without authentic details in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will therefore be compelled to rely chiefly upon your own judgment in the execution of its orders in view of the facts as you shall ascertain . them . The Chilean Minister at Washington has sent the following communication to the Department of State : " I regret to inform you of a revolt of a division of the navy of the Repnblic of Chile in the portgof Valparaiso on the 7th of this mouth . My Government has declared the revolted squadron outlawed , and instructs mu to infurrn you that it is not answerable for the note of the rebels in regard to foreigners or citizens . " On the 4th of March the department sent to Rear Admiral McCann , by telegraph , the following in- ' structions in cipher ; Insurgent vessels . although outlawed by Chilean Government , are not pirates unless committing acts of piracy . Observe strict neutrality . Take no part in troubles further than to protect American interests . Take whatever measures are necessary to Prevent injury by insurgent vessels to lives or property of American citizens , including American telegraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens and property are removed , using force , if necessary , only as a last resort and when serious injury is threatened . American vessels seized by the insurgents without satisfactory compensation are liable to be recovered forcibly , but you should investigate matter fully before taking extreme measures , and use every precaution to avoid such measures if possible . " As a further and more oxpiloit guide for your action , you are directed : 1 . To abstain from any proceedings which shall be in the nature of assistance to either party in the present disturbance , or from which sympathy with either party could be inferred . 2 ; In reference to the ships which have been deolared outlawed by the Chilean Government , if such ships attempt to commit injuries or depredations upon the persons or property of Americans . you are authorized and directed to iuterfere in whatever way may be deemed necessary to prevent such acts : but you are not to interfere except for the protection of the lives or property of American citizens . 3 . Vessels or other property belonging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurgents upon the high seas , and for which no just settlement or compensation has been made , are liable to forcible recovery ; but the facts should be ascertained before proceeding to extreme measures , and all effort made to avoid such measures . 4 . Should the bombardment of any place by which the lives or property of Americans nifty be endangered be attempted or threatened by such ships , you will . if and when your force is sullielent for the purpose , require them to refrain from bombarding the place until sufficient time has been allowed for placing American life and property in safety . You will enforce this demand if it is refused , and . if it is granted , proceed to give effect to the measures necessary fur the security of such lite or property . 5 . In reference to the granting of asylum , your ships will not , of course . be made a refuge for criminals . In the case of persons other than criminals they will afford abetter wherever it may be needed , to Americans first of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as the claims of humanity may require and the service upon which you are engaged will permit . The obligation to receive political refugees and to afford them an aaylutu is , in general , one ut pure humanity . It Should nor he continued beyoml the urgent necessities of the situation . and should in no case become the means whereby the plans of contending actions or their leaders are facilitated . You are not to invite or encourage Mich refugees to come on board your ship . but sleitild they apply to you your action will 1k governed by considerations of humanity and the exigencies of the service upon which you are engaged . When , however , a political refugee has embarked iu the territory of a third power ou board an American ship as a passenger for purposes of innocent transit , and it appears upon the entry of ouch ship into the territorial waters that his lite is in danger , it is your duty to extend to him an offer of asylum . 6 . Referring to Paragraph 18 , Page 137 , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows : If any vessel shall be taken acting as a vessel of war or a privateer without having proper commis-sion so to act , the ( ) Ricers and crew shall be conslt1 cred as pirates and treated accordingly . " ) you are informed that this paragraph does not refer to vessels acting in the interests or insurgents and directing their hostilities solely against the State whose aulhorily they have disputed . It Is only when such vessels commit piratical acts that they are to be treated its pirates , and unless their acts are of such a character or are directed against the persons or property et Americans , you are not authenzol to interfere with them . 7 . In all cases where it becomes necessary to take forcible measures force will only be used as a last resort , anti then only to this extent which is neces-sary to street the object in view . ' The United States steamier Baltimore , now on route to the Pacific , is assigned to duty on the station under your command . Very respectfully . B. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BROWN . United States Navy . United States flagship San Francisco . Navy Yard , Mare Island , Cal . The proclamation of neutrality issued by Admiral McCann was as follows : GENERAL ORDER NO. 2 . UNITED STATES STE/Own PENSACOLA . SECOND ? RATE , FLAGSHIP SOUTH ATLANTIC AND SOUTH PACIFIC STATIONS , Tst , cAttrANo , Chile . Feb. 22 , ISSI . The Commander in Chief cautions and enjoins the officers and enlisted men  --  of the United States naval force on the west coast of South Anierica to abstain from discussing or criticising the present unfortunate state of affairs in Chile , and in no way to es . press any sentiments or opinions , either favorable or unfavorable to either side . Vt hile it becomes our duty to maintain the strictest neutrality in all our relations , it is also to our interest and to the credit of the service and our Government to refrain froth any expressions that can possibly be construed as an offense by either party . Officers and enlisted men are , therefore , ordered to be most guarded and careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs in this country with any persons outside of the United N , States Naval Service . W. P. AfcCAN Rear Admiral , United States Navy , commanding United States Naval Force , South Atlantic and South Pacific Stations .                     