@@673495

txt Assistant District Attorney Fagan said to-night : " I was summoned to-day at 3 o'clock to a conference with Gov . Flower with regard to election crimes committed last Tuesday , and , after a long consultation with the Governor . I was intrusted with full charge of the prosecution of these crimes and urged to use every effort to bring the guilty parties to justice . The Governor insisted that I should have full charge of these matters , and he further said that he would render me all assistance possible . I accepted the responsibility and assured the Governor that the cases would be probed to the very bottom and that nothing would be hidden or concealed . I intend in the furtherance of justice and for the purpose of giving all parties satisfaction to require Mr. Frank S. Black and Mr. Seymour Van Santvoord to associate themselves with me in the prosecution . I shall see to it as far as it lies within my power that every man connected in any way with the commission of these dastardly crimes shall be brought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misdeeds . I shall require Messrs . Black and Van Santvoord to begin immediately and co-operate with me in all matters connected with the prosecution of these cases . It is necessary that work should be done quickly and fearlessly and that nothing be left undone to punish all who are in any way criminally responsible for the commission of these grave crimes . " District Attorney Kelly said to-night : " On account of the pressure of work in the District Attorney 's office , I have authorized my assistant , Mr. Fagan , to take complete charge of the cases arising out of the crimes cothnlitted on election day and to prosecute the cases to the end . Mr. Fagan has agreed to undertake this work , and he will have sole responsibility for the prosecutions and will have the entire power of the District Attorney 's office to aid him . " The inquest relative to the killing of Robert Ross on election day will be begun on Wednesday morning by Coroner Collins , in the County Court room . About seventyfive witnesses have been supoenaed . Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he appointed two School Commissioners to fill vacancies . Five of the seven members of that board are now regarded as anti-Murphy members . Mayor Whelan also appointed a Police Commissioner , who is opposed to Murphy .                     