@@675074

txt The friends of the Biennial Sessions bill make a mistake in speaking always in a slurring tone of those who oppose it . Opposition is not by any means confined to the keepers of hotels and restaurants in Albany or to politicians who covet the salaries and the opportunities of the annual session . This is a large State , with vast and complex interests and a great deal of public business . Emergencies frequently arise which demand prompt legislation . Towns and cities require authority for works of urgency , remedial legislation is asked to repair the omissions of previous laws , and unforeseen contingencies call for legislative action in circumstances which admit of no remote postponement . Twice since 1885 the Legislature has been summoned in special session . The public business could not wait even for the convening of the members in the regular annual session . Before the enactment of our present charter , which confers a very large and , if rightly understood and employed , a sufficient power of home rule , it would have been inexpedient to adopt . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid a growth and develops so many and such pressing needs that the comfort and prosperity of its people would have been seriously impaired by a reform that would have compelled them to wait from , say , April in one year to January of the second year following for authority to spend money in paving streets or providing additional water supply . Now that half the population of the State enjoy under the new charter the right of local self-government a biennial sessions amendment is a much less serious matter . The rapacity and spurious Puritanism of the rural statesmen will have less frequent opportunity for exercise in forays against the peace and purse of the urban population , and timid corporations will not have to " give up " quite so much money to Albany " strikers . " But even the rural counties have rights and interests which ought to be carefully considered before the amendment is sent to the people for their approval .                     