@@673718

txt The Honolulu correspondent of the United Press , writing under date of Nov. 10 , per steamer Australia , says : " About ten days ago the Japanese Commissioner wrote to Foreign Minister Hatch , complaining that , as reported by the newspapers , Minister Thurston had said at Washington that ' it was desired to root out the Japanese and Chinese in Hawaii , ' and he wished to be informed whether this Government cherished any such policy toward the Japanese . " After some delay , Mr. Hatch made reply , in substance , that the reported newspaper interview could scarcely be an adequate basis for diplomatic inquiries ; that the Government did not believe Mr. Thurston made any such statement as that alleged , and that the Government did desire to substitute importations of European laborers in place of those from Japan and Asia , but this was totally different from any desire to root out or molest the Japanese laborers resident here . " Since the adoption of the Constitution of the republic the tone of the Japanese representative has become increasingly unfriendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , while no ground of complaint is given by any exception of Japanese , as such , from the voting privileges , yet they are practically left with no share in the suffrage , an equality which the Commissioner had previously demanded for them . An increasingly fractious and insubordinate disposition in the Japanese laborers has seriously alarmed both the planters and the Government . As fresh importations of Japanese have gone on , a few years more might render the Japanese a majority of the population . With the great political ambition and martial qualities of those people , they are liable to attempt to substitute a Government of their own for the existing one . It is felt that such an increase of their numbers must be prevented in time . " The police have discovered some activity among a section of the royalists in plotting to restore the Queen , It is learned that a newspaper correspondent going East is to represent . it in high colors as a dangerous combination . Those engaged in the plot are chiefly white men , the natives taking-no part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and will easily crush the slightest attempt to carry them out . " The British war vessel , Hyacinth , which was to have sailed to Marquesas a week ago , has indefinitely postponed sailing . This is rumored to be on account of the apprehended disturbance he ? e. "                     