@@674503

txt The sea is a place of mysteries , and not the least of them are the chances which are taken sometimes by those who ought from experience to know better : The dangers of fog and ice in the neighborhood of the Grand Banks are thoroughly well known , and years ago the old Inman Line adopted the wise rule that during the months of southerly ice drift their steamers should cross the fiftieth meridian of longitude , which cuts the extreme southern end of the banks , in latitude 40 degrees 30 minutes north . This made the passage somewhat longer , because it compelled the steamers to steer due east from Sandy Hook for more than 1,000 miles . This prevented the ships from making any northing till the fiftieth meridian was astern , and lengthened the voyage a little . But the increase was trifling compared with the security obtained , for the latitude named is well below the ice limit . Only a degree and a half further north ice is frequently reported at this season , and as the ice comes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the banks , the more likely they are to fall in with it . Yet the bulletins of the Hydrographic Office show a remarkable lack of precaution on the part of officers commanding Atlantic vessels . The bulletin for the week ending May 19 contains twenty-one reports of ice sighted in the central division of the field , extending from the fifty-second to the forty-eighth meridian . An inspection of these reports shows that all of the vessels which sighted ice were to the northward of the safe limit prescribed by the Inman Line . One ship reports that in latitude 42 degrees S minutes , longitude 50 degrees 50 minutes , she passed a large berg , and in latitude 42 degrees 35 minutes , longitude 49 degrees 30 minutes , she saw six large ones and several small ones . Another vessel in latitude 41 degrees 56 minutes , longitude 49 degrees 35 minutes , passed a berg 90 feet high and 800 feet long ; a third , in latitude 43 degrees 25 minutes , longitude 49 degrees 53 minutes , passed a berg 300 feet long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship , in latitude 48 degrees 10 minutes , longitude 46 degrees 6 minutes , entered field ice , with occasional small bergs , extending to latitude 47 degrees 59 minutes , longitude 48 degrees 50 minutes , where the field ice was heavy and she was surrounded by fifty or sixty good-sized bergs . Other ships report similar experiences . It is perfectly plain from the positions reported by these vessels that they were engaged in the hazardous attempt to cross the Grand Banks in too high latitudes for the sake of shortening the passage by a few more or less valuable miles . It is worthy of note that among these vessels was one of the great liners which yearly carry thousands of passengers in addition to valuable freight and mail . Yet , it is generally the slow-going cargo vessel that takes these chances , for to her the smoothness of Summer seas does not promise exceptional speed . And she is the very craft that gains but little from slowing down in a fog , and is usually the least fit to sustain a collision with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumphantly some years ago ; but no one knows how many vessels have gone to the port of missing ships by that expeditious route . The practice of cutting across the banks in the ice period is , of course , due to the constant pressure brought to bear by owners on Captains to make short passages , and no doubt the glories of a record appeal very strongly to some skippers . But there ought to be some method of compelling companies engaged in the passenger trade , to take safe routes , even if they do have to put up with grumbling on the part of travelers whose haste is greater than their discretion .                     