@@672777

txt At 12:30 o'clock this afternoon two men entered the pay office connected with Spencer 's mine at Dunmore , on the outskirts of Scranton , and after overpowering the foreman , John Brady , and leaving him gagged and blindfolded on the floor , carried off $12,760 in cash that was to be used by Mr. Spencer in paying his miners their September wages to day . The desperate robbers were residents of Dunmore . Charles Engle and a man named Snow . who is a recent arrival in this section . They were in the office within a few feet of Foreman Brady before he realized their presence , and one of them , placing a revolver at his head , swore that be would be a dead man if he attempted to make any resistance . The other man blindfolded Brady , gagged and bound him , and after making him completely helpless , the robbers secured the money , which was dietributea in 158 envelopes , They put it in bags . which they hid under their coats , and left the office as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No one suspected that such a well-known resident of Dunmore as Charles Engle would bo guilty of so desperate a deed , and together with his accomplice , Snow , he walked slowly along an alley leading to his own barn , which is situated iu the heart of the borough . Here ho doubtless thought boldness would lend security to his audacious crime , and he would be free to hide his booty . But Engle 's plan miscarried . He was not more than a few minutes in the barn when the door was burst open by Chief of Police Simpson and Officers Edwards , Roche . Zang . Lewis . COSlett , and Peppard of the Scranton police force . Engle and his accomplice , Snow , surrendered themselves and gave up their booty . They were placed in the city prison , and the money was deposited in the First National Bank . Shortly after this two others , named Bowen and Hollister , were arrested as accessories . Chief Simpson says this robbery was planned months ago by Engle , Snow . Bowen , and Hollister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact . Superintendent Chamberlain had kept a obese watch ever since up to the time the robbery was committed . He had been growing careless of late . and was disposed to think Mere was nothing . after all , in Chief Simpson 's warning . Wore It not that some member of the gang had betrayed its operations to the Chief in advance , the robbers could readily have escaped with their plunder.                     