@@673666

txt The theory suggested by Superintendent Byrnes that such occurrences as highway robbery oh a Street car  --  and there have been others of eqtal outrageousness  --  without interference by the police are due to the policemen 's tear that if they arrest cikendert they *ill get into trouble is hardly worthy of very serious consideration . Of whom are the policemen afraid ? Do they think that the Parkhurst society or the Lexow committee will pursue them for doing their duty ? That is obviously nonsense . Are they So compromised with the criminal classes that they are afraid of arrests being followed by exposure before the committee ? The Superintendent would not admit that , nor do we believe that it is true . It may be that the police are so anxious as to recent exposures that they neglect the duties which they are usually ready to perform . But they can be made to see that extraordinary vigilance arid activity are their best defense against the cOnseqUences of thcise exposures . Certainly a few nitire such occurrences 6 . S * ? had last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is known as the " gas fight- in Brooklyn IS said by those who ought to know to be far from its conclusion . The party generally connected in the public Mind with the Standard Oil Company is now reported to have in Mind the continuance of cut rates until dividends shall vanish and a controlling interests in all the companies shall become attainable at prices that would insure a rich return when the time comes to restore rates . Meanwhile some of the companies are fortifying themselves by seconomy hi the quality and pressure of the gas supplied . There are sections of the city on what is known as " the hill " where the largest burner does not yield sufficient light for the most modest demands . Complaint to the companies secures the usual courteous treatment , but no light , either on the cause of the trouble or from the burners . There is a not unnatural attempt in tome quarters to et-Plain the recent reduction in the force of women in the Treasury Department by the desire of the politicians to secure places for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground for any Stich inference . The reduction is absolute , and IS made in bursilence of the report of the Dockery Commission . Women are selected for discharge because they are found to be least desirable for the work they have to do . We have not hesitated to criticise the treatment of the civil service in the Treasury , Which hat been far from what it should have been , but in this Matter we have found no occasion for criticism .                     