@@673935

txt There may be something in a name , after all . The police boat Joe Blackburn , of the Washington ( D. C. ) harbor service , seems to have taken fire by spontaneous combustion , and is a total loss . It Is reassuring to learn that the sea serpent at present manoeuvring in Long Island Sound has no horns , for there is no telling what havoc he might not create along the beaches if he possessed those dangerous weapons . Being a monster of the mooly Variety , however , there is no reason to suppose the creature to be anything more terrible than an eel afflicted with acromegaly . He is , therefore , an object rather of pity than of terror , and to shoot at him , as certain fishermen did on Saturday near Block Island , is simply an act of heedless cruelty . Fortunately this emphasized worm bears " a charmed life , " which is , on the whole , a more effective protection than even the longest and sharpest of horns would be . The only proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in the fact that when fired upon on his last appearance , he showed no signs of annoyance , and proceeded calmly in a north-northeast by north direction , but as the would-be slayers are certain they hit him twice , and that the bullets rebounded from his hide like a charge of bribery from that of a Far Rockaway Sheriff , no stronger confirmation could be asked , and the probabilities are that the picturesque visitor will outlast the vacation season in good shape . That a steamer bearing the honored name of Philadelphia 's great philanthropist and particularly peaceful gentleman , George W. Childs , should be engaged in filibustering expeditions , and should get herself fired upon by what with only a little exaggeration may be called a man-of-war , is a striking illustration of incongruity . Had this demisemi-piratical ally of the Cuban rebels been named the Senator H. C. Lodge , or the Congressman Boutelle , nobody would have been surprised at her strayings from the paths of virtue and commerce into the byways of warfare and the Florida Keys . A feature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will excite indignant comment is that of the seventeen men composing the crew on the wrecked steamer only three were drowned , the other fourteen , including the Captain , managing to save their own lives . This is a record even worse than that of theElbe , whose commander , at least , placed the safety of his passengers above that of himself , and preferred to die at his post rather than to follow his cowardly subordinates into the hastily launched boats . When the steamer Why Not was wrecked some weeks ago on the coast of Brittany , most of the officers and crew escaped , while a large number of laborers , who had taken passage for the Channel Islands , were left to their fate . Here are three instances within a short space of time that seem to prove a lamentable deterioration in the character of seagoing men , and are in sharp contrast with the heroism that in the past was expected from them almost as a matter of course . Displays of courage and self-sacrifice in moments of disaster on the ocean are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different sort come with discouraging frequency . The explanation of them , without doubt , lies In the fact that the crews of steamships are not sailors in any sense , have but the faintest ideas of discipline , and only too frequently are laborers of the lowest class , without intelligence as without character , and destitute of even a trace of pride in a profession about which they know nothing . With the disappearance of the sailing vessel , the sailor is also disappearing . What the men who are to take his place in the future will be can not now be told , but what they are who , during the present period of transition , man the ordinary " tramps " and to some extent the regular liners , is made obvious by the loss of the Elbe , the Why Not , the Colima , and the Maria P.                     