@@672968

txt The British Royal Commission for the World 's Fair has appointed an Executive Committee , and thereby has greatly strengthened its organization and rendered the dlipatoh of business more easy and satisfactory . The committee is formed of the existing Finance Committee and four other members of the commission . The Finance Committee is composed of the Attorney General , M. P. , Chairman ; Sir Frederick Bramwell , Bart. , D. C. L. , F. R. S. ; Lord Alfred Churchill , N. F. Cobb , F. Biddulph Martin , George Mathey , F. R. S. ; Sir Owen Roberts , M. A. F. S. A. To these gen- , tlemen have been added Sir Frederick Abel . K. C. B. , D. C. L. , D. S .. F. R. S. ; Sir Philip Canliffe Owen , K. C. B. , K. C. IL G. , C. L E. ; James Dredge , and Sir Douglas Gatton , K. C. B. , D. C. L. , F. R. S. Meetings of this Executive Committee are held weekly , when all business connected with this section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to advise the Royal Commission at their frequent meetings upon the executive policy they consider most desirable . Mr. McCormick has achieved a groat victory at Bradford , where the opposition to the fair has been strongest . Mr. John A. Tibbits , United States Consul at Bradford , has written heretofore that it would be needless to try to call a meeting in the interests of the exposition at Bradford , and that Mr. McCormick might expect rather a cold reception should he visit that place . Mr. McCormick has presented through letters to Mr. Tibbits many reasons why the Bradford manufacturers should cease their opposition and send samples of their manufactures to Chicago . These letters have been very generally published in the Yorkshire papers , which fact , with the zealous co-operation of Mr. Tibbits , Was doubtless had much to do with the change of front that has taken place . The Chamber of Commerce has now asked whether Mr. McCormick will not come to Bradford for the purpose of delivering an address to a full meeting , which he has agreed to do at an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think it is safe to say that other manufacturing centres which have hitherto boycotted the exposition will likewise come into line in duo course . The question now will be whether they can get as much space as they would like . There seems to be a misunderstanding here in regard to the marking of prices on foreign goods , which will give rise to considerable dissatisfaction among exhibitors who have been led to apply for space by the statement that they would be allowed to mark the prloes at home on their exhibits .                     