@@781275

txt All Lakewood turned out to-day to sea President-elect Cleveland and party off for Washington . Fully 2,000 persons were at the station . Half the number were ladies , and they were more interested in seeing Mrs. Cleveland and Baby Ruth than the President-elect . It was just 11:45 A. M. when the special train arrived from New-York . On the train were Mr. and Mrs. Don M. Dickinson , Mr. and Mrs. Lamont , Mr. and Mrs. Richard Wasson Gilder . Dr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Bryant , E. C. Benedict and his family , Second Vice President S. A Williams of the New-Jersey Central , Mrs. Williams and Miss Williams , Mr. Cleveland 's stenographer , Robert L. O'Brien , and Mr. E. R. Bacon , President of the Baltimore and Ohio Southwestern Railroad . Engine No. 16-1 brought the train from Jersey City . It was detached from the train and No. 386 was attached to the other end , as the route was baalt as rar as Elizabethport over the same tray t the train bad passed . The train arrived here with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of engines the baggage car preceded the other cars . The train consisted of Engine No. 386. one of the big , powerfu ! , new engines , used for express purposes only by the Central Railroad of NewJersey , special cars Oriental , Monmouth , and Baltimore , and one baggage oar . The Oriental is the private oar of Austin Corbin , and is one of the most sumptuously-furnished oars in the country . It is 76 feet 11 inches long . The exterior is of a brownish-green color , and the artistio paneling of the sides is lightened up with gilded reatoons The platform rails are bright silver , and there is much jeweled glass above the plate windows which has a habit of sparkling In the sunlight . The interior is finished in hand-carved mahogany , and upholstered in silk plush of old-rose tint . The curtains at the windows are of raw silk of an old-rose tint , with golden braid . The carpeting is of dull blue and old rose . The car has an observation room at the roar , a dining room , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . it is lighted by incandescent lights by means of a storage battery . The Monmouth is the Directors ' oar of the Central Railroad of Now-Jersey . It is 75 foot long and has la deep olive green exterior . It is finished inside in quarter sawed oak , and has a large observation room at One end with sage green curtains and red plush upholstery . The Baltimore is the private car or President Myer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad . It is similar to tae oriental lu size and general plan , but is not so rich in its ornamentation . It is furnished in dark red plush , and its exterior is also a dark red . The baggage oar was No. 61. a regular Baltimore and Ohio car . In it wore placed the thirteen trunks and a number of boxes and packages belonging to the Cleveland family . Mr. and Mrs. Cleveland , Baby Ruth , and the nurse started from the Little White House " at 12 o'clock . They rode to the station in the Directors ' ' bus of the Lakewood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ' bus was drawn by four horses driven by George Messerve , the professional whip . Nathan Straus and two of the servants rode to the station with the party . Mrs. Cleveland wore a dark blue wool dross with a tight-fitting Astrakhan jacket and black felt hat . Baby Ruth was in white , with an eiderdown hood . She smiled and waved her hand to the crowds that surrounded the party when the station was reached at 12:0 . ) . It was with difficulty that the party alighted , so close did the crowd press . Mr. Cleveland was the first to step out . He helped out the nurse with Baby Ruth , and Mr. Straus assisted Mrs. Cleveland . The crowd on tho station platform parted slightly and Mrs. Cleveland led the way to the train . The others followed , with Mr. Cleveland last . Be was cheered from the moment he alighted from the carriage until he was on the train . Every one in the front ranks of the crowd shook hands with him as he slowly made his way across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car there were more cheers and shouts for a speech . Mr. Cleveland stood for a moment with his hat in his hand , bowing to the crowd , and then entered the Oriental , into which the others had preceded him . Then Mr. Prawl , the conductor , waved his hand and shouted " All aboard 1 " and Engineer George B. Houston pulled the lever and the train moved out of the station on its journey to Washington at 12:13 P. M. A parting cheer wont up from the crowd and a score of camera fiends pressed the button as the trip began . RED BAaE , N. J. , March 2 . ? Over 500 people gathered at the Red Bank station this noon to catch a glimpse of the Presidential party on its way to the inauguration . It had been given out that the train would stop here for six minutes . The train slowed down , but it did not stop . Glimpses of some of the notable passengers were obtained , but the only one recognized was Mr. Cleveland , who has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here during his frequent trips to Lakewood . Probably the most disappointed people are the " kodakers , " who had to be content with only a picture of the train . The train bearing President-elect Cleveland and party to Washington was about four minutes ahead of the announced time on its arrival here . Great crowds had assembled at all the stations . The train had a clear signal and sped through this place at such a rate of speed that the large crowd assembled at the main station did not see any of the distinguished party . About 2,000 persons gathered at Elizabethnort . Torpedoes were placed on the rails and made a merry salute as the train rushed by . The Cleveland Presidential party passed through here at 1:56 , ten minutes ahead of time . Station agents and even flagmen were notified to keep everything clear . Five hundred people were at the station and flags waved and cannon roared . At 5:25 o'clock this evening the train bearing to Washington President-elect Cleveland and party dashed into Canton Station , and loud cheers went np from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were displayed from nil houses in the neighborhood , and national colors floated from mastheads of vessels at anchor in the harbor and at the docks . At her pier . and decorated with flags , was the transfer steamer John W. Garrett. waiting to bear the train across the harbor . At 5:28 o'clock the signal was given and at 5:37 the train steamed from the transfer boat at Locust Point and bounded away for Washington . While making the trip across the river Mr. Cleveland was called on by Vice President Charles King Lord of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company , Mayor Latrobe , and Mr. John K. Cowen , the general counsel of the Baltimore and Ohio . While the train was on the boat Mr. Cleveland came out on the platform and shook hands with the other gentlemen on board .                     