@@674917

txt A belated dispatch from Manila , dated Aug. 8 , explains that Governor General Augustin had not " quite abdicated , " and says : " The Governor General only declined to be responsible for the consequences when he found that Spain was not sending him help ; he retained his position , but practically washed his hands of the fighting . A Madrid dispatch construes this as insubordination , and the Gazette will now publish an order to supersede him . " It is rumored that confidential instructions have been given to his successor to resist tu the utmost , hoping to gain the world 's admiration , and possibly , assistance in securing a favorable termination . " A telegram arrived Sunday ordering the Americans to proceed immediately to extremities , whereupon Gen. Merritt and Admiral Dewey issued an ultimatum allowing forty-eight hours for the removal of noncombatants , but declaring that they would begin the bombardment earlier if the Spaniards made any attack . The Governor replied immediately , thanking the American commanders for their humane sentiments , but saying they were useless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of refuge for the great number of sick and wounded and women and children . " The Governor thereupon convened the Consuls , begging them to use their influence with the Americans to get them to grant him time and facilities for the removal of the refugees , and suggesting the use of the American troopships , but he was unwilling to allow them food from Manila . He seemed indifferent to the fate of the 100,000 natives . " The British Consul made a powerful appeal to the Governor to surrender , glorifying the heroism hitherto shown by the Spanish , but demonstrating the hopeless= ness of further resistance . The other Consuls indorsed his appeal , with the exception of the German Consul , who said that as a military officer he should hesitate to assert that the Spaniards had done enough yet . " To-day the Consuls will visit Admiral Dewey to convey the Governor 's request , but it is probable the reply will be too late . It ought to hkve been made long ago . " The rebels made a final effort to capture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are preparing to act to avoid trouble in entering the town . There has been slight fighting for four days , and , it is reported that twenty Americans were killed and sixty wounded . This fighting is purely preliminary . In consequence of the American ultimatum the Governor ordered the artillery to cease shelling the enemy 's trenches , and he suspended an officer at Melate for disobeying his orders . There is still a , little firing at night . " A SpariAl.commercial deputation to-day waited upon the Governor and begged him ? to surrender , saying that otherwise they would be utterly ruined . The civil members of the Council of War favor a surrender , but military members do not dare to indorse such a request . " Officers tell me they realize the futility of resisting the Americans , who , with their superior guns , can keep at long iange and kill everybody , without loss to'theraselves , with probably a dozen shells . " ' Me British Consul promptly arranged for four launches , under a white flag , to remove British subjects and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish and native . half-caste women and children are begging to be provided with means of escape . " It is believed that the American gunners have been ordered to spare the churches owing to the fact that thousands of persons have taken refuge In them . The ex-Governor is trying to secure passage on a German warship . "                     