@@675212

txt Dr. Charles A. , who was on the staff of Gen. E. S. Otis , and who was Health Officer at - Manila. has returned home , invalided by the climate . Dr. made a clod study of the conditions of the Philippine Atuation . He is of the opinion that it will take from 10a , - WO to 150,000 soldiers to properly subdue and hold the islands . He also says that the Peace Commission was an absolute failure , and that its work from the tart was without effect . He strongly supports the milltory government of the islands . except that he thinks more men will be necessary than has been estimated . " Dr. Schurman knows that the commission is a failure , and is coming home in July , " added Dr. . " ' Unless trccrps  --  thousands of them  --  are sent to the old of our men there . they will be driven hack into Manila in the course of the next few months , during the rainy season . Our men simply can not stand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incapacitated by sickness and the territory overrun will have to be abandoned . Manila will be in a state of siege again . Our officers and soldiers have accomplished wonders and have proved themselves the best soldiers in the world . But nothing decisive has come of it because our men were not in great enough force . One of the great dangers that our men have to face is the climate . The now-comers will be at a disadvantage , because the volunteers who are returning home are inured to the climate . This will make more men necessary than we would otherwise have to put in the held . As a matter of belief . the Filipinos think they have the Amer-cans ' licked ' already . " One solution of the situation might be to enlist colored men from the Gulf States , and this might settle some of the race quest:ens of that section . These men would be better able to stand the climate conditions around Manila , ak it has been proved that they are good fighters . " I want to say a word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world , and their fighting qualities are wonderful . But the volunteers all want to return home , and I hardly think that the plan to enlist three skeleton regiments from the volunteers now in the Philippines will be a su : ! cess . The men enlisted to fight for their country , and they are not the kind of men who want to stay and fight an insurrection for money or the fun of fighting . "                     