@@781394

txt As a sequel to the recent passage by the late City Council of an ordinance granting permission to the Chicago Power Supply and Compressed Air Company to use the streets and alleys of the city in about any manner it sees tit , the indictment of a number of Aldermen by the Grand Jury for alleged boodleism is promised . The City Press Association reports that bribery of the most flagrant kind will be shown . Corruption and rottenness beyond the ideas of the most cynical citizen will be disclosed , and the facts which make a position in the Chicago Council worth hundreds of dollars of expenditure for nomination will be disclosed . To-morrow evidence will be presented to the Grand Jury showing beyond a doubt that certain Aldermen nave been paid liberally and in hard cash for their votes . The jury will listen to a tale of rottenness and corruption to which the " boodling " of the County Commissioners and the Tweed Ring was nothing . The evidence has been for some time in preparation , and a mesh now Incloses some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of escape . This evidence Includes confessions of several guilty parties ; it includes , not only the promises made to them by corporations , but the letters inclosing the money to purchase their votes , and the very greenbacks themselves with which those votes were purchased . The men who have been active in working up these cases have Spared no expense and have made sure of each step . They have witnesses who have seen large sums of money paid by the representatives of corporations to individual Alderman , and who have heard the Aldermen promise , on receiving the money , to cast his vote on a certain measure in a certain way . The money was paid In various ways . Some received it at their homes from messengers. several were paid in the precincts of the City Hall , and it is said that two sold their votes in the lobby of the Council Chamber . When the Northern Pacific ordinance was passed , and when the active support of the economic gas-pipe proposition was made by prominent members of the Council , suspicion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this suspicion grew to positive certainty of corruption , the investigation was sot on loot , which it is now said will end only when several present members , ot the Chi cago City Council are wearing the stripes of Joliet penitentiary . Gem Lich , the foreman of the Grand Jury , and State 's Attorney Lenge necker have agreed that the evidence which the latter has for some time been preparing shall be presented to the jury to-morrow . Among the witnesses subpeoned are two members of the Council who were dragged into the boodling operations , and who have expressed a willingness to tell all they know . State 's Attorney Longenecker says ho expects to show that all three of the ordinances , the Compressed Air , the Northern Pacific , and the Economic Gas , were passed by virtue of the purchase of votes for hard cash . " I do n't mind saying , " said he . " that there will be the biggest upheaval ever seen in this city . When all the facts are finally made publie the result will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He added that he will be aided by three of the city 's most prominent attorneys . He said that several Aldermen would assist in the inquiry in addition to those who have confessed that their votes were purchased . Several will testify that they were approached , and refused to entertain the overtures made to them by Corporation Representatives . Still others will testify that Aldermen openly boasted that they had received money for their votes . Others again will give testimony corroborative of the main facts to be disclosed by the prosecution . One Alderman openly stated that he was certain that almost every Alderman favorable to the three ordinances in question was guilty of receiving money for his vote . " Why , " he said . it is generally admitted that it requires money to get an ordinance through the Council , and many Aldermen make no secret of tine fact that they will not vote for any ordinance unless they are rewarded for so Going . In some cases the reward is in the shape of a trade in votes , supporting some improvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popularity among his constituents . In others and by far the greater number of cases the consideration is bard cash . " The following statement is officially issued by the gentlemen who are behind the prosecution : " The investigation about to be begun by the Grand Jury contemplated a certain scrutiny of the methods employed by the Council in regard to the passage of the economic gas , the Northern Pacific , and the compressed air ordinances , as well as a few of minor importance . The evidence which will be presented by the Grand Jury is not limited to the confessions or disclosures of one man , but covers a wide range both of facts and individuals . " The plan to catch the Connell and discover what Alderman was engaged in bribing measures through the Council was devised and out into execution before the appearance of the economic gas ordinance last year . Tile proof we have acquired relates largely to various boodle organizations and entangles four or five Aldermen in what it will be very easy to show is a conspiraeY . The money used in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence . The Northern Pacific ordinance was passed by almost precisely the same means and methods employed in the Economic Gas . The Compressed Air ordinance has not yielded as much money to the boodlers as was expected by them . Settlements were being made yesterday and the day before . Money was shown in the Council by at least two Aldermen , who gave it to be understood that it was what they had received for voting for the Compressed Air ordinance , and that it was not as much as was promised them . We will have no difficulty In indicting and convicting several well-known Aldermen . It is not our desire to convict only the Aldermen , however ; we desire to punish those guilty of bribing members of the Council . and we will not stop this Investigation until they are brought to justice , no matter whose door the eliminating evidence leads to . "                     