@@672615

txt In spite of all the talk about " issues " well founded though that talk may be , the interest of the Canadian election is mainly personal , and centres in the picturesque and now venerable figure of Sir JoHN MACDONALD . He is really the only Canadian politician whose personality has made a distinct impression beyond the limits of the Dominion . Since the death of GEORGE BROWN , who may be called the Gladstone with as  --  much plausibility as Sir JORN himself may be called the Disraeli of Canadian politics , there has been no opposing figure . Even among those who oppose Sir Joan 's policy and believe that it is injurious alike to the material and to the moral interests of Canada , there is a sneaking kindness for him and a human desire to " give the old man a chance . " Doubtless this feeling is stronger within Canada than without , and doubtless it is answerable for many of the twenty-odd seats by which the veteran Premier will hold the majority of the next Parliament . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole House . but it will serve . There has been no previous election in Canada in which the feeling against the United States has been appealed to so freely and , so successfully . Of course the feeling exists . Just as it is very much further from London to New-York than from New-York to London , or from New York to Chicago than from Chicago to New York , even so it is very much further from New-York to Montreal or Ottawa than from Montreal or Ottawa to New-York . With a frontier of 3,000 miles , which is merely a boundary for us , but is the line of the greatest commercial and industrial activity . Canada , it is inevitable that the bigger neighbor should be an object of constant concern to the smaller . ' There is something provincial , of course , in the attribution to " the Yankees " of a design to seize upon the Dominion when , so far as is known to the Yankees themselves , they entertain no such design . Neve.rtheless , the Yankees are of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patriotic prejudice upon the ground of the supposed design of the Canadians upon , us would not be good for a thousand votes in an election on this side of the border , a like appeal to patriotic prejudice on the , other has doubtless been worth a good many thousand . votes to Sir Jour MAC- , DONALD , artfully and skillfully as he has made the appeal . John Bull is at bottom as much the creature of sentiment as Brother Jonathan or as Jean Crapaud , and in this instance the appeal to his prejudice has suffioed to overcome his reason and his interest . There is no doubt that the bill has succeeded in inflicting a considerable injury upon the trade of the Dominion . That was not the intention of the framers of that measure , who meant merely to collect a campaign fund of unprecedented magnitude from the beneficiaries of the tariff , and incidentally to throw a sop to the followers of every American industry susceptible of protection , including the " truck farmers " who raise near the Canadian border products that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the other side of the ' border . The result of their labors was to leave a large number of Canadian producers without a market and to raise the price of their products to the American consumers , to the temporary benefit of the American truck farmer , who will make ex.ceptional profits until a larger number of American farmers are brought into competition with him . That is to say , the American truck farmer will make exceptional profits on his crop of 1890 . Naturally , the Canadian farmer does not like this , but he has no power to help himself . The only relief that is offered to him is the hope of reciprocity , under which he will again be permitted . to send his vegetables across the border for sale at less than a prohibitory price , provided he will let in certain American products at a lower rate of duty than is now imposed upon them . This seems a businesslike proposition , and one calculated . to appeal to the good sense of the Canadian farmer , and this , in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian Tories . condemn . The result of the election in the Provinces immediately concerned tends to show that the farmers are alive to their own interests and are not to be frightened , out of pursuing the same by being called " annexationists " or any other hard . name . In Ontario and . Quebec , Sir JOHN MACDONALD has decidedly lost , while he has either gained or held his own in the maritime provinces and in the Northwest . In the maritime provinces the question of the fisheries is of the first importance , and it Must be owned that the Tory Administration has handled this question as skillfully in the interest of the ' maritime provinces as could . be expected . In the Northwest the question of reciprocity is not practical , and . the voters of that region can vote hatred of the Yankees with as little fear as a representative from Kansas shows when he engages in twisting the tail of the British lion , while at the same time refusing to vote any appropriations for the defense of the seacoast . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retains his Premiership by a considerably reduced but still sufficient and trustworthy majority , and that his hold upon office is not likely to be relaxed until the appearance in Canadian politics of " a stronger than he , " and there are as yet no signs of this phenomenon .                     