@@674383

txt It was stated today that Major hoped to dispose of the principal posts in his Cabinet in a fortnight or three weeks , but that the Cabinet , as a whole , would not be completed till March 1 . It is possible that during Major 's present visit to Cleveland Mr. Hanna will come to some decision about his relation to the next Administration . His course , however , to a considerable degree , will be determined by whether Senator Sherman shall be selected as a member of the Cabinet . Senator Sherman 's friends in many parts of the country are urging that he should accept the portfolio of State , if it should be offered him , and some of them are representing to Major that Senator Sherman would make an excellent Secretary of State , and one whose manifest fitness for the position would strongly impress the country . Mr. Hanna apparently wants to go to the Senate , but he hardly will get there if Senator Sherman shall not go into the Cabinet . Senator Cullom of Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this morning . He said the opinion prevailed among Senators that Mr. Sher.rnan , while perhaps not quite willing to go into the Cabinet , seemed to regard the proposition with less disfavor than formerly . Senator Cullom said he had no desire at this time to leave the Senate , and that he was not to be considered a Cabinet possibility . It is his belief that Illinois may not be represented in the Cabinet at all . Senator Cullom said the impression existed among his colleagues in the United States Senate that Mr. Allison would not be inclined to give up his present career to accept a Cabinet portfolio . Mr. Cullom hoped , however , the Iowa Senator would succeed Mr. Carlisle as Secretary of the Treasury . A good deal of speculation about the New England member of the Cabinet has been heard in the last day or two , both here and in Canton . If Mr. Dingley remains at the head of the Committee on Ways and Means , another man from his section of the country will be invited to accept a Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lodge of Massachusetts are discussed not a little . It is said that if a Secretary of State is not chosen from New York , Cornelius N. Bliss will have a place in the Cabinet . Major expects to set to work on his inaugural address to-morrow morning , and to finish it by the end of the week , if the office seekers do not take up too much of his time . He feels that the time between now and the inauguration is very short . He said this evening there would be so much to do that the few weeks remaining-to him would slip by very swiftly .                     