@@674685

txt At Gratz , the capital of Syria , to-day , a band of students and other young men started to parade the streets , but were prevented by the police from carrying out their intention and compelled to disperse . Later in the evening a riotous crowd of workmen assembled in the business quarter of the town and began to break windows and commit other excesses . Four companies of infantry and a squadron of cavalry were summoned to the scene of the disturbances . Upon their arrival the infantry were assailed with a shower of stones , and were compelled to fire upon the mob , killing two and wounding five of the rioters . Of the injured , four are suffering from bayonet thrusts . Several police officers also were hurt . The disorder continued until shortly before midnight , when the streets were cleared and a military patrol of the town was established . The bear-garden scenes in the lower house of the Reichsrath were continued to day . When the President of the Rouse , Dr. Abrahamovics , appeared there was a chorus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , accompanied by a deafening noise of whistles and the slamming of desk lids . Many of the Leftists gathered in front of the President 's platform , shouting and blowing toy trumpets and flutes , while the President was ringing his bell for order . The scene lasted about a quarter of an hour , during which the President quietly remained seated . Then he suspended the sitting . President Abrahamovics Pelted . As President Abrahamovics was leaving the House , a number of Leftists pelted him with paper balls . Thereupon the President returned and stood unmoved , as the House was filled with the noise caused by trumpet blowing , and hand-clapping upon the part of the Rightists , and other disturbance . After waiting ten minutes , and the uproar continuing , the President left the platform . During his absence the noise was not abated , and Dr. Wolff , the German Nationalist leader , and one of the suspended members of the House , who entered about that time , was forcibly ejected by the police , to which he offered violent , resistance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gagged , and was afterward bundled into a cab and taken to a police station . Later in the day Dr. Wolff was bailed . His case will be referred to the Provincial Court , before which he will be charged with public violence . At about 10:40 A. M. the Vice President appeared and declared the sitting closed , adding that the date of the next session would be communicated to the members of the House by letter . Of the fifty-one persons arrested during the street demonstrations here yesterday . thirteen have been sent before the Provincial Tribunal , charged with causing an illegal-assemblage and with licildffig up ' - the authorities to contempt . One was charged with public violence , ten were denounced to the Public Prosecutor for trespassing , five will be tried for interfering with official acts , fifteen have been fined , and one person has been acquitted . The cases of the rest have not been decided . Badeni Asked to Interfere . A delegation of the Opposition leaders of all sections waited upon Count Badeni , the Austrian Premier , before to-day 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to put an end to the ernbroglio . Count Badeni told the leaders that there would be no sitting of the House on Monday if to-day 's session was not quiet . Dr. Leugcr , the anti-Semite Burgomaster of Vienna , also visited the Premier and represented to him the dangerous state of the temper of the populace , pointing out that the people were becoming more and more excited , and that something must be done if most serious trouble was to be avoided . After to-day 's session , the majority 's Parliamentary Committee met and resolved to defer planning its course until the Government communicated its intentions to the House . A crowd of students during the afternoon assembled on the Reichsstrasse and indulged In demonstrations until they were dispersed by the police . The Reichswehr to-day declares that yesterday 's uproar in the lower house of the Reichsrath had no connection with the campaign against the language ordinances , but was due to the action of the International Social Democracy , " which considers the time has arrived to complete its destructive work against the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in view of this fact the State will not and can not yield . Throughout the evening the police were obliged repeatedly to disperse the political crowds which gathered in the Ring-Strasse between the Parliament Houses and the University buildings . In front of the former a crowd numbering 2,000 , principally composed of students , assembled and hooted and groaned at the police , finally attacking the officers with stones . Eventually the police were ordered to clear the streets , which they did with drawn swords . ' Emperor Francis Joseph arrived here today and conferred with Count Badeni , the Premier , and Count Goluchowski , the Austro-Hungarian Minister for Foreign Affairs . The Neue Freie Presse says it learns that the Cabinet has decided to prolong the adjournment of the House , which should have ended on Tuesday next .                     