@@672316

txt Mr. Gladstone , speaking at Chester . declined to criticise the course of the Marquis of Salisbury in the dispute with Portugal until he was more fully informed as to the details of the case . He considered it a duty to avoid caviling at the foreign policy of the Government . Turkey appeared again as if inviting England to intervene to protect the suffering population of Crete and Armenia . But he ' warned the Sultan that England 's reply would involve a reference to that mockery of justice , the trial of Moussa Bey , and that the reply would be to the effect that she would not obtain British sympathy in times of trial and difficulty unless he governed with humanity and justice . Referring to the United States and the plans for an enlarged navy , he said that this country was still enjoying the blessings and comforts of a restricted trade , and therefore would pay 40 or 50 per cent . more to build a navy than it would if contented to compete on equal terms with other nations . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the luxury of protection . The worst was that , while America would cite England 's example for enlarging her navy , England would give a similar excuse for further naval increase . It was a matter of deep sorrow to reflect that the very ostentatious addition to the defenses of a country , made under a real or pretended necessity , was made an apology for an increase of toe burdens of every other country . Under profession of an additional security tile policy of Governments thus tended more and more to jeopardize the peace of the world . The country would be likely soon to hear much about the Parnell Commission . Without anticipating the judgment or breaking a word or suspicion of the Judges , he would say the subject must be probed with the deepest attention of the country and of Parliament . His opinion was that the cumbrous proceedings constituted a case of oppression practiced upon an individual by a legislative chamber and an executive government without a parallel since the evil times of the reign of Charles IL Mr. Gladstone commended Scotland 's unvarying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tories nor Ms ' sident Liberals would blow the war trumpets against . it in the name either of the Union or the integrity of the Empire . Scotland had a good claim to home rule because the Tory majority assisted a handful of Scotch members to outvote the Scotch majority . The conflict for home rule was a terrific straggle of powerful influence on one side against conviction on the other aide . it was the principle of Liberalism to trust the people , qualified by prudence : it was the principle of Toryism to distrust the people . qualified by fear . Mr. Gladstone was confident of the ultimate judgment of the country . If ready to meet dissolution , but without impatience for it , it was because he felt strongly the justice of the cause and knew it must triumph . 