@@672382

txt The most serious reflection upon the sincerity of the Republicans in the Legislature in dealing with ballot reform is that which was cast upon it by the action of the Republican Senators in caucus on Monday night . The Saxton bill had . been changed by the co-operation of its author and representatives of the Ballot-Reform League and of Gov . Huff. to a form for which the approval of the Governor was assured . To leave no doubt upon that point Gov . HILL , in vetoing a bill relating to excise ballots in towns , had taken occasion to commend the measure in its new form and practically to announce his approval of it . The very purpose of changing the bill was to secure his approval , and though it rendered it imperfect and in some important respects objectionable to real reformers , it was agreed that it was better to accept it than to get nothing . But Republican politicians like FASSETI , VEDDER , and CoamestrALL , took alarm apparently at the prospect of ballot reform being really enacted in any shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving it support for three years merely because they felt sure the bill would be vetoed , or else they preferred its defeat to allowing the Governor to recover any of the ground in popular favor-which he had sacrificed by his vetoes . At all events the bill was put over to permit of holding a caucus upon it , and then it was agreed in the caucus to change it back to a form that would assure another veto . In that form it was passed yesterday by the Senate by a strict party vote . The bill is in a decidedly worse shape than when it was passed before , and yet not in a shape to secure Executive approval . The only excuse for splitting np the " blanket " ballot has been taken away , and reformers themselves are likely to lose interest in the fate of the bill in its present form , The only important changes made in the amended bill yesterday at the dictation of the party caucus was striking out the provision which allowed a complete " pastel . " ballot to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illiterate voter to have the assistance of a " friend " in preparing his ballot . The " palter " ballot was objectionable , but it was not so objectionable as the division of the " blanket " ballot into its constituent party tickets . The " pastor " would to some extent facilitate the carrying out of political " deals . " In a bargain between Tammany and , the Republican " machine " in this city , for instance , both organizations could provide " raster " tickets which would be " run out " of their several boxes in pursuance of the " deaL " But those who received these would be free from the " heelers " when . they entered the polling place , and could retire alone to a compartment with a full set of official ballots .. Then they could use the " palter " or not , and nobody would be the wiser unless they chose to disclose their action . If the " blanket " ballot had been retained the use or non-use of the " pester " would be abaci-. lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or revealed at the option of the voter , but nobody except the election officers and the authorized watchers would be in a position to observe the result . The liberty of using this " ' miter " obviated the necessity of assistance to illiterate voters in preparing their ballots , but at the same time it left them subject to the solicitation and direction of political " heelers " outside the polling places . It was a concession which , in connection with the abandonment of the " blanket " ballot , seriously impaired the Saxton bill , but it nevertheless permitted a substantial advance upon the present state of the law relating to ballots and elections , and it gave assurance of the Governor 's approval of an imperfect measure . If it was to be withdrawn the " blanket " ballot might as well have been restored . The other change , permitting any voter who takes oath to his incapacity to prepare a ballot for himself to have a friend accompany him to the compartment to assist him , is bad in itself as well as objectionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or demerit of , the changes made and unmade in the Saxton bill in the last week , one thing has been made clearly evident . Under the dictation of PLATT , who wants no reform of any kind , the Republican Senators have decided that no ballot-reform bill must be passed which the Governor will sign . While Gov . Am. ' s sincerity is also open to doubt , and it is suspected that he came out so strongly in favor of the compromise bill for the purpose of exciting Republican opposition to it , the hypocrisy of the Republicans is fully exposed . Their course is calculated to destroy the prestige which they have been winning for their pai ly on this question , and to leave Gov . HILL in a relatively better position than he would have held if the modified bill had been passed . Heretofore he has been the obstruction to ballot reform , and has been credited with its defeat . Now PLAIT and his followers will have to take a share of the responsibility and of the odium , and the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get representatives who will obey their will instead of submitting to the dictation of arrogant and self-seeking " bosses . " It is evident that PLATT is no more in favor of reform than HILL , and the Republicans who do his bidding are no more sincere in their professions than the Democrats who are subservient to the Governor .                     