@@674802

txt Mr. Gladstone eied at 5 o'clock this morning . The bulletin posted on the Golden Wedding Porch says : " Mr. Gladstone passed peacefully away at 5 this morning . " He had been unconscious practically all day Wednesday , though at times he seemed to recognize for a moment some of the watchers about him . Certainly he did recognize his wife , who was beside him all day , except when the physician prevailed upon her to rest . She tenderly clasped her husband 's hand as she watched him . Apparently he slept a good deal , and occasionally he uttered a few words in an Incoherent , dreamy way ; words which those who were watching were unable to catch . Their only consolation was that he was not suffering pain . No narcotics were administered . The silence of the castle grounds was unbroken save by the distant noise of the train , and now it is in strange contrast to the bustle at Hawarden Village , with an army of correspondents , artists , photographers , and telegraphers , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ windows . All was restless there , though subdued , conversation ever turning toward the events of the illness . There was a report from the castle tonight as to the aged statesman 's farewell to Dorothy Drew , a few days ago , when " Lead , Kindly Light , " and " Rock of Ages " were sung , and Dorothy burst into a flood of tears . Then one other fact drifted out , Dr. Dobie 's statement that the growth has not deformed Mr. Gladstone in the least , its only visible effect being a slight swelling of the cheek . Though a national funeral will probably be accepted by the family , there is little doubt that he will be laid to rest in the peaceful graveyard at Hawarden , adjoining the church where he was married more than half a century ago . At Hawarden the happiest portion of his life has been passed , and it is truly a retreat sweet enough for any laborer . At 4 o'clock , when life with the strongest of us is at the lowest ebb , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cand all the family met in the one room where the national darkness threatens . It was a moment of terrible stress to those gathered about the narrow iron bed upon which Mr. Gladstone was sleeping his last sleep . They included his frail and worn wife , fondly and finally clasping the beloved hand , perhaps remembering that it is the morning of Ascension Day , a feast of the Church which her dying husband , if still conscious , could not fail to recall . Then , gathered about her and silently attempting to soothe and support her in her supreme hour were Helen Gladstone , Herbert and Henry Gladstone , the Rev. Stephen Gladstone , Mrs. Drew , Mrs. Wickham , Mrs. Henry Gladstone , Mr. Phillimore , a lifelong friend , and , on the outer fringe of those near the dying man , stood , almost as much affected , Drs . Habershon , Doyle , and Blss and two faithful nurses .                     