@@672417

txt From the reports cabled over here of utterances in American newspapers and by prominent GermanAmerican citizens , it is evident that a lot of nonsense about Biqmarok and the Kaiser has been telegraphed from this side . It is ridiculously untrue that the Kaiser made any attempt to muzzle the ez-Chancellor or tho-t he intends doing so . All that has been done is to dispatch a private circular note from Caprivi to the German . Ambassadors , instracting them , politely and with deferential gentleness , to describe Bismarck 's utterances as those of a private gentleman , if any of them should happen to run counter to any detail of the German foreign policy and should thus provoke foreign inquiries . As for BignvIrck himself , he is ' undoubtedly saying at great random all the things that come into his head . I have just returned froml3erlin , where , during a month 's stay , I heard almost daily from his friends an authentic account of some fresh manifestation of Bismarck 's garrulous rage . It is difficult to speak definitely of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , for the reason that he himself shifts about with varying moods all over the extensive gamut of his temperament . His general average condition , though , is one of amazed wrath at finding affairs going on smoothly without him . He is as much out of them as the- man who fell from a balloon , Germanpublic opinion , while colored with deep personal ardmirationfor Bismarck and his achievements , is overwhelmingly against him in anything approaching a controversy with the Raiser . Germans are filling their lungs with the bracing air of a new generation and already seem to themselves to be ages removed from the restraints and oppressions of the Bismarckian regime . Any thought of returning to it would be as wholly out of the question as an idea of going back to the ancient corn laws and the rotten borough system of Wellington 's time would be here in England . Bismarck can not accept this with dignity or equanimity ; he foams over with indignation every time the full measure of his isolation becomes apparent to him . He receives the correspondents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbade , and says to them thatthe . kaiser is a rattle7brained youngster , who is in the hands of bad advisers , . and whose a rid self-conceit will presently bring about a universal - smash . He is even throwing out mysterious hints that the subordinate sovereigns of the empire may soon have to assert themselves against the overweening pretensions of the imperial crown . As there are among these minor royalties rather more than an average colleotion of asses , there is some expectation in Berlin that this may incite certain of them to mutinous demonstrations ; but if anything of thiq sort shows itself you may be sure that it will last less than half an hour . and the net result will be grievous for Bismarck and his princely dupes . it is hard to realize that so strong and able a man should have gratuitously put himself in such a position , where any evil thing which happens now in German politics ? I mean evil from the Government point of view  --  will promptly and naturally be ascribed to his machinations . Some of Bismarck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new regime have an almost comical transparency . For nearly twenty years now he has been living at Friedrichsrah , which is some fifteen miles from Hamburg . During that whole period  --  indeed since 1864 ? he never once set foot inside that city , whose spires could almost be seen from his house , because in that year the customs authorities of that free port insisted upon ransacking his baggage , for which he claimed immunity as a Prussian Minister . With characteristic impetuosity of temper he swore then that he would never enter the town again , and for twenty-six years he went to infinite trouble and personal discomfort to keep his resolution . His speeches in 1885 , when he doggedly pushed through the Reichstag the measure for taking from Hamburg all but a shadowy fragment of its old commercial . independence , were fall of individual dislike for the city , yet now , when the necessity for making friends has so abruptly arisen , he gets the Burgomaster of the town to invite him to be its guest , and last Monday he went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove about the wharves with the officials , bowing to everybody who would so much as touch his hat . The n splendid of the whole proceeding tickled the Hamburgers ' fancy , and they cheered him heartily , but none could have been dull enough not to see through the thing . I do n't believe Bismarck has - any settled plans of any sort . Ile is in a dozen minds about everything , . One day he decides that he will enter the Reichstag as a private member and pulverize everybody within reach . The nest day he resolves to devote the remainder of his life to writing his memoirs which shall crush half the reputations in Europe . On the third day he yields to the charm of the dream of living tranquilly with his pipe and dogs and trees , musing like a philosopher upon the ingratitude of princes and then the next morning he early gets out his railway time table and gives orders for his trunks to be packed for travel . He has written a little for a few hours now and then on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unsettled for regular work and the publishers in Leipsie do n't expect any book while he lives . ' He has changed his mind three or four times about his forthcoming visit to England , and even now the nobleman - wlio is to be his chief host here does not know the exact date of his arrival Bismarck has been twice in England before , the first time in 1843 , when he lived for a - while in Hull , learning the language , and left the place in ? to-wering rage because a policeman ob , ; . , jetted to his whistling in the street on Sunday . I mentioned a moment ago that the Germans were luxuriating in a novel sense of freedom since the Iron Chancellor disappeared . through his own trap door . It begms. to look now as if under the impulse of this the Reichstag might defeat the new Army bill . Members have returned from their ' Whitsuntide holidays much stiffened by talks with their constituents , and yesterday 's announcement of the War Minister that still other money would be asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensified this feeling of opposition . The Clerical Party which holds the balance of power is true to its traditions , demand . big large ecclesiastical concessions as the price of its vote , and the . Parliamentary outlook from being serenely pacific , has suddenly grown stormy . However , there is no danger that the German Army will be allswed really to suffer , and just now there is still less danger apparent of this or any other European army being called into the field for a long time to come . The situation is peaceful in the extreme . No one in Berlin sees any sign of menace anywhere on the Continental horizon . The Czar is growing very'fat , and there is a corresponding increase in his natural indolence ; so that his officials all recognize that the securest way to his favor is to avoid bothering him . Those who report to him briefly once in a quarter that everything is going admirably are the ones he likes best , and indicates as models for the others who trouble him with details or with plans involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises , and it is really he who holds the balance of the European peace in his hands . I am assured that the Czar keeps only indifferent track of what is going on in European centres of interest . As for the outside reports of Siberian atrocities and general Russian misgovernment , which are occasionally brought to his notice , he regards them as all lies . This is what he is told by an official when he inquires , and , as he has no other means of information , he is bound . to accept his word . Only a few months ago he said to a German visitor , who related the incident to me , that he could not understand why English and American newspaper writers liked so much to lie about Russia . London to-day , under the influence of bright June skies and the possibilities of a half holiday in the country , has been for the most part placidly unconscious that one of the greatest demonstrations of the day was going on in Hyde Park . London generally is unconscious of such things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the . g same many scores of thousands of good people marched to Reformers ' Tree to-day to protest in a mass meeting against the Tory Government 's proposal to compensate the saloon keepers for the extinction of their licenses . This question has been raised several times before , but it has now become a leading political issue of- the session , and although the party line in Parliament is drawn pretty strictly upon , there are many Tories and Unionists who are by no means happy over the position forced upon them . The Tory theory is briefly that a publican 's license is property which must be paid for if extinguished . The Liberal view , which has judicial as well as common-sense backing , is that a license which has to be renewed yearly , and which any year may be arbitrarily withheld by local magistrates without even the necessity of an explanation , let alone compensation , is not property at all . To-day 's prodigious demonstration shows - how deeply the sober elements of the English public feel on the subject , and there can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a popular vote , would be buried out of sight tinder an adverse majority . While it is probable that the Government could still whip it through the House , it is felt to be more than likely that it will be withdrawn . This bids fair to be the fate of other important Ministerial measures ; in fact , there has been such incompetentmuddling of the Government Parliamentary management that the House business is in a practical dead-lock , and it has become apparent to everybody that - there must be an Autumn session . Both the Tithes bill and the Irish Land bill are unpopular among the Government supporters , and as they will be contested inch by inch by the Opposition , their passage at a time of year when Squires want to be off shooting is more than doubtful . There are recriminations and dissensions inside the Ministry over this stupid tangle , and out of these grow now renewed rumors of dissolution . Irish affairs have been lagging in the background for the past few weeks , with a large number of Nationalist members in Ireland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wedding on Wednesday , and thereafter the House of Commons debates will be kept nearer the boiling point . Very soon now there will be a notable addition to this group of Irish representatives in the person of Sir John Pope Hennessy , who has rounded out his term of service as a Colonial Governor , which entitles him to a retiring pension , and in doing so has encouraged dignified Nationalist aspiratiortli throughout the British Empire . His return to Parliamentary life will be a notable incident , and the fact that he will come as a Parnellite will have great effect on the public mind . Sir John is the owner of the historic Raleigh mansion at Yonghal , where potatoes were first plantedin Europe . It comes almost as a surprise to learn that the Anti-Slavery Conference is still sitting at Brussels , because its beginnings seem as remote as the Ecumenical Council . However , sessions are still going on , and so mach has been agreed upon that 105 clauses of a general treaty are now in the printer 's hands . The only remaining subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this the consent of the United States is alone needed to make the agreement complete . Last year a great deal was said about the phenomenal racing luck of the Duke of Portland , whose stable in a singls season bagged over half a million dollars in prizes . This luck has not left him , for already , out of six great races already run , he has taken four , including two which are rated by the the English among the classic contests , and the winning ofwhich now gives him an unprecedented position among owners in the history of racing . Prof : - Mackie , who will enter his eighty -- second year next month , has considerably licked the British matron by his remarks at the fifth annual meeting of the Englieh . Goethe , Society here the other evening . This remarkable old schOlar , always notable for the boldness of his views and his fearless expression of them , has of late years devoted himself , principally to the study of Goethe , and has reached such a pitch of admiration for him that he declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his amatory escapades . " Goethe could never resist a pretty lass , " said he , " no more can L " As usual , there are loud complaints from . Paris about the awarding of the year 's artistic prizis  --  more clamorous than ever , perhaps , because of two exhibitions instead of one . Jan van Beers sends his third-class medal back to the new society with satirical comments , ' while there is much talk about the Salon medal honor going to Frangais , who is solely a , landscape painter and the first one ever thus distinguished . The Times to-day in a long review praises Senator Lynch 's book on Egypt , as bright , light , entertaining , and instructive , and says it has been long since " we have met with a book on Egypt at once so fresh and so comprehensive . " At a dinner given him bythe Savage Club to-night , attended by nearly four hundred picked professional men of London , Stanley , for the first time , approached frankness in describing his relations with Emin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the character and morals of the German scientist , and he told a number of stories throwing a most odious light upon Brain 's disinclination to leave the equatorial province . In substance his story was of an Egyptian officer , whose wife Emin had taken away . The officer wanted . to kill Emin and his recreant wife , but was prevented . by Stanley . The Savage Club is by no means a prudish body , but its impression was distinctly that Stanley should have kept that phase of his intercourse - with Emin to himself . H. F.                     