@@674313

txt Three Inspectors of the Health Department applied the tuberculin test last week to 139 cows in the northern part of the city , and thus ascertained that 27 of these animals had tuberculosis , or the disease commonly called consumption . Nearly all of the cows condemned were found in one large herd , and the owner of this herd had been selling all the milk taken from it to the New-York Juvenile Asylum and the New-York Institution for the Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb . We recall the reports of similar inspections , made during the last two or three years , some of them in the Eastern States and others in the West , by which it was shown that the inmates of many asylums or other public institutions had been supplied with milk from tuberculous cows . In some instances of this kind , the diseased cows were owned by the State and were kept on a farm connected with the institution , and in others the animals were found in private herds near at hand . One of these discoveries was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached to a public institution in Illinois was in a very deplorable condition served as a part of the evidence which led the State Veterinarian to declare that 50 per cent . of the cows in the famous Elgin dairy district were tuberculous . Even if a State will not attempt to stamp out this disease for the benefit of consumers generally , it should take measures to protect the inmates of its asylums and similar institutions . Surely it should not provide , in such institutions , milk which carries the germs of tuberculosis for the use of young children or of grown persons weakened by other diseases , and therefore peculiarly susceptible to infection . The Health Department of this city has undertaken to protect such consumers and all residents , so far as it can do this at present . This examination of the cows within the city limits , and the results of it , however , direct attention to the fact that similar inspection work to insure the wholesomeness of the greater part of the milk consumed here  --  milk brought in from places over which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly discontinued . If city cows which are diseased ought to be condemned and killed for the protection of our people , diseased cows in the neighboring counties of this State and adjoining States should be condemned for the same reason . It is practicable for the Department to reach all the dairy herds in the " milk district " of the city , and eventually , we think , it will undertake to prevent the sale here of tuberculous milk brought in from any place .                     