@@780974

txt As the guest of his running mate , Arthur Sewall , Candidate Bryan spent a quiet , restful day . With Mrs. Sewall he left Bath at midnight for Lynn and Boston . Mr. Bryan and Mrs. Sewal attended service at the Centre Congrega-tional Church . No reference to Mr. Bryan . was made by the minister . At the conclusion of the services the candidates started for Small Point , fifteen miles from Bath , behind a mettlesome pair of trotters , Mr. Sewall driving . Mr. Sewall has a Summer cottage at Small Point , overlooking the Atlantic , at the mouth of the Kennebec . Here Mr. Bryan found quite a party of Mr. Sewall 's friends . A fish dinner was served . Besides Messrs . Bryan and Sewall , there were present Charles W. Larrabee , George E. Hughes , Chairman of the Democratic State Committee ; W. D. Sewall , a son and partner of Arthur Sewall ; Edward A. Sewall , M. W. Sewall , and P. D. Sewall , nephews ; Josephus Daniels , Democratic National Committeeman from North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and several newspaper men who have been accompanying Mr. Bryan on his tour . Mr. Bryan enjoyed the fish dinner immensely . Joseph H. Manley also has a cottage at Small Point . Mr. Manley was in New-York , but his cottage was decorated with American flags in honor of Mr. Bryan 's visit . Mr. Bryan returned to Bath at 7 o'clock , and three hours later he went on board a sleeping car , which was attached to the midnight train . He retired immediately . Mr. Sewall will accompany Mr. Bryan as far as New-York . The itinerary arranged for Mr. Bryan to . morrow has been changed . Instead of going to Boston and proceeding to Lynn , he will stop at Lynn , where his train is due at 5:30 o'clock A. M. , take breakfast there , speak at 7 o'clock , and leave for Boston at 8 o'clock . Arriving there at 8:20 o'clock , he will go to the Park Square Station , and leave for Providence at 9 o'clock on the Colonial Express over the Shore Line . Mr. Bryan will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour later , after making an address . He will reach New-London at noon . An hour will be spent at New-London , and at 1:05 o'clock Mr. Bryan will depart for New-York , where he is due at 4:30 . To-morrow night will be given up to speeches in Paterson , Newark , and Jersey City . Mr. Bryan 's itinerary between Oct. 3 , when he again will appear in St. Louis , and Oct. 8 , the date of his Burlington ( Iowa ) speech , has been arranged . He will go from St. Louis to Memphis and Nashville , thence to Indianapolis . He may proceed thence to Michigan , but probably the Michigan visit may be postponed until later , and the dates filled in at places in Illinois .                     