@@672990

txt The Amalgamated Association has begun to move upon the Carnegie Company in dead earnest To-night all the hands at Duquesne left the works at 6 o'clock , declaring that they would not return Until the Carnegie people surrendered at Homestead . To-morrow one of the most active organ ? izers among the Homestead strikers will leave for the Connellsville coke region for the par . pose of attempting to persuade the 5,000 workers there who supply all the Carnegie works with coke to go out This is but a part of a general movement upon the Braddock Mills , where 3,000 men are at work ; men who up to the present time have resisted all the inducements of the Homestead strikers . The general plan of the Amalgamated Association is to paralyze the Carnegie-Phipps Company , and to-night 's developments show that a steady movement has been inaugurated to that end . Nearly 1,000 men are employed in the great works at Duquesne where machinery of the most improved pattern is in use , reducing manual labor to a minimum . To-night at 6 o'clock every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers , who remained to look after the boilers , dropped worn and declared his intention of remaining out until the men at Homestead were recognized . This step was a complete surprise to the company . Tho men were looked upon as anti-anion men whose loyalty to the corporation was unquestioned . Last year they sucoessf ally resisted a determined effort to lead them out They held a meeting at the rink at Daquinine to-night . Over 250 were present , including a delegation of representative strikers from Homestead . William Carney , one of the Vice Presidents of the Amalgamated Association , presided . Tho first part of the meeting was public , one of the leading Duquesne workers , Jeremiah Dougherty , explaining the causes that led to the strike ? ? Sympathy for our friends at Homestead . " speeches were made by three Homestead men  --  William Abbott and two Hungarians ? who appealed to the Huns employed at Duquesne to stand firm by their ? ? suffering brethren . " At the close of the public ) meeting the hall was cleared of all save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Homestead . Then the information was given out that out of the 1,000 men employed at Duquesne over ? 50 wore members of the Amalgamated Association , belonging to one lodge . They were advised to organize and to persuade every man who bad been employed in the works to form new lodges . Predictions were freely made in Duquesne that by next Wednesday or Thursday the 8.000 coke workers at Connellsville would follow Duquesne 's example , and within two weeks or a month the works at Braddock would of necessity be compelled to shut down for want of coke . As a matter of fact , one of the Carnegie Company said this evening that , in anticipation of such a move , a year 's supply of coke was constantly kept on hand at Braddock . In the meantime the company made a little progress to-day in obtaining more men and in pushing forward work in the armorplate press nil ! ! and in the armorplate mill . The steamer Tide brought nfty mechanics and laborers in from Pittsburg , and ' 200 more are expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming in more numerously than he had expected , and that to-night his clerks were sifting the applications . A frame house has been erected for the non-union men a short distance from the odic ? . and cots , bedding , and provisions have arrived in quantities throughout the day . The twenty-five families living in the Carnegie cottages at the foot of Fort Snowden were given their ten-days ' notice of eviction . The strikers express satisfaction that such an arbitrary course was resorted to , and assert that they will take care of the evicted men . THE TIMES 'S correspondent succeeded to-day in passing through the mills . Only 300 or 400 men are thus far employed , although all the works except the open hearth were in full blast and the drill and yard engines were running In the armor plate press mill every machine had something to do . The huge thirteen-inch nickel plate for the Monterey was having its sides evened . The conning tower for the New-York was receiving its perforations . One of the plates of the monitor Terror was being swung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-York wore awaiting their turn to be put upon the huge saws which out the openings through which the noses of the guns run . One of these 40,000-pound saws was lying on the ground with forty or fifty of its teeth hammered off as relies by soldiers who were admitted to the works last Sunday . In all the foundries and repair shops men were employed , many of them having dinner pails , gripeacke , and canvas traveling bags at their hands . Other men were cleaning up the debris left from the day of the Pinkerton massacre . At the suggestion of Gov . Pattison , Sheriff McCleary to-day swore in fifteen Deputy sherifla for duty at Homestead . They wilt supplant the local police and will act under the direction of Col. Gray , acting Deputy Sheriff For the present they mess and are quartered within the works . Their arrival created more or less excitement In the minds of the Homesteaders who to-day have little respect for authority in uniform and none for authority in civilian dress . In case of a collision between Deputy Sheriffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be invoked . Manager Potter notified the Pennsylvania Railroad Company this afternoon that he had two loaded box cars for shipment . To-night a freight crew was notified by the strikers that the oars must not be shipped . The crow obeyed the mandate . The crew , however , that passed through Homestead at 10:30 also declined to pick the oars up and as a consequence they remained in the company 's yards all night . Bugler Houston of the Philadelphia City troops reported to-day at military headquarters that horecognized in O'Donnell a detierterfrorn the regular army .                     