@@781129

txt The ashes of Columbus were transferred from the cathedral to the Conde de Venadito this morning . Capt . Gen. Castellanos . Gen. Arolas . Sefior Govin of the Colonial Cabinet , Marquis d'Esteban , the Mayor of Havana , and a large company of notables attended upon the removal . The steel casket containing the remains of the discoverer of America was examined by . Senor Govin in the presence of the Captain General and other high Spanish officials and found to be intact It was then borne to the cathedral steps by the canons amid the tolling of bells and placed- on a gun carriage , heavily draped with flags and decorated with floral garlands . A solemn processiofi then moved to the Machina Wharf , where the casket was taken in a launch , between lines of twenty-five men-of-war ' boats , to the cruiser . A salute of fifteen guns was fired . At intervals of a quarter of an hour all day a single gun baomed the honors paid to an Admiral . The squadron , which is composed of the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is announced to sail for Cadiz to-night BIG TOBACCO CONCERN SOLD . The Union Tobacco Company Absorbs All the Stock of the Blackwell Durham Company . P. A. B. Widener , Thomas Dolan . and W. L. Elkins of the Metropolitan Traction Company received word last night that a heavy deal in tobacco in which they are interested had been consummated at Philadelphia . BY this transaction the Union Tobacco Company secured the entire capital stock of the Blackwell Durham Company for the sum of $2,500,000 . The money was paid over and the stock was deposited with an express company in Philadelphia for shipment to this city this morning . It will probably be deposited with the Union Trust Company . In speaking of the big deal , Thomas P. Ryan , one of the interested parties , said last night : " The Union Tobacco Company in securing the Blackwell Durham Company obtains control of a business established for thirty ' years , and through it can distribute its cigarettes without extra cost . " The fact that President Butler , the President of the Union Tobacco Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company , has given the impression in some quarters that we will fight that concern . This is altogether erroneous . We will have a special field , and will not be in opposition to the American Tobacco Company . I very much doubt if that splendidly organized and managed concern need fear opposition from any source . " It is our hope under the new arrangement that the Durham Company shall earn even more money than ever , as there will be greater economy in the management and incidentally the cost of production . "                     