@@674112

txt Members of Congress in both houses were Imposed upon this afternoon by The Chicago Associated Press , which issued a bulletin a few minutes after 2 o'clock announcing the election of Senator Blackburn by the Kentucky Legislature , to succeed himself . Messenger boys of The Chicago Associated Press went scurrying through the corridors and into committee- rooms exhibiting a bulletin under the caption of the " Associated Press , " announcing Blackburn 's election . The news spread like wildfire , and The Associated Press believed that it had scored a distinct triumph over The United Press , which issued no bulletin . A bulletin with this " fake " news was sent into the room of the Senate Committee on Pacific  --  Railroads , which was examining C. P. Huntington . Senator Morgan expressed his gratification at the announcement , and Senator Stewart , the free silverite , leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily over what he believed must be the discomfiture of the Administration over the result of the Kentucky champion of free coinage . Senator Harris of Tennessee and Senator Bacon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate . and all silver men , read the news from one of the bulletins and immediately went into ? cstacies over it . Wherever a Senator could be found he was promptly notified of this great news through the " enterprise " of the Chicago association . Representative McCreary of Kentucky was startled when he received a piece of the flimsy paper containing the intelligence that announced the defeat of the Administration 's desire for a hard-money Democrat . The silence of The United Press was so - ominous that Senators soon began to send to that association to corroborate the " news . " It was discovered that there was no truth in the Associated Press 's bulletin . Senator Harris was vigorous in his denunciation of the conduct of the association that circulated the report , and other Senators declared their disapproval of such business methods . Silver Senators who were disillusioned of their hopes were severe in their condemnation . One Senator , who had been longing for the re-election of Mr. Blackburn , and who was thrown into despair by the correction of the alleged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day throughout the country , and the association that indulged in this pleasantry at the expense of the Democrats and Republicans everywhere could not plead the existence of a fog and their inability to see the yachts , as they did when they bulletined that now famous piece of " news " that Valkyrie III . had won the race for the America 's Cup .                     