@@673551

txt The Rev. Joseph Norwood , agent for the American Bible Society in Venezuela , arrived at this port on the Red D Line steamer Philadelphia late Wednesday night . He was in Venezuela at the time of the recent terrible earthquakes , and when seen at the Bible House early yesterday morning , he gave an account of the disaster . Mr. Norwood said that , while he was only on the edge of the disturbances , he had received advices before he left Venezuela showing how widespread the disaster was . " It was impossible to get absolutely correct statements before I sailed , " he said , " owing to the fact that telegraphic communication was entirely destroyed ; but I learned enough to make me believe there had been a terrible loss of life . The whole country westward of Caracas felt the disturbance . " The most damage done was in the towns of Merida , Lag-unillas , and Ejides and several smaller towns , all of which were almost totally destroyed . " At Lagunillas a lake now covers the site of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this town was in a valley between two mountains , some of the many lakes in the vicinity may have overwhelmed it or an entirely new lake may have been formed . " Mr. Norwood said he was in Maracaibo in the Hotel America , a structure two stories high , at 9:45 P. M. on April 28 , when the first shock came , and was preparing to sail on the steamship Merida the next day . When the shock came , he thought it was a disturbance in the street , but when other shocks followed , he knew there was an earthquake , and he noted the time . The trembling of the earth lasted for about two minutes , but the severe shocks only about a minute . The shocks began with undulations and ended with an oscillating movement . " After the disturbance ceased , " he said , " I found several cracks in the wall of my room , one of them big enough to put my arm through . " Mr. Norwood said that only one house in Maracaibo fell , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He doubts the story that 150 soldiers were swallowed up at Merida . Charles Pulgar , a young Venezuelan who arrived on the same steamer , said the military barracks at Merida were destroyed , resulting in the instant death of 150 soldiers . Dispatches from Caracas . the capital of Venezuela , dated May 9 , report the earthquake of April 28 to have been the severest since the great earthquake of 1812 , on Holy Thursday , when the entire city was destroyed and over 20,000 people perished . It is impossible to estimate the amount of property destroyed by the recent earthquake or the number of lives lost . Ruin and desolation have spread over the entire western section of Venezuela , and suffering is intense , especially in the State of Los Andes . Gen. Antonio Fenandez , Governor of that State , has notified President Crespo that Merida , the capital of the State . was totally destroyed , and the loss of life and property were appalling . Later despatches report that the towns of San Juan and Chiquara were also totally destroyed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered severely . Acting Minister Bartleman has cabled to Secretary of State Gresham that any assistance rendered by this country would be appreciated in Venezuela . Already a large sum of money has been subscribed for the relief of the distressed by people in parts of Venezuela not visited by the earthquake .                     