@@673248

txt Meagre as has been our information regarding the political or " revolutionary " disturbances in Nicaragua daring the past few weeks , it has been manifest from the start that they could have but one termination . The so-called " insurrection " has been merely ' an outbreak of opposition against the Administration of President SACAZA , and it has been so general that it was sure to result in its overthrovP . With the control of the civil and military power of the Government , he has been practically helpless , because of a total lack of popular sympathy and support . He had recognized his own unpopularity and the difficulties of his position , and had considered the question of resigning before the outbreak occurred . Anxious to save his dignity , he proorastinated until the opposition resorted to violence . In the Spanish-American republics respect for constituted authority and for the supremacy of law and of constitutional methods is very weak , while the right of revolution as a means of correcting wrongs is held as something sacred . Armed revolution is regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the opposition to SACAZA became general , the resort to arms for the overthrow of his Administration was the inevitable expression of the national spirit . The representatives of the foreign Governments , including our newly-arrived Minister , who undertook to mediate and compose the domestic difficulties of Nicaragua in order to put a stop to bloodshed , had , cot necessity , to take sides either with SA.CAZA. or against him . To side with him would not have tended to accomplish the purpose , but to defeat it . Hence their efforts have really been in behalf of the revolutionists , whether avowedly so or not . According to reports , they have resulted in the resignation of the President , a virtual treaty of peace and amnesty , and the establishment of a provisional Government . This will doubtless fairly represent the dominant sentiment of the country until such time as it can find expression in accordance with constitutional forms at a new election . Meantime American and other foreign interests will undoubtedly be safe , and the talk about annexation or a protectorate as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  