@@674803

txt If the Navy Department is aware of the location of the Spanish Squadron it is carefully concealing the fact . By this time , supposing Schley to have gone southward , he should be somewhere off the coast of Cuba , and it may be that he has joined forces with Sampson . Naval officers are hoping that a rumor that the Spanish Squadron has passed through the Straits of Yucatan into the Gulf of Mexico is true , Lor in that case there is a reasonable expectation that by combined action on the part of Sampson and Schley , one starting at the WindWard Passage for the Florida Straits , and the other passing around to the south of Cuba and coming into the Yucatan Straits , the Spaniard will be effectually cornered . However this may be , all are agreed that if the Spanish policy be one of avoidance of the fleet of the United States , it will be pursued with difficulty . Admiral Sampson is now , it is said , in a position to be regularly and frequently informed of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now or will be cut off and unable to turn in any direction with safety . The Danger of Dodging . " We are bound to come up with him , " said a prominent naval officer to-day , " unless he decides to run for our coast . But that will only defer the inevitable meeting for a few days . The longer he runs and dodges the shorter becomes his supply of fuel . Once that is exhausted : .. e has no place to whiMi he can resort for supplies , except San Juan or Havana . " He may select either port he prefers . If It be Puerto Rico , Sampson would return and resume the bombardment . I do not , however , believe Admiral Cervera will permit his fleet to be bottled up in a harbor and shelled where it can not manoeuvre . That would condemn him for both unseamanlike conduct and for criminal waste of the power of his fleet . " Few officers consider the suggestion of a dash for the coast of the United States as one of the probabilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be by vessels not in the squadron now in the Caribbean . The danger from that source is regarded as very slight . If the squadron is proceeding by a northern route , it can not avoid being seen by vessels bound east along the usual routes . If it is traveling by a southern route out of the usual lane , the scouts of the United States Navy are almost certain to sight it . Charleston , Chesapeake Bay , Philadelphia , New York , Boston , and Portland are considered by Navy Department officials and by ordnance officers of the War Department quite safe against any Spanish exploit . The Nervousness of Roston . The Navy Department people have ceased to pay any attention to inquiries concerning the many Spanish fleets daily reported as having been seen at widely separated points of the compass and will no longer venture to extend comforting assurances to those who can not avoid concern at every fresh report of a Spanish fleet . But a little amusement and some indignation is expressed about the altogether uncalled for nervousness manifested by citizens of Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the navy and who sue : ceeded in detaching on useless scouting service the Columbia and the Minneapolis . The officers of those vessels have been heard from here , and they consider that 1 they were unnecessarily deprived of useful scouting service southward and exposed to the jeers of their comrades merely to quiet the anxieties of persons quite needlessly alarmed . The war will , it is believed by those who are acquainted with the programme of the naval authorities and the condition of the Spaniards in Cuba , be short if the fleet of Admiral Sampson and that of Spain can be brought together soon . The Navy Department does not look for any access of energy in the Spanish Navy . It is considered that the demoralized condition of Spain precludes renewed war activity . A prominent officer of the Administration suggested that this would at once become apparent to the American people if they would try to think how they would feel about the prosecution of an outside war Were the country on the verge of a revolution which threatened to oust the President and put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being used , or about to be used , to prevent the carrying out of the programme . ? " We should not care much about war with Spain under these circumstances , and we should probably be anxious to escape punishment from her , " he said .                     