@@673791

txt The settlement by arbitration of the long boundary dispute between Brazil and the Argentine Republic is an international precedent and of good example . Good sense among nations ought to be not less contagious than the pursuit of glory and the love of war . Every successful arbitration of an international dispute gives a forward impulse to that peaceful principle and makes it less likely that two fully civilized nations will thereafter take up the sword to adjust difficulties that might be settled by a referee . Mexico and Guatemala in particular should accept as an example for their guidance the wise action of the two South American republics . The disputes are of a like nature . Both are of long standing . The one which President Cleveland 's arbitrament has just decided is much the older and more important . The boundary dispute between Brazil and Argentina really originated about 150 years ago . The faulty maps of the Jesuits are at the bottom of it . The Jesuit mapmakers , necessarily employing guesswork where surveys were impossible , made fearful confusion of water courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of the first scientific survey partook of this original vice of error , and for at least a century the dispute may be said to have remained constantly in an acute stage . The contested territory in the State of Chiapas likewise includes river courses , about which Mexico and Guatemala are at odds . River valleys have ever been the natural boundaries between nations , and accordingly they play their part in every boundary dispute . But the essential characteristic of quarrels about frontiers and boundaries is that the questions at issue are mainly questions of fact . The record evidence is commonly profuse , and the prolonged welter of conflicting claims , of aggression upon the one side and resistance upon the other , and frequently renewed negotiations , infallibly produce those documentary accumulations which are the native element of courts and advocates . Now , a repeating rifle or the Maxim gun is not an instrument of precision when employed in the adjustment of differences of this nature . In fact , as the stronger nation is most commonly the aggressor , it is fair to assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong . Civilized and intelligent nations at least ought to be ashamed of themselves when they go to war over a province or a river valley . The records , the facts , and the arguments in such contentions should the weighed by a dispassionate mind , and the decision given with the deliberation and solemnity of a judicial pronouncement . The decision of President Cleveland will presumably be disappointing and unwelcome to the Argentine people , but both that republic and the Republic of Brazil stand higher to-day among the nations of the world because of their wisdom in referring their dispute to an impartial arbitrator . The plan of arbitration drawn up by the Pan-American conference declared , in its second article , that arbitration should be obligatory in all controversies concerning diplomatic and Consular matters , boundaries , territories , indemnities , the right of navigation , and the validity , construction , and enforcement of treaties . That plan has been accepted by the United States , Brazil , Bolivia , Ecuador , Venezuela , Costa Rica , Salvador , Guatemala , Nicaragua , and Honduras . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority , and by her wise action to promote the speedy ratification of an arbitration treaty by all the republics in the western world . Senor Romero declares that he is a man of peace , that he seeks to do whatever he can to promote a peaceful settlement of his country 's troubles with Guatemala , if it can be done without national dishonor . There is no possible dishonor in an arbitration about facts . Mexico would rather honor herself by adopting that course . Moreover , Mexico can ill afford to set the example of going to war to reconquer or secure a disputed province . She can not have forgotten that the United States wrenched from her the great State of Texas fifty years ago in a war which reflected more discredit upon us than dishonor upon her . She is strong enough to whip Guatemala now , as we were strong enough to whip her in the forties . Probably we shall never have occasion to seize any more of Mexico 's territory . Still , the habit of going to war in such a case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get into . There were plenty of citizens of the United States who protested against the Mexican war : " Wal , the people they listen an ' say , Thet 's the ticket ; Ez fer Mexico , ' tai n't no great glory to lick it , But ' t would be a darned shame to go puffin ' o ' triggers . To extend the aree of abusin ' the niggers . ' " The Mexican people at the present moment , if reports do not belie them , are practically united for war upon Guatemala . It is to be hoped that wiser counsels will prevail in time to prevent her entering upon a bloody and almost criminal course of action . She ought not to sin against light by ' adopting old bloody way when the example of her Southern sisters invites her to a saner and more sensible course .                     