@@674348

txt Police Commissioner AlsTottEws , who has given special study to the organization of police systems and the discipline of police forces , has submitted to the Consolidation Commission his views upon unifying the police of the Greater New York territory in a single department . This refers not simply to consolidating the forces of the present City of New York . Brooklyn , Long Island City , and likatan Island , but to placing under a single control and direction all the police of the enlarged municipality , including those that serve in the parks and upon the bridge over the East River . Mr. ANDREWS gives very cogent reasons for believing that the efficiency and discipline of the whole body would be improved by the consolidation . The greatest advantage would undoubtedly accrue to the districts outside of the present City of New York . The authorized strength of the city force next year will exceed 5,000 men , which is more than double that of the rest of the Greater New York area . With the consolidation there would be a unified administration and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conform to the needs of the territory , and in emergencies the reserve of the whole force could be directed to any point . The separate park police of this city and Brooklyn has grown up with the park systems , and there is no good reason for its continuance . There is no material difference between police service in public parks and in the streets , and when it comes to the smaller parks or squares the isolation of the men and the separate jurisdiction constitute a serious drawback . The reasons given by Commissioner ANDREWS for a complete consolidation of the police force of Greater New York under a single control seem to us to be conclusive . He was not asked Whether in his opinion that control should be exercised by a single Commissioner or by a Board of Commissioners , but his study and experience have been so convincing to his own mind that he takes occasion to state his belief that " the most efficient police force in any city can be obtained through the medium of a single-headed commission , with a suitable staff of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioners . " But for the effect of custom and familiarity upon the human mind it would be as obvious that the Police Department of a great city should be under a single head as that the War Department of the Nation should be under a single head . In fact , nobody would question that any administrative department should in the exercise of executive functions be-directed by one mind . It is to be hoped that when the new charter for Greater New York is revealed to us it will appear that legislative and executive functions are distinctly separated and that the departments into which the latter are distributed will each be placed under a single responsible head . This should be regarded as a prime essential in any system of municipal government                     