@@673839

txt In determining to appoint successors to Murray and Kerwin , as well as Martin , on the Police ** iNlayor Strong is acting in the strict line of his duty to the people who elected him . It is a course which The Times began urging upon him some time ago , seeing clearly the futility of waiting for the Legislature to do anything to facilitate the reform of the Police Department , which was the first thing expected of the new municipal administration , after the power to make changes was granted . Mayor Strong has been a patient wait ' er . If there was to be any radical change in the constitution of the Police Department , he would naturally wait for it to be made , but the Legislature has been in session three months , and not only has it made no such change , but there is no prospect of its making any . If there must continue to be four Commissioners , they should be of a character to accomplish the required work of reform , so far as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray and Kerwin Tammany appointees , and therefore a part of the system to be reformed , but they have taken pains to show what is to be expected of them . The Mayor has given them every opportunity to indicate their attitude toward the policy which he was elected to carry out , by leaving them in office thus long . He appointed Mr. Ardrews in pursuance of that policy , but every effort of the new Commissioner has been opposed by all three of the old ones . The two Platt Republicans have shown that their position is precisely the same as that of the Tammany Democrat , and that they belong to exactly the class of public officers that the people voted to get rid of . As we have repeatedly remarked , the quality of administration depends more upon the character of men than upon the details of system . Police Commissioners with right motives and purposes can do much to remedy the abuses which Commissioners with wrong motives and purposes have allowed to grow up . It would be ridiculous to expect reform from Murray and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displace them if the objects for which he was elected are to be fulfilled . By putting men of the right kind in their places he can meet his own responsibility , so far as the present law will permit , and for the conditioi : of the law he is not responsible . He can make his choices in such a way that the requirement of bi-partisanship will be met , in case such a requirement should hereafter be imposed , and he can do so without selecting men who will in the least regard politics in the performance of their duties . ' As Mayor Strong has concluded to do his duty and leave the Legislature to do its duty or to neglect it , as it may see fit , it is safe to assume that in appointing Police Commissioners he will disregard party considerations of every kind and select men with sole reference to their fitness for the important task of reorganizing the force and reforming the administration of the department . This of necessity implies that he will not appoint Mr. James O'Brien or any man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization took in the canvass of last year . Mr. Strong was not elected by organizations , but by a vote of the people , and the only claims he is bound to recognize are the claims of the citizens of New-York . This is not a matter of politics , of Platt or anti-Platt , of the duties of the Legislature or the attitude of the Governor of the State . It is a plain matter of honesty and efficiency in municipal administration , and of placing the Police Department in a condition making that kind of administration possible . It is simply giving effect , so far as existing circumstances will admit , to the will of the people expressed nearly five months ago with uncommon clearness and emphasis . Mayor Strong should have the united support of the people of New York in this matter . If the Legislature fails in its duty those responsible for its action will have ' to answer for the consequences .                     