@@675352

txt There is a possibility that Miss Julia Arthur may have to face a suit for damages as a result of her action on Wednesday night , at the Broadway Theatre , when she caused the curtain to be rung down on her play " More Than - Queen , " until two couples who were occupying a box and who had annoyed her by their conversation and actions , had left the theatre . It was learned yesterday that these persons are friends of Louis S. Meyer , a publisher , of 130 West Ninety-eighth Street . Mr. Meyer , who is bringing out a souvenir book on Miss Arthur , received the tickets from W. J. Thorold , press agent for Miss Arthur , and being unable to use them , gave them to the persons who were ordered out of the playhouse . A day or so after the occurrence these persons consulted Lawyer William Grossman to learn if they could n't claim damages for their injured feelings from Miss Arthur . but they have , it is said , about abandoned the idea because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women in the party . It was said yesterday by one who claimed to know them well that one of the men is a stock broker and the other a real estate broker . One of the young women is the fiancee of one of them . Mr. Grossmain at his home , 80 East One Hundred and Eighth Street , yesterday refused to confirm or deny the story . He did say , however , that In view of the public curiosity regarding the matter he would hardly advise an action . He is sure that some mistake was made , for he says both men in the box party are chivalrous and high-spirited , and would be among the first to resent an insult offered to an actress or any other woman in their presence . Mr. Meyer was not at his home yesterday afternoon or evening , and his relatives said they knew nothing about the now famous box party . B. P. Cheney , the husband of miss Arthur , said that neither he nor Mrs. Cheney had any anxiety as to the-outcome of a suit based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said , " is printed ' The management reserves the right to revoke this license . ' " No excuse , he said , need be given . He cited an instance where Manager Daniel Frohman had recently excluded a dramatic reporter whose criticisms were obnoxious to him from his theatre for months . Mr. Cheney said that Mr. Thorold 's dismissal from Miss Arthur 's service had been decided upon , and that one reason was that he had not told that he had given the tickets to Mr. Meyer . Mr. Cheney said that he should take no further steps in the matter unless forced to do so .                     