@@674478

txt Our neighbor , the Staats-Zeitung , speaks its mind with unusual bluntness about local politics . " The Republican Party , " . it declares , " is the party of bigots and temperance cranks . An independent municipal organization must be open-minded and tolerant ; if it is so it can be master of the situation . " The Raines law amendments have provoked our German contemporary to this plain speaking . In its opinion , they fill to the brim the measure of Republican misrule , and will hold the leading place among the issues of the Fall election . In politics nothing is more fortunate or more rare than to be able to know precisely what parties or organizations are driving at . The frankness of the Staats-Zeitung makes it plain that the German-American voters whom it represents would be glad to give their great strength to the Citizens ' Union if the Citizens ' Union is willing to make an issue of the Raines law amendments . We translate a significant passage from its article , which is entitled " The Citizens ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next local election an independent organization must live up to its name . It can enter into no coalition with a machine , and a coalition with the Platt machine is altogether out of the question because of its responsibility for the work of the Legislature . Any such coalition would bankrupt an ' independent ' organization . It must also keep out of alliances with the bigot element that under the leadership of such humbugs as PARKHURST has done so much mischief in the last few years , and driven voters into the arms of Tammany . The Raines law can not be kept out of the next local campaign . The independent organization can not avoid taking a definite position in respect to that measure . If it wishes to get into sympathy with the masses , and especially with the German element , it must take a liberal position on the excise and Sunday questions . The Citizens ' Union has , in its preliminary statement of principles , declared for an alliance with the working classes . Without the support of that class it can not succee.l @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of municipal reform , which is not to be expected of Tammany . But the workingmen will not support an exclusive , ' Ligetecf , intolerant society , and if those of this stripe in the Citizens ' Union again give it its tone , they will never be abje to get any help from the workingmen : ' This is pretty plain talk . The , Citizens ' Union will not fail to catch the drift of it , nor will it underestimate the importance of this offer of alliance  --  for as such it must be regarded . There are about 40,000 German-American voters in the city . We presume the Staats-Zeitung speaks for the greater part of them . It is a large re-enforcement . But of course there will be much difficulty about the terms . Our own opinion is that the German voters ought to support the Citizens ' Union on its general merits , and that the Citizens ' Union ought to fight the Raines law on its general demerits . The German-Americans are good citizens . They ought to work for good government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural allies of the Citizens ' Union . But they must not expect the Union to accept all their views about Sunday laws , or even about the saloon question . On the other hand , the Citizens ' Union , as we have already remarked , will do well to remember that it is engaged in political reform , not moral and spiritual reform . Is it deemed necessary this year to reheat the mistakes of the People 's Municipal League , and drive away thousands of voters , not merely the German voters , but others as well , that would heartily support a wisely directed reform movement ? A word with our neighbor , the StaatsZeitung . How does it help on the work against the Raines law and other Republican abominations to call Dr. PARKHURST a " humbug . " In the first place he is not a humbug . No epithet could be more inappropriate . Furthermore , a great many municipal reformers believe . him to be sincere and his work to be valuable . As he is not particularly involved in the plans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Drop the side issues and attend to the main business . There is no good reason why the GermanAmericans and the Citizens ' Union should not come together in an honorable and advantageous alliance . But the Germans must not ask the Citizens ' Union to declare for a " wide-open " Sunday , and the Union must not ask the Germans to step upon a platform that overlaps the field of good administration and encroaches upon the domain that properly belongs to the pulpit and the moral reformer .                     