@@673571

txt It must be admitted , as a general ethical principle , that no man is responsible for the performances of his son-in-law . This general principle has a specially wide application in this country , in which , more than in any other , not only " beggars marry many , " as Shakespeare asserts , but girls marry whom they please without consulting their parents . So far as his son-in-law , Granger , is concerned , Police Commissioner McClave ought to be the object of a general compassion . A more unexemplarr or unedifying young man than young Granger is , according to his own sworn account , could not be easily imagined . Young Granger , as it appears from his own deposition , was very much and all the time " on the make , " and his fatherin-law 's official position appears to have presented itself to young Granger , in default of that huge and handsome sum of ready money which the son-in-law of a Police Commissioner naturally expects , as an opportunity to be worked , by an audacious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not necessary to go into the details of Granger 's testimony , for the very reason , largely given by himself , that a Police Commissioner , or any other man , can not properly be held accountable for the performances of his son-in-law . There is even a danger that Commissioner Mc- . Clave , in view of the absolute irresponsibility and " fresh " outrageousness of his son-in-law , may be absolved from his proper responsibility for things that he did on his own account and not in the least upon the account of his son-in-law , the adventurous , " forth-putting , " and irresponsible Granger . Mr. McClave has quite enough offenses of his own to an -- swer for without calling upon him to answer for the irresponsible Granger . Some of the things that Mr. McClave has to answer for have already been brought out before the investigating committee in the form of sworn evidence . Sworn evidence , delivered under the pains and penalties of perjury , is not a thing which Police Captains or even Police Commissioners can afford to whistle down the wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Commissioners have very seriously to reckon . That corruption is very rife in the Department of Police is a fact which , as Dogberry justly observed , has long been known and will go near to be thought so shortly . It is not less evident that an extensive and systematic corruption of the Police Department could not possibly come about without procuring at least the silence , if not the positive and aggressive assistance , of the men at the top of the department  --  to wit , the Commissioners . This is the point to which the investigating committee may profitably address itself . There was some testimony given the other day about the perjury of a patrolman 's evidence by a citizen . All that amounts to nothing at all . What the people of this town want is specific , explicit , indictable testimony of systematic corruption in the Police Department . There is no well-informed citizen who does not believe that such corruption exists . What well-irifornied citizens desire is direct evidence that will furnish matter for the consideration of Grand Juries and the like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already submitted . There is every reason to believe that there is much more to follow . That is evidence of a kind that tends to fix responsibility not only upon Police Commissioners and so forth , but upon District Attorneys and so forth who dc not convert it into matter for criminal prosecutions . What the people of this town need is that all the matters of common notoriety about the Police Department should become matters of direct evidence . The investigating committee has already done much toward this end but it is in its power to do very mutt more .                     