@@672892

txt As a reflex of the Hill " boom " of last week , one of the most significant outpourings of the people that ever occurred in Alabama took place here to-night in favor of Cleveland . The announcement was short , the first intimation of such a meeting having been given out Saturday evening . The response was spontaneous , and the best citizens of Birmingham and the surrounding suburbs gathered in a grand mass meeting at Erswell Hall . The hall is capacious , seating about 2,000 people , but long before the speaking began every seat in the house was occupied and an immense throng could not get inside the doors and crowded around the entrances . A delegation of miners from Mary Lee Mine . 250 strong , came in in a body , but could not get into the hall . An overflow meeting on the outside was organized , and the enthusiasm there was only surpassed by the cheering and applause that greeted the orators within the halL The meeting was opened by Rufus N. Rhodes , editor of the Daily ens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by E. H. Cabness , Sumter Les , Capt . James H. Weatherby , James A. Webb . and others , allleading citizens of the county and enthusiastic Cleveland men . One of the prominent speakers of the evening was J. W. Cowles , a former citizen of Connecticut , an active man in State politics there , and a member of the New-York Reform Club . He pledged Connecticut to Grover Cleveland , and said that he would also carry Mabeechusetts. and all the New-England States with the exception of Maine and Vermont . His remarks were received with vociferous applause . A Cleveland club of fully two thousand members was formed . Resolutions calling upon the Jefferson County delegates to the State Convention In Juno to cast their ballots for a Cleveland delegation to the Chicago Convention were passed amid the greatest enthusiasm . It is no exaggeration to say that the gathering here tonight In favor of the great apostle of tariff reform , and as a rebuke to the cut  --  and-dried effort of last week to boost David 13 . Hill , was the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community ever held in any city of the South . It so far surpassed the drummed-up gathering of Wednesday last as to cause unusual comment , It clearly demonstrates the fact that fully 90 per cent . of tae people of Alabama are in favor of Grover Cleveland as the next nominee of the Democrats .                     