@@674696

txt A very bad freight wreck occurred on the New York Central Railroad at 4:30 o'clock this morning , at a point five miles north of this city , from an apparently trivial cause . A small section of slate rock , weighing in the aggregate only a few hundred pounds , fell from the inland side of a rock cut upon the north-bound track . A north-bound extra freight - train of forty loaded cars , drawn by Engine No. 598 , and running at the rate of twenty-five miles an hour , struck this obstruction and the engine and sixteen cars were derailed , The engine kept on its course and ran along over the ties for a. distance of 300 feet before it stopped . The sudden checking of the momentum of ' the locomotive and forward ears ' - with the pressure from behind of the part of the train that remained on the track caused the derailed cars to come together in. the cut so that they were jammed from side to side in zigzag positions . Roth tracks and roadbed were torn up for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loaded with all kinds of general merchandise , including cases of medicine , furniture , pianos , fruits , furs for a military regiment in Canada , canned goods , and machinery . About one-half of the freight escaped damage . On the engine were Patrick O'Hagen , engineer ; Joseph Hebeler , fireman , of West Albany , and Frank Grant , head flagman , of Poughkeepsie . The engineer was slightly bruised and the fireman 's back was badly strained from being thrown down in the cab . Grant , the flagman , was uninjured , and to that fact is probably due the salvation of the fast night express from Troy , with its load of sleeping passengers . Grant realized immediately that it was his duty to warn the south-bound trains , several of which were even then due . He jumped from the cab and an up the track swinging his red lantern as he ran . He was none too soon , for the Troy express was then in the block ahead and running very fast . The train came to a stop within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused almost complete cessation of traffic . Passenger trains were blocked north and south of the wreck all day . The through mail and limited trains were run between New York and Albany over the Harlem Division and Boston and Albany Railroad via Chatham , while special trains were made up at Poughkeepsie to accommodate passengers between here and Al-'ba.ny . There were about 150 passengers on the morning express trains that were stalled north of the wreck , and which were sent back to Albany at noon and run to New York by the improvised route . The fast mail train which carries the New York newspapers to all points North and West was stalled here all day , with about sixty tons of newspapers designed for places throughout the State . At 0 o'clock to-night , one track was put in operation . Trains are running now with slight . delay .                     