@@672499

txt The shock of the explosion at Wilmington this afternoon was plainly felt in many sections of this city . To those , indoors it resembled the rumbling of distant thunder or the moving of heavy furniture , and the rattling window frames caused many people to rush to their doors and windows . The shook was also felt at Millvide , N. J. ; Chester , Penn. , and other points , thirty to thirty-five miles distant . The Dupont Powder Works were established in 1802 by Eleuthera Irene Dupont de Nemours , a distinguished Frenchman who came to this country in 1799 to escape Jacobin persecution . Thomas Jefferson was anxious that the works should be located in Virginia , but the Frenchman finally selected the scene of today 's explosion as being the best adapted for the business . De Nemours continued to conduct the works until his death from cholera in 1S24. when his sons , Alfred Victor and Gen. Henry Dupont , the latter of whom died last year , succeeded him in the direction of the business . Henry Dupoiatbecame the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole supply of powder for the American Army in the war of 1812 , having then a capacity of 2,000 pounds a day . At the present time they have a capacity of over 50,000 pounds daily . In addition to the three sets of mills which are kept busy on the Brandywine night and day , nine smaller mills have been established at points in Pennsylvania and New-Jersey during the past forty years . The gunpowder produced at the Brandywine Mills has been an important factor in every American war since the Revolution and also in several European conflicts . The Dupont Powder Company owns about 2,000 acres of land about its works , and the estate of the late Gen. Henry Dupont comprises as much more . In 1854 three wagon loads of powder belonging to the Duponts , which was being conveyed through the streets of Wilmington , extrieded , blowing the drivers and horses to atoms anti killing several passers-by . On Aug. 22 , 1857 , t4 explosion occurred at the Brandywine works in which several workmen were killed . Alexis Dupont , a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled with powder , and was sweeping burning brands from it when the powder within became ignited and Alexis was blown up with the building , no portion of his body being found . The manufacture of smokeless powder had but recently been begun at the Brandywine works .                     