@@672872

txt The House found a way to-day to eoonomize in expenditures for the Indians . The Indian Appropriation bill was under discussion , and Mr. Bowers ( Rep. , CaL ) offered an amendment authorizing the President to detail army officers as Indian agents when any of the agencies became vacant . Mr. Bowers was confident that the correctness of the principle of putting army officers in control of the agencies would be recognized . ' The reputation of army officers for integrity would be an assurance that the Indians would be fairly dealt with by them . It was plain to , hiru that the Indians had greater respect for the soldier and for the authority that he asserted than he would have for the civilian agent , whom he is apt to distrust . Mr. Wilson , ( Rep. , of Washington ) who suggested that the education of the soldiers was for another purpose , doubted their ability to perform the duties of Indian Agents as well as civilians . This , to Mr. Bowers , seemed unreasonable , and he considered it an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the agents and the Indians got into trouble , the soldiers were called in to settle the difficulty , and that they always did it satisfactorily . During the debate Mr. Stockdale , ( Dem .. Miss. , ) who favored the amendment , in complimenting army officers for their integrity and honor , said that whenever an army officer was in charge of a work , that ' work was Well and honestly performed . That remark provoked representative Buchanan ( Rep. , N. J. ) to ask whether Mr. Stockdale referred to the work on the new aqueduct in the northwestern section of this city , a work that was done under Engineer Commissioner Lydeolter , cost $2,000,000 , and is worth nothing . There was no satisfactory answer to the question and no successful . opposition to the amendment . Jerry Simpson ( P. A. , Kan. ) made a speech in support of the amendment , in which ho expresed his pleasure in discovering a use for the army . It would put the army into useful positions . and take an army of politicians out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could vote against it . With the independence characteristic of the Alliance mon , he referred to the dissensions of the Democrats and their inability to agree on an economical policy ; if they voted against it ho would begin to believe that they did not expect to control this political force in the future , and it was not clear to him that they would have a chance to control it , Teo amendment was agreed upon , but by a very small vote , the question of ? No quorum " , being raised but not insisted upon . PERSEVERING SILVER MEN . A meeting of the Rules Committee has been called for Monday , at which action will betaken on the request of the silver men that the Bland bill be made a special order of the House. ? There will be a formal conference of . the Democratic members of the committee to-morrow . As the result of an informal talk between the three Democratic members of the committee , Messrs . Crisp , ( Ga. , ) Catohings , ( Miss. , ) and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring in a special order on the silver question . The form of this order will be fixed to-morrow . It has been determined to make - the Bland Free-Coinage bill a special order for March 21 ' or 2e , though this date may possibly be changed . - The ptirpoie is to give the bill four days for consideration in the House . Within this tiffieethe  --  bill is to be debated and brought to a vote . No order will be made lining a time at which a vote shall be taken , at least for the present . The fact that the order only makes the silver bill a matter of special privilege for a limited period of time , would perhaps make it possible ror the anti-silver men to prevent a vote by means of filibustering tactics . It is said , however , that if necessary a rule will be brought in to bring the matter to a vote . This , however , will not be done unless it is seen to be absolutely necessary . The Rules Committee is reluctant to fix a time at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by members of the committee that filibustering will not be found to succeed , and that the knowledge that a rule will be brought in if necessary in order to check these tactics will be sufficient to prevent a resort to this method of obstruction . It is at present the purpose of Representative Cockrell , ( Dem. , N. Y. , ) Andrew , ( Dem. , Mass. , ) and O'Neil , ( Defoe Mass .. ) and other anti-silver men to light the special order of the Rules Committee as the very outset and endeavor to defeat it . While it is the purpose of the Rules Committee to report the order on Monday , it is not intended to call it up for adoption by the House for some days . The report that Great Britain has consented to take part in an international monetary conference , and line indicated that the Bank of England is willing to hold one-fifth of its reserve in silver , is denied at the Treasury Department in the most positive terms . TO KEEP DOWN EXPENSES . There was a two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buildings over the policy to be pursued in committee with reference to public buildings bills . , The committee is very much divided on the subject , and when an adjournment took place the policy which would secure the adherence of . a majority of the members Or the committee was very much in doubt . The members who want public buildings are making a strong tight and will perhaps defeat any policy which proposes not to recommend the erection of any new public buildings at all ; but it seems likely that the action of Chairman Bankhead ( Dem. , Ala .. ) will have the effect or keeping down appropriations to narrow limits . Representative O'Neil ( Dem. , Mass. , ) introduced a resointion to-day " providing for the appointment of a committee of five to examine the manner in which moneys are expended for the improvement of rivers and harbors ; the system of work thereon ; the wisdom , economy , and efficiency of existing methods , and whether abuses exist in carrying on , these ' works ; the needs of this service , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for carrying out these public works , together with an investigation as to the works advised to be carried on and their total oost , and the amount of property now owned by the Government for carrying on these Works . ' , The committee is to report by bill or otherwise . TOPOGRAPHIC DRA.UGHTSHAN WANTED . An examination will be hold by the Civil Service Commission March 21 to Alla vacancy in the position of topographic draughtsman in tho Coast and Geodetic Survey at a salary of $900 . The subjects will be letter-writing , geography , arithmetic , algebra , geometry , descriptive geometteeplane trigonometry , shades and shadows , and drawing . Residents of the District ' are ineligible . Application blanks may be had upon request , .                     