@@674903

txt The short way with AGUINALDO Would be to put him strictly on his good behavior and then knock him on the head if be got troublesome . Our primary object In Manila is to press down the Spaniard , Dot to exalt AGMNALDO , and we can not permit any insurgent to interfere with our plans or retard their execution . The strictly military way of dealing with this aspiring native would be to remove him as a hostile obstructionist . That would most likely be the end of our troubles with the insurgents . They have not his aqua either for leadership or mischief . But this would not be quite the American way . In Turkey or China AGUIgrALDo would pay for his obstreperousness with his head . GEORGE DEWEY of Vermont and WESLEY MERRITT Of New York will doubtless cure this chieftain of his folly , not by removing his head , but by putting knowledge into it . The thing AGUINALDO most needs is to be made to gee that he is a prancing fool . He is on bis high horse about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distrusts the Americans because he fears that they will set up a Government of their own at Manila and never permit him to tootle authoritatively on his gold whistle . He aspires to be President of the Philippine Republic , and will be content with nothing less In this AGUINALDO seeks vain things and is demonstrably a fool . If we do Dot take these islands to ourselves we atiali most likely give them back to Spain . There are vague possibilities of I some joint . control , but retrocession is far and away the most probable alternative to annexation . There is not the least probability that wp shall set up AGUINALDO with his gold whistle as the ruler of the Filipinos . In opposing us , therefore , he is doing his best to be restored to his original condition as a Spanish subject and an unsuccessful insurgent . Relieved of the burden of Cuba and Puerto Rico and with some 75,000 available troops withdrawn from those islands . Spain would be in a position to make short work of the Philippine insurrection . Then , some fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little ceremony in the public . square of Manila . AGUINALDO would be there , but not for long ; and when it was all over it would be all over with him , too . It is plain , therefore , that he does n't know when he is well off . We think it will be possible to convince him that he is playing the fool . The restoration of Spanish rule is the thing above all others that his insurgent followers dread . They know what it means . It will not be difficult to convince them that it is better to be a live American than to be stood up against a wall and shot to death . The Spanish Archbishop of Manila is another gentleman who has made a fool of himself , but he is in the way of getting cured . Nobody was quite so extravagant as he In denunciation of the Americans and in picturing forth the fearful things they were going to do to us at Manila . Now he and his priests are in terror of their lives , fearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly desirous of killing them all . The Pope has ordered the Archbishop to place himself under the protection of the American forces , against which he recently hurled his silly maledictions . AGUINALDO and , the Archbishop are a fine pair of proteges . We can afford to overlook their foibles and save them from each other . But we have no time to waste on them .                     