@@673406

txt The last Grand Jury , drawn by Edward R. Stanton , late Sheriff of Hudson County , was yesterday discharged by Judge Lippincott , preparatory to the summoning of a new Grand Jury by Sheriff Toffey , the names for which will be announced next Saturday . The Grand Jury , as if it felt the need of defense , had prepared a presentment explanatory of its action , which Judge Lippincott ordered to be received and entered upon the records of the court . The greater portion of the presentment dealt with the paving of streets , a subject which has elicited much public comment during the time the Grand Jury has been in session . The presentment says that a full investigation did not elicit evidence enough to warrant an indictment . Only one of the persons summoned appeared , and his " evidence " was mere hearsay , vague , meagre , and unworthy of serious consideration . The Grand Jury further says that it investigated certain contracts for asphalt pavement , and " upon advice given by the Prosecutor 's office " indicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioners , but " subsequent investigation before the indictments were presented to the court convinced the Grand Jury that it was in error as to the law on the subject , and that no convictions could be had under the indictments found . They were therefore unanimously reconsidered . " In dismissing the subject the Grand Jury says that , while experiments in pavements may be extravagant , they are not criminal . The presentment says that in order to ascertain whether certain statements publicly made in regard to Sunday liquor selling and theatrical shows , gambling , and the like , the Grand Jury called before it the municipal and police officials of Jersey City , Hoboken , Bayonne , Kearny , Harrison , Guttenberg , Union Hill , and Weehawken . " The result of the investigation , " says the presentment , " disclosed the fact that according to the knowledge of these public functionaries , given under oath , this county is singularly free from open violations of law , and for morality and sobriety will compare favorably with any other community on the earth . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that Sunday liquor selling and Sunday theatricals and gambling are not known there . This is doubtless intended for sarcasm . It is a wellknown fact that the evils alluded to flourished in Hoboken until two weeks ago , when Mayor Fagan compelled the police authorities to enforce the law . Perhaps the most pertinent paragraph in the presentment is that calling attention to the practice of holding a prisoner in jail at the public expense " on the chance of a subsequent indictment , or of his application for trial at Special Sessions , when the circumstances and the crime do not demand it " When the case of a poor , friendless prisoner has been considered , and the Grand Jury has failed to indict him , " the presentment says , " he should be promptly restored to liberty , and not held until he is coerced to some action that will afford official fees , unless for good reason that holding has the express authority of this court . " The Justices of the Peace in the county are also censured for not sending cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey City and the county jail are also said to be in bad condition . The Grand Jury says it has disposed of 800 complaints and found 320 indictments.                     