@@781283

txt While the Republican machine managers are faintly hoping that Gen. Stewart L. Woodford or some other New York Republican will get a place in President McKinley 's Cabinet , they ' are much more interested in the talk of Chauncey M. Depew for Ambassador to Great Britain . The suggestion that Dr , Depew should have this place was made in THE NEW YORK TIMES a few weeks ago , and since then there has been much talk about it among politicians . The Republican State machine and many Republicans who are not connected with the machine , are anxious that the President-elect should select Dr. Depew for the London mission . Ex-Gov . Levi P. Morton was a. candidate for this appointment , but he has withdrawn his name , and in a letter which he sent to Major McKinley , through ex-Lieut . Gov . Saxton , it is believed he said that all Republicans in this State would be delighted with the selection of Dr. Depew . All of the candidates agree that Dr. Depew would not decline the honor if it were tendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " The Republican organization indorsed Gov . Morton for appointment as Ambassador to England , and I understand that when Gov . Morton recently sent a letter to Canton withdrawing his name , he said in it that he hoped that his old friend Depew would be . appointed . " Mr. Depew , when asked if he would accept the mission if it was offered to him , repeated what he said last week  --  that he could not decline anything that had not been offered to him . " I have not heard from Canton , " he added . Of Dr. Depew there is a. story that could not be confirmed yesterday , and which is to the effect that he may soon retire from the Presidency of the Central Railroad , whether he is appointed to the London mission or not , and that he may be succeeded by Samuel Spencer . His acceptance of the Presidency of ' the Joint Traffic Association 's Board of Control was used last night to strengthen the story that he is getting ready to retire from the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Edward Lauterbach went to Canton in be ' half of the Republican organization he urged the President-elect to appoint ex-Gov . Morton ' as Ambassador to England , and that he was met with what was ' tantamount to a flat refusal . It is also said that Mr. Lauterbach opposed the selection of Gen. Horace Porter to any office , and that Major McKinley said that while he had not determined upon offering Gen. Porter a place , ' the General was his friend , and he did not want to hear anything in opposition to him . Whitelaw Reid is a candidate for the London mission , and , while it is not believed by the politicians that he will get it , they fear the effects of his candidacy upon the chances of Dr. Depew . They say that if Mr. Reid should follow Gov . Morton 's example , and withdraw , then there would be but one candidate from this State ? Dr. Depew . Some of the latter 's friends were of the opinion last knight that President McKinley would finally select Col. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Hanna 's candidate for the place . The Dry Goods Club has sent a petition to Major McKinley urging him to select a New York man as one of the members of his Cabinet . They believe that Gen. Woodford , Gen. Porter , or some other equally well-known Republican should receive a portfolio . The signers to the petition include the H. B. Clafiin Company , Tefft , Weller &; Co. , Dunham , Buckley &; Co. , and several other prominent houses in the dry goods , boor and shoe , and wholesale grocery trades . The general opinion among the politicians Is that if neither a Cabinet position nor the London mission comes to this State , the Paris mission will go to Gen. Horace Porter . The story that comes from Canton to the effect that Theodore Roosevelt may be made Assistant Secretary of the Navy , or appointed to a place in some other important department , is not credited .                     