@@672541

txt The Ordnance Bureau of the navy is still experimenting with the high explosive invented by Dr. Stephen H. Emmens and known as emmensite , and it is believed the results thus far obtained indicate that another most important offensive agency will soon be at the disposal of the navy . The experiments show that the compound , when exploded with a fulminate detonator , has about the earns explosive force as gun cotton ; that it is insensible to friction and impact , and only locally ignited by flame ; that It is not affected by great changes in temperature nor injured by freezing and thawing , and that it loses ittle of its strength after being repeatedly saturated with water and dried . A large number of projectiles loaded with it have been tired from powder guns without a single premature explosion or accident of any kind , and the bureau is now making preparations to test It on a larger scale . For this purpose a special gun is to be built at the WaShington Ordnance Foundry capable of throwing projectile containing a bursting charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be of steel , built up much as the regular service rifle , but will not be so long . It will be rather a rifled mortar , longer in the tube , however , than the ordinary type of rifled mortars being built for the army . The tube will be short enough to avoid the danger of premature explosion by excessive heating of the projectile in the bore of the gun , as might result if the long service gun were used , and it will still be long enough to give much greater range , and consequently , greater accuracy can be obtained than with the ordinary mortar . As soon as this gun is completed it will be taken to the new proving ground at Indian Head , on the Potomac , and a series of tests will be made to ascertain the exact capabilities of the new explosive and the limitations of its usefulness . Just what place it is destined to occupy in the armament of war vessels will not be definitely decided until after these experiments , but it is believed that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at close quarters , such as the Ammon ram and the torpedo cruisers . The Ordnance Bureau has always held that high explos yes in naval operations should be aired from a powder gun , and it is thought the now gun will prove superior to the pneumatic guns with which the gun-cotton cruiser Vesuvius is provided . The gun to be built at the ordnance foundry can be handled just the same as the ordinary service gun in every respect , while the pneumatic guns of the Vesuvius are built into her bull and can only be aimed by manoeuvring the vessel , and their range can only be varied by varying the amount of air admitted to fire them . If this new weapon is succeesfully developed its effectiveness will be extraordinary . A single shell , containing a hundred pounds of ewmeasite dropped on the deck of the largest vessel afloat would probably disable her , and the effect of its explosion against even the thickest armor plate might be very serious . Dr. Emmons has recently made another invention that may be of great value to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which nickel matte can be reduced in a few days , and a quality of nickel produced especially well adapted for making nickel steel . Nickel matte can only be treated by chemical processes , and the method heretofore in use requires months to complete .                     