@@674285

txt the Nation if it should nominate- a - gold- bug on a silver platform ; but the convention had no hesitation in becoming a laughing stock . Senator Grady was at the front again while the nominating speeches were in progress . He had what he called " an ungracious task , " which consisted chiefly in making some assertions that it would not do to nominate any Tammany man because the issue would then be , " Shall the tiger rule ? " After thus acknowledging that the old beast . was not in shape for any more rough usage at the hands of the voters , Mr. Grady proceeded to deliver John Boyd Thacher to the silver platform with assurances that Mr. Thacher , in spite of his record as a gold man , would follow regularity , no matter where it should lead . The gold-standard Democrats such as ex-Gov . Flower were called hard names . Indianapolis , where they indorsed the genuine principles of Democracy , was called the Cave of Adullam . " Mr. Russell 's Intimation . One of the orators for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle of the Road advocate , thundered to the delegates that it would not do to nominate a man whose arm , when he tried to hold up the baner of Bryan , would be " paralyzed by his own convictions . " He called no names , but proceeded to read from the speech of John Boyd Thacker at the Saratoga Convention . en this had no effect on the convention . The machine was keyed up to nominate a gold man , and nothing could stop it . Tammany and Senator Hill 's lieutenants were working in absolute harmony . William Sulzer , the Middle of the Road candidate for Governor , did not follow the course sometimes adopted by candidates of withdrawing from the hall while the eulogistic speeches were in progress , but sat ! through it all . So he was on hand after , , the blow had fallen on his head , and made a perfunctory motion to make Mr. Thacher 's nomination unanimous . The convention , having swallowed the Chicago platform and nominated a candidate with a gold record to stand upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ithe ticket . Mr. Porter had been agreed rupon for the second place this morning . ! Mr. Kirk of Syracuse looked the ground A over carefully and decided that he did not want it . Mr. Shire of Erie , who had been ' considered the alternative , is a good Democrat and did not want it ; and so ex-Mayor porter was about the only available man left . Erie Gets a Candidate . When it was determined that no Erie County man was to have the second place on the ticket , that left Judge Robert T. Titus of this county available for the Judgeship nomination . He is the only man who has been regarded as a possibility from the Democratic ranks , and if the geography of the situation had made him an impossibility , Judge Irving G. Vann , the Republican candidate , would have been indorsed . That was not necessary , and it pleases Erie County to have a. candidate in the person of Judge Titus . The list of Presidential Electors contains few names of eminent men . They were hunted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without Treich regard for anything except the one Idea of securing men who would consent to : et . Populist Want Fusion . There are hints that the straightout Pop-unsts , who came here at the beginning of the convention to engineer through a fusion deal , have not given up hope . It is said they will try to make a dicker with the State Committee by which four or five Populistie Electors will be substituted , and thus give " Tom " Watson 's friends in the State something- to shout for and some basis for political bartering . This is considered hardly a possibility . It is not in harmony with the green-goods theory of the entire action of the convention . To do that , it is said , would consolidate votes on Bryan and would add nothing to the " regularity " of the proceedings . The machine cares little for Bryan . net:mina. to the End . The convention left no possibility that its " 4 regularity " might not be accepted On all sides . The star , the Democratic emblem adopted last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was officially declared by a resolution to be the emblem of the party whose representatives : were here to-day . A few minutes after the platform was adopted a message came to Senator Grady from William F. Sheehan saying that his resignation as a member of the National Committee had been forwarded to National Chairman Jones . Frank Campbell of Bath , a banker , had been slated to fill the vaeancy two days ago .                     