@@674725

txt ? To think ' of Coney Island as a. place of residence , as distinguished from a place of resort for purposes of amusement or gain , is practically impossible . It is obvious that nobody would live there permanently except under compulsion , and , as there is no compulsion , the conclusion is inevitable that nobody does it or ever has . Unfortunately , Mr. ABRAM VAN SICKLEN has been doing just this thing for full eighty years , and only changed his habits this week at the persuasive entreaty of  --  death . And Mr. VAN Sicicnnx was quite content with Coney Island . " There is enough to see here , " he used ? to say , and nevel ? in , all his long life did curiosity or any other motive lead him so far away from home as the Borough of Manhattan . So his neighbors and relatives say , at any rate , and as they are eminently respectable people they must be believed , even though uttering impossibilities and working havoc with logic . Mr. VAN SicxLEN must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and much philosophy of a sort which , if it were more common , would probably add to the sum total of human happiness . It would not accelerate the world 's progress , however , so perhaps there is no reason to regret that he monopolized practically the whole American supply . ? There will be added interest in this year 's celebration of Gen. GRANT 'S birthday at Galena because , for the first time , the memorial address is to be delivered by an ex-Confederate . The Illinois papers properly speak of this as an event of great moment , and express the hope that it emphasizes , as few other things would , the dying out of the animosities and . the bitterness created by the war . The committee having the exercises in charge discovered as soon as they began to discuss the selection of a speaker that the idea of inviting a . Southern man to eulogize the Union leader was acceptable to them all , and they soon united upon the Hon. EMORY SPEDE as one likely to accept the invitation and competent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They ' wrote to him at once , and in his cordial reply the Judge said : " I do not hesitate to accept the invitation , and if I can give any adequate expression of the carefulness and honor with which the renown of that great American is cherished by his countrymen who dwell in the Southern States , I shall be happy indeed . " Judge SPEER went into the Confederate Army at the age of sixteen , and served in the Fifth Kentucky Regiment , which was a part of the famous Orphan Brigade , under the command of Gen. ( afterward Chief Justice ) LEWIS of that State . He participated in 1861 in the defense of Macon . Commenting on the selection of Judge SPEER , The Macon ( Ga . ) Telegraph says : April 27 , 189S , will mark almost exactly a third of a century since the war closed , and it is Indicative of the wondrous reToluticn which has come about in the intervening years that from the very home of GRANT should come a request that one who wore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Union Army as a. neighbor and fellow-citizen . The celebration of the day will be something more than a celebration of GRANT 'S birth . It will mark in history the recession of sectional prejudice . GRANT on his deathbed repeated the words ' Let us have peace . ' They were uttered almost with his dying breath . What more fitting , then , than that a . Confederate soldier should respond to the sentiment in the very place from which GRANT went out to do battle ! "                     