@@675273

txt Rumor of a Projected Alliance Against United States Imperialism Alarms the Merchants in Rio . , Foreign Corresponde ; " e NEW YORE TIMES . KINGSTON , IamZea , Aug. l5. ? A letter just received here via Barbados from a trustworthy and well-informed correspondent at Rio throws some light on a recent Rome dispatch to a London newspaper , which stated that there was some talk of an alliance among the South American republics against the United States . Mail correspondence travels slowly in these parts of the world , and the letter antedates the Rome dispatch by nearly three weeks . This would tend to indicate that since It was written the subject had been more fully and openly discussed and had been made the subject of a cable disPatch . One does not usually look to Roma for first news of important happenings in South America ; but when the extent of Italian interests in Brazil is considered , the Possible bona fides of the information become apparent . The letter referred to states that among commercial circles there were disquieting rumors afloat about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - mperialistic expansion policy of the United States , which , the southern politicians thought , was calculated to imperil the sovereignty of their own countries at no distant time if not promptly counteracted . It was even being pointed out that many farseeing South American diplomats had suggested that Mr. 's famous Pan-American Congress was intended as a feeler and that there was some probability that he holds in view the ambitious project of subjugating the sovereign nations of the south . Diplomatic notes , it was said . had been exchanged between the Presidents of Brazil , the Argentine Republic . and Chile , the exact purport of which had not transpired . but which , it was believed . contemplated . the formation of an alliance between ail the southern republics to protest against and oppose to the utmost any attempt tot the part of the United States to extend Its political influences south of the Rio Grande on any pretext whatsoever . This , It was suspected . Mee direct reference to a supposed design on the part of the United States to secure some sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the more complete control of the projected interoceanic canal . It was further stated that tile visit of the President of the Argentine Republic to Brazil had been , in paet. at least , designed as a cover to a personal conference on the subject of the proposed alliance . If the two great Atlantic States arrived at a satisfactory agreement as to the general terms on which the alliance might be effected . Chile was prepared to join it , and the united influences of the south would then be brought to bear openly on the Gevernmenta of Venezuela , Colombia , and Central America to secure their adhesion . The commercial interests of the whole continent of South America , the letter proceeds to point out , would meet likely be very seriously compromised by the consummation of such an alliance and the open hostility to the United Settee which it would involve It was this consideration that was causing the unrest mentioned among commercial circles . although at the time of writing the matter had not passed beyond the stage of rumor , and nothing was positively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South American republics with the United States iso flourishing as it is at present , and its nterruption would inevitably precipitate a crisis that would make for Its complete disorganization . There was , however , another aspect of the situation on which the correspondent dwells at some length and with hopefulness  --  hopefulness. that is opposing that the political intention should reach some form of material realization . He says it was thought in Rio commercial circles that should the politicians actually succeed in coming to any definite agreement it might lead to a common revolutionary movement among all the republics concerned , looking to the organization of new Governments or administrations less addicted to political ambitions and more or less directly identified with commercial and industrial interests , which would be personally pledged to the fostering of the material prosperity of the various countries . Brazil , he goes on to say , fully realizes that it is rapidly falling under the malign influence of the curse which the rest of South America has Inherited from its long wars of independence  --  the curse of militarism and politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The best intelligence of the people recognizes this ; and to a greater extent than is commonly supposed such is also the case in the other republics , particularly Chile and Argentine . This being so . in his opinion , there would be every chance of Such a general revolution of material and common as against political and personal Interests succeeding . Also , it would solve once and forever the problem of the pitiful backwardness of the Latin-American States in the progress of the world .                     