@@673229

txt The presence of large numbers of ladies ? mostly young and well dressed in the galleries of the Stock Exchange during the recent " trouble " there has been attributed to the passion of the sex for excitement , which has been notorious since the society women of Rome turned their dainty thumbs up or down to decide the fate of gladiators in the arena . But it is possible that there was another influence at work . A veteran broker who has survived many periods of terror on ' Change describes the latest as a " panic of the Four Hundred . " We can not quote all his expressions , which were meant as a guarantee of good faithrather than for publication , but be was clearly of the opinion that a good many people were involved in Wall Street last week who usually seek their diversion in a more equable and less exhausting latitude . He did not conceal his impression that the study of equipages and clothing , or even of polo ponies , hunters , and amateur boxing , was not an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bears , " and we fear that the experiences of the swells in the stock market inspired him rather with amusement than with either admiration or pity . But he had  --  as we must all have  --  a cordial respect for the rural gentlemen with greased boots who planked down the cash and bought at a great bargain the securities that the daintily-gloved hands had " dropped . " We are under very great obligations to the little squadron of British men-of-war that is - visiting our waters . The British Navy has never incurred the contempt with which military men throughout the world have within the past generation or two come to regard the British Army , and axed officers do not dispute that it is the most efficient and formidable , as it is the largest , of the war fleets of the world . Our own naval men have seen very much to admire and to take pattern by in the discipline of the British Navy , as shown in the land parade as well as in the evolutions on the water , while all our citizens are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his officers have acceded to every request or suggestion to add to the brilliancy of our Columbian celebration . The illuminations of Friday night were a brilliant illustration of this disposition , and they were viewed with admiration by a large proportion of the people of New-York from the Riverside Drive , which furnishes a theatre for such a display such I as is not equaled or approached anywhere else in the world . Our naval officers may have learned from it useful hints respecting the " pomp and circumstance " as well as the essentials of a modern navy .                     