@@781403

txt Mrs. J. Chapuys of 10S Jackson Street , this city , was startled this afternoon by the violent ringing of her door belL Hurrying to the front of the house , the onened the door , and was confronted by a man dressed in a bicycle suit , and wearing whiskers . The man was apparently out of breath , and in short sentences said he had been riding through Avondale a short time before , and saw a man meet with an accident . Riding up to the injured man the wheelman asked if he could asiSt him . " Summoning help , " the bicyclist continued , " I had the man taken to a house , and there learned that he was your husband . He wants some money to hire a carriage in which to get home . " Mrs. Chapuys was greatly alarmed by the news , and at first was going to give the money , but on second thought she said she had better go herself , and inquired as to where her husband was . Giving a fictitious address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had left standing on the walk , and rode off . Mrs. Chapuys hurried from the house and made all haste to Avondale . When she arrived there she found that the man had deceived her , and then she made for home as quickly as she had left , suspecting that the whole thing was a trick of some kind . Arriving in Paterson . the woman went to the station , and a policeman escorted her to her home . There she found everything in confusion , and a search showed that her pocketbook , containing $50 , a quantity of silverware and jewelry and other small articles had been stolen . The policeman investigated and learned from neighbors that the bicyclist did not go far when Mrs. Chapuys left the house , and returned and packed uc5 what he could conveniently carry on his wheel . His whiskers must have been false ones , for when he left the house and rode off with the plunder his face was without a vestage of hair . The police say the man knew the movements of the family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The authorities have not been able to find any trace of the man beyond the facts giVen above . Every member of the Protective Alliance of Scenic Painters of America , living in New-York and Brooklyn was present last evening at the lodgerooms , 153 West Twenty-third Street , where the installation of officers took place and the organization was perfected . An , agreement has now been reached whereby this alliance acts in harmony with the national association , embodying all theatre employes . " It simply means this , " said President Harley Merry , " if George Edwardes brings a shipload di scenery from England to America he will not be aisle to get a scene shifter or carpenter in New-York to handle it , and the orchestra will not even play slow music . For that matter , no piece of scenery painted by a non-union man will be handled in any of the large cities in this country . " We have to do this to protect ourselves against the hordes of fresco men who dabble for a farthing , and some of the managers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making money . " Mr. Merry was installed last night President , together with the following other officem : Seymour Parker , First Vice President ; John W. Rough , Second Vice President ; Orville S. Story , Eostort , Third Vice President ; Moses E. Bloom , - SecretarY ; ' Frank Platter , Treasurer ; David Weil , Sergeant at Arms . In addition to these there were six Trustees installed , representing New-York , Boston , Pittsburg , and Buffalo , and Corresponding Secretaries from San Francisco , Cincinnati , Boston , Milwaukee , Chicago , and Philadelphia .. Mr. Merry made an interesting address , telling the purpose of the organization .                     