@@672415

txt A young lady living near Loraine. in Banner County , Neb. , wrote to a half dozen prominent ministersin New-York and Brooklyn stating she - was a Christian and was greatly in need of dreeses and was too poor to buy , . and they would cooler a. favor and prevent want if they would supply the much-needed wearing apparel . She gave the measurements and directions for Making ; and it is reported that one dress has been received. ? Omaha Bee . " Then you are a young runaway , are you I Going to kill the Indians and all that sort of thing , are you I " said a stern police officer to a tremblinglittle fellow . " No , I ai n't a go ? goin ' to kill Indians At all ? " " What ! A runaway boy not going to kill Indians Come over to the house and : I 'll get you a big supper . You are the first of your kind . I 've seen in ten years . " ? Hartford Post . There are 1,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for Africa on exploring expeditions if they only had the money to go ahead on . This want of money is one of the reasons why so many of our enterprising men remain at home and unknown. ? Detroit - Free Press . They were dancing a waltz together , and he did not dare propose openly . " I am not hard to satisfy , " he returned in answer to some remark of hers . " I do not want the earth , " swinging her energetically , " but I would like to have the whirled. ? ? Philacle4Atia Times . An Atchison woman , who has two girls who will graduate in different schools this year , will make the same dress do for both . It is on its way now for its second appearance . As a role it is pretty safe to marry the daughters of such a mother. ? . Kansas City Star . Batoliell ( to happy father ) ? Congratulate you , old man ; on the new arrival . Whom does he look like I ? Father ( remembering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives on both sides of the family. ? Harper 's Bazar . The chaste goddess to surmount the soldiers ' monument on Washington Square , in this city , will be classic , and captivating , artistic and admirable , graceful and glorious , and modeled after a Troy girl  --  Troy Press . The Delaware farmers who held a large convention at Dever , resolved to reform almost everything except their " bushel boxes " that hold half a bushel of peaches. ? Washington star . Angry Customer  --  The eggs you sold me are stale . Your placard says " a lot of fresh eggs . " Grocer ? No , it does n't . It reads " a fresh lot of eggs . " They came in yesterday. ? The Epoch . Clams properly cooked are good for breakfast , and improperly cooked they make good ear springs , but under no circumstances do they make good ettizens. ? Reading Herald . France is a curious sort of a republic . The old titles remain and seem to be as highly prized as ever . The American market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Peace out in Western Kansas reversed the " original package " decision of the United States Supreme Court the other day. ? Kansas City Star . A most striking example of where ignorance would be bliss is in the case of the man who knows it all and wants to tell it ? Washington Post . Very few girls marry " the best man . " They generally take the bridegroom for " better or worse . " ? Chicago Inter Ocean . Be sure you are right , and then go ( sometimes ) bank. ? Chicago Advance . DONATO 'S WILL POWER A comely young woman , attired in a soft clinging robe of white , stood on the stage in Chiokering Hall last night , and under the spell of one man 's will became a rigid statue . She was picked up like any inanimate thing and laid as a bridge over the space between two chairs three and one-half feet apart . Her head rested on one chair and her feet barely touched the other . Then Prof. Donato , who had hypnotized her , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three inches from the floor . The professor weighs about two hundred pounds , but the girl 's body remained as stiff and unyielding as a plank . Half a moment afterward the hypnotic influence was removed and the girl 's limp form sank between the two chairs like the closing of a jackknife . This was but one of numerous extraordinary instances of his power as a hypnotist or fascinator given by Prof. Donato last evening . He compelled a dozen or more obedient subjects to assume attitudes painfully unnatural and awkward . In her unconscious eagerness to reach a rose a young girl was induced to bend over backward until her head as well as her feet touched the stage . Mme. Donato assisted her husband effectively in the most interesting experiments of the evening . She was placed in the hypnotic state , and different persons in the audience were invited to express to her husband whispered wishes that she might do certain things . The lady was not supposed to hear or know anything about these wishes except as they were conveyed to her mind by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , fast asleep . A gentleman concealed his seat check in the lining of his hat , and requested that the hypnotized lady find it . She found it without a word being said to her . A lady whispered that she would like to have Mine . Donato take the flowers from her dress and affix them to her own person . That was done . A young man asked the professor to induce the Madame to find his pocketknife , open the smallest blade , show it to his ( the young man 's ) wife , close the blade , and hand the knife to a little boy sitting a few seats away . All of this was done , and the hypnotized lady closed her performance by going upon the stage , finding her way to the piano , and striking a certain key that had been picked out by one of the audience .                     