@@781036

txt The Washington Post this morning says : " There is absolutely no doubt in the minds of the naval . officials in Washington that the sending of the collier into the harbor was all a prearranged move on the part of Admiral Sampson . " The use of a-Collier , the unusual hour of the morning , the necessity of blockading the chahnel so as to relieve some of the ships of the squadron from remaining stationed off Santiago , the importance of discoyering whether the mines were effective  --  all these reasons make it certain that the Merrimac wits deliberately guided to her destruction . It was not a Spanish victory . " It was a cleverly arranged scheme on the part of the American Admiral and it was successful . The eight men in a Spanish prison are the real heroes of the war . If the Merrimac went in under her own crew it is interesting to know that her complement of officers consisted of . Commander J. M. Miller , Lieut . W. W. Gilmer , executive officer ; Ensigns J. R. Y. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. K. Crank . Miller is from Missouri , Gilmer from Virginia , Blakely from Pennsylvania , Luby and Crank from Texas. , It is expected that reports will be recieved to-day from Admiral Sampson which will give details of the Merrimac 's destruction and the names of the eight men who have been captured . The report of the destruction of a United States vessel at Santiago sounds like one of the stories circulated by Gen. Blanco and his officers to give his men " Spanish courage . " When the vessels of Commodore Schley 's squadron attacked the forts at Santiago a few days ago the Spaniards were jubilant and reported chat one American vessel had been disabled and the fleet had been forced to retire . Later reports of the action show that not a single American Vessel was hit by the Spanish shells , and considerable damage was done by the shells from the American ships . It is highly improbable that the Merrimac , which is a collier , would be sent into the harbor of Santiago to reconnoitre . If any vessel were sent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the yachts . These small vessels are of light draught , fast , and easily handled . The Merrimac was purchased of T. Hogan &; Sons . She is a steel vessel , and was built at Newcastle , England , in 1894 . Her dimensions are ; Length , 330 feet ; beam , 44 feet ; depth , 29 feet ; gross tonnage , 3,362 . She is fitted with triple expansion engines , and before her purchase was used on the line from Baltimore to London .                     