@@672800

txt A dispatch received here to-day from the Brazilian Minister of Foreign Affairs , Senhor Chermont , says that the reports declaring that disorders are prevalent in a number of places throughout the country are not based on truth , and that the allegations made that a movement is under way for the restoration of the monarchy are absolutely wIthoat foundation . He says further that so little does the Government fear that the Monarchists will make any attempt to overthrow the established order of things that not one of that party has been placed under arrest for supposed participation in any , plot having that object in view . As a matter of fact , all the present and former upholders of the monarchy are allowed perfect liberty to express their views on political matters with no fear of being interfered with by the Government . Following close upon the sweeping denials made by the Brazilian Foreign Minister , which in substance assert that tranquillity prevails throughout Brazil , with the exception of some local trouble in Rio Grande do Sul , comes a dispatch from Rio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so peaceful as the Foreign Minister 's dispatch indicates . This dispatch says that Dictator da Fonseca has suspended the operation of the civil laws and has annulled the guarantees to Brazilian citizens . This is held here to show that the Dictator depends upon the military and naval forces to uphold him in his usurpation of dictatorial power . Furthermore , he has appointed a commission for the summary trial of those persons w lit , decline to accept his dictatorship , and whom he terms insurgents . As evidence of the troth of the reports that everything in the political situation in Brazil points to a revolution against the Dictator , the dispatch says that Gen. Fernandez , who is bald . to be one of the principal leaders in the revolutionary movement , flea been arrested by the Dictator 's order and lodged several places , numbering In all about 4,000 men . have declared against da Fonseca.                     