@@673011

txt The People 's Party was organized in New-Hampshire at the Hotel Windsor in this city yesterday in pursuance of the call issued Aug. 1 by ten men in different parts of the State , most of whom were engaged in the Greenback and Labor Party movements . About fifteen persons altogether assembled in conference at 11 o'clock . Most of those who signed the call were present , but not over six or eight others , none of whom has ever been prominent in either of the great parties . E. Gerry Brown of Charlestown . Mass. , editor of the Bunker Bill ' limes , who was a delegate to the Omaha Convention and is a Massachusetts member of the National Committee of the People 's Party . was in attendance to assist in setting the ball in motion . J. G. Greenleaf of Portsmouth was made temporary Chairman and Dorrance B. Currier of Hanover Secretary . After a few speeches it was decided to appoint 1 a State Committee , which was made up of twenty-two gentlemen from seven of the ten comities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the committee present subsequently proceeded to organize , electing J. G. Greenleaf of Portsmouth Chairman . Fred G. R. Gordon of Manchester Secretary , and John P. Woodbury of Manchester Treasurer . An Executive Committee was also named , consisting of the Chairman , the Treasurer , S. ' Woke ) " , R. A. Sidelinger of Gorham , George D. Epps of Franeestown , and Dorrance B. Currier of Hanover . Three members of the National Committee were designated ? D. B. Currier , George Carpenter , and John F. Woodbury . The committee voted to issue a call for a State Convention in this city Tuesday , Sept. 6 , and 1 this , with some informal discussion of ways and means , completed the work of the day . Some of those in attendance talked about the prospects of 5,000 or 6,000 votes for the People 's Party ticket in this State , but there is nothing In the movement thus tar to indicate a probability that even 1.000 will be polled . There were three newspaper men at the meeting  --  William M. Kendall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gazette , and R. A. Sidelinger of the Gorham .31 o a ul ain cer . Kendall 's paper is a week-/y sheet , but takes no part in politics . and will not be used as an organ for the movement . The Hanover Gazelle is not owned by Mr. Currier , although helms been Its editor , and that will continue Democratic . The Gorham Mountaineer , a small local paper in the eastern part of Coos County , now the property of Mr. Sidelinger , who came into the State from Maine about a year ago , is the only newspaper in the State that can be counted upon to give the movement any support .                     