@@672343

txt The union of the parishes of Zion Church , at Thirty-eighth-street and Madison-avenue , and of St. Timothy 's , in West Fiftyseventh-street , is another sign of a tendency to consolidation in the Protestant Episcopal Church which has lately declared itself very strongly . This is the third fusion of the same kind that has occurred within a few months , and all of them have concerned well-known churches . What is most ndteworthy about this process of coalescence is that it does not seem to bear any direct or definite relation to the " up-town movement . " It is natural and inevitable that in a church which appeals so especially as does the Episcopal Church to the cultivated part of the community , the shifting of population should leave behind churches that have in their day been popular and well sustained . Under the voluntary system of supporting churches this can not but be so . There is no quarter in which people continue to live at all which does not continue to contain Catholic inhabitants , and the older Catholic churches in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they have ever been . Thanks to its endowment , Trinity is able to retain both its mother church and its chapels in the heart of the business quarter , and to give in them the most elaborate and . impressive musical services of which the ritual of the Church permits , in addition to carrying on a more extensive and highly-organized. system of parochial work than is performed by any other Protestant church iu the city . It . general , however , when a quarter is abandoned for purposes of fashionable , or , at least , of respectable residence , the Protestant , churches in it dwindle and die , their buildings are devoted to secular uses , and they are reorganized in a new region corresponding , in the character of its occupancy , to that in which they were originally built , sometimes retaining and as often losing their original name and . membership . To maintain a church originally planned for a fashionable congregation in a quarter which has ceased to be fashionable , by the voluntary contributions of its members or of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the part of the rector , such as St. George 's , almost alone among the older Episcopal parishes in the lower part of the city , has been able to command . As we have said , the movement toward consolidation in the Episcopal Church does not seem to be directly related to this inevitable drift . The churches consolidated are for the most part in neighborhoods that continue to he fashionable , or at any rate highly respectable . Neither is it to be accounted for by a decline in the membership , wealth , Qi ' influence of the Episcopal Church , for all these are constantly increasing . Whatever the explanation of it may be , there can be little question that it is a highly commendable movement , calculated to strengthen the church in which it has been undertaken , and that it might profitably be carried . considerably farther than it has as yet gone . Many parishes are organized that have no real excuse for being even where they are begun , originating in the too sanguine expectations of lay men or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ languish from their birth , and instead of being a source of ? strength to the denomination to which they belong they are a chronic source of weakness , requiring to be helped out by the contributionslof richer parishes , which are thus diverted from more useful expenditures . Public charity in New-York has become largely , and seems destined to become still more largely , a secular and not an ecclesiastical concern . At any rate , it occupies much less space than it formerly did in the routine of parochial work , which more and more ministers to other than physical needs . But for any purpose one strong parish is not only more than twice as strong as two weak ones , but it makes all the difference between positive strength . and positive weakness . It is probable , we repeat , that this process might be extended to the advantage of the Episcopal Church . Ia a body so eminently moderate and conservative there is no danger that it will be overdone . It is ratherremarkable , considering the natural susceptibilities of clergymen , that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little apparent friction . The Protestant and American notion that every minister should be in charge of a church is evidently incompatible with the highest usefulness of a religious denomination in a great city , An extensive parochial organization , with a staff of clergymen and with missions supported by the central body in neighborhoods where churches can not be sustained of themselves , is evidently a more practical and a more promising arrangement .                     