@@781473

txt The following letters , one giving Mr. Quay a chance to vindicate himself free of expense , and the other giving excellent reasons for not voting for Delamater for Governor of Pennsylvania , are made public to-day : I. To the Hon. Matthew S. Quay : DEAR SIR : The charges of embezzlement while State Treasurer of Pennsylvania brought against you by the New-York World , Eveniny Post , Nation , Puck , and other papers of responsibility hare so far met neither reply nor denial at your hands . It is and has been very irritating to many earnest Republicans to have yen ignore these grave accusations , made most pointed and emphatic in last week 's Puck , which undoubtedly you have seen . Yon are there depicted in a felon 's garb , plainly called a felon , holding the whip , and compelling the respectable leaders of the " Grand Old Party " to march at the command of afelon overseer . As you perhaps shun snit for libel against any or all of your accusers on account of the great expense therein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans who are indirectly smarting under these accusations to raise a fund of sufficient amount to institute and push suits for civil and criminal libel against your open accusers . Please let me know it this plan of vindicating year honor as Chairman of the Republican National Committee and United States Senator meets with your approval , and . oblige yours , respectfully , RUDOLPH BLANRENBURG . PIIMADELPIIIA , Tuesday , Aug. 5 , 1S ; 10 . IL The Hon. George W. Delamater : DEAR Slit : Absence from my office when you last week prevented my giving you personally the reasons why I can not support and vote for you for Governor a Pennsylvania , and I now do so hi writing . Yon were openly and directly charged in April last , by ex-Senator Emery , a reputable and responsible citizen , with one of the gravest crimes against our free institutions , " purchasing your election and bribing citizens to vote for you , Lc. , " and you IN ere challenged by Mr. Emery to bring an action at law against-him , so he could set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bad you been charged with embezzling money , robbing a widow or orphan , you would , as an innocent man , not have allowed one day to pass before bringing suit for civil and criminal libel against your accuser ; yet here , charged with a crime much more serious and far-reaching in its consequences , you have rested silent for months ; whether because you have no defense , or do not consider the charge of " bribing voters and purchasing your election ' a serious one , I know not . - Crime against individuals , such as larceny . embezzlement , and forgery , are insignificant compared with crimes against the sacred rights of citizeuship. the elective franchise , which is the bulwark ant foundation of our liberties . Let every thoughtful man , partisan though lie may be , pause , reflect . and take to heart the earnest call made upon you in April last by one of the leading Republican papers of the country , the Philadelphia Press , to meet the charges against you fully and completely . - Had you right appreciation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have let four months elapse without even as much as a murmur , and were you at this late day to bring an action against your accuser , it would lack force and weight , as the law 's delay could easily be invoked by your counsel to defer trial until after election , and then as is generally done in such cases , have the sail withdrawn . Tile nomination of ex-Gov . Robert E. Patilson , fortunately , makes it easy for Republicans who own themsblves to exercise their better judgment by casting their ballots for him . His persunal-eharaeter is without blemish ; his record , whenever the rights of the people wore jeopardized by arrogant and Powerful corporations , is enviable ; ma political career has won the admiration of even his political opponents , as expressed in the editorial remarks of the most partisan Republican papers when he relinquished the Gubernatorial office four years ago . I regret that I can not support the nomination of the Republican convention at Harrisburg , for reasons above stated , aside from the important one that the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party , who desired the nomination of the gallant soldier , Gen. Hastings , were stifled . through the ono-man power and political machinations of Senator Matthew S. Quay .                     