@@674766

txt At the end of another day of much speaking in the Senate the resolution for intervention reported by the Foreign Relations Committee is still undisposed of , but an agreement has been reached , not without difficulty , that the session of to-morrow will not close until a vote nac. been taken . There is no reason to believe that the canvass given last night to show the strength of the proposed amendment to recognize the Republic of Cuba is not substantially correct to-night . That amendment will pass . Senator Foraker has no more doubt of it than he has that the resolution for intervention will receive nearly the solid support of the Senate . Attitude of the House . Meanwhile the HouTa is being prepared for the return of the ' resolution from the Senate . Senator Davis contemplates the course indicated last night , by which , before the Senate shall pass the resolution , it shall be substituted for the House resolution , thus giving it a parliamentary advantage over an original Senate resolution . The Senate is not likely to offer any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made to prepare the Senators for a proposition to send the bill back to the House with nothing left of the House form except the headings . Some of the Senators who have been most urgently in favor of the recognition clause have been at work upon the House to induce members to press for concurrence in the amendments of the Senate when the resolution is taken from the Speaker 's table after its reception . The Speaker is confident that the House will stand by its own action . If he is heartily out of sympathy with the whole business , and profoundly sceptical about the duty of the United States to interfere at all in Cuban affairs , it will not affect his official conduct . Some of his friends say that he has never known the House to be so perplexed as it is now . Members are drawn this way and that , first by demands from their constituents for war , and then by their own judgments for peace , and the renewal of the interrupted march of prosperity . Speaker Reed 's Views and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Speaker have been asked if they have heard from any one of the South American republics , that ought to have the liveliest interest in the erection of another republic , the first word of encouragement for the insurgents of Cuba . He also has inquired whether , when the United States has declared Cuba free , and has then made it free , she proposes to go on preserving order and preventing inhumanities by Cubans against the Spanish who remain in the island . Inquiries indicate Mr. Reed 's opinion that the United States ought not to have interfered in the Cuban troubles , and that even now a. way should be found to let the United States out without involving the Nation in bloodshed and loss of material and progress without any prospective regard to the advancement of civilization in Cuba . It can not be learned , however , that any obstruction is looked for from the Speaker to the desires of the House . An opportunity will be presented to vote on concurrence with the Senate amendments . If the House prefers the form of resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can have its way . House Probably Against Recognition . But it is considered almost certain that a majority will not adopt the recognition clause of the Senate . The rejection of that clause will make it necessary to have a conference on the disagreeing votes of the two houses . The conferees of the Snate should be two for the resolution as passed and one for the opposition . This is the custom . The House conferees ought to be in a majority for the form of the resolution insisted upon by the House . Some fear is expressed that Vice President Hobart may select conferees for the Senate who will yield to the House , and thus defeat the expressed desire of the Senate . But if the Vice President should take the course suggested the Senate would have the remedy in its own hands . ObLion might be made , the appointments rejected , and conferees chosen who were preferred by the majority of the Senate . May Be Delay in Conference . At all events , the resolution can not now be disposed of before Monday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the President Monday afternoon . With a disagreement the conferees could hardly be expected to get together before Monday afternoon , and their deliberations and efforts to agree might employ them until Tuesday or later . A disagreement of conferees would throw the whole matter back into the two houses for a new conference or for a new start . If any disturbance of the National peace depends upon the final passage of the resolutions war may be averted for an entire week .                     