@@674626

txt We are indebted to our hysterical but esteemed contemporary , The Sun , for its republication of some editorial opinions expressed by THE TIMES in former years about making nominations and conducting elections of municipal officers . Modesty and a distaste for pretending to be always right would have forbidden THE TIMES to indulge in backward flights to prove to its readers that in 1S94 and in 1895 it cherished the hope that in choosing candidates for city offices the people would be governed by plain , practical , decent consideration of the demonstrated fact that it is altogether better for everybody concerned that Tammany Hall should not be permitted to use the City Government simply as a part of its political machine . Because THE TIMES condemned the premature and ill-advised nomination in 1894 by the Good Government Clubs of a straight reform ticket , when that nomination plainly imperiled the chances of an effective combination against Tammany Hall , does not occur to us now as good reason why The Sun , then zealously supporting Tammany Hall , but now frantically opposed to it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which THE Trmns then declared was the only hope of beating Tammany Hall . To be sure , THE TIMES was of the opinicn in 1894 that it was essential to the defeat of Tammany that the ticket should be on the Republican ballot . We are not now sure that this is essential ; but its desirability can not be doubted . It is not worth while to follow The Sun 's quotations from THE TIMES in 1895 , for , whether editorial or otherwise , they appear to show that this newspaper was in 1S95 , as it is in 1897 , controlled by a desire that the voters of this city should be afforded an opportunity to name and vote for candidates who would in character and competency best represent and satisfy an awakened public spirit and a strengthening determination that good municipal government rather than the success of Tammany Hall should be the object of the contest . The Sun can have no doubt whatever that the nomination of Mr. Low is altogether unlike the nominations made by the Good Government Clubs in 1894 and 1895 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparatively small number of zealous but ill-advised persons ; that of Mr. Low was insisted upon by soma 127,000 voters , backing a strong organization . The nominations of 1894 were of men not well known ; that of 1897 is of a man known to be in sympathy with those who desire to secure municipal government free from constraint by either Democratic or Republican " bosses . " There was no chance that the candidates of 1894 could win . If the nomination of Mr. Low is supported by all Democrats and Republicans who distrust Tammany Hall and dread its restoration to power , it must win . If the Republicans manifest their concern for decent government by " deviation from a ' straight ' course , " they will make Mr. Low invincible and win victory with honor .                     