@@674578

txt It is maintained by some moralists that it is quite impossible for a human being to have an excess of " moral sense . " But the facts seem to be rather against them . Yesterday 's dispatches included two items of news which seem to make against their theory . A revivalist in Indiana , excited by the opposition of those in the scene of his labors for whom nobody will claim an excess of moral sense , fired a pistol quite at random , killed a three-year-old child , and ran away . A theological student from Tennessee , sojourning in Rhode Island , has proclaimed his purpose of putting to death the Rev. EDWARD EVERETT HALE upon the ground that his theology is not sound . Of course , both these incidents are to be referred to an eccentricity passing the bounds of sanity . Both the slayer of the child in Indiana and the assailant of Mr. HALE seem to belong to the class of " cranks . " The word is American , and we are inclined to believe that the thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commoner in this than in any other country , but when minds lose their balance they are more apt in this than in most other countries to exhibit some form of religious delusion . Such indications are frequent in Great Britain . On the Continent of Europe they are almost unknown , except in Russia , where every now and then a ghastly . tragedy bears witness to the overexcitement of . religious sensibility . It is this excessive development of religious sensibility that has been aptly called " consciencitis . " The revivalist in Indiana may be worthy of more pity than blame , but he seems to be worthy of a good deal of blame . It seems that the poor man has been labor . ing under the belief that it was his mission . to eradicate liquor saloons . The methods which he has . employed to that end seem to have gone considerably beyond " Christian persuasion . " At any rate , he has arrayed against himself not only the keepers , but the frequenters , of saloons , who together form a very powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is precisely that he has been saying about the saloons . Whatever it was , it sufficed to excite certain lewd fellows Of the baser sort among the frequenters of the saloons to bombard him upon the street with eggs that had outlived their usefulness . After this attack the revivalist seems to have seen a rioter in every stranger and a riot in every strange sound . Upon the occurrence at one of his meetings of some disturbance , of which it does not appear that it had anything  --  whatever to do with the opposition to his crusade , he fired in the direction of the sound , with the tragical result which horrified and frightened him into running away . Pretty plainly this is a ease of " consciencitis . " Nothing short of what may be called a moral hyperaesthesia could have induced the revivalist to arm himself with the revolver of flesh against his ' supposed enemies and to assume that . any casual disturbance that occurred atone of his meetings was the work of the enemies ' of his cause . Even more clearly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. HALE . Any attack upon that amiable and accomplished and now venerable man is naturally , explained ' by the hypothesis of insanity . But the attempt to murder him upon the ground that he was inculcating a false or any , other variety of religion is calculated to excite ? ahnost equal : astonishment in - sor-  : .6. - Ladox-  and in agnostic dently. tho assassin Was of *weak mind , but he would not have picked out ' a Unitarian minister instead of a " multi-milt-ionaire " as the object a his assault if he ' not been ' also a theological student , that is to say , if his natural weakness of mind . had not been - cultivated by a specialized education until it had developed into acute " consciencitis. "                     