@@673284

txt Mayor BOODY of Brooklyn yesterday stated his intention to secure , if possible , the publication of the testimony taken by the recent Grand Jury . " If there is any power , " he said , " by which it can be presented to the public that power will be exercised . " When this point is decided the Mayor says that he may have further communication to make to the public . It will readily be seen that the matter is not a simple one . The only fact clearly established in the minds of the citizens of Brooklyn is that a Grand Jury has publicly " regretted itsinability to present an indictmen t against his Honor the Mayor , " whom they " most earnestly censured . " It would seem that the publication of the testimony which induced the Grand Jury to make this remarkable presentment might be accomplished . But if the Mayor should be unable to bring it about there are still ways open to him to secure publicity for all the facts . The high-water mark of attendance at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July . There were 324.344 admissions , of which 283,273 were on paid tickets . This is away beyond the attendance at the Centennial Exhibition on the Fourth of July , 1876 , and greater by many thousands than that on Pennsylvania Day in September , which far exceeded that of any other day . The Western railroads are just making liberal redactions in excursion rates to Chicago , and those in the East are preparing to do the same thing . Many people have been waiting for this , and it will have a material effect upon the attendance at the fair . While the " epidemic " theory in political matters is apt to be overdone and made a substitute for mere coincidence , yet it is noticeable that there are years in Europe when popular outbreaks against the governing authorities , whether with or without just cause , are mach more widely prevalent than in ordinary times . The memorable year 1348 leaves beyond all question the spreading tendencies of revolt at such periods . This year , also , we seem to have various demonstrations of dissatisfaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They began in Belgium , where the democratic triumph was so prompt that a serious political crisis was averted . Since then it has been reported that this Belgian success seemed to affect Austria , where analogous movements wore under consideration . The riots in Paris have gone to the length of barricades and bloodshed , while the rumors of the possible abdication of King GEORGE , though not substantiated , probably reflect more or less trouble in Greece . In Germany a general election has given a safe outlet for any Socialist or other dissatisfaction . On the whole , we may surmise that but for the sudden ending in Belgium of a grave situation , there might have been no little sympathetic disturbance in various other European countries . The National Commission for the World 's Fair has been holding meetings at Chicago without a quorum , and it will be jut as well if it continues without a quorum if it has nothing morn Important to_the 6151i6ider than the resolution offered the other day by Mr. HUNDLEY of . Alabama . This resolution declares that the Sunday-opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Commission and is contrary to its wishes . The rule was approved at a no-quorum meeting in May , and apparently it is on that ground that it is now claimed that it was not approved at all , but it will presumably require a quorum to give effect to that claim . As to the " wishes " of the commission , if they are what the Hundley resolution declares them to be , they are opposed to the interests of the fair and the sentiment of the country . The matter has gone over for another week . and it is to be hoped that the commission will have sense enough to drop it or continue to be without a quorum .                     