@@675228

txt Hans , the well-known Western detective . has returned to Omaha after a long chase after the six Men who held up and dynamited the Union Pacific express train in Wyoming June Hans fears the men have escap2d for all time , at least as far as present efforts to capture them are concerned . Hans 's opinion is of especial value , because in the past twenty-five years he has captured some of the most desperate road agents in the West . and has gone into the " Hole-in-the-Wall. " the retreat of these same robbers , and ca.tght or killed his man . He is both a railroad detective agent and special agent of the United States Government . Hans started after the robbers when they killed Sheriff Hazen , his bosom friend , in the beginning of their flight . Speaking of the extraordinary chase Hans said : " These men have made the most remarkable flight in the criminal history of the West . They have traveled over 1,5u0 ? miles since committing the crime , and have been chased by 301,1 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and again they have been surrounded by ten times their number , yet by the display of their desperate nerve and knowledge of woodcraft have managed each time to get : tray . They first fled to the " Hole-in-the-Wall , " I found , but being so hard pressed , and haying such a large reward our their heads ? $.18,000 ? they did not dare stop among- their old outlaw companions for fear of being betrayed . They kept on into the Big Horn Basin , then turned back and retraced their steps through the Powder River country into the Jackson 's Hole country , the wildest and most desolate stretch of mountainous country in the West . Here the Indian police under Baldwin got after them and chased them south toward the Utah mountains , and it was here that they were completely lost track of . " In the past 1 have hunted outlaws practically alone , as I prefer that sort of thing , but this time I found that method of little value , since the whole country was aroused and everybody was on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . It is foolishness to talk of that bandit being taken alive . He and his companions will never surrender . They may be killed some day , but they have two horse loads of smokeless ammunition , and in their retreat could stand off an army . I never heard of fugitives making such a fight and flight . None but these very fellows could have done it . " Of course they had everything fixed to rush back to the " Hole-in-the-Wall , " the moment the train was robbed , and they expected the chase after them to stop there , as it has in the past . They were not prepared to have the National Guard of the State called out for them . That accounts for the swift time they made . " I found it very difficult to get information about the men . The honest farmers and ranchers of that section are afraid to inform on them for fear of being killed . These fellows are the remnants of the most daring outlaw band in existence . I have been a scout . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for twenty-five years , and I know all of them . " I knew Curry , their leader , when he was an honest rancher . It was but ten years ago that he turned highwayman , and since then he has been in a number of desperate games . It was he and his gang that held up the Spearfish ( S. D. ) Bank when several of them were killed . I believe this will nearly wind them up . for they have got to put in an appearance at some town in the West some day , . and when they do they will be shot down . '                     