@@674546

txt Americans would read the Japanese correspondence with greater pride if JOHN SHERMAN 'S name were signed to Tonu Hosm 's notes and Minister Hosm 's name to Secretary SHERMAN 'S . Japan adopts as her own our traditional doctrine with regard to Hawaii . " I am instructed by the imperial Government , " writes Minister HOSHL " to state most emphatically and unequivocally that Japan has not now and never had such designs , or designs of any kind , against Hawaii . " When DANIEL WEBSTER was Secretary of State , in 1242 , he wrote in one of his dispatches that the United States had a greater interest in the fate of the Hawaiian Islands than any other nation , and that the President declared it to be " the sense of the Government of the United States that the Government of the Sandwich Islands ought to be respected ; that no . power ought either to take possession of the islands as a conquest or for , the purpose of colonization , and that no power ought to seek for any undue power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it in the matter of commerce . " That is to-day the enact position of Japan . It is a position asserted in behalf of the United States by President TYLER : " The United States Government seeks no peculiar advantages , no exclusive control , over the Hawaiian Government " ; by Secretary of State CLAYTON , in 1S50 : " We do not ourselves covet sovereignty over them " ; by President FILLil ORE : " We are also influenced by a desire that those islands should not pass under the control of any other great maritime State , but should remain in an independent condition , " and by Secretary of State BLAINE : " The United States firmly believes that the position of the Hawaiian Islands as the key to the dominion of the American Pacific demands their neutrality , to which end it will earnestly co-operate with the native Government . " A disgraceful abandonment of our longestablished policy toward Hawaii has brought us into a position where we come under the censure of a multitude of our own diplomatic dispatches . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and we have uniformly protested that no other power should occupy it . If there is any virtue in the arguments deemed satisfactory by a long line of American Presidents and Secretaries of State , Torte HOSHI 'S position is impregnable . It is the position we should take if Japan were to negotiate a treaty of annexation with Hawaii . Japan 's protest will have the weight she chooses to give it . If she thinks it worth while to go to war for the protection of her rights in Hawaii , we shall have to fight , not for the National benefit , but for the benefit of the speculators who are in the Hawaiian job . The Hawaiian escapade disgraces the Administration , and poor old Mr. SHERMAN 'S correspondence serves only to make the disgrace deeper and more afflicting.                     