@@674601

txt It is an old complaint as to New York - that its citizens will do little that re ( mires united effort . that they have little ' of that public spirit which has done so much for other cities of population ; resources and interests far less than those of New York . The criticism has in the ' : past been well founded . It is not hard to see wh , - . The reasons may be , summed up in one word  --  size . On the one hand . New York is so large that its citizens . have felt that it could take care of itself ; ? on the other , it is so large that the interests of portions of its people have fre- .. quently been in conflict with those of others . It has been easier , for instance , to find New Yorkers contending among . each other for the control of some great enterprise of National importance than to find them working together for something in which all were interested . But size is purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even Greater New York with 3,000,000 , is not so big as the city of 1,000,000 was a generation ago . The citizens of New York are having this fact " borne in upon them , " as the old phrase is , and even rubbed in , and they have awakened to an entirely 1 new sense of what they must do , and of what tney can do , to secure for the city the full advantages to which it is entitled if it will take them at their fair cost . The most striking instance of this is the latest , the Merchants ' Association , with its vigorous and well-directed efforts to extend the trade of New York . But though this is the latest , it is by no means the only instance , nor is it in some regards the most important . During the last campaign , for example , there was a quiet and unostentatious but most effective organization of the business men of New York for the protection of their own vast interests , and those of the country as well . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the offices and counting rooms of the great city , along myriad lines , stretching to the cities , towns , and villages of the land , wherever honest trade and industry had a footing , there was carried ' on for some four months an active , untiring , intelligent campaign of argument and instruction against the common danger . Its influence was felt in the remotest corners of the Union , and everywhere to the strengthening of the permanent ties of common interest and right dealing . That was a superb and characteristic manifestation of the real public spirit of New York , so broad in its operation and so sound and enduring in its purpose as to be essentially patriotic . There is in the work of the Merchants ' association ample evidence of the same catholic principle . From the outset , and so far with entire consistency , this work has been fair to the point of apparent generosity . It has not been directed to get anything from Others , but in promoting the trade of New York to increase , develop , and strengthen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been asked from the transportation lines which serve all sections that New York was not willing should be granted to other trade centres . It has clearly been the belief of the sagacious leaders of this . movement that every advantage to the trade of a great city , such as ours is , is an advantage for trade as a whole , stimulating and expanding it , and that this would be equall7 ; true of every other city , so that each might expect its share of a constantly growing total . This is , in reality , in. harmony With the principle governing the evolution of modern commerce . The public spirit of New York is but a manifestation , of the spirit that more and more prevails , and must prevail , throughout the world                     