@@673734

txt The reply of Sir Charles Tupper , High Commissioner of Canada in London , to theaspersions of the British Government on the health of Canadian cattle must be very entertaining to those who watch the comedy of British and " imperial " In the first place , ' it is necessary to remember that the British " colonial policy which has been in operation now for about forty year , : is a complete reversal of the former British colonial policy , which had been in force for about 300. and under which the British Empire was built up . The old policy was that British colonies , existing for the good of Great Britain ; should be worked for all they were worth by laws passed for the exclusive benefit of Britons who staid at home . The colonies should be compelled to trade with the mother country , end should also be compelled to pay taxes to the mother country , and should not on any account be allowed to set up for themselves . On the other hand , the mother country bound itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be incurred for that purpose . The modern colonial policy is that the mother country will not- on any account incur expenses for the British colonies ; that they shall do as they like , provided they pay their own bills ; that they shall set up for themselves whenever they like ; but that in the meantime , if there is any money to be made out of them , the . mother country shall make it . A corollary to this position is that , while there is no sentiment in the dealings of Great Britain with , her colonies , there ought to be an abounding sentiment in their dealings with her , and that they should be ready to fly to her defense whenever she is in a bad way . This view has been inculcated by the late Lord Tennyson and by other eminent British writers . In the second place , ? it is necessary to remember that American competition has become very fatiguing to British landholders , and that British landholders still , after all the political reforms , control the British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eciding when foreign imports are dangerous to health used to be lodged in the Privy Council , and , as that body was always controlled by landholders , used to be exercised so as to put a stop to any competition that landholders found annoying . It is now lodged in a special tribunal , but it seems to be exercised in the same old interest . " The more it changed , the more it is the same thing . " The power has been used to exclude Canadian cattle accused of pleuro-pneumonia , but convicted of nothing but cheapness ; and it is this use of the power that Sir Charles Tupper resents . Ile has a very good case from his point of view . Canada has offered to pay the expenses of a scientific inquiry . Canada insists that there is no pleuro-pneumonia among Canadian cattle . Canada is " aggrieved that the representations already made have not led to the removal of the restrictions . " Of course , she does . The United States used to feel aggrieved because American beef was kept out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on obviously false pretenses . But to the Canadian showing the Board of Agriculture remains as obdurate as the Privy Council used to remain to the American showing . If Sir Charles Tupper could show that Canadian beef was not liable to infect British herds with the frightful disease of cheapness , he would win his case . At present he is wasting his breath .                     