@@781229

txt A midnight conference between Brig . Gen. Doyle , Mayor Bishop , Sheriff Beak , Superintendent of Police Morgenstern , H. Walter Webb . Daniel H. McMillan , W. S. Biseell , and E. C. Sprague on behalf of the railroads and several citizens resulted in agreeing to send the following telegram to the Governor : BuFBALo , Aug. 17 . To the Hon. Roswell P. Flower , Executive Mansion , Albany , N.Y . We have become satisfied that the situation here in Buffalo under the pending strike has become so ee-ious that we ask tacit the National Guard of the State be called out to protect the lives and property of citizens of this city and county . AUGUST BECK , Sheriff . CHARLES BISHOP , Mayor . To-night 2,000 troops , constituting the Fourth Brigade of the National Guard , are guarding the railway company 's property at East Buffalo under the general command of Brig . Gen. P. C. Doyle of Buffalo . More troops will arrive tomorrow morning . Sheriff Beek , who promised the railway attorneys and their representatives this afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for more troops , refused atter consultation with certain of his political friends to send the telegram asking for them . Gen. Doyle and Sheriff Beek returned to town at 11 o'clock this evening . The Sheriff said in the course of conversation with a Times correspondent that he had thought the matter all over , and that he saw no necessity for bringing more troops here at en expense of $25,000 daily to the county . He was convinced that the troops already on the ground had cowed the strikers , and that no more trouble would be experienced . Upon his arrival in town , however , Gen. Doyle drove at once to brigade headquarters , in I Main Street , opposite the Tifft House , and found a dispatch from Adjt . Gen. Porter announoing that the Twelfth and Twenty-second Regiments would leave New-York to-morrow morning and arrive to-morrow night , and that other regiments would follow . This means that Gov . Flower or Gen. Porter . whose military experience enables him to judge at once of the seriousness of the situation here without being on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his own judgment The Twelfth Regiment , gemmended by Heman Dowd , is expected to bring to Buffalo 750 men , while the Twenty-secoml , Col. John T. Camp , can be relied upon to report . to Gen. Doyle with 825 , at least Gen. Doyle has made the best disposition possible of the National Guard troops in his coin mend . His brigade is composed of the Sixty-fifth Regiment . C01 . Samuel Welsh , Jr. ; the Seventyfourth Regiment , Col. Fox ; the Fifth Battery of Syracuse , Capt . Michael Auer ; the First Separate Company of Rochester , Capt . Frank Hess , 70 men ; the Sewed Separate Company of Auburn , Capt . William M. Kirby . 90 men ; the Eighth Separate Company of Rochester . Capt . Henry B. Henderson , 85 men ; the Thirteenth Separate Company of Jamestown , Capt . Fred W. Hyde , 100 men ; the Twentyeighth Separate Company of Tonawanda . Capt Fred J. Sommers ; the Twenty-sixth Separate Company of Elmira . Capt . Robert P. Bush , 84 men ; the Thirtieth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hopkins , 75 men ; the Thirty-fourth Separate Company of Geneva , Capt . William M. Wilson , 65 men ; the Fortyfirst Separate Company of Syracuse , Capt . John G. Butler , 75 men ; the Fcirty-second Separate Compity of Niagara Falls , Capt . M. J. Butler , 75 men ; the Forty-third Separate Com parry of Olean . Capt . Culver J. Thyng , 90 men ; the Forty-fifth Separate Company of Cortland , Lieut . Dickinson , 76 men ; the Forty-eighth Separate Company of Oswego , Capt Rogers , 100 men . Gen. Doyle 's headquarters are in the William Street station of the Erie Railway at East Buffalo . He has not had his uniform off since Sunday night . Within a stone 's throw of his headquarters is the city line , across which , in the Township of Cheektowaga , the strikers stand and defy the police . Gen. Doyle 's 2,000 troops are operating in a territory covering a radius of eight miles . To-night , for the first time , all the troops are under tents . Last night and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , railway ties , under freight cars , or wherever their tired heads could find a dry spot . The commissary department was slack and insufficient , and the wants of the men were neglected . Food was scarce . It was brought out in oars and doled out in portions altogether Inadequate to the wants of tired and hungry mon . The troops , however , bore ibex lot uncomplainingly . Some signs of dissatisfaction were manifested to-day when a supply was brought to them with the explanation that no more could be had before to-morrow morning . For convenience in handling , Gen : Doyle has divided his force into three brigades , commanded respectively by Col. Samuel Welch of the Sixty-fifth Regiment , Col. Fox of the Seventyfourth Regiment , and Capt . Kirby of the Second Separate Company of Auburn , the whole under Gen. Doyle 's supervision . Col. Welch 's command consists of the Sixty-fifth Regiment , eight companies , and the Thirteenth , Twenty-fifth , Forty-second , and Forty-third Separate Companies . Atpreseut it is guarding the William Street Station of the Erie Railway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that crosses the line to a point 200 yards to the east of the William Street Station . Capt . Thyng 's Olean company and Capt . Hyde 's Jamestown company are detailed to protect the Erie roundhouse , the Lehigh Valley shops at Dingen Street . and the Tifft farm , In addition to his own regiment , the Seventyfourth Regiment , Col. Fox commands the First Eighth . Twenty-fourth , and Thirtieth Separate Companies . The territory they are attempting to protect covers more square miles than Manbatten Island . From Cheektowaga trestle to the Erie elevators and the Erie shops the distance is twelve miles . Capt Henderson , with his Rochester company , is on guard at the Erie shops . Capt . Kirbre provisional brigade arrived in the course of the day in special trains over the New-York Central Road . They met with no trouble or delay . Their arrival was portune . The Centrara any switchmen had refused to go out , and groups of strikers had gathered along the line of tho road . Gen. Doyle gave orders to throw the entire force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ station . Half an hour after the men arrived here , they were patrolling the tracks in the broiling sun , their knapeacks , overcoats , haversaoks , and canteens thrown on the cinder banks .. They had no palter before nightfall , when the Quartermaster 's Department got awake and furnished them with quarters . As an evidence of the utter inadequacy of the force at present here it is only necessary to say that 50 per cent , of the entire command Shouldered arms at all times . The Sixtyfifth Regiment , for instance , is stretched along the southern side of the main line of the Erie . The lay of the ground necessitates a single line of tents . Three fertilizing factories half a block distant diffuse an odor at all times sufficiently rank to wreck a freight train . The Seventy-fourth 's tents stretch along on the northern aide of the track . All day long and throughout the evening crowds gathered about the soldiers on picket Many were the insults uttered . The people in the vicinity displayed their sympathy for the strikers by refusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop wisely Ordered that all the saloons within the striking district Should be closed , an unwelcome order , which was reluctantly and sullenly obeyed . To-night better order prevails . There is not so much drankennese , and not so many threats are heard . The presence of the troops hai certainly exerted a wholesome influence . The presence of more troops would exert an influence still more beneficial . Throughout the day the New-York Central moved all its trains , passengers , and freight without delay or hindrance . The Lehigh Valley attempted to move nothing , although General Superintendent Benzene of the Philadelphia and Reading . which has leased the Valley Road , declares business will be resumed to-morrow . Be is confident the strike is over . The Erie Railway sent out three trains this afternoon under circumstances of a most exciting character . The first train was made up , but before it ran 100 yards every coupling pin was hauled . After some delay the pins were replaced and again the train proceeded . Again the pins were drawn . The troops were notified and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started on its journey . Three companies of the Seventy-fourth Regimeni were accordingly sent with orders to accompany ttio trains to Attica , a distance of thirty miles , and to shoot any person found tampering with the cars . This command devolved on Capt . Farrar of Company E , the ranking officer , who placed a company aboard each train . The troops were placed on a gondola car , back to back , with their pieces loaded . The first section . under the protection of Capt . Otto , reached Attica at 7:30 , the second at 8:15 , the third at 8:55 . At 8:59 Capt . Farrar reported by wire to Gen. Doyle that he had accomplished his Mission- without any trouble , and asking for orders to return to Buffalo . A more serious episode occurred this after noon , clearly indicating the temper and the disposition of the strikers . The Erie local passenger train pulled out of the Exchange Street station at 2:35 . Within the space of eight miles the engineer , who was proceeding with caution , found every switch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted . But this seems to indicate the spirit that prevails here , even under the eye of the military . Equally as dastardly was the attempt , to-night to wreck a working trin that went into town over the Erie tracks from the William Street station . In several places ties were found upon the traoke . At one trestle several ties had been firmly secured across the rails and coupling pins had been driven into the frogs in those points between Smith Street and Exchange Street station . The passengers in the 6:30 train from here experienced a series of adventures that they will never forget . The train reached Lancaster . five miles east of Buffalo , without molestation . The engineer suspected a switch had been tampered with , but was unable to check the speed of his train . The engine jumped the track . No one , however , was injured , but many of the passengers refused to continue the learner . The time is coming when a well-greased rope or a few rounds of ball cartridges will have to be used as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vicinity of Buffalo . There is nut a man in the Sixty-fifth Regiment who does not believe that his regiment saved the half-million-dollar trestle belonging to the Lehigh Valley Railway about eight miles to the eget of Buffalo . The story has not been told in its entirety . When Col. Samuel Welch marched his command along the railway track the strikers followed On the opposite side and gradually worked their way ahead . Six hundred yards ahead of the troops they began to lay torpedoes on the track , and as the regiments swung along . the strikers started an engine on the down grade . The torpedoes were exploded . The detonations were plainly heard in camp , and Gen. Doyle was convinced that CoL Welch had met the strikers in a scrimmage . The troops , in spite of the injuries to several of their members , continued on their course and reached the trestle well in advance of the strikers . Subsequently one of the strikers came to CoL Welch and informed him that he had heard that a selected band had agreed to destroy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect it , torpedoes were placed to frighten the soldiers off . The striker further said that if Col. Welch had halted for fifteen minutes be would have found the bridge destroyed when he reached it , for materials to fire it had been taken to the spot . In this connection it may not be amiss to say that several prominent citizens of Buffalo have received anonymous communications to-night predicting that on Thursday night the Erie and the Lehigh Valley trestle would De blown up . Frederick W. Eisaesser , a private in the Seventy-fourth Regiment . was shot rind killed this ) morning near the Cheektowaga trestle by the carelessness of a fellow-soldier named Lucien H6lmes . The latter picked up a musket from a stand of arms and pulled the trigger . Orders had been issued prohibiting the loading of guns until specifics orders had been issued . The ball struck Risaesser in the right side of the head and came out through his forehead , tearing off the cross muskets on his cap , making a jagged wound large enough to insert a fist . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in another plank of equal thickness . The unfortunate wounded man was conveyed to Fitch Hospital , where he died at 2:30 this afternoon .                     