@@675124

txt Secretary Long received word to-day from Capt . Cooper of the cruiser Chicago saying that the vessel had met the Paris , on which ex-Secretary Sherman is a passenger , off Kingston , Jamaica . The Chicago was dispatched by the Navy Department to Kingston to bring Mr. Sherman to the United States immediately , as the Paris was not expected to return with her excursionists. for some time . The Chicago did not reach Kingston in time , but , upon meeting the Paris made arrangements to take Mr. Sherman off the latter vessel on Friday , the change to be made at Caimanera , a few miles east of Santiago . Capt . Cooper 's dispatch was as follows : " Calmenara , Cuba , March 21 . " Met Paris yesterday off Kingston , bound for Santiago . Coal here . Take Sherman on board Friday . " Fearing the harm which might result from a sudden change from the climate of the West Indies to a northern latitude , the family are considering the advisability of having Mr. Sherman taken to Tampa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is well on the road to recovery , he can be brought to Washington , stopping possibly for some days at Fortress Monroe , so as to become gradually accustomed to the change in temperature . The first report of the death of Mr. Sherman , which came from New York , was received at 3 o'clock in the afternoon , and was circulated In the departments just before they closed for the day . The announcement seemed to follow naturally the other cablegrams of the day stating that the venerable stateman 's condition had grown worse since yesterday , and there was a universal expression of regret and in many cases of personal distress over the news . Cabinet Ministers , Senators , and members of the House expressed deep sorrow , speaking not only in terms of admiration and respect for the ex-Senator 's public career , but dwelling with kindness upon his personal character . The contradiction of the first report did not arrive Until 8:30 o'clock . It came in the shape of a positive statement from Santiago made in the knowledge that the re- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This dispatch immediately received as wide circulation in the city as it was possible for it to receive at that hour . Secretary Hay was placed in possession of a copy of the dispatch , as were also Mr. Sher-man 's family . " A most marvelous condition of affairs , " remarked the Secretary . He then proceeded to express his great relief that the first news was not conririnekl . The news of the reported death of Mr. Sherman took many persons , friends , and others to his house on K Street . Among others who congregated there were the two former private secretaries of Senator Sherman , Mr. Babcock and Mr. Valle , as well as Miss Kate Willack , a niece , and Mrs. Charles Hoyt , whose husband was a cousin of Senator Sherman . They and others present read with joy the dispatch stating that the Senator was still alive . The reading of the messages had scarcely been concluded by those present when Mrs. McCallum , the adopted daughter of Senator and Mrs. Sherman , burst into the room , accompanied by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a telephone message while at Gen. Miles 's house , and had hurried over to impart it to the rest of the family . " It has been a trying day , " said Mrs. McCallum , " but all is well again . " Indeed there were rejoicings and thanksgivings on the part of all those who had assembled at the house when they realized it was true that the invalid was better and might yet be restored to them . Mrs. Sherman was the one person of the Senator 's household who suffered neither from the first announcement nor rejoiced over the second She was not informed of either . Mrs Sherman has been ill from a paralytic attack ' or several months , and had never been informed even of the Senator 's serious illness for fear of its effect upon her . It was felt , when the news of his death came to-day , that it would have to be broken to her , but all hesitated to make the announcement . It was ultimately decided to postpone the sad duty until tomorrow . Sire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condolence and personal calls of sympathy had been received at the house . Prompt efforts were taken to inform the prominent officials of the Administration and others of the safe arrival of Mr. Sherman at Santiago , and it was with a feeling of gratification and satisfaction that this news was received , supplemented by an expression of hope that Mr. Sherman would entirely recover . When the report of Mr. Sherman 's death was first circulated to-day , Mrs. McCallum , who was asked if the report was confirmed , replied : " Yes , I have heard from the State Department that he is dead . " Mrs. McCallum added that she did not know where the State Department received this information . The report of Mr. Sherman 's death was published in several New York City papers yesterday afternoon , and caused general regret among those who heard the rumor.                     