@@672683

txt James G. Blaine , ex-officio manager of the Columbian Exposition , has another iron in the fire to increase his influence at home and abroad and further his peculiar schemes . A commission of three men is to sail for Europe early in June to work up enthusiasm for the fair among foreign nations . The men appointed for this purpose are Mose Handy . Promoter General : Ben Butterworth . Solicitor General , and Thomas M. Waller , United States Commissioner from Connecticut . The first two are Republicans . Waller is a Democrat , baying been Consul General at London during Cleveland 's Administration . These men are expected to organize a corps of workers abroad , who shall urge foreigners to send exhibits to and attend the fair . World 's Fair officials have been asked to use all the members of the diplomatic and consular service on this work , and there in very little doubt that Messrs . Handy and Butterworth will find that those agents of the Government will make the most acceptable servants of the World 's Fair people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Messrs . Butterworth and Handy have been too well treated by the men in power to fail to do anything that they are requested to do . Mr. Butterworth has been drawing a salary of $10,000 for doing nothing , and Hardy has just had his salary increased from $5,000 to $7,500 . Mr. Waller will get a salary and have his expenses paid while away , and is expected to saw wood and say nothing . The Government agents abroad are not expected to work for honor alone ; in fact . although many of them have signified their willingness to co-operate with the World 's Fair people , none of them has offered his services free . Robert T. Lincoln , Minister to England , declined to do anything for the Fair , on the plea of insufficient clerical help . For this reason one of the attachda of the legation. it . C. McCormick , was appointed resident agent of the Fair in London at a salary of $4,000 . Mr. McCormick 's appointment can hardly be reconciled with Minister Lincoln 's statement . But an explanation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that McCormick is a son-in-law of Joseph Me-dill , who is editor of Blaine 's organ here . When the agents of the United States in foreign countries have been subsidized by the World 's Fair people on the recommendation of Blaine 's traveling commission , they will no doubt be in a. proper mood to laud the greatness of Mr. Blaine and Mr. Blaine 's reciprocity schemes to the sky in the ears of foreigners , and their friends at home will also be made acquainted with the admirable qualltiesE of that statesman 's character . So that around the world , as the attention of nations is turned to this country , will be heard the praises of the man from Maine . It will not be hard for his friends to continue this manufactured enthusiasm as a spontaneous call for his elevation to the chief office in the land .                     