@@673434

txt The United Press correspondent in Rio de Janeiro has sent this dispatch under the date of Jan. 2 : " Public opinion compelled Admiral da Gama , commander of the insurgent fleet in Rio Harbor , to issue the manifesto distributed on Saturday . The manifesto denied in these words the correctness of the inferences drawn from de . Gama 's monarchist manifesto of a month ago : " The documents attributed to me were falsified in the printed copies . With the victory of the revolution will come the establishment of a civil republican Government " An unsigned manifesto denouncing the employment of North American mercenaries on the Government cruiser Nictheroy has been distributed . The sentiment against hiring North Americans to serve on Brazilian vessels is very strong , even among friends of the Government , and to this sentiment is due much of the trouble with the Nictheroy 's crew . The recent dismissal of several North Americans was due probably to the popular prejudice excited against them . The longshoremen left the barges used in coaling the Nictheroy and joined the insurgents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , will be obliged to bring them back or suffer the penalty of imprisonment . The Nictheroy is still at Pernambuco . " The inquiries of the British Captain in the harbor here have elicited from the British Government only the deola.ra.rtion that there is to be no change , and none would be possible . " An American naval Surgeon who visited the insurgent hospital on Euchadas Island learned that from one to five dead bodies were brought in daily from the insurgent forts at Villegaignon and Cobras . Surgeon Senior of the British war ship Sirius , after securing the approval of Capt . William A. Lang , the senior British officer of the fleet , has taken his instruments and some supplies to Euchadas , and is attending the wounded . Guns , ammunition , and torpedoes are said to be stored in the machine shop which extends under the hospital flag . The insurgents at Villegaignon and Cobras are short of fresh provisions , and are drinking distilled sea water . It is reported that the French men-of-war are supplying them with medicines . " ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ /IP 4 been only intermittent . A fleet of insurgent tugs , commanded by Admiral da Gama , has been brought along shore several times in an attempt to drive back the Government forces and land troops . Although the insurgents fought with reckless bravery , their efforts were vain . They lost heavily , but did not gain even a foothold . Desperate resistance was offered yesterday afternoon and last night to the Government advance on Viannl Island . Five insurgent steamers were engaged for hours . There was much noise , but little blood flowed . It is learned to-day that workmen from Euchadas Island got ashore last night by way of the marine arsenal , whose traitorous commandant gave them ' permission to land . " Admiral Mello 's friends in this city are serenely confident of his ultimate success Opinion among foreign naval men is that Admiral da Gama will be beaten within ten days . "                     