@@781782

txt Our amusing neighbor , the Mail and Express , gave the place of honor on its editorial page yesterday to the following remarks , which it regards , we suppose , as a bristling and unanswerable argument in support of the repudiated McKinley tariff : " For the ten months ending April 30 , 1892 , the value of the starch exported from the United States to foreign countries was 010,855 . " For the corresponding period ending in 1893 , under Republican reoiprooity and protection , the value of such exports was $614,828 . This increase of $103,973 , or over 20 per cent. , shows the beneficial results of Republican reciprocity and protection . Let these principles remain in force . " Pausing for a moment to remind our neighbor that the business of exporting starch was parried on by the Starch Trust ( the National Starch Company ) under the benign influence of the McKinley tariff in 1892 as well as in 1893 , and that the increase in the value of the exports of starch. , in 1889 over those of 1888 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both those years , we desire to ask one or two questions which the official reports concerning the starch-industry suggest . The quantity exported is ten times the quantity imported , ( exports 20,081,027 pounds in 1892 , imports 1,990,975 pounds . ) Why , then , should the manufacturers of starch in the United States be " protected " by a tariff duty of 86.35 per cent . The reports show that they export their starch and sell it in all parts of the world in competition with the pauper starch of other countries . They undersell the foreign manufacturers of pauper starch on their own ground , where they can not enjoy the advantage of a tariff duty but must overcome the disadvantage of export freight charges . Almost nineteen-twentieths of the American starch exportid in 1892 was sold in Great Britain , the Netherlands , and Belgium . Great Britain took nearly twothirds of the 20,081,027 pounds . If American starch in large quantities can be sold in Great Britain and . on the Continent of Europe in open competition with the starch manufactured there or brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need to be protected here at home against sales of English or Belgium starch , or of any other foreign starch , by the enormous tariff duty of 86.35 per cent. ? Row does " reciprocity " affect export sales in Great Britain , the Netherlands , and Belgium , countries with which we have no so-called reciprocity treaties Of the 20,081,027 pounds of starch exported last year , 18,803,187 pounds , or 9312 per cent , were sold in those three countries . The same countries bought 93 per cent . of the starch exported in 1891 . Only a few pounds have beon sold in countries with which the so-called reciprocity treaties were negotiated , and will any sane man say that the American exporter of starch needs in South America or the West Indies the advantages alleged to be conferred by those treaties , if he can undersell the European manufacturers of starch in their own countries , and at the d'oors of their factories , without any assistance or favor whatever ? The truth is that the enormous duty on foreign starch has been used here , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of greed . " It has enabled a Trust , which controls the industry , to exact very high prices from consumers at home . The members of the Trust profess that without the protection of a duty of 86.35 per cent . they could not compete here at home with foreign starch , and at the same time they are selling millions of pounds abroad in open and successful competition with the whole world . The " argument " of the Mail and Express is a sample of the material furnished to the MoKiiiley press by the high-tariff associations , and very pitiful stuff it is . In the coming revisiomof the tariff starch should be put on the free list .                     