@@674125

txt " Steve " Elkins and his former business associate in New-Mexico , Delegate Catron of that Territory , are cast down to-night over the failure of a political job which the House had indorsed and which they hoped would be accepted by the Senate without question , but which was exposed and defeated by Mr. Hill with the aid of Republican votes . Mr. Elkins , who once lived in New-Mexico , and Mr. Catron , who is one of the prominent Republicans of the Territory , assuming that the next National election would result in a Republican victory , conceived the idea of changing the date of the beginning of the next session of the Territorial Legislature from December to May , so that in the event of Republican success a Republican President might appoint Territorial officers and thus take the control of legislation from the Democrats . In pursuance of this scheme , a paragraph was inserted in the Legislative , Executive , and Judicial Appropriation bill providing that the next session of the Legislature should begin the first Monday in May , 1S07 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every odd numbered year thereafter , and forbidding the election or appointment or payment of any officer of either house of the Legislature , except . a translator and an interpreter . The present Secretary of the Territory , Lorion Miller , incurred the enmity of the Republicans by his action at the last meeting of the Territorial Legislature in connection with a contested seat , and the job contemplated his retirement , as well as the overriding of public sentiment in the Territory . Of course the paragraph embodying the selfish motives of Mr. Elkins had no business in the Appropriation bill . Mr. Hill says it was " sneaked " in , and the anxiety displayed by Mr. Elkins to have him explain the offensive term lends strength to the charge . The House had not a word to say in protest against the job , which may be explained by the activity of Mr. Catron , who has the reputation in New-Mexico of being a past master in the art of political manipulation . That he and his Senatorial friends came to grief to-day is due alone to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Democrats in the Territory , who rightly assumed that the New-York Senator would like nothing better than to expose and defeat it . Mr. Hill was on the alert to-day , and when the paragraph was reached he at once moved that it be stricken out . Then the fun began in earnest . Delegate Catron entered the chamber not three minutes after the motion had been made and took a seat beside Mr. Elkins . Thomas H. Car . ter , Chairman of the Republican National Committee , who had been made aware of the nature of the job , pricked up his ears and held a consultation with the West Virginia Senator . Mr. Hill in the meantime was assailing the paragraph with the utmost vigor , revealing- the plot and denouncing it as a " enean , small , contemptible trick . " When he declared that it had been " sneaked " into the bill , Mr. Elkins , whose face had taken on an additional sliade of red , jumped to his feet and demanded to know what right Mr. Hill had to use that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but Mr. Hill was not in a mood to mince words , and , although Mr. Elkins professed to be dissatisfied with the explanation , the Senate understood and showed signs of its appreciation . Mr. Cullom. who was in charge of the bill . undertook a defense of the offending parograph , which might better have been left to some one else , far he only succeeded in emphasizing the fact that the Senate was asked to indorse a cheap political game . The defense agreed upon by Elkins and Catron that the change in the date of the meeting of the Legislature Naas designed to meet the objection alleged to exist at present of the impossibility of settling cases of contested seats prior to the adjournment of the Legislature was presented by Mr. Carter , who went further than he intended and acknowledged that there was politics in the proposition . What he said served to Intensify the opposition , and Mr. Hill found himself reinforced by Mr. Faulkner , who took evident delight in antagonizing his colleague , and by Mr. Daniel , Mr. Cockrell , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the foolish lengths to which some politicians will go in their efforts to gain what to them seems an advantage over their political adversaries . Elkins sat at Mr. Carter 's right hand , and next to him sat Catron with a volume of the Revised Statutes before him , ready to- prompt the Montana Senator , who showed , long before the debate came to an end , that he realized the extent of the predicament he had got into through his desire to aid the schemers . It required nearly two hours to settle the question , and in that time the proposition was thoroughly riddled . Mr. Gorman served notice upon the Republicans , after Mr. Cullom had moved to table the Hill motion , that the bill would be held up for an indefinite time if the proposed revolutionary method involved in the plan of permitting extraneous matter to be incorporated in the bill should be adopted , and the Republican leaders saw that he meant what he said . The overturning of the Elkins-Catron job came on the vote on the Cullom motion , Messrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to swell the ynajority for Hill to 8 . Mr. Cullom did not require further evidence that the job was doomed , and said that he would not press the matter further . The offending paragraphs were stricken out a moment later , even Mr. Elkins failing to make a sound when the question was put . Catron and he whispered together a moment after the matter was decided , and then the delegate marched out of the chamber , wearing a look which showed that he was afflicted with a " tired feeling . " It is said to-night that Elkins and Catron will endeavor to have the decision of the Senate overturned when the conferees on the bill get together , but Mr. Hill says the conferees will not dare to favor the scheme , in the face of the Senate 's emphatic condemnation of it . The matter to which Mr. Hill had objected having been stricken out , the . bill was passed without division .                     