@@674310

txt It was a noble address that Mr. CLEVELAND delivered yesterday at Princeton , ' worthy of the occasion , of his office , and ( by no means least ) of himself . He viewed the memorable occasion , he intimated , in the light suggested by his own experience and his " mental situation . " What he saw in it was the high duty of the university in turning out citizens who should know the essential principles of their Government , be true to them , defend and extend them , and carry their influence into every community of the land , everywhere practicing and inspiring intelligent , unselfish , unswerving patriotism . What Mr. CLEVELAND 'S countrymen may well see in the occasion of yesterday was the first citizen of the Republic presenting in grave and simple words the ideal of citizenship which the great universities should build up , and of which he , whom no college trained , is to-day the completest and most conspicuous embodiment . Consider , for a moment , what are the elements of this ideal which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sincere brotherhood and a disposition to unite in mutual endeavor . " When , in 1585 , Mr. CLEVELAND became President he was the candidate of a party that for a half century had been regarded , and in many ways had actually been , sectional , but in that Administration . as in his second , his policy strengthened in every part of our common country the sentiment of " common brotherhood . " Second , there is the recognition of " natural laws and economic truths - Which demand explicit obedience , and which should unalterably fix the bounds of wholesome popular discussion and the limits of political strife . " All that a President could do to induce this recognition Mr. CLEVELAND has done . Every act of his and of his advisers has been guided by it . Every possible question as to what the Government would or could do has been decided by that view of the National honor that " demands implicit obedience " and admits of no quibbles . If , nevertheless , the National honor has become a subject of " political strife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been faithful to the standard he set for them , and because the rival party has been only less unfaithful . The third element of citizenship set forth by Mr. CLEVELAND is the " unselfish and loving support of the Government , " demanding for every citizen only " his just share of the safety and prosperity it holds in store for all . " For this conception Mr. CLEVELAND as President has labored faithfully against many and great obstacles , and with a notable degree of success . If we compare the public service now with what it was a dozen years ago we shall realize how great has been the progress . And though there have been delays and shortcomings which Tux Triares has felt called upon to point out , it is still obvious that the immense advance made would have been impracticable but for the firmness of Mr. CLEVELAND . In closing , the President said : " Horn of these surroundings , the hope can not be vain that the time is at hand when all our countrymen will more deeply appreciate the blessings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government will be quickened , when fanaticism and passion shall be banished from the field of politics , and when all our people , discardirc- every difference of condition or opportunity , will he seen under the banner of American brotherhood , marching steadily and unfalteringly on toward the bright heights of our National destiny . " qwq has done more to make it possible than Mr. CLEVELAND .                     