@@781721

txt It would be premature , probably , to aver that tho glory of Creedmoor has departed ; but it is quite certain that , with the transfer of this year 's annual matches of the National Rifle Association to Sea Girt , the famous parent range temporarily loses its old importance for all riflemen except those of the Now-York National Guard . Even these latter will have only a divided interest in it , since while they continue to shoot their matches there for the State and brigade prizes , they will go over to the New-Jersey range to contest the Inter-State Military , the Hilton Trophy . and other association matcues , always hitherto shot at Creedmor . They will also find there to attract them an all-comers ' military match and a competition between teams of six from regiments and battalions , hold by the New-Jersey State Rifle Association . As for the riflemen not connected with the militia , they must go , either for individual orteam competitions , including , of course , not only the pool matches but the one for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As is well known , this transformation scene in the familiar September meeting of American marksmen is due to the controversy which broke out a few months ago between the National Rifle Association and the General Inspector of Rifle Practice of New-York . Whatever the merits or demerits of this dispute , which we sufficiently referred to at the time , the actual result was that the association declined to hold its annual Fall prize meeting at Creedmoor and made overtures to the New-Jersey association to use the Sea Girt ground for its purpose , shooting its matches there as a part of the latter 's programme . The NewJersey association , with the approval of the State authorities , welcomed this proposal , and the joint meeting will be held throughout next week . While this arrangement is a loss to Creedmoor , and while many who have watched with friendly interest the varied fortunes of the Long Island range ever since its formation , will be sorry to see this blow to its prestige as a national resort for riflemen , yet the change may prove beneficial to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One result will probably be to divert the National Rifle Association from the appearance of being a local or State organization , controlled by State influences and obedient to State behests . It may even enter on a new stage of existence , as an annual visitor to the leading State ranges , taking with it its accepted emblems of team and individual championships , which are associated with too many hard contests from the very foundation of modern rifle practice not to be still coveted and competed for . Such a change , should it he brought about , would at least be likely to make the association more worthy of its name and perhaps to solve some problems that have beset it during many years . Certainly so far as Sea Girt is concerned the new arrangement is promising . In the coming week 's programme the first two days are for preliminary practice at known distances and in skirmish firing ; the next two for the regular matches of the NewJersey Association ; on Friday comes the competition of the National Association , including the famous Hilton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on Saturday . may come extra individual and team matches . Besides the competitions open only to the New-Jersey guardsmen , including the Perrino Memorial , there are the Schuetzen , an allcomers ' continuous match , the All Corners ' Military , the Kuzer , and so on . The most interesting fact perhaps is that in the competition for teams of six from regiments or battalions teams from NewYork , New-Jersey , Pennsylvania , Delaware , Maryland , Connecticut , Maine , and the District of Columbia are expected . Such an array of contestants has not been known for years at Creedmoor . Perhaps a part of this success in entries may be due to the fact that teams of only six are required , instead of twelve as in the InterState Match for the " Soldier of Mara-thon . " But it is fair also to presume , for a number of reasons , that the transfer of the great scene of interest from Creedmoor to Sea Girt is also partly responsible for this gratifying widening of the circle of competition . At all events , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Association , will throw light on this matter . The entry of Maine into these annual contests must be to many an unexpected novelty . Delaware and Maryland as well as Pennsylvania find Sea Girt rather more accessible than Creedmoor , while the District of Columbia , which won the Hilton Trophy and the Soldier of Marathon at Creedmoor last year , will naturally have a twelve at Sea Girt to defend them . The meeting on the New-Jersey range will , in fact , be interesting in many ways , and perhaps its result may determine the future course of the National Rifle Association . The competitions which it offers ought to bring.together teams from many different States , and . especially from those that are nearest the range on which they may be held .                     