@@673651

txt Senator Vilas of Wisconsin has , on the whole , the best record on the tariff question of all the Democratic Senators . He was outspoken , bold , and firm in his advocacy of Democratic principles , and did everything in his power to promote the fulfillment of the party pledges . In his address to the Democratic Convention of his State he declared that the fight for honest tariff reform must be pushed until the mission confided to the party had been honorably carried out . He made an able exposition of the very great advantages secured by even the imperfect bill which has now become a law , and made the very safe prediction that the experience of the country with the degree of reform thus accomplished would incline the people to see that the work is completed . This is the tone adopted by Mr. Cleveland and Mr. Wilson , and is that which the conscientious tariff-reform Democrats the country over are bound to adopt . The political shepherds of Ohio have met sigajn and given advice to the wool growers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to kill off the old ones and prepare for - as big an Increase as possible of the flocks in view of the certain restoration of duties after 1896 . Even if the Republicans were fully restored to power and chose to restore duties and select a Foster for Secretary of the Treasury and let Judge Lawrence " monkey " with the Treasury rulings , so as to reestablish all the iniquities of the tariff on wool , it could not be done before the Autumn of 189S , which is much too long a wait for farmers . For this specific reason and for the general reason that the men who give this advice are a queer mixture of fool and knave , the farmers of Ohio will do well to pay no attention to their counsel . There will never again be a duty on wool-in the United States , and the wool grower will be very much better off without one . When so earnest a Republican as Mr. Dean of the Chautauqua district denounces the apportionment scheme now before the Constitutional Convention as an " attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pretty conclusive evidence of its partisan character . Mr. Dean is fair-minded enough to see that the proposed apportionment is not just and that it is intended to secure party advantage , and he has the courage and candor to say so . Moreover , he has the political sense to see , as we pointed out the other day , that to force it through would be a " monumental error " which would swamp the Republican ticket this Fall . He makes the disrespectful qualification , " if we have at its head the old man proposed for Governor , " but that is unnecessary . Nobody who has followed the trial of Capt . Stephenson will dispute that the sentence in his case is entirely proper and such as just judges must have rendered on the evidence . This case is worse than any of the others on account of the complicity it shows of the public with police extortion . The men who paid tribute to Stephenson were not keepers of disreputable and unlawful resorts , like those who were blackmailed by Doherty and Devery . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found it convenient to conduct by unlawful means , and bribed the police to let them conduct it by unlawful means . It would have cost more money for them to provide proper facilities for doing their business than to pay the police for allowing them to make use of improper facilities , and that is why they did it . It is absurd for them to pretend that Stephenson robbed them What he did was to make them pay for breaking the law , which they knew perfectly well that they were breaking and broke to save money . He was no more bound to enforce the law than they . were bound to observelt . The absence of public spirit and respect for law that they showed - Is quite as bad as the greed he showed , and much more discouraging to people who hope to see a reform in the local Government .                     