@@675214

txt The correspondent of The Daily News at . The Hague says : " Mr. Rolls had interviews with Prince von Igohenlohe and Baron von Billow while he was in Berlin . It appears that Emperor William had assented to an arranged Interview , but , on second thought , he objected to dis:mssing- matters with anybody below the rank of First Delegate . Mr. Bolls wishes to emphasize the fact that he was only concerned in defending American interests , a task which Mr. White would himself have undertaken had he been able to leave The Hague . I have satisfied . inyself that there was absolutely no sort of partnership between Dr. Zorn . and Mr. Hells . Both are animated with a common anxiety for the success of the conference : but the Nile of Mr. Hulls in Berlin was that of an American delegate endeavoring to carry out an American deal . " It is understood that he did exceedingly well in Berlin : but , notwithstanding all assertions to the contrary . 1 learn that the German delegates have received no fresh instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listen and to take no initiative . " To-morrow will be a critical day . A sudden move has been made to discuss Count Muravieff 's first article by all tile military and naval delegates . M. de Staal is ex-. pected to introduce his disarmament scheme ; and , in moving it . he will probably say he must apologize for its lateness , but that it was considered most businesslike to ascertain the views of the Conference on the minor aspects of the disarmament question , such as torpedoes , rams , and the like . If the proposals connected with these minor matters had been more favorably received , he would have been encouraged , he will probably say , to widen their scope into the more general one of disarmament . " Nevertheless ? he is expected to say ? as , after all . disarmament is the chief object the Czar had in view in calling the Conference , he feels bound to move a scheme embodying , albeit in a limited degree , the views of his imperial master . He will probably hint , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be wiser to leave the idea of . any complete scheme of disarm- ament for consideration by a future conference . " It is presumed that the Conference will sit some time longer , as M. de Stahl haS issued cards for a ball on July L " The correspondent of the Times at The Hague says : " Dr. Zorn took part in the debate upon Sir Julian Pauncefote 's scheme for a permanent tribunal of arbitration , but raised no objections and displayed no unfriendly spirit . "                     