@@673974

txt Chairman Hackett called the meeting to order at 12:25 o'clock , and requested the Rev. Dr. Carey of the Bethesda Episcopal Church of this village to make the opening prayer . So suspicious are some politicians that they listened with great attention to the prayer , fearful that something might be said in it relative to the excise question . At the opening of the convention and during all of the morning session there were not more than 2,500 people in the big galleries of the hall . It could have accommodated at least 1,000 more . After the prayer , Chairman Hackett said the Secretary would call the roll by counties , so that substitutions could be made . In the New-York City delegation Julius M. Mayer , John E. =holland , Col. S. V. R. Cruger , James W. Hawes , John H. Gunner , Benjamin Oppenheimer , George B. Deane , John Sabine Smith , and L. S. Grenner were among those who came in as substitutes . Mr. =holland took Cornelius N. Bliss 's place in the Sixteenth Assembly District . Ex-Senator Miller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one of his delegates from Herkimer . A Scheme of Slayer 's Fails . The contests in the Twentieth , Twentyfifth , Twenty-eighth , and Thirtieth Assembly Districts of New-York City were noted . Julius M. Mayer tried to get the Hedges delegation from New-York City 's Twentyfifth District substituted for the Platt delegation , but Secretary Kenyon noticed this , and it " did n't go . " Lieut . Gov . Saxton was cheered when he rose to make a substitution in his oonnty . Silas B. Dutcher was substituted in place of Henry Abell in Kings . When the list was completed , Mr. Hackett said that on behalf of the State Committee he would nominate ' Congressman J. S. Sherman of Oneida as temporary Chairman . Mr. Sherman was chosen without a murmur of opposition . Mr. Hackett appointed Speaker Fish and T. L. Poole to escort Mr. Sherman to the chair . They found him after a search among the delegates , and they took him up on the platform and introduced him to Mr. Hackett  --  an unnecessary proceeding , but very formal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Sherman produced his prepared speech and began . Morton for President . There was not much applause until the temporary Chairman trotted out Gov . Morton as the New-York Republicans ' Presidential candidate . There was great applause at this , and Mr. Platt clapped his hands and then laughed heartily . Mr. Sherman next stirred up his audience by his reference to Mr. Blaine . When the speaker referred to Democratic bosses , Platt looked a little uneasy . The Temporary Chairman 's Speech . Mr. Sherman , in the course of his speech , said : We meet not as individuals to gratify i .. , rsonal desires and to further personal interests , but as the rtertsentatives of the Republican Party in the Empire State , to express its sentiments , sound Its warcry , and point its way to victory . For the first time since 1883 the full responsibility of State government has rested upon the Republican Party . Prior to the election of 1603-4 the condition was one of serious menace . Vicious infidences , through repeated victories , had grown bold and daring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a perfectly organized gang of political plunderers , under the guidance of a master mind . Blackmail as systematic as it was horrible had brought about a condition of municipal rottenness acid moral turpitude before which the civilized world stood aghast . In Brooklyn one man 's will was law ; his orders were executed , his favors dispensed at the sacrifice of the city 's good name . , at Gravesend , with brazen insolence . in flagrant defiance of law . limited his return of votes cast to the number required . Troy was under the absolute control of a coterie of political thugs and murderers . " Blue-eyed Billy . " with unequaled assurance . controlled , by legislation when needed , the political destiny of the growing city of the lake . And over all this oligarchy , like the hundred-handed Briareus . King David ruled . Public decency was out-raged , public trust betrayed , the expressed will of the people subverted , public records purloined , the mandate of the courts violated , the Senate of the State stolen . a United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highwaymen smirched by his presence the highest court of the State , to which he was elevated as his share in the swag of political plunder , He Talks About Excise Laws . in all efforts toward wise and just laws the Republican Legislature met the united opposition of the Democracy . The efforts of Republican officials to enforce the excise laws , enacted by Democratic mandate as a means only of machine discipline , call forth vehement denunciation by Democratic leaders and press , by whom Anarchistic defiance is advised . The cry reaches us from Elmira couched in the misleading title of " Personal liberty . " Stripped ' of its pretentious dress It means violation of law . Its logical conclusion is dangerous arid revolting . The Republican Party believes that laws are made to be enforced , not violated . . Whether touching civil service , honest elections , or excise , it will enforce them in New-York State while its executive chair Is occupied by that statesman who , having graced the diplomatic service and honored by his incumbency the second highest office In the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation in the next Republican National Convention . will , we believe . be the President of eighty millions of people at the close of the nineteenth century . Senator Hill attempts by the false issue he raises to turn attention from the record Democracy has made in National affairs . While we court discussion of State issues , we shall Insist that National affairs be not altogether ignored in this campaign . The immediate present and the recent past furnish ample example for study . thought , and comparison . Future historians will view with wonderment our unparalleled growth and prosperity during the four years ending March 3 , 1892 . Never in the history of any nation had there been such marvelous dite el , : pmeat . Capital was eagerly seeking Investment : workingmen were eNerywhere in demand . In every section of our land joyous peace and plenty made our National life ideal . A Calamity Howl , immediately after the inauguration of President Cleveland hope gave Way to despair , happiness welted upon discontent , misery and suffering entered and took up their abode where fur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform and nominate candidates . merly joy and mirth held glad carnival ; the tires in our furnaces were black as an Egyptian midnight , thousands of factories closed , workingmen seeking in vain for employment : our newspapers , mirroring daily the history of our land , were tilled with the accounts of banks closing , merchants failing , interests defaulting , and investments insecure . For the first time In our National life the gates of Castle Garden opened outward . Every ship bound for foreign ports was ladened , not with the fruits of the American fields and the American looms , but with American gold to meet outstanding obligations and In payment for imported goods . Yet during this time of hopelessness and deepatr , through the courtesy of a Democratic United States Senator , a Sugar Trust was enabled to reap a profit of $50,000,000 . Fifty millions of dollars stuffing the pockets of the favored rich and thousands of workingmen starv-ing ! The Democratic . Party has again proved itself incapable of government . Its leaders have demonstrated their utter Incompetency . This statement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the statement of the American people emphatically expressed at the polls one year ago . Whether on State or National issues , whether in the strife between law and its violation or between American industry and foreign production . the State of New-York must stand with the Republican Party ; stand hack of Gov . Morton , as he executes the laws , hack of Thomas B. Reed and the Republican majcrity he will lead in the next Congress . Mr. Sherman was very much pleased with the reception accorded his speech .                     