@@781482

txt It does not seem to us that the rather confident tone in which some of the officers of the Treasury have recently spoken of the course of the Government receipts and disbursements is justified by any comparison which it is yet possible to make . If we compare the figures for the calendar years 1894 and 1893 we find the following : deleted table In spite of a decrease in expenditures $13,000,000 . And it is worth while remarking that the accumulated deficit of the two years  --  a little more than $95,000,000 ? is very nearly the par value of the loans made in the last year and about $20,000,000 less than the sum actually received . The last statement of the receipts and disbursements of the Treasury covers the first twenty days of the present month and of the calendar year . It is in round numbers as follows : To Jan. 20 , 1895 . Receipts ... $19,042,000 Expenditures ... 28,663,000 Deficit  --   --  .. ? . ? ........ ? . $9,621,000 Even if we assume  --  what is undoubtedly true  --  that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the remaining one-third of the month , or for the ensuing months , we still have a rate of deficit for the first two-thirds of the month more than twice as great as the average monthly deficit for 1894 , and not far from three times as great as that of 1893 . On the other hand , there has been a very perceptible increase in the internal revenue receipts , which have so far been above the average for 1894 and decidedly above the average of 1893 . In these circumstances the duty of the sensible men in Congress , no matter to what party they belong , is very plain . It is evident that there can be no extensive currency legislation at this session . It is extremely doubtful whether there can be any new taxation levied . While it is very desirable and even imperative that provision should be made for the deleted 3 lines expenses go would probably be to put a tax on beef , yet it is the part of practical legislators to take the immediate ' needs of the ' Treasury into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet them . It is reported at Washington that the Republicans would support a bill to give the Treasury authority to borrow at the current low rates , at the discretion of the Secretary , enough money to meet the deficiency in the revenues . If that report is true , the Democrats should lose no time in bringing forward such a bill and passing it . That would not preclude an attempt at taxation , or at the retirement of the greenbacks , or at the creation of a currency commission . The immediate needs of the Treasury are independent of any and all these  --  though happily the Treasury can not be armed with the authority to borrow without ' substantially relieving the general financial situation . To put the Government in case to pay its current obligations without risking the redemption reserve is not a matter of politics . It is a clear duty incumbent on men of all parties .                     