@@673034

txt The police are investigating a cheap and clumsy internal machine which was sent in a cheap and clumsy way to Gov . Flower at the Windsor Hotel on Wednesday night . To give it an added interest , the novel feature of an anonymous letter of warning preceded it by mall . Cot . Timothy S. Williams , the Governor 's private secretary , received this anonymous letter in the mull sent to Hoorn 223 on Wednesday . It was written in a goad hand . evidently by a person of some education , and asked the Governor not to open a box which had been sent to him through the mail , as it was dangerous . The letter bore the stamp of Sub Station 0 , 30 West Thirteenth Street . Col. Williams sent to the hotel office a message to be careful of a package expected by mail . It came and was treated gingerly by the Colonel It was tied with string and wrapped in heavy yellow wrapping paper . The address was In printed characters : " Hon. Roswell G. Flower , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on it . and it born the stamp of Station G , Eighth Avenue and Fifty-fifth street . A postman , it was learned afterward , had found it on top of a letter boX . Col. Williams did not show it to the Governor and had no desire himself to examine It . Adjt , Gen. Josiah Porter sent a letter to Police Headquarters asking that detectives be sent to the Windsor Hotel . Chief Inspector Steers sent up Detective Sergeants Crowley and INIcClosky , to whom Gen. l'orter turned over the box . They took it to Police Headquarters . The Inspector stripped off the paper and found an ordinary domestic cigar box , bearing the label , " Rappahannock , Concha Elega , ntos , Flor The box was soaked in a pail of water half an hour . Then the lid was carefully removed and a clumsy infernal-machine contrivance was disclosed . It was not unlike half a dozen others sent to various persons and examined by the police . The lid was arranged to move an arm , to which was attached a piece of wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stuck a common parlor match . with the heads resting against a piece of emery-paper glued to the side or the box . The box was divided into two compartments . In the one where the matches were expected to ignite was about three-quarters of a pound of a black large-grained powder , probably blasting powder , and in the other a tin box which had contained some 6 ' concentrated oil of mustard for rheumatism . " The lid was on , but not soldered , and two holes were punched in the box . It held about half a pound of ordinary sporting gunpowder . The maker 's idea probably was that when the lid was raised the marches would ignite the blasting powder , which would also explode the can of sporting powder . The latter , however , could not have done more than flash , as the cover , not being fastened , would simply have blown oil : Had it by any chance worked as planned the person opening it would have had a shook : Ind been badly singed . There were no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cyrus Edson , the chief sanitary superintendent of the Health Department , who is an authority on the subject of high explosives , superintended the opening of the box , and only smiled when asked what the consequences might have been . The police are working up the case , but think it may have been a hoax . Gov . Flower is not at all disturbed by the matter . Ile said yesterday he was sorry the story had gotten out . He had not seen the box and had not disturbed himself with any theories . icle had left the whole matter with the police . The box could have reached the Governor only by mere accident , as all his mall passes through the hands of his private secretary .                     