@@674223

txt With cheers and shouts of joy  --  a tumult of applause with throat and feet and hands  --  the majority of the National Democratic Convention has taken the first step that must end in disaster , as it has been begun with disgrace . Moved by an impulse that is strong as it is mistaken , the majority has notified the people of the country that the standard of financial integrity held courageously and firmly by President Cleveland , shall be lowered ; that the controlling idea in the campaign of 1896 shall be the Bland idea ? that cheaper money and prosperity are to be secured by discrediting and dishonoring sound money and the champions of the standard of the civilized world ; that the flat of a free-silver Congress and President is to be superior to all commercial and natural laws , and that silver is to be raised in value by the wickedest species of protectionism . To be a " regular " Democrat in 1896 , to retain one 's title , to be regarded as loyal and as obedient to the Jeffersonian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one must accept the new declaration of independence utttered to-day in the speech with which Senator Daniel of Virginia accepted the honor of an election to be temporary Chairman . The cost of Democratic loyalty imposed is not one of mere earnest devotion to principles of Democracy hitherto undisputed . To be considered a true Democrat , to be entitled to a voice and participation in Party conventions , one must admit that it is essential to future prosperity and greatness to assert , by will and vote , that the United States must maintain the free and uniimited coinage of silver at the ratio of 16 to 1 , regardless of the course of all the rest of the world . The Outcome Expected . None of the opponents of the sixteen-toone policy expected any other outcome of the contest over- temporary Chairman than that which followed the long debate over the nominations made by the majority and the minority of the National Committee . The silver men had abated something of their disposition to be noisy , but they were as wholly possessed by the sixteen-to-one idea when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any time since they began to shout for free coinage and to fight bitterly over favorite candidates and against the men from the East , with whose assistance in the election they would be delighted to dispense . The opinion of Altgeld and Tillman prevailed . Picking out a shining mark , the Democrat from the State of New-York most conspicuous in the convention , the silver hosts disregarded ' all appeals to former friendship , all considerations of expediency , and the guarded warnings of possible resentment that were to be feared from stanch New-York by repudiating David B. Hill . To the mistaken silver men the significance of the . opposition to the substitution as Chairman of Senator Daniel for Senator Hill is of small account . The silver men are content to win here , apparently , and to trust to their belief that if all voters of the country do not agree with them they ought to agree . Seventeen States , which will cast 179 votes in the Electoral College , protested in whole or by a majority of their delegates against the insensate plan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidly opposed to the free coinaze of silver . ? Connecticut , Delaware , Florida , Maine , Maryland , Massachusetts , Michigan , Minnesota , Nebraska , New-Hampshire . New-Jersey . New-York , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island , South Dakota , Vermont , and Wisconsin ? these were the States that , by the action of their delegates , admonished the Crazy convention against the fatal consequences that might follow persistence in the silver frenzy . A President may be elected without the aid of those seventeen States , but no President has been elected in recent years who has not had the votes of New , ? York , New-Jersey , and Connecticut . Kentucky , and Tennessee be added to the column of States controlled by the opponents of free silver . And there are Democrats  --  free-silver Democrats ? in this convention who regard the Republican prospect in Kentucky and Tennessee as brilliant , in the light of to-day 's mistaken action ? by the Democratic Convention . If the temper of the vast crowd that moved toward the Coliseum at 11 o'clock was amiable , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abundant and capable transportation facilities , it suffered a severe trial at the convention hall . Train after train of cars emptied their thousands of passengers against the doors . to find them closed and guarded by policemen who knew nothing except that they were to keep everybody out . They performed that duty well , without excessive rudeness , until the doors were opened , an hour too late . An unpardonable and distressing crush followed . Men and women endured the Pushing and crowding , only to discover upon reaching the superb interior that there was abundance of room . No Thrilling Scenes . Those who went to the convention to witness scenes of prodigious excitement provoked by thrilling oratory or eloquence were disappointed . The speeches , excepting only those of Col. John R. Fellows and Mr. St. Clair of West Virginia  --  the speech of a free-silver man against the fling made at Senator Hill  --  were dull and uninteresting . Clayton of Alabama , who led the fight for Daniel , blustered like a. dragoon . Waller of Connecticut was not convincing , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken in another tone , affected only a few of the touchy Southerr men , who were shifting uneasily in their seats as if expecting a signal to rise in their might and take forcible possession of the chair . Col. Fellows was calm , earnest , affectionate , but he knew too well the feeling of the people of his State to attempt wholly to conceal from his fellow-delegates the danger to which a declaration for free coinage would expose the Democratic Party in New York . Admirable , impressive , portentous was the force of the admonition and appeal conveyed in his words ? " Do not do this . thing ; do not strike this blow . You can not make more than a third of the convention believe it , but many of the powerless third could look ahead four years and see the reckless , rude , domineering silver throng prostrate on hands and knees and begging for forgiveness from the representatives of a disgraced and beaten Democracy for the crime against it that was being committed . " Marston of Louisiana , the man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has something to say , and who really did little except wave his handkerchief frantically to suppress the disorder provoked by his amusing behavior and to gulp down three glasses of ice water in two minutes , as if to drown his embarrassment , proved too bad to be tolerated by the silverites , and hill never recover from the rep itation he gained in the presence of 15,000 people . A Typical Silverite . A typical , wild-eyed silverite was Duncan of Texas . Dark , daring , vehement , he declared that he was terribly in earnest , and he looked it . The speechmaking did not change a vote . The roll call of the convention tallied with the canvass made last night by the soundmoney men . The lack of enthusiasm before and after the roll call was remarkable , considering the concern with which the silverites had regarded the contest before it was on . The applause for Hill , when he was presented by Mr. Harrity as the candidate for Chairman , was confined to a few States , but in earnestness it made up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given warmly by the boots of the 511-verites , and they were thunderous and dusty . ? Silver Men Blind . But the silver men are blind to considerations of ' safety . The Tillmanites and Altgeld men have inoculated the party with a virus that consumes them as with a fever that will burn itself . out before the Summer is at an end , and that will leave the body it afflicts prostrate and powerless for years to come . They trust that the silver craze in the West and South will bring to them votes enough to equal those that will be inevitably lost in the East . This iridescent dream of Populism will be rudely shattered if Ohio , Indiana , Illinois ,                     