@@673439

txt One of the mournful results of steam and electricity is the disappearance of places where a quiet person can hope to escape the fads and fashions of the hour . The sandy wastes of Africa and the snow-clad passes of Central Asia have been invaded by the cycle . Fat mandarins of China have been rudely shaken from their opiate dreams by a demand for police protection to some " red devil " of an American who has thought it a glorious thing to carry a bicycle , mostly on his back , round the globe . Our Southern States have hitherto possessed the charm of leisureliness and backwardness ; one would scarcely call the railway trains exciting to the nerves ; and the black population has vied with the white in taking things easily and with a grin . Yet even the South has an inventor of a flying machine , an inventor who begs pardon for having taken his idea of motion through the air from that pariah among birds , the turkey buzzard , and thereby betrays the certainty that he is a genuine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down there to destroy the reputation of the State . For it is only your Southerner who apologizes for the turkey buzzard as a beast unclean ; the stranger who only sees it soar is lost in admiration . Need it be said that the Mobile genius is just on the brink of a success ? Another claimant is in Chicago . He has it all worked out on paper how to surpass the feats of Lieuts . Reynard and Krebs ; one may see the ribs and skin of his flying machine and admire in the local press various spirited pictures of the machine sliding gaily overhead . As a matter of fact , this inventor supposes that if he constructs a cigar-shaped bag with rigid sides which will almost lift itself , the car beneath , 4and six propellers , ? then the action of these propellers suffice , to overcome the extra weight , say of 500 pounds , - and raise , lower , and speed onward the machine with the ease and certainty of a bird . There are wheels below the car of this machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to earth again . But so far those wheels have not been off the ground . We must give up the South as hopeless ; but we did think that the Czar , his police , and the soothing , congenital chuckle-headedness of the Russian moujik would have kept Muscovy intact . The ice having been broken by bicycles , it is now the turn for flying machines . Tschernoff , the inventor , has a discouraging resemblance to the gifted boy of Mobile and many another discoverer of the only true way to make a bird of yourself . He has endured the scoffs of the rural neighbors for thirty years , and has passed through the stages of simplicity , crankiness , and harmless idiocy , to the moment of triumph , when the Seventh Section of the Russian Technical Society pronounced his mathematical formulae correct . The gist of his idea is that birds have great lifting power in their wings because their under side is broken up into many small parabolic surfaces ; so that the interstices between the feathers are really helps to flight . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or bird would not be able to raise it if the wings presented a solid surface to the air ; but the combination of minutely-divided and separate curved surfaces does the business . It is now in order for other inventors to rush into print with claims of priority in this idea , and explain that Tschernoff is only guilty of a twice-told tale . More and more people in different parts of the globe are grappling daily with the problem of navigating the air . They get as far as a report in the papers , perhaps with a fine view of the air ship sailing over towns and seas , and grave remarks from " eminent engineers " as to the feasibility of the system in question . But then a deep , rich oblivion settles down on the invention and inventor  --  and we hear no more . What becomes of inventors of flying machines ? They should form a club and keep a record of their early steps in aeronautics  --  early flaps would hardly do , since they rarely get off terrra firma  --  their disappointments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the special kind of breadwinning to which finally they have to descend . There are many walks in life for which a redundant optimism and a robust imagination are useful qualities . Members of an Aeronaut Club might find employment in these after they pave become convinced that their own special machine lacks something to make it a perfect success . The usual trouble so far has been that it will not fly .                     