@@673253

txt It is a peculiarity of the advocates of so bad a cause as the pension agents policy that they eagerly spread every lie they can seize upon or invent as to those who oppose them . The case of Gen. SLOCUNI is an instance . Ho is a formidable foe of fraudulent pensions . The pension agents start the story that he is drawing half pay as a Major General , and ' thus receiving " service pension of about $4,000 a year . " The truth is , as the General says , that he is not on the retired list , and has never drawn a dollar from the Government except for services rendered . " But we doubt if this denial will have much effect . The lie will be repeated by too many men who have a pecuniary interest in attacking the enemy of the abuses by which they thrive . We believe , however , that the pension frauds are doomed precisely because the brave anu honorable soldiers whom Gen. SLOCUM leads now , as he did in war , are moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Kings County is completed , and the leaders profess general satisfaction with the result . The purpose aimed at has been to form a large number of small associations , with a central representative body much smaller than the County Committee heretofore managing the affairs of the party . That purpose is a sound one . The plan gives a much better chance for the expression and application of the general sentiment of the party . The question of real interest is what that sentiment is ? what the party desires and means to do . The first serious test will be in the municipal election this Fall . If the Republicans of Brooklyn sincerely wish to put the Government in the hands of an upright and able man , they can do it . There are quite enough independent Democrats to aid them . If they simply wish  --  or are willing  --  to see Republican spoils politicians in the places of the Democratic spoils politicians , their reorganization will be of no use to them or to the City of Brooklyn . An objection to the plan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people on the day of the town elections in October is found in the fact that there will be no town elections in the large towns of NewI laven and Bridgeport on that day , and it is feared that the vote will be light if the 2011V ention question is the only thing to be voted upon . The alternative seems to be to postpone action until the regular election of 1S94 , as there will be no general election in November this year . Such a delay is undesirable , and it seems as though a proper canvass on the question of constitutional reform , especially in populous towns where the sentiment in its favor is strong , would bring out quite as large a vote as an ordinary contest over local offices . The English yachting season begins so much earlier than ours , and is so much busier , that the merits of the new yachts on the other side are all fairly well known already , while our own new yachts are still untried . We have no standard by which to judge the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new , but there does not seem to be any doubt that she is very much better than the Thistle , which would undoubtedly have been a formidable competitor for the America 's Cup , and would probably have won it if the Volunteer had not been built . How much of an advance we have succeeded in making on Mr. BURGESS 'S masterpiece remains to be seen , but it seems safe to say that the race for the cup this year will be the most interesting that has ever been sailed .                     