@@673359

txt If it is true , as stated , that capital has been assured for the construction of a " belt line " of rapid-transit railroad along the water front of the city and across the upper section , in case the plan is approved by the Rapid-Transit Commission , that fact is bne of groat importance . The chief obstacle in the way of an adequate system of rapid transit has thus far appeared . to be the unwillingness of private capital to undertake its construction on any plan proposed . If capitalists with sufficient resources have studied . this new plan and judged it so far feasible as to give assurance that the means will be at command for carrying it into effect , it must be regarded as a very promising proposition . But it will be well to regard . with some caution a vague general statement that such is the fact . The plan involves an elevated structure of the double-decker pattern with eight tracks , to accommodate way and through local passengers , to furnish connections with railways and . bridges for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and to transport freight , not only that passing between local points , but that arriving from and destined . to distant places . It is this varied . use of fthe system that makes it look most promising , especially if the railroads from the west and south should gain an entrance to the city by way of a great bridge across the Hudson River . As connections with docks and ferries and . across town are proposed , it might be made a means of distributing passengers and . freight and of collecting the same for the railroads that terminate hero , which could hardly fail to be useful and profitable . But for these incidental and subsidiary uses the plan would not look so promising as a means of affording rapid transit for the city . For the longer distances between the lower and upper parts of the city railroads along the water front might serve fairly well , but they would not meet the principal demand for short-distance travel within the city , even withinumerous transverse connections . The bulk of this travel does not touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are averse to transfers from one line to another if they can be avoided . There is less objection to elevated structures along the water front than on interior streets , on the score both of obstruction and disfigurement , and . it is quite possible to devise a system that shall be muoh less objectionable on either ground than that we now have . No doubt the Rapid-Transit Commission will give the proposed plan proper consideration , and inquire into its financial feasibility , and if it is capable of affording the long-sought solution of the rapid-transit problem it will be gladly welcomed .                     