@@673934

txt Public sentiment on the subject of the present excise law , so far as it concerns Sunday selling , is subject to a threefold division . There are people who believe in maintaining the prohibition and rigidly enforcing it . Another class believe in enforcing the prohibition so long as it is law , on the general principle that all laws should be observed by citizens and enforced by the authorities , but they are in favor of modifying this restriction and making it more acceptable to the mass of the people . And there are others who urge that a law so oppressive and obnoxious , forced upon the community against its will by external authority , should not be strictly executed by local officers . This last is a dangerous sentiment to cultivate , for once admit that administrative officers are to exercise their discretion in enforcing laws , and the door is open to all manner of abuses . Fostering that kind of . sentiment is a distinct encouragement to the spirit of anarchy , and is perilous to law and order . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Sunday prohibition feature of the present excise law is not enforced , or in which it is enforced with difficulty and in spite of resistance and evasion , as in this city , the general sentiment of the people would favor a change in the law . But the difficulty is that those communities have no power to change it , and their representatives in the Legislature are not . numerous enough to control its action on this subject without help from communities in which the general sentiment is in favor of maintaining Sunday prohibition . There is little doubt that the preponderance of public sentiment throughout this State would be opposed to a change in the law which would permit the sale of liquor in saloons and restaurants everywhere on Sunday . The temperance sentiment and the Sabbath-observance sentiment  --  and , we may say , the general law and order sentiment  --  would be united in this opposition . This sentiment is entitled to control legislation on the subject so far as the State at large is concerned . Certainly those communities in which it preponderates are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it effect within their own jurisdiction . There would be no hope of getting a change in the law which would permit Sunday liquor selling throughout the State , regardless of the sentiment of the people in rural districts and small towns . If the populous cities controlled the legislation of the State , there is no doubt that they would be quite willing to allow the rural communities to apply the law for themselves . It is to be feared that the representatives of those communities will not be as ready to permit the cities to have their own way in the matter . They are rather disposed to force their provincial policy upon the cities , of whose conditions and requirements they have little comprehension . But the utmost that we can expect them to concede is local option . They are not likely to consent to the entire repeal of the Sunday restriction ; they may not be willing to exempt cities of any class from it in express terms ; but they may agree to leave it to a vote of the people concerned . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question a distinct issue in the election , and have it understood that the political party that opposes " home rule " in this matter will lose votes heavily in those communities that demand it . The independent vote , the shifting vote that turns the scales at else , tions , is mostly in the cities , and this is an issue that may decide a State election and even a National election if the demand of popular sentiment in even one large city is disregarded .                     