@@674553

txt John Larsen is a Norwegian and a fisherman of . G-rav  --  send . He was out in his eighteen-foot sloop when the squall of yesterday afternoon swooped over the bay , and Larsen and his boat came near being lost . It is doubtful which he prizes the most . It was 1 o'clock when the little craft , despite Larsen 's seamanship , which was learned on deep water , succumbed to the assault of the thirty-seven milei an hour blow and turned over . Larsen does n't like even salt water so much as to be willingly spilled into it , and as he ' could not be on his craft right side up , he quickly clambered upon her bottom . The blow continued till 4 o'clock . It had washed up a sea that broke over Larsen and his boat , but still he clung . He clung for three hours before the Government boat Nimrod , in the Supervisor of the Harbor 's service , came along and threw a line to him . Larsen tied it around his waist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms on which he would permit himself to be rescued . He would n't budge an inch , he said , unless the Captain took his overturned craft in tow . The Nimrod 's Captain objected to this , and ? ringing the engine room bell to go ahead , the Nimrod started . The line around Larsen 's waist held , and he was dilly dragged off his perch into the water . Then the Nimrod stopped , lest Larsen should be sucked under by the propeller . Larsen did n't stop now to dicker . He meant business . Treading water , he quickly bent the Nimrod 's line on to the painter Of his own boat , then struck out for the Nimrod , and was pulled aboard . " Now , " he said , when safe on deck , " you tow my boat and put me ashore . " The Nimrod 's Captain was so amazed and so amused that he did it , and ran into the pier at Norton 's Point , where Larsen set about righting his craft . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Me . " Capt . Reynolds of the tug Carrie E. Ramsay reported last evening that he saw a sloop with a party of twelve persons off Norton 's Point early in the blow of yesterday aftetncion , and shortly afterward , when he looked again to see how it was making out , 4 , was nowhere to be seen . He subsequently saw the Government boat Nimrod towing Larsen 's capsized sloop to Norton 's . Point , and ran alongside . He asked Larsen if there had been others in his boat , and Larsen replied that there had not . Capt . Reynolds fears that the party he saw met disaster .                     