@@673858

txt For some time past in almost every weekly issue of the American and the English trade journals of the iron and steel industry reference has been made to sales of American iron or steel products in England or in neutral markets which were formerly supplied by English manufacturers . We have directed attention to many of these sales during the last twelve months . They show . that our manufacturers are selling in the English market wrought iron tubes , cast iron pipes , hoop iron , flies , shears , saws , and wire for the use of the English makers of screws . They also show that in Canada and some other neutral markets our manufacturers are overcoming or already have overcome the competition of the English in several important branches of the industry . All of the products thus sold abroad ? in England , the British colonies , or neutral markets  --  without the help of any protective duty , and sometimes under a considerable handicap of ocean freight charges , are protected here at home by duties which are high , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the followers of say , for the defense of the domestic manufacturer against sales in this country of English goods which the domestic manufacturer undersells in England itself . Our neighbor , The Naw-York Tribune , published a few days ago an article showing " how the great Pittsburg pipe mills are underbidding their competitors across the ocean . " The transaction in question was the reported sale of 250 tons of wrought iron tubing in London by Pennsylvania manufacturers . We quote the following : " William Rhoades , son of Joshua Rhoades , one of Pittsburg 's millionaire manufacturers , who is at the head of the Pennsylvania Tube Company , is authority for the statement that to-ay Pittsburg pipe mills are supplying 75 per cent . of the Canadian trade , and almost all of the trade in Chile and other South American countries . Moreover , in the face of keen competition , American firms have taken big contracts in France . No later than last week , ' said Mr. Rhoades , ' a , representative from the Paris headquarters of the General Electric Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract for trolley poles involving 700 tons of cast iron pipe . We gave him our bid , and he told us that it was lower than the figures given by the English manufacturers . ' " Our neighbor should explain why the present duties on wrought iron pipes ( 25 per cent. ) and cast iron pipe ( $13.44 per , ton ) are too low to afford adequate protection to the American manufacturer as against importations of wrought iron tubes and cast iron pipes into this country , and why the American manufacturer , who undersells his English con-Met/tor in South America , Canada , France , and England itself , needs to be protected here by any duty whatever . We should like to know whether Gov. and those who agree with him would now , if they had the power to do so , increase the present duties on wrought iron tubes , cast iron pipe , hoop iron , galvanized iron , saws , files , boiler plate , tank plate , wire , and other iron or steel products which our manufacturers are selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in Canada , where the English have already lost the greater part of their old trade , and even in England , with respect to some of these products . A glance at the statute will show that the present duties on these goods are high . Would Gov. and his party make them higher , and if so , why ? Would they reduce them ? Why not ? Why is any part of them required , even from the point of view of the protectionist ?                     