@@675184

txt That Is a very singular accident by 11 which the liner Paris has been cast away on the British coast . It is the more singular because the spot where the disaster occurred is so near the place where a British steamer has been lost within a few months under circumstances much more tragical . These two accidents occurred upon what is , and with reason , boasted to be the best charted and the best lighted coast in the world . That is not a perfect protection . It is not so many years ago since a vessel discovered , by the simple though expensive process of being wrecked upon it , an uncharted and theretofore unsuspected reef in the North River , off the foot of Twenty-sixth Street or thereabout . Those on board the Paris and responsible for her management seem to agree that , at the time of her grounding , there was a fog that prevented them from seeing where they were . That is very probable , and the probability of it is not destroyed by the testimony of other people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they knew of no fog . It is far from an unusual occurrence in our own harbor to see a ferryboat or other steam craft making her way , at half speed or less , and with the utmost precaution , through a strip of fog that suffices to belt only her own wheelhouse , while all above and below and around is brilliantly visible . It seems to be more to the purpose to inquire how the ship came to be out of her course by a distance variously estimated from ten miles to nearly twice as many . It is of course possible that her compasses were out of order , as has already been conjecturally suggested . That is very far from being a reassuring explanation . If her compasses had taken her even ten miles out of her way in so short a part of her voyage , where would they have landed her at the end of it ? It seems quite as reasonable , and a good deal more charitable , to assume that there is , off this part of the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , current , not yet perfectly known , which iSilikely to baffle the most careful of navigators . Without doubt Capt . WATKINS of the Paris belongs to that class . It is not at all to be rashly assumed , as one of our London contemporaries seems to have rashly assumed , that " some one has blundered . " The real moral of the disaster seems to be that if we aspire to take again the place which we have abandoned among the great trading nations of the world , we must have , whenever an American ship is lost , some such automatic and authoritative investigation as the British Board of Trade institutes whenever a British ship is cast away . The foundation of this proceeding is the fact that the board , by Issuing a certificate to the shipmaster , has made itself responsible for his competency , and is thus bound , when he loses a ship , to inquire whether its confidence has been misplaced . In the present case , as Capt . WATKINS retains his British certificate , the board may feel entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no longer the case of a British ship . It is to be hoped that it will do so . But evidently we ought to have some apparatus of our own for making inquiry . In the navy we have . When a ship of war is lost a court of inquiry follows as a matter of course . But in what our navigation laws have left of our merchant service , whomever an owner chooses to put in command of a ship is assumed to be proved by that fact worthy to command and to remain in command as long as he can find an owner willing to . give him a job . If we are again to have a mercantile marine we shall have to have some regulations of our own to ascertain the initial and the continuing fitness of the men who are to command the ships of which it is to be composed .                     