@@672302

txt Yesterday the Sun , in an Albany dispatch , stated the position of Gov . HILL on ballot reform with a positiveness that was evidently meant to convey the impression that it was authoritative . With an iteration intended to give it emphasis , the dispatch said : " Gov . HILL will sign no ballot reform bill that will disfranchise a single voter . He will sign no bill that will tend to prevent poorly-educated men from voting . He will - veto any bill that discriminates between the college man and the day laborer. * * * He will not sign a bill that puts a stigma on a poorly-educated voter and complicates the machinery of the election . " These statements would hardly have been put in this positive form unless they were authorized by the Governor himself , and though they make no reference to what is called the Australian method of voting it id evident that they were intended to imply that Gov . HILL would not consent to its adoption on the ground that it would put difficulties in the way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground . In all his labored objections to the Saxton bill the Governor has never placed his opposition distinctly upon the ground that it would prevent those who can not read from voting . He seems now to be preparing to pat it on that ground chiefly . He has apparently taken- heart from the speech of Senator ' GORMAN to the Democratic editors in Baltimore last Mon. day , in which he is represented as opposing the Australian ballot because it would prevent illiterate men from acting under the advice and guidance of the " more enlightened . " Doubtless Gov . HILL is oppressed with the same solicitude . We know - very well what it means . It does net spring from anxiety that men who can not read shall be able to exercise the right of suffrage independently , or that they shall be enlightened as to their duty by those who are better informed , which can hardly be done at the ballot box on election day . Men who rely upon corrupt methods in politics afe - wont to use masses of ignorant or " poorly educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their votes for them , without the exercise of any choice on their  --  art . Such voters may be bought or intimidated or coerced or wheedled or deceived by the party heelers , but under the present system of voting they can hardly be said to exercise the right of miff-rage . It is used by others for them , and generally for bad ends . Men like Geannts and HILL do not wish to give up the power of manipulating this vote . Now , the Australian ballot would in point of fact afford a protection to the illiterate voter which he does not now have . It would not disfranchise him . It would not " tend to prevent " him from voting if he chose to vote . It would afford a protection to the day laborer which the " college man " does not need . It would not prevent the " poorly educated " from getting all the advice and assistance they wanted from the better informed until it came to the point of expressing their actual choice at the ballot box , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of those who might claim to own their votes . It is sheer pretense on the part of such men as HILL and GorelrAN that they fear that the illiterate would be disfranchised . They are - practically disfranchised so long as they are compelled to allow others to exercise the right of suffrage for them . The Australian system of voting is simplicity itself to those who are able to distinguish one name from another . Under the Saxton bill , as it was passed last Winter , there would be every , opportunity for any man with intelligence enough to earn his bread to prepare himself to vote for the candidates for whom he desired to vote without assistance at the polls . If at last he could not trust himself to mark his own ballot he could have it done by a sworn official , with assurance that his own choice and not that of somebody else had found expression . Ballot reform has for its chief purpose the protection of the weak and . the ignorant from the strong and the designing  --  the protection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable citizens to express their own will by their votes ; to make them independent in their action . It is calculated to protect elections from the control of the few , who use the power of money or the power of employment or organization for the defeat of the popular will . The " day laborer " is coining more and more to understand this , and the workingmen are strongly in favor of ballot reform , as Gov . HILL and Senator GORMAN are destined to find out . These nien are trying to lead their party against the rising tide of popular sentiment , and either the party must refuse to follow them or it will find itself overwhelmed .                     