@@674364

txt There Can now be hardly any doubt of Maceo 's death . J. A. Huau , agent for the Cuban Junta at Jacksonville , to-day received a letter from a friend in Cuba confirming the report , and giving particulars . Ma , ceo died by the treachery of the Spaniards and his own staff surgeon , Dr. Zertucha , who betrayed him . The letter to Huau says that on Dec. 4 . Maceo received a request from Marquis Ahumada , acting Captain General of Cuba , . for a conference with a view to ending the war . Suspecting nothing , Maceo , with his staff of thirty-four , repaired to the appointed place , where they were surrounded by 600 Spanish soldiers , who murdered every one in cold blood , save the traitor Zertucha . The Spaniards claim to know nothing of the whereabouts of Maceo 's body , but are behaved to have buried it in the woods . Sadness prevails in Cuban circles here . Mr. Huau is not prepared to say who will be appointed as Maceo 's successor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intelligent soldier . C. 1J . De Huau , Chief of the Florida Cuban Junta , gave out the following to the correspondents : " A letter received by a prominent Cuban In this city gives the detailed account of the assassination of Gen. Maceo and his entire staff , with the exception of Dr. Zertucha , who was Maceo 's physician . The letter came from a reliable source in Havana , but the correspondent 's name is withheld for the obvious reason , " said Mr. De Huau , " that the writer would be shot within an hour by the Spanish authorities if they knew who gave away the details of one of the most horrible atrocities ever chronicled in modern warfare . " From the letter it appears that the Marquis of Ahumada , who officiated as Captain General of Cuba during Vleyler 's absence in the field , sent a letter to Cen Maceo inviting the Cuban leader to a conference . Maceo , never for a moment thinking that treachery was intended , especially as the invitation came from such a prominent Spaniard as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would be glad to meet the Spanish General , and only accompanied by his staff , he went to the rendezvous , little dreaming of the awful fate that was in store for him . " On arriving at the trocha , the Spanish soldiers there , acting under orders , actually saluted the rebel chieftain as he passed , and , after reaching the rendezvous , the Cuban leader was surprised to see , instead of the Marquis of Ahumada , a large body of Spanish soldiery , who seemed to come from every side . The actions of the Spanish troops were so suspicious that Maceo felt that they had him cruelly trapped , and his suspicions were confirmed when a peremptt  --  y order came from a splendidly mounted officer to surrender . " Never ! ' was the reply , and hardly had the words been uttered when volley after volley was poured into the little band of patriots , who , although hemmed in on all sides and outnumbered almost a hundred to one , put spurs to their horses , and with Cries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their death . " Maceo is reported to have fallen at the first fire with a bullet through his head , breaking his jaw . Another hit him in the abdomen . Both were fatal . Gomez was the next to fall , and in a few moments a number of bloody corpses , shot almost be- , yond recognition , were all that remained of the gallant Cubans who trusted to Spanish honor . " Only , one member of the staff escaped , and that was Dr. Zertucha . The letter says the corpses were buried on the field and every precaution was taken to keep the de , tails from being made public . "                     