@@674335

txt There was published on Saturday the report of a long statement , said to have been given by Mr. HANNA to Mr. FERDINAND W. PECK of Chicago , concerning the attitude of Mr. toward Trusts and similar combinations . Mr. HANNA . has since asserted that he said nothing of the kind to Mr. PECK in the course of his conversation with that gentleman , and Mr. PECK asserts that the published statement is not a correct report of Mr. Elricrre 's remarks . The gist of the repudiated report was that workingmen had supported BRYAN because they had been " led to believe that Mclarri-sy was the candidate of Trusts and monopolies " and that HANNA was " the head centre of Trusts " ; that 's purpose was to " counteract this impression , " and that the Presidentelect would " assume a dignified attitude of antagonism ' toward all Trust combinations . " 1:115 inaugural speech , " said the report , " will breathe a spirit of abhorrence for the centralization of such power as is to-day possessed by the Trusts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to do the rest for the following three years . " While we accept Mr. HANNA 'S assertion that he did not say this , and have no desire to hold him responsible for remarks wrongfully attributed to him , the Incident may serve to direct attention to a question of very great importance in connection with the policy of Mr. MCKINLEY and the prominent men of his party . It is desirable that their attitude toward Trusts and similar combinations should be defined . Mr. Mcgnsnmy voted for the Sherman Anti-Trust law in 1890 and expressed his approval of the purpose of that statute . The tariff bill which bore his name , however , and was enacted at the same session , was quite acceptable to the combinations , because it gave them additional advantages . During the recent campaign he made only one brief reference to combinations , saying then that they were the offspring of " free trade . " Both parties are committed to a policy of hostility toward such combinations . Their conventions and their leading men ? in and out of Congress  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the restraint or suppression of them . The second law can be found in the last six sections of the Tariff act of 1E94 . As neither of these statutes has peen enforced , or because proceedings under one of them appear to have been begun without earnestness or sincerity and have come to nothing , a great many people believe that they have been deceived and fooled by party lead'ers on each side with respect to this " natter . There ar .. many combinations which are protected by the tariff and which use tariff duties as instruments by means of which their artificial prices are exacted . There are others which are not affected by tariff laws . The socalled Anti-Trust statutes were aimed at combinations of both classes . Either it is practicable to enforce them , or It is not . They should be tested by an earnest effort to enforce them . If they be defective , and if sound public policy requires that combinations shall be restrained or suppressed , the statutes should be amended . If public policy dues not call for restrictive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Party should define its attitude toward this question clearly . . Combinations which exact high prices by meant of tariff duties can be restrained by a reduction or the removal of the duties so used . It is practicable to increase their power and profits by qwq opposed to these combinations they will not increase the duties in question . If they assert by public utterances and legislation that they desire to restrain or suppress the combinations , and at the same time by increasing their tariff duties give them , as The Neve-York Tribune says , " additional advantages to which they are not entitled , " the insincerity of these Republican leaders will be clearly disclosed . Politicians ought to see that it will not " pay " hereafter to dodge this issue or to try to deceive the people as to their real attitude toward it . Public opinion , as shown during the recent campaign , calls for straightforward treatment of the question .                     