@@674767

txt Congress at 1:30 o'clock this morning gave its response to the President 's request for direction in respect to the Cuban question by adopting the following resolutions : Joint resolution for the independence of the people of Cuba , demanding that the Government of Spain relinquish its authority and government in the Island of Cuba , and withdraw its land and naval forces from Cuba and Cuban waters , and directing the President of the United States to use the land and naval forces of the United States . to carry these resolutions into effect . Whereas , The abhorrent conditions which have existed for more than three years in the Island of Cuba , so near our own borders , have shocked the moral sense of the people of the United States , have been a disgrace to Christian civilization , culminating as they have in the destruction of a United States battleship , with two hundred and sixty-six of its officers and crew , while on a friendly visit in the Harbor of Havana , and can not longer be endured , as has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his message to Congress of April 11 , 1898 , upon which the action of Congress was invited ; therefore Resolved , by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America , in Congress assembled , First , That the people of the Island of Cuba are and of right ought to be free and independent ; Second , tnat it is the duty of the United States to ' demand , And the Government of the United States does hereby demand that ' flie6.51%6ininent at once relinquish its authority and government in the island of Cuba , and withdraw its land and naval forces from Cuba and Cuban waters . Third . That the President of the United States be , and he hereby is directed and empowered to use the entire land and naval forces of the United States , and to call into the actual service of the United States the militia of the several States to such extent as may be necessary to carry these resolutions into effect . Fourth  --  That the United States hereby disclaims any disposition or intention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , except for the pacification thereof , and asserts its determination when that is accomplished to leave the Government and control of the island to its people . A Memorable Contest . The legislative contest has been a memorable one . The Administration , threatened with a loss of its prerogative by the resolutions of the Senate , but supported in its conservative polies- by a large majority of the Republicans of that body , was compelled to lean upon the House . In that body there had been no difficulty In getting Administration support before the proposition to recognize the Republic of Cuba had been interposed to divert giance . Stirred by home sympathy with the Cubans , many of the Republicans from the West were torn by conflicting emotions . They were desirous of complying with the wishes of the people who elected them , and who might elect them again . They wished to stand by the Administration , to act according to individual judgment , and to upset the political plans of the Democrats . and they disliked to subvert party discipline . Speaker Reed 's Position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having much sympathy with the war cry , indeed being out of all conceit with the war party , he yet fully appreciated the importance of holding the Republicans together as a body , and he was not unwilling to do so in order to assure the success of the Republicans who were unwilling to recognize a republic that he does not believe exists . The assault by the Senate upon the Presidential prerogative was abhorrent to him . It did not make much difference to him that it was sanctioned by a Republican Senator from the President 's own State . For the House to consent to it by its vote struck him as altogether a preposterous and demoralizing thing to think of . He , therefore , put his shoulder to the wheel . All his influence , exerted by argument in person and by his immediate associates in the management of the House , was exerted for a few hours to restrain the threatened revolt of the Republicans and to deprive the Democrats of the victory they fondly had hoped to achieve with the Republican help . - Unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration was won after a day of unparalleled legislative activity . From the Moment the , business began , at neon , until the last vote in the Senate prior to a appointment of the coriferrees on the par of that body , the scene of the conflict shifter ; from one chamber to the other  --  Senators spectators , and newspaper men assembling : in the House to watch the proceedings there , then moving in bodies over to the Senate ; then back to the House , and again back to the Senate , following the resolutions in their progression toward an agreement . When the Senate rejected the amendments of the House , and that body had a chance to recede from its amendment dropping recognition , the danger point was reached . If there were then any " insurgent " Re : publicans who wished to escape from the control of the Speaker , and " reconcentrades " who were impatient of discipline , and wished to manifest their objections to the conservative policy marked out by the Administration , they then easily could escape . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more loyal on that vote , when their opportunity was presented for desertion , than they had been on the first vote of the day . Abandoned by his Republican allies , Leader Bailey ' gave up the struggle and dropped into his seat , too thoroughly convinced that further fight was useless to venture to call for the yeas and nays when the calling of them would only have resulted in recording again his defeat . Republican Senators L , , bbying , These Republicans who chose to stand by the President were not ' permitted to do so without learning that their conduct was objectionable to leading Republicans . In active co-operation with Bailey were Senators Foraker , the leading advocate of the recognition amendment , and Senators Chandler , Quay , and Penrose . The other side was helped by such strong supporters of the Administration as Elkins , Hanna , and Burrows . Just what argument Quay and his associates who were for recognition made in their talks with members of the House does not appear . Added to the arguments made by the Democrats were such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributions of cowardice to the men who declined to recognize the republic upon the grounds given by the President as having constrained him from recognizing it or consenting to give it the status of a nation until it is ascertained whether it is worthy to be so considered and treated . The yieldilig of the Senate to that most important position of the President straightway relieved the injured Republicans who had been characterized by their opponents as devoid of courage or human sympathy . It helps to fill the House with a renewed appreciation of its own resolution and of its regained ability to stand the bullying of the upper branch of Congress . An Ultimatum Next . President now not merely is empowered to act against Spain ; he has been directed to do so , and to use the land and naval forces of the United States to make effects-se the instructions and directions of the Congress . Whether he shall strike the first blow or not is not the question for him to consider . The blow will be struck if it is necessary to strike it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attachment of his signature to the joint resolution war is declared , if Spain chooses it shall be war . The only escape from war is for Spain to accede without resistance to the demands of the United States . But Spain can not be assumed to learn of those demands from the newspapers . Immediately after signing the resolutions sent to him the President will send to Spain , through Minister Woodford , an ultimatum , This communication will recite to the Spanish Government the occasion for the demand that Spain shall abandon the attempt to govern Cuba and to withdraw her forces , as a beginning of peace on the island . In default of an answer accepting the proposition to withdraw , Spain will be informed that forty-eight hours after the presentation of the demand the forces of the United States will begin operations to bring about the results sought to be secured by the passage of the joint resolutions of the Congrese . This ultimatum doubtless has been prepared ; at all events it has been considered , and the preliminary draft of it read by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before it has been sent the naval forces of the United States will be in motion for Havana and some other points already de , termined to be attacked by the'Key West squadron and the Flying Squadron . When the time has expired in which the reply must come , then the moment will have arrived for using that force of arms that is to be the argument when diplomacy has failed . By Thursday at the earliest . or Saturday at the latest , Havana will have surrendered or been invested by the naval forces of the United States . Time is now of infinite value to the Government . It is the opinion of the military and naval officers of the Government that if it be used to the utmost advantage the contest with Spain will be over before the rainy season has set in in Cuba . The public must now wait in almost complete ignorance to learn what the plans are for operations by the army . The absurd report that Gen. Miles had declared that the army would be employed to , invade Spain has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too impatient ' about the yarn to talk of it in any way . Operations on shore will follow the naval operations if any further demonstration be found necessary to satisfy Spanish honor . Reports about naval and military movements may be contraband of war in a few days . No News at State Department , The State Department has received no information to-day from Spain or from any other European country touching the Cuban question . None is expected now until after the President has informed Spain of the action of the Congress and of the expectations of the United States . The press intimations that the powers intend to reserve their advice until after hostilities have opened is accepted as likely to be accurate . It is not regarded as meaning that there will be any offer of advice unless Spain finds new occasion for asking neighbors to intercede to make easier a way for the Madrid Government to get out of the fight gracefully .                     