@@674442

txt The old Chicago Mouse , at the southeast corner of Washington and Exchange Streets , was nearly destroyed by fire at 3:30 o'clock this afternoon . So rapid was the spread of the flames , fanned as they were by a gale raging with a velocity of over seventy miles an hour , that three inmates lost their lives and two were injured . The Dead . EDWARD O'DONNELL , " PADDY " BRENNAN , WILLIAM S. HANAHAN , all of Buffalo . The Injured . WILLIAM WILSON , MRS . WILLIAM WILSON , also of Buffalo . O'Donnell was burned to a crisp ; Hanahan was suffocated while he lay in bed , and Brennan , the well-known heavyweight boxer , met his fate by flame and a terrible leap from the third story of the blazing fire trap . Nothing but the suddenness of the fire can account for the death of the men , for the chances for escape were numerous had the terrified victims not been surprised and panic stricken . Hampered the Firemen . As the building was in the heart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immense crowd congregated and hampered the work of the firemen . A squad of policemen drove the people back . A dozen engines were soon at work , however , and in less than fifteen minutes the fire was under control , and all danger of its spreading to the valuable property in the vicinity was over . Meanwhile tragedies were being enacted . On a window sill in an alley in the rear of the hotel stood a womaft shrieking frantically and threatening to throw herself to the ground . A ladder was quickly run up , and she was rescued without injury . Just then a man was seen to leap from a window of the third floor , landing in the street . He was recognized as Paddy Brennan , the well-known pugilist , and he was hurried to the Fitch Hospital , where he died at 4 o'clock , death being caused by inhaling flames . The old fighter was a pitiful sight when his mangled form was laid on a cot at the hospital . Burned and Mangled . Brennan must have been asleep when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full of smoke and fire , and , rushing wildly about seeking for an exit , plunged through a window to the hard pavement below . His face and hands were frightfully burned , and were cut by the window glass through which he fell . Many of the bones of his body were broken . When the firemen had the fire under control so that it was safe to enter , it was learned that two dead bodies were in the smoking ruins , and that O'Donnell , at one time one of the best-known members of the Police Department , was one of them . The corpse was badly burned , but was readily identified . The body of Hanahan , the hotel porter , was found in a bed on the northerly side of the building , on the same floor . Hanahan 's death was due to suffocation , the flames having passed him by . He must have been asleep when the fire started and met death without awakening . His body was found in bed less than a foot from the window which opened on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exchange Street . Other Persons Were Injured . The other people in the dingy death-trap were William Wilson and his wife . Wilson works as a fireman on a steamboat in the Summer . The couple were asleep when the fire started . Both were burned about the hands and face , and the woman was rendered unconscious , but neither is seriously injured . The hotel was run as a fifteen and twenty-five-cent place by Joseph Hart , who lost everything , and had no insurance . Hart could not account for the origin of the fire , but though ; that It was caused by the explosion of a lamp . The loss on the building and furniture will not exceed $3,000.                     