@@674122

txt 's " fatfrying " methods continue to annoy Senator Chandler . He has information that the Ohio candidate 's managers are trying to raise $250,000 to make the nomination of their man certain , and he is determined to block the game if possible . He made a fresh onslaught upon to-night which abounds in good campaign material for the Democrats . It is based , ostensibly , upon misrepresentations which the Senator says crept into his published statement of March 10 . He declares that he said noth- . ing unkind of personally in that statement , but " called attention to certain methods of his managers and protested against their adoption . " Then he proceeds to flay the candidate in this vigorous way : The substance of the charge made by me was that the same men who had assisted in raising the money to pay Mr. 's debts were calling upon the owners of protected industries to make contributions to help nominate him for President . Although f the charge has been denied by Gen. Grosvenor and others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true . " As bearing upon the question , whether the collection and the use of the funds are for reasonable and legitimate nomination expenditures , I add that the fund which it was planned to raise was to be $250,4 ) 4 ) 0 , a sum which could not be needed except for illegitimate purposes . " In view of the effort to raise this large fund from protected interests , my points were very simple and clear . Such a movement is unfair and unjust toward the other candidates , in whose behalf it is certain no such large sums of money are being raised or used . " Messrs . Reed , Morton , Quay , Cullom , Allison , Davis , and Manderson are as deVoted friends of protection as Mr. is , and the triumph of any one of them - would be as sure a guarantee of the enactrnent of judicious and effective tariff laws as would be the victory of Mr. . For manufacturers to contribute large sums of money to be expended in nominating Mr. over any other candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The interests of the Republican Party will be seriously injured by demanding and receiving such large contributions from the representatives of protected interests . It has been a continuous cause of attack by the opponents of protection  --  the belief that the system has been maintained , Republican victories achieved , and particular tariff schedules secured from Congress by the money of manufacturers . " Whatever may be said in justification of reasonable contributions from such interests toward the expenses of Presidential and Congressional elections after the nominations are made , a system of using money to control Republican nominations for office would be scandalous in the highest degree and fatal to all attempts to maintain the purity and honesty of the party organization . " These things I said . If the facts which were the basis of my utterances do not exist the truth will appear , and no one will suffer but myself , for no one else suggested or was responsible for or knew of my statement . I shall be very glad to be convinced that I was mistaken . Moreover , if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested by reason of the publicity given to it I shall be equally rejoiced . " If , however , the facts are true , and to the natural popularity and strength of Mr. Messrs . Osborne and Hanna are to continue to add the expenditure in improper ways of large sums of money collected by them from the owners of industries protected by the tariff , thoughtful Republicans will do well to consider the consequences of a nomination thus made , the character of the canvass which Is to ensue , the possible defeat which , even with the bright prospects before us , may come if we rush headlong into any egregious blunder , and the controversies which , even if we are successful , are to follow such an admission of the standing charge of our opponents that gross venality and corruption attend the maintenance of a high tariff system by the Republican Party , which charge we have hitherto truthfully denied . " To those who engage in vituperation of - me on the ground that whatever may be the size of the money contributions which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use which is being made of them , it is injurious to the Republican Party , and , therefore , a mistake for me to call attention to them , little need be said . Their argument recognizes no time or circumstances when it is proper for a faithful member of a political party to expose and condemn the faults and vices which develop in every party . " This precept is a false one , and has never been heeded by me in a political life of forty years . Whatever may be raid . in favor of suet restraint during the heat of a political canvass , after the nominations are made there ought not to be two opinions on this question , whether at all other times faithful Republicans should detect and make public , correct and destroy dishonest methods which may 1. e growing up in the organization , and which , if kept concealed through ' a false notion of party fidelity , will soon bring the party to destruction . " That ther is no way to keep a party pure and honest in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion . It should be so kept , and also kept in power , by the constant efforts of its true and courageous members to condemn and crush out in their inception all habits and practices nrhich tend to the degradation and dishonor- of the ? political , organization . " The Republican Party ? i6 about to ? lie returned , - if it acts wisely , to overwhelming political power in this country . The party should begin its new career sustained by high principles and free from corrupt practices . It will be a fatal mistake , soon to be grieviously punished , if we make a dishonest start . "                     