@@674839

txt The United States marines under Lieut . Col. Robert W. Huntington made their first aggressive movement against the Spanish guerrillas to-day and completely routed the enemy . The force of marines was under Capt . Elliott ; the co-operating Cubans were under Col. Laborda . The combined forces razed a Spanish camp about five miles from , . tie American position , destroyed the only well in the vicinity . and killed about forty Spaniards . One American marine was slightly wounded . Two Cubans were killed and four wounded . It is impossible to estimate the number of Spaniards engaged , owing to their guerrilla methods of fighting , but it is believed there were at least 400 . The marines behaved splendidly , their marksmanship being excellent , even under the severe fire of the enemy . The captured camp lay about five miles southeast of the rifle pits of the marines , and was an important base for the enemy , as it contained the only well within six or seven miles . ' Lieut . Col. Huntington decided on the attack early in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the mounain . The march up and down the steep hillsides under the glaring tropical sun was a severe test of endurance for the marines , and before the battle ground was reached twenty-two men had received medical attention . All were able , however , to reach the position before the fighting ceased . Marines Marched in Single File . The marines were compelled to march in single file , following the mountain trail . Meanwhile the Cubans darted backward and forward , to right and left , on the scout . It was noon when from a. hilltop the Americans caught sight of the Spanish camp lying on a ridge below them . It consisted of one large house  --  the officers ' quarters  --  surrounded by numerous " shacks " and huts , all clustering about the precious well . The Americans began a cautious advance , and were within 200 yards of the enemy before the crack of a rifle from the Spanish lines announced that the Spaniards had discovered them . The troops quickly moved into line of battle , with the Cubans on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy 's bullets were whirling viciously over the Americans , but the marines settled down to their work as unconcernedly as thoagh at target practice . Very few Spaniards were in sight . They were lying behind huts and in the brush , but the puffs of smoke revealed their positions , and enabled the Americans to do effective work . For twenty minutes both sides maintained a terrific fire . The Spanish shots were generally wild and spasmodic , while the Americans aimed carefully and shot to kill . For the most part our firing was done individually , but at times the officers could direct firing by squads , always with telling effect . Spaniards Take to Their Heels . It was beginning to look as though a ' bayonet charge down the slope would be necessqry to dislodge the enemy , when suddenly the latter began to break for a. thicket a hundred yards further on . Little groups could be seen fleeing from the camp , separtaing , darting through the brush , and zigzagging to escape the bullets . It was then the American fire became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall in a vain rush for shelter , and the fire from the Spanish became scattering and almost ceased . Two Cubans lay dead and four wounded , and Private Walker of Company D had to limp to the rear with a slight wound in his ankle . The easy victory put the command in high spirits . The little black Cuban warriors waved their machetes and howled curses at the Spanish in savage fashion . Their firing had been wild throughout , but they all displayed the utmost contempt for the Spanish bullets , apparently being absolutely without fear . As the enemy began breaking from the camp , the Dolphin , which lay out at sea , was signaled and began pitching shells toward the thicket for which the Spaniards were making . Meanwhile ' Lieut . Magill was seen coming with forty men as reinforcements , and Capt . Mahoney was on the way with a hundred more . But before either could reach the scene the trouble was all over . Fifteen Bodies Found . As the Spanish retreated the Americans moved slowly forward , firing as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the enemy had all got away , taking their wounded , and probably many of their dead . Fifl teen bodies were found scattered through the bush , but the Americans were unable to examine the spot where their firing had been most deadly . No time was lost in burning the buildings and filling the well with earth and stones . The Dolphin landed water and ammunition , as an attack was expected on the return march , but none was made . Evidently the Spaniards were too thoroughly beaten to attempt further fighting . The marines did ' not reach the American camp until after nightfall , and , as they had been without food since the early morning , they were thoroughly exhausted , - Col. Huntington believes the destruction of the camp and well will seriously cripple the bushwhacking operations of the enemy .                     