@@675163

txt The other side of the paper contained a warning to the negroes of the neighborhood . It read as follows . Beware all darkies . You will be treated the same way . Before being lynched Strickland was asked to confess to the misdeeds of which the mob supposed him to be guilty , but he protested his innocence to the last . Three times the noose was placed around his neck and the negro was drawn up off the ground ; three times he was let down with a warning that death was in store for him should he fail to confess his complicity in the Cranford murder ; three times Strickland proclaimed his innocence . Then , weary of useless torturing , the mob pulled on the rope and tied the end around the trunk of the tree . Not a shot was tired . Stricklanu was strangled . PLEA FOR THE NEGRO 'S LIFE . The lynching of Strickland was not accomplished without a desperate effort on the part of his employers to save his life . The man who pleaded for him Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the most prominent citizens of Coweta County . He did all in his power to prevent the lynching of the negro and did not discontinue his efforts until he had been assured by the leaders of the mob that the negro would be taken to jail at Fairburn . One mile from the spot where this promise Was made Stilckiand was hanged . The negro war . a tenant on the plantation of Major Thomas . When Sam Hose , the murderer of Alfred Cranford and the assailant of his wife , made his confession immediately prior to his burning , he implicated Strickland , declaring that money had been offered him by Strickland to kill Cranford . It was known positively , however , that Hose had made talse statements in his last confession , and many of those who aided in his burning were disposed to disregard his statement in rega , -d to Strickland . Late last night about fifteen men went to the plantation of Major Thomas and took Strickland from the little cabin in which he lived with his wife and five children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that gentleman followed the lynchers in his buggy , accompanied by his son , William Thomas , determined to save , if possible , the life of his plantation darkey . They overtook the lynchers with their victim at Palmetto , and then ensued a weird and dramatic scene . PROTESTED HIS INNOCENCE . Lige Strickland was halted directly opposite the telegraph office . The noose was adjusted around his neck and the end of the rope was thrown over a tree . Strickland was told he had a chance before dying to confess his complicity in the crime . He replied : " I have told you all I know , gentlemen . You can kill me if you wish , but I know nothing to tell . " The negro 's life might have ended then but for the arrival of Major Thomas , who leaped from his buggy and asked for a hearing . He asked the crowd to give the negro a chance for his life , and said : " Gentlemen , this negro is innocent . Hose said Lige had promised to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't believe Lige has had $20 since he has been on my place . He has never done any of you any harm . I want you to promise me that you will turn him over to the bailiff of this town , that he may be given a hearing . I do not ask you to liberate him . Hold him for the courts . " The mob replied that Strickland had inflamed the negroes in the neighborhood and had a bad reputation , having run away from Eastpoint several years ago . Major Thomas reminded the mob that the negro had voluntarily told of having seen Hose on the night of the murder . One of the mob replied that Strickland had done this in the cunningness of his guilt to establish his own innocence . There were some , ' however , who agreed with Major Thomas , and after a discussion a vote was taken , which was supposed to mean life or death to Lige Strickland . The vote to let him live was unanimous . Major Thomas then retired some distance , and the mob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a member of the mob cried out : We have got him here . Let 's keep him . " COULD NOT SCARE MAJOR THOMAS . This aroused the mob , and a messenger was sent to advise Major Thomas to leave Palmetto for his own good , but the old man was not frightened . He drew himself up and said emphatically : " I have never been before ordered to leave a town , and I am not going to leave this one . " And then the Major , uplifting his hand to give his words force , said to the messenger : " Tell them the muscles in my legs are not trained to running . Tell them I have stood the fire and heard the whistles of minnies trent a thousand Yankee rifles , and I am not frightened by this crowd . " Major Thomas was not molested , and , with the understanding that Lige Strickland As as to be delivered to the jailer at Fairburn , he saw the negro he had pleaded for led off to his death . The mob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshall Givens of this place and again the noose was adjusted . He was hauled off the ground , but was lot down to allow him to confess . He refused to do so , and the lynchers were about to haul him up again , when the son of Mr. Givens came upon the scene and asked that the lynching should not occur near his father 's home . The negro was then taken to the yard in the , rear of Dr. W. S. Zeller 's home and tied up to a persimmon tree and left hanging . A Coroner 's jury held an inquest over the body this afternoon and rendered the usual verdict  --  death at-the hands of parties unknown , Another mob is hunting the county for Albert Sewell , who has made himself oh-noxious by remarks concerning the treatment of the negroes by the whites . There                     