@@781819

txt Senator QUAY , who once frightened the leading Republican organ of Philadelphia With the awful risk of " standing dumb " before the revelation of his misdeeds , is reported to feel very glum over the success of MCKINLEY in Illinois . If now there is the same success , or anything like it in Indiana , then , indeed , in the phrase of the Senator , " the jig is up . " That is , of course , the " jig " of Mr. QUAY , which seems to have been a joyous and confident game to corner patronage and legislation , particularly legislation . That there is any great difference between MCKINLEY and HARRISON as to the tariff , or between HANNA . and QUAY is , of course , absurd . With all of them the tariff is the thing they deal in . The favored interests want rates to suit them ; the . Republican Party can give such rates ; MCKINLEY and HARRISON alike are ready to trade tariff for votes or the equivalent of votes by which to satisfy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business of running the party that can control the tariff trade . Senator TELLER , who is a sort of special partner in the tariff business , with a limited contribution to the capital , but whose own line is silver , in his speech on Wednesday threw a lot of light on the way the traffic in legislation is carried on in the United States Congress . He and his friends wanted free coinage . President HARRISON , Mr. SHER-AN , Mr. MCKINLEY , Mr. REED , and all the other past and present candidates for the Republican nomination wanted a tariff . " We determined , " says Mr. TELLER , " that eve would put a free-coinage bill upon the Tariff bill , the McKinley Tariff bil1,1 which we knew we could do with the help of the Democrats . That we said we would do , and that is why the Senator from Ohio yielded his judgment . " Under that threat , to save the tariff , Mr SI-IERMAN accepted the very bad Silver Purchase act of ISDO . Mr. HARRISON accepted it , also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free-coinage bill , but to avoid vetoing a tariff bill with a free-coinage bill tacked to it . What a fine , thriving , driving business it all is ! It could not be carri6d on if there were no tariff rates to deal in , and that , quite as much as any conviction as to protection , is the reason why tariff agitation is still kept up in this country , which has outgrown protection as completely as an adult has outgrown his swaddling clothes .                     