@@672362

txt When the Senate Committee on Cities was directed to make an investigation of the subject of municipal administration throughout the State , the avowed object was to ascertain the defects in existing systems and . methods with a view to applying such remedies as can be provided by legislation . It was said that there was no political or partisan purpose in the inquiry , but that the object was a general improvement in city government . That there are defects in existing municipal charters , in the forms of organization , and in the methods of administration , is generally admitted , and no doubt some of the evils and abuses that prevail are due to such defects . An inquiry , conducted in a non-partisan spirit for the purpose of ascertaining wherein changes can be advantageously made by legislative action , would serve a very useful purpose , and it is an inquiry that ought by all means to be prosecuted with thoroughness . Whether this can be done satisfactorily by a legislative committee may be open to question . But in whatever way this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is the exposure of existing evils . It is only by knowing what these are and how far they extend that a judgment can be formed as to their causes , the extent to which they are due to systems that have the sanction of law , and how far they are the result of official incapacity and dereliction . This preliminary inquiry would almost inevitably assume a political aspect , especially when conducted by a legislative committee with an obvious bias . Circumstances led. the Senate committee to look first into the conduct of the Sheriff 's office in this city , and the result seems likely to divert it to a considerable extent , for a time at least , from the original purpose of the investigation . Nobody can deny that the revelations made fully justify the examination , and show that it was entered upon none too soon . In carrying the inquiry back to the administration of Mayor GRANT in the office of Sheriff , there may have been the motive of exposing his unfitness for the position he now holds and of discrediting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present municipal administration . But if such an exposure is made and discredit is brought upon Tammany methods , that will in itself justify the line of inquiry adopted , for it will show the necessity for it . The public should know , first of all , how its affairs are actually managed by those who have been intrusted with their conduct . Modifying systems and tinkering charters can never cure the evils which are directly due to incapacity and want of honest purpose in the actual administration . The Senate committee seems to be in the mood of going on with an exposure of Tammany methods , and it looks very much as if political effect were no small part of its object . But if Tammany methods will not stand . exposure and if the effect will be unfavorable to the organization and to the party with which it is associated , so much the worse for Tammany ; but the public is entitled to have the exposure made , and . ought to derive benefit from it . But whether any substantial and enduring benefit will come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans may rejoice at every blow struck at the prestige which Tammany leaders have been trying to build up for their organization , and may exult over a demonstration that Tammany professions of reform and of fidelity to public trust are worthless , it should not be forgotten that the Republican organization and Republican voters of this city are responsible for the restoration of Tammany to power in 1888 . Nobody could question the ability , the integrity or the independence of Mayor newirr , or deny the fact that great progress was made under his administration toward the establishment of capacity , honesty , and fidelity in the management of municipal interests . There was an opportunity to continue his administration and carry that progress forward , but the Republicans of , the city deliberately sacrificed that opportunity to partisanship , for gain , real or fancied , in the general political field . They insisted upon putting up and supporting a municipal ticket of their own , when they knew that the result would be simply to strike down Mayor Hewirr. throw away all that had been gained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs of the city . They have no right to indulge in denunciations of the consequences of their own course or to derive political capital or advantage from any exposure or discredit of Tammany . A heavy share of the discredit belongs to them . Until the people of this city learn to act with independence in local affairs and to sever the question of administering municipal interests from all connection with party politics , they will continue to have a succession of exposures of corruption and incapacity , for which they have only themselves to blame .                     