@@674840

txt The General Secretary of the Red Cross Society of France , has written the French Embassy here , detailing the plans of that organization to aid in the relief work in Cuba . As soon as the war broke out the French branch of the society determined to give equal amounts to both countries , and on April 25 notice was sent to Miss Clara Barton . President of the American society , that 25.000 francs would be sent as the first contribution . This amount was sent early in May , through the house of Rothschild Brothers of Paris . As its receipt had never been acknowledged , the French society asked the embassy to make inquiry , and the embassy in turn has asked the State Department to learn if the $5,000 was received by the American society . A YACHT FOR THE RED CROSS . The Admiral , Now at Providence , Is Bought for Use in Cuban Waters , The sub-committee on purchase for a medical supply vessel for the American National Red Cross Relief Committee has purchased the steam yacht Admiral from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inches over all , 117 feet water line , 20 feet beam , and 8 feet draught . She is a flush-deck vessel , built at Providence in 1892 , and is 126 gross tons . The hull is copper sheathed below the water line , adapting her specially for Southern waters . She carries a naphtha launch , whaleboat , and two gigs , and her average cruising speed is twelve knots . The Admiral will be used as a headquarters for Miss Clara Barton and the Relief Committee , and will for the present be stationed at Tampa . Mr. Comstock , the former owner , contributed 82,500 toward the cause . The Admiral was bought for $40,000 , and is at present at Providence . She will be brought at once to the Atlantic Basin , Brooklyn . where she will be painted white , with red stripes , and will be rechristened " Red Cross . " She is expected to be in readiness in five days , aria will be examined by the Naval Inspectors , and a commission issued by Secretary Long . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some New York pier and to have the women , who contributed to the purchase and equipment , participate in appropriate ceremonies . She will sail in charge of David S. Cobb , counsel for the Red Cross . In connection with the Admiral , the relief launch Maynier , 42 feet long , purchased from the same company , has been shipped to Tampa by rail . A letter was received at the headquarters yesterday from Dr. Charles K. Gill at Chickamauga . Dr , Gill is a Brooklyn physician who was sent to Chickamauga. last week to establish the Red Cross headquarters at the Government camp. - He says that much want is manifest among the soldiers and lays the fault to the impreper equipment of the soldiers before reaching titere . He also said that the Government is doing everything possible for the comfort of the men , considering the enormity of the task . The hospital rations are of necessity somewhat short , and he urges the great need of ice and milk . He says that the troops are a fine healthy set , but many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dr. Gill 's letter funds were at once telegraphed to him . Dr. and Mrs. Lesser arrived in Tampa yesterday and will Ir . oceed at once to Key West to join the steamship State of Texas . The Sta to of Texas will have on board four Red Cross surgeons and ten nurses , including Miss Barton and Mrs. John . A. Porter . The vessel . is chartered by . the Central Cuban Relief Committee , but it has authorized Miss Barton to devote the vessel , its cargo , and all her staff to the assistance of the Government hospital work if need be .                     