@@673637

txt It seems already to have been demonstrated that the Chinese Navy , can not keep the sea against the Japanese , and consequently can not convoy or protect troops destined to disembark in Corea . The only other way of getting them into Cores is to march them over or through the mountains at the back of the peninsula . The passes of these mountains it is that the Japanese are reported to have seized , not merely with the acquiescence , but with the active co-operation , of the Coreans . The possession of the passes gives the possessor an advantage that offsets a great disproportion in numbers . In yon straight path a thousand may well be stopped by three . Still more significant is the announcement , which seems to be authentic , that the King of Corea has declared himself independent of China , " renounced " the treaty of 1882 , under which he acknowledged the Chinese suzerainty , and appealed to Japan to help him drive the Chinese out of his kingdom . The alliance is worth a great deal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . parties in Corea , the conservative , or Asiatic , favoring China , and the progressive , or modernizing , favoring Japan . An English traveler reports that the Corean people in general hate the Japanese : ' but that is probably only a way of saying that uncivilized people always hate strangers , and that for the past decade and more the Coreans have seen more Japanese than strangers of any other , nationality . The commerce of the country is almost all done by Japanese vessels . There is , of course , nothing that can properly be called a public opinion in Corea , any more than there is in Russia . The se.mblance of it , in either case , is confined to the " Court circle " at the capital . The Corean Army is not a very formidable body , though it has been trained by American officers , since it consists of only 6,000 men . But the indirect advantage of the alliance is that even if the Chinese succeed in penetrating into Corea they will find themselves in an enemy 's country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail to be popular in Corea itself . The temper of the combatants is evidently a factor of the first importance in trying to estimate the chances of the combat . There is no doubt that the Japanese nation is enthusiastically in favor of the war . It has even been charged , and with plausibility , that the war is an " electioneering " war , a " political dodge . " But this charge admits that the war is popular . No Government distracts public attention with a foreign " issue " which it does not think a winning issue . And in fact , it is plain that Japan is united and aroused on this issue . China , on the other hand , is incapable of being aroused and united on anY issue of foreign politics . For the great majority of the Chinese people foreign nations do not exist , while discontent at home does exist , and there is ' a chance any day that the discontented will take the opportunity of a foreign war to raise a rebellion that the whole available Strength of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that strength ' is is a. matter of conjecture . An interesting article on the subject in the current pretend to state it with exactness , but leaves the impression that the land forces of China are numerically , and therefore , on the whole , decidedly , superior to the land forces of Japan . But if Japan continues to keep the Corean strait impassable for Chinese keels , the Japanese advantages of position and of alliance would more than offset the Chinese advantage in numbers , unless the Chinese were as much in earnest as the Japanese are . The new Japanese Minister to this country , in an interview in San Francisco , expressed the truth about China when he said that " it is a dissevered country " and " the people are not patriotic . " Upon the whole , the chances seem to favor Japan , except in the event of foreign intervention . Pretty clearly the time for that is not yet . The interruption to the commerce of the world offered by the war is not serious . Indeed , with the forts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful whether the commerce of Corea will be seriously interrupted . Undoubtedly both Russia and England would view a Japanese protectorate in Corea with as much disfavor as they would view a renewal of the Chinese suzerainty . There is no valid reason why they should view it with more . But the time for them to interfere will not be until Japan undertakes to establish herself on the continent . At present Japan is fighting , with Corea , for Corean independence , and no European State has any producible motive for opposing Corean independence .                     