@@674774

txt LONDON , April ** of the strongest features of the war developments is the remarkable optimism of the city financiers , who , until the actual sailing of the United States fleet , tenaciously clung to the delusion daily reiterated in Lombard Street , that there would be no war . Despite the practical evidence , supplied by the steady drop in Spanish consols , which acted as the most accurate barometer of events , the culmination of negotiations to the breaking point was so often deferred that the merchants came to believe that the United States was unwilling to carry its championship of Cuba to the extent of fighting . continental Europe steadfastly refuses to believe that the United States is embarking in war for any objaet other than conquest . Being prone to judge American motives by the standards which appear to actuate their own national policies , the Continental papers predict with the greatest jealousy that the United States will retain all the Spanish colonies , which it will inevitably cap . ture , and that the United States will then become one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unoccupied portions of the earth . All opinions and interviews contained in the press of Continental Europe , read between the lines , convey this view . Effect of the War Abroad . The first effect of war was felt in Great Britain in the rise in wheat , which has been the means of inducing the bakers to discuss an advance in the price of the fourpound loaf . Many English farmers are holding unthrashed wheat in the hopeful expectation that prolonged hostilities may send grain up to Franco-Prussian war prices . Liverpool and Manchester trade with the West Indies has been knocked on the head by the notification that no more boats will sail for Cuba and Puerto Rico . Two ships which were billed to sail from Liverpool on Saturday have canceled their depart . tire in anticipation of the blockade of the Island oe Cuba . Shippers find solace in the prospect that the war will result in ending the strongly differential tariffs in favor of Barcelona , which have been enforced on all Spanish colonies . Great Britain 's sympathy for America is , like Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man or important newspaper that does not warmly support the United States . At the same time , in private conversation , there is much criticism of the United States , and indorsement of Spain is heard . There is much headshaking over the result of the coming naval battle , and the feeling even finds its way into print . Chances of Naval Wa.rfore . The Daily Graphic to-day prints a long letter from a naval officer , who says both Puerto Rico and Havana ought to be able to hold their own against an attack unsupported by ships . The United States will be forced to blockade both of these islands , and this , the author of the letter thinks , will occupy that Nation 's entire fleet , thus leave ing the Spaniards free to bombard the coast of the United States . Again , the letter says , Spain is strong enough to defeat either of the blockading fleets which the United States is able to assemble about Cuba and Puerto Rico . In conclusion , the writer thinks that the ships of the Indiana class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . An editorial in The Chronicle expresses the opinion that the United States fleet is throwing away an excellent strategic opportunity by going to Cuba instead of intercepting the Spanish fleet . The Daily News says that " the Amer ! ? cans hardly know what they are fighting for , " and that " it is an open question whether the freedom of Cuba could not be obtained without recourse to war . " Report of Alarm in New York . The Daily Mail , whose proprietor , Alfred Harmsworth , is a warm sympathizer with the United States , is doing much to arouse public sentiment by the daily publication of articles bearing upon the atrocities perpetrated by Spaniards . accompanied by pictures of the starving reconcentrados , under the heading , " Why America Is In. tervening In Cuba , " with the Kipling pare ody . " If Blood Be the Price of Liberty , Lord , God , We Have Paid the Bill ! " At the same time The Daily Mail to-day displays a New York dispatch with the heading , " Scare In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The dispatch says that many wealthy New Yorkers are fleeing , fearing that the fleet of the United States will be vanquished and the city borne banded . The St. James 's Gazette , discussing the interests of spectators a the coming hostilities , says : " Taking for granted President 's sincerity in saying the United States do not desire conquest of territory , the fact re ? mains that the United States , which call themselves Amer'ca , are engaged in endeavoring to expel a European power from her foothold in the New World . This can hardly happen without giving increased force to the sentiment which Mr. Olney expressed in such crude terms in his letter to the Marquis of Salisbury , and the war can hardly end without affecting the general position of the European powers profoundly , be its course what it may . " Possible Action of Europe . Referring to the possible action of Europe , The St. James 's Gazette remarks : " Spain has done something to put herself right with public opinion in Europe , and no doubt she to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she gains success and proves herself capable of making head against the United States at sea , thus indicating the presence of a weakness in the American Navy not hitherto suspected , the disposition of the powers to intervene will be greatly strengthened . " There is a great deal of billing and cooing among emotional Anglo-Saxons at present . In the United States there is a certain amount of gush , probably as sincere as the hysterical emotion excited by Bryan 's flashy ' Cross of Gold ' metaphor . Here there are always people who gush who ; America is concerned . But these waves of emotion come and go ; deep-rooted feelings of dislike and substantial interests do n't . " The London weeklies devote a great amount of space to the war , a large majority of them expressing sympathy with the United States . The Spectator says : " As a nation the Americans stand absolved of entering the war with an evil spirit . Our fervent hope is that they may win quickly and easily . " The Speaker says : " There can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war for a good end ; and the Americans , must enjoy our best wishes for their ultimate success . " The Statist says : " The sooner Spain comes to terms the better for herself . The United States will need large loans ; but the securities will be freely taken in Europe at a moderate rate of interest if Congress makes the debt redeemable In gold . " The Saturday Review alone strikes a discordant note in its sarcastic comments upon President 's reference to the " moral sense of Americans . "                     