@@675297

txt His Honor did not desire to say much : " Everybody , " he said . " would contend that right is might . Let us , therefore , " he continued . " look well into our affairs in order to see whether we are right , For that reason I have wished to look into matters . and refer to Certain points , knowing that the Lord giveth where there is justice . There is no doubt about that , and even if the whole world were to war it is a fact that God will decide as to justice . For that reason I wish to enter into the whole matter . Probably , " continued the President , " mistakes bad been made by us here and there . " To find that out he would quote facts . The Volksraad knew that in the dispatch of Mr. Chamberlain a passage appeared to the effect that he ( the President ) promised to the Royal Commission that foreigners Would be treated equally with the burghers , and although between this record and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be proved he would not do so now . His Honor , as well as the entire Executive Council , had treated foreigners equally with burghers , and he would refer to the whole matter , so that everybody might be convinced of this . " What are our burghers ? " said the President . " They are burden carriers and soldiers of the country . " At the time the Royal Commission sat here and the Convention of 18S1 was drawn Up we Stood under a suzerainty , and what did we do then ? We had treated foreigners equally with our burghers , but what did the foreigners do ? They would not stand on an equal footing with our burghers because they argued ' we should then have to do commando service . ' They then got themselves registered at the office of Mr. Hudson . the British Commissioner at that time . Therefore we were willing , but they would not . Where , then , did the injustice committed by us come in ? " When afterward the gold fields were discovered foreigners came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President thought that as they wanted the franchise they wished to be treated equally with the burghers , and he had then called upon them for commando service . But they refused  --  they did not want to go on commando . He then caused these persons to ' be arrested because the Convention gave him an opening to do so , and had them brought before the court . But no , they remained obdurate . Then Lord Loch requested that British subjects should be placed On the same footing as subjects of the most favoreenation , and referred to Portugal , whose subjects could not be commandered . The matter was laid before the Volksraad. and that body had said , " Let those people be . now that they do not want the franchise , and will not be on an equal footing with the burghers , and so the stipulation ? was made in the Convention that subjects of her Majesty will not have political rights , but that they could trade equally . with the burghers . " The President wished to challenge any man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ... or that they have not been able to get the same rights as the burghers , but when they were commandered they refused . On a letter of Lord Loeh , the then High Commissioner , the Volksraad adopted a resolution to the effect that those subjects should not be commandered . The franchise , however , was not wanted in order to be equal with the burghers . However , he had thought that not all would be like that , a od , animated with a desire to treat them all in equal manner , he caused p.notice to be published as to who were willing to do commando service ; and a proposal was laid by him before the Volksraad , and approved of by that body , to the effect that those who went on commando , of whatever nationality . should obtain the franchise at once . This was done in the case of those who went on the Mapoch commando and in the ease of those who went to Swaziland and had not even fought there , and of those who hail been on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Majato and Massaua  --  in short , everyone who had been on commando had obtained the franchise or been in the position to obtain the same . The subjects of her Majesty had then refused to register their names , and people of different nationalities had gone on commando , but there were only a few Englishmen among those who had obtained franchise . Mr. Chamberlain contended that his object was to get the franchise for her Majesty 's subjects . but his Honor was of opinion that Mr. Chamberlainhad never viewed the matter in the proper light , because the franchise was resolutely refused , and the cause of this was then thrown on the republic 's shoulders . Mr. Chamberlain would , the President was sure , never be able to make a point regarding the franchise on which this State had been at fault . The latest correspcndence with Mr. Chamberlain , in which reference was made to the conference to be held at Cape Town , was now before the Raad . The President could not imagine any sensible being contending that the republic , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The subjects of her Majesty refused the franchise and only wanted to have the country . There was some discussion about suzerainty , but his Honor , so far as he was concerned , was of opinion that were Mr. Chamberlain . this day to stand in face of God his conscience would tell him that no suzerainty over the republic existed . The President expressed the hope that the Volksraad would wait till Mr. Chamberlain 's reply to the last dispatch from the republic had been received before taking any steps . In order to convince everybody , the President was ' prepared to send a commission to Cape Town . " Da not . " he said , " allow this plan to be frustrated . " Mr. Chamberlain had further spoken about schools . Schools were erected for the English children in which up to the fourth and fifth standards English was the medium of instruction , and the Government contributed the greatest part of the expenses . What more did they want ? The President could not understand that . more was or could be wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stuck was its independence . By way of comparison . his Honor said that his cloak had been asked and given , and also his coat , but now they wanted to touch his life , and it was impossible to cede that . His Honor hoped that Mr. Chamberlain would view the matter in the proper light ; that the English subjects would not have the franchise , and that they would not be on an equal footing with the burghers of the republic . If the matter could be settled in such a manner that they could vote , and would not , for instance , be required to go on commando , they would probably be willing to take the franchise . This Government had offered the franchise after five years ' residence , but they would not have it . They only wanted the country . His Honor expressed the hope that the Volksraad would await the reply of Mr. Chamberlain to the republic 's last reply , and that if the invitation to a conference at Cape Town was accepted Mr. Chamberlain would be convinced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a loss to know what Mr. Chamberlain wanted . The President said that he also obtained his secret reports , and could not but deduce from them that in England probably a majority was in favor of justice . Some of them there had spoken in favor of speculators , and about Majuba and Colley to ' be avenged , but if he , the President , viewed the matter in the proper light he was bound to say that England 's action in that respect was a noble deed clone to us . The annexation was an impious action , but when England saw that she had been misled no more troops were called out by Mr. Gladstone , but the country was returned to them . " This will be a noble action , " continued Mr. Kruger , " recorded in England 's boob of judgment . It was a righteous and honest action . The Lord will govern His own , and when we ponder on the history of our country and see in what manner the Lord has led us we shall also see . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for he has the hearts of Kings in His hands . " Mr. Chamberlain stood on yonder side , his Honor on this side ; they could not agree , but God would he the final arbitrator  --  He would in justice clecl-le. 1 " We need have no doubt , " continued the President , " that our sins and our mtsdoings are indeed many , and that we are being punished for them , but where God in the Bible punished the Israelites , we never read that He gave His people over to their enemies . Let us therefore not doubt . " The President again expressed the hope that the Volksraad would wait until a reply had been received from Mr. Chamberlain to the republic 's last dispatch . A conference might then take place , as proposed by Mr. Chamberlain himself in his last dispatch . in order to devise plans to remove the present tension . " We should not forget . " he added , " that the Lord has the hearts of the people as also the heart of Mr. Chamberlain in His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry the clay without bloodshed . We must leave matters in the hands of the Lord , but the Lord awaits the voice of the people . When Israel was under Pharaoh it was oppressed so long as the people 's voice had not gone out to the Lord . When afterward in their anguish they called upon Him , the Lord said , ' The voice of the people has come to Me . ' " This was sufficient proof - that the Lord reigned , and for that reason he must say , " Brethren , fly unto the Lord , and the Lord will decide for us . He carries all hearts in His hands  --  those of the people of England and of all nations on the earth . Perhaps the people of England will rise to resist where Chamberlain acts wrongfully . " The President hoped that Mr. Chamberlain 's heart would turn , and that he would see justice. ? Reuter .                     