@@674960

txt From The San Francisco Argonaut . Take the question of troops aboard ship as compared with bluejackets . Troopships have sailed from San Francisco to Manila under the charge of the army . Troopships have sailed from Florida to Cuba under the charge of the army . From both sides of the world , from ship after ship , there comes the same story  --  inefficiency , insufficient food , lack of discipline , dirt , disease , and death . On this side of the continent such have been the hardships of volunteers in the troopships under the charge of the army that many of them deserted in Honolulu . The letters which fill the San Francisco daily papers from Manila volunteers , without exception , complain of bad food , bad discipline , improper clothing , and inefficient medical treatment . From the Atlantic the reports have been worse . The condition of the troopships under the charge of the army has shocked the Nation . The Democratic organs are now making partisan capital out of it , and the Republican press has most wisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the people believe them . Why do we hear no such stories about the navy ? No tales of horror come from the ships of the regular navy ; not from the ships of the auxiliary navy ; not even from the tugboats and yachts manned by the militia of the naval reserve , but commanded by naval officers . Why do we hear nothing of disease or suffering from these hundreds of ships , with their thousands of men ? The answer is simple . The navy is a vast and thoroughly organized fighting machine . All of its officers are experts . No man obtains a commission in the navy because he ' has a political pull . No man obtains a commission in the navy because his grandfather was a President . No man obtains a commission in the navy because his father i was a coal oil Senator or a slaughter house millionaire . No man obtains a commission in the navy because he is a. " child of the social pull . " No man obtains a commission in the navy unless he is honest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The American . people are a very practical people , and they are immensely proud of the achievements of their navy . They are also proud of the bravery of their regulars and the valor of their volunteers . But they are sick , disgusted , and ashamed over the complete break-down of the organization of their army . We are convinced that the contrast between the army and the navy has been so great that the American people will strive to make its army a scientific fighting machine as is its navy . We believe that one of the fruits of this war with Spain will be the weeding out of incompetent officials , cheap politicians , and fossilized bureaucrats from the army , and a reorganization of it until it shall be placed in such condition that it will be a fit mate for the American navy . or which the American people are so proud .                     