@@673078

txt The architectural part of the World 's Fair at Chicago has been generally voted successful , and the contents of the structures on the artificial lagoons of Lake Michigan will doubtless Drove not less interesting . But if the mere pleasure of gazing on the triumphs of architects , sculptors , and painters , of inventors and manufacturers , of farmers , miners , and stock raisers , were all that the World 's Columbian Exposition means to the United States , that fair would be a hideous waste of money and . time . The fair is to be open but six months , and after that the buildings , with few exceptions , will stand useless and , if not taken down at once , pass into the various phases of degeneration through the elements . The value of the fair , however , does not lie in buildings or their contents ; it lies in the lessons learned by experts in the several classes into which the articles exposed may be divided , It is a huge object lesson for the Union , enabling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see how his own work is done in other nations and other States . But is any system laid down , any plan drawn up , whereby the ideas most worthy to be remembered shall be retained after the exposition is over ? It may be said that individuals in each class will retain and make use of the lessons there - to be learned ; but there are many things which need a combination of forces , and for their proper application the capital and organization only to be had in largo establishments or in societies for the furtherance of certain aims . This is particularly the case as regards industrial objects which are for use , it is true , but a use combined with and elevated by art . As an example take the fashioning of grilles , balconies , fanlight ornaments , stair rails , lamps , fire dogs , and so forth , in wrought iron , a material certainly put to the basest uses , but capable of as exquisite dosign as the precious , etals and possessing virtues from the art side all its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown which reveal new capabilities in this metal , where is the school that is ready to take the hint and avail itself of the idea , not necessarily by way of that slavish imitation which has clone so much harm to our arts and . manufactures , but in fruitful and legitimate fashion Chicago has at present uo such organization . The best she can do as things now stand is to purchase wisely and liberally of the objects themselves , display them in a museum , and trust that hereafter they will act as suggestive points of depart ' uro for the artist artisan of the future . In New-York we have but one school of the kind indicated , sprung from small beginnings , and still far from patronized. as such an effort should be . It is the School for Artist Artisans , conducted . for some eight years by the enthusiasm and pluck of Mr. JOUR ' WAND STIMSON , whom an unfortunate conjunction of apathy and intrigue cast out of the schools of the Metropolitan Museum  --  for good ends , as it now happily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this school . A Board of Trustees embracing some excellent material has been formed , and it is highly probable that it will presently show its strength by providing the sinews of war . Certainly no cause could bo better , and , indeed , more imperative . It has over ; been the warning given by THE TIMES that in the struggle . for commercial supremacy we must enlist the best inventive , naturally skillful minds , and do so by encouraging the fine human material that lies about us in the workshops of New-York . Hitherto there has been no response ; but the impetus given to the School for Artist Artisans warrants the belief that a serious movement has started , which may end in bringing before the public , as no amount of printed . argument can do , , the necessity for such schools throughout the Union . This is the weakest spot in our system of education , and yet one might have imagined . that this would have been the first spot to enlist the sympathies of a community like ours . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energies to much more theoretic ends , and provided for students of the fine arts and the liberal sciences before caring for the bread . earners of a less ambitious sort . The School for Artist Artisans already helps young men and women to develop whatever is original in them as designers of wall paper , carvers of furniture , fabricators of stained glass , creators of natural , unhacknoyed themes of ornament for bookbindings , picture frames , Christmas cards , bills of fare , posters , carpets , and rugs . Space , workshops , instructors , materials should be provided for studentsin pottery and porcelain , brass and iron , cabinet work , stained glass , engraving on wood and the metals for printing , and a hundred other branches it were tedious to enumerate . The World 's Fair will doubtless be visited by thousands of young people who must depend on their own labor in coming years and other thousands already at work in shops and . offices . Whatever is worth retaining in this country among the exhibits should be retained , not merely so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in industrial museums , but as articles in the process of making . The instructors of industrial schools like the New-York School for Artist Artisans should be on the alert to profit by this chance of estimating where the world stands in their special departments . Concerning this lit-. tle struggling school , which , however , manages to hoop three or four hundred . young men and women enthusiastically at - work learning how to get their living , wo shall have something more to say presently .                     