@@674794

txt The difficulties for the poor people are worse than those of the Government . The latter , by various expedients , can raise money ; the former are unable to obtain either food or employment . The wages of the laborers are too small to buy sufficient food for themselves and their families . In the mining regions of Estra Madura and other places the miners are nearly famished . Speculators Take Advantage . " Meanwhile speculators make corners to raise the price of food , and industry is paralyzed . In the Balearic Islands thousands of workmen are living upon alms . Catalonia , though the richest region in Spain , has suffered most deeply from the loss of the Cuban market . The Catalonian manufacturers recently tried to place their goods in the Philippine Islands . They were beginning to succeed , and their exports to Manila and Iloilo were increasing rapidly . This promising condition of things has been blighted by the war . To the Catalonian manufacturers there remains foreign markets only in Morocco and the South American republics , and commercial relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warehouses are filled up to the ceiling with goods which will have to remain there till the war is over , and thousands of workmen , famished with hunger , will easily become the prey of political agitators and complicate the social and political situation of the country . " The work of the political agitator is daily becoming more manifest , as the plight of the people becomes more hopeless . The Republicans declare that the moment the telegraph announces a new disaster for the Spanish arms the great mass of the country will rise and sweep away everything . The Carlists say that if there are fresh disasters they will seize power . War News the Key to the Situation . " Therefore the key to the situation is war news . The Carlists are well organized . The Republicans are divided by differences of programmes and the rivalries of their leading men . That portion which is capable of active practical work has endeavored to get the support of at least part of the army , without which they know they can hardly expect to succeed . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military , who , they say , have imposed such conditions that the negotiations have had to be broken off . " They put much faith in Weyler , but he is simply waiting for his own chance , and will venture nothing unless absolutely assured of success . The report that Weyler has arrived at an understanding with Marshal Campos is untrue . They are not even on speaking terms . The nation , as a VAiole , is , however , indifferent to the struggles of parties , for it trusts none of them . " LONDON , May ** Madrid correspondent of The Daily Mail , telegraphing on Monday , says : ? " Martial law has been proclaimed in Seville and Saragossa , and will gradually be extended throughout the country . The most significant fact of the present moment is that the military party is beginning to use its undoubted strength . To Act Independently of Politics . " Gen. Lochambre , who has lately returned from the Philippines , convened yesterday a meeting of the military members of the Cortes , at which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . or indirectly connected with the army , such action to be wholly irrespective and independent of politics . " At future meetings they will invite the co-operation of naval members of the Cortes , considering that there is a community of interests between the two branches of the service . This new development foreshadows a serious factor which any future Ministry will be compelled to consider . " The Biarritz correspondent of The Daily Mail , dilating upon Spain 's internal troubles , says : " But for the necessity of getting the war credits voted in the Cortes , Senor Sagasta would have decreed the suspension of the Constitutional guarantees , thus placing the whole country under military jurisdiction .                     