@@674838

txt DYNAMITE HURLED AT FORTS . The Vesuvius 's Guns Successfully Tested . in a Night Attack  --  Emplacements Destroyed by the New Orleans . Copyright , 1898. by The Associated Press . OFF SANTIAGO DE CUBA , June 14 , 8 P. M. ? The United States cruiser New Orleans having been ordered by Rear Admiral Sampson to destroy the new emplacements half a mile east of El Morro , on which a large number of Spaniards had been working , took up a position at 5 o'clock this morning about 800 yards from shore and 2,000 yards from the Morro battery . She opened upon the emplacements with her rapid-fire guns . Red clouds of sand rose on the hilltop where the emplacements were building . Following the fifteenth shot the Morro batteries replied with one shell , that fell near the stern of the flagship New York . After twenty minutes gun practice Admiral Sampson signaled the New Orleans to cease firing . Then , as she retired , the Morro batteries sent ten shells after her , but without damage . Complimented By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done , " the first compliment of the kind from the Admiral . The dynamite cruiser Vesuvius joined the fleet yesterday and was put to work immediately . Ensign Palmer of the New York went on board the Vesuvius , with Lieut . Commander Pillsbury , to explain the location of the batteries . A few minutes from Midnight the Vesuvius was about half a mile from the beach west of El Morro . The Oregon 's searchlight played on the battery , while the black nose of the cruiser pointed at the westward batteries . Lieut . Commander Pillsbury gave the word to fire and Lieut . Quimby opened the air vent . There was a slight hissing , a sort of coughing noise , but no flame , no report , no warning to ' the Spaniards who were hiding in the darkness . Thirty seconds later a dull roar broke the silence of the tropical night . Two hundred pounds of guncotton had exploded on ' the hillside below the bat-tery : The ships on the blockade lines , two miles away , shook with the explosion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rifle crack compared to the deep and mighty roar .. Clouds of earth . thrown up from the hills seemed to stand out against the black sky . May Have Strack-Torpedo Boats . Another package of guncotton was dropped on the other side of the battery and may possibly have struck the torpedo boats anchored below . Before the echoes cf the second died away the Vesuvius sent a third charge hissing out . It fell right on the brow of the hill where the battery seemed to lay . Into the air flew tons of earth , and the smoke covered the land for half a mile , The Vesuvius retired at a sixteen-knot rate . Two shots flashed from the hill , and two Spanish shells flew beyond the cruiser . The test was regarded as highly satisfactory , and there is intense interest in the fleet over this first trial in war of a dyne. - ' mite cruiser.                     