@@672905

txt Prince Bismarck never bad the good fortune to visit America , but it does not follow that he has failed to imbibe a great deal of information about the tricks of his trade as practiced and perfected in our transatlantic Republic . His birthday celebration yesterday at Friedrichsruho , considered as an ably organized , spontaneous boom , could give points to the City of Elmira , N. Y. , and might be envied even in Augusta , Me . Such newspapers as remain friendly to him have been dropping hints for weeks about the great doings on the 1st of April . His partisans in higher circles bent themselves to secure as many telegrams as possible from exalted personages . More important still , the Clerical Party , which is now in full revolt against the ministerial policy , has expended all the strength of its powerful organization , not only to drum up recruits for a big torchlight procession in Hamburg and vicinity , but to make it appear that the whole empire was sending congratulatory messages to the ex-Chancellor . Nothind'could have been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Hamburg , eulogistic addresses , speeches from visiting delegates , and then a number of little suggestive responses by the statesman out of office . To each delegation he said what was calculated to please them most . To the miners of Bochum he recalled how he always defended their industry . To the farmers he pointed out how he was more an agriculturist than anything else . To the artisans he dropped hints that ho remained the stern , unbending protectionist . To excitable young torchbearers from Hamburg he made a jingo harangue , declaring amid cheers that Germany could take her two enemies on the East and West and knock them to pot together : Dann werdcn wir sic in die Pfanne hanen ! Americans will recognize how closely all this proceeds upon lines laid down for neglected " favorite sons " in their own happy land . One is almost surprised in reading the list of Chairmen of the delegations in the Cologne Gazette not to find Col. George Bliss or Messrs . Frank Hiscock or John Boyd Thacher . Of course , the application of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the stupid mismanagement on the part of certain Ministers and the weird inopportuneness of the Kaiser 's speech on grumbling , a novel kind of political ferment has been stirred up in Germany during the past two months . Those who look calmly into the thing as a whole must see that the net result of the entire episode has been to identify the Government of Prussia with Liberalism much more closely than has ever been the case before . But the German public , unused to excitement of late , does not easily get itself down again to a philosophic frame of mind . It is still conscious of an augmented pulse and disturbed nerves . It is this juncture , coincident with his birthday anniversary , which Bismarck seizes to draw attention to the fact that he is still doing business at the old stand . It is reasonably safe that he will not be invited to send in proposals sealed or otherwise . The popular irritation had rendered it easier than usual for him to got up an impressive personal boom . No doubt it prompted many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were happier under Bismarck than they find themselves now under Caprivi . But any such notion would vanish like a dream if the question seriously arose of putting the old Chancellor back again into power . The past two years have so altered for the better every phase of German civil political life , people have grown so . accustomed to occupying a self-respecting place in the body politic , that they are prone to forget the evils of Bismark 's despotic rule . They would remember quickly enough if there seemed an actual prospect of their returning to them ! The week has been one of considerable anxiety in responsible circles as to the Russo-German relations . To-day a stronger effort is made both in Berlin and . here to reassure Europe on the subject ; but something more than words will be needed to effect this laudable end . For some reason or other not a word of news comes during the week as to the working of Germany 's new decree forbidding Russian Jews to cross the frontier . I have been promised a report from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is so entirely clear that this decree must terribly complicate the already impossible situation in the Pale and Poland , that until news of a definite sort is received no opinion can be formed as to the value of these latest professions of peaceful aims . I do n't know that it has special relation to the stop that has been put to_the the Jewish refugees crossing the border , but it is said to be a fact that 5,000 Russian Christians have passed over into Germany during the last two weeks , These are not to any large extent Stundists or Lutherans , but genuine orthodox Moujiks , all looking for work . Hitherto this class has been a pre-eminently stay-at-home people , who indeed tramped a great deal from one part of the empire to another , but never seemed to get the idea of crossing its frontiers . If famine , bad business , or any other cause should sudden-                     