@@674346

txt It does not seem to us that the labor organizations which have submitted memorials to the Judges who constitute the Board of Grand Jury Commissioners have made out any case against the present manner of making up the Grand Jury list . In their first memorial they complained that the men selected represented wealth or property , and that labor had no representation , and they presented certain names of workingmen in various occupations which they desired to have placed upon the list . The supplemental memorial complains of " unjust geographical discrimination , " because Grand Jurors are not drawn from those who live down town or to the east or west of certain avenues . It might as well be candidly stated that the commissioners seek and ought to seek for the Grand Jury list men of a high order of ability and intelligence , of eminent integrity and discretion , and of the utmost fairness of mind . They ought to be men of ? experience and observation , and as they are expected to give considerable time to an important public service without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so without serious disadvantage to themselves . We understand that in filling vacancies on the list from year to year the Judges select for the most part men who have served upon petit juries and given evidence of the qualities desired , or whom they know to be possessed of such qualities . It does not matter what their business or occupation is or where they live . It is not true that they are mostly men of wealth or what is called " social position , " but it doubtless is true that they are generally citizens of some substance and standing in the community . If men well qualified for Grand Jury duty , or any other important grade of public service , are apt to rise somewhat above the rank of day laborers and mechanics and be able to live in more desirable surroundings than those of the tenementhouse districts , IL is on account of capabilities which make their service desirable . If this really resulted in any wrong to workingmen or to the less fortunate in the community there would be ground for complaint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in making class distinctions and seeking representatives of labor organizations or residents of certain quarters of the city for Grand Jury duty . Neither of the memorials presents any tangible facts showing or tending to show a failure of justice on account of Ithe composition of the Grand Juries . That they should bb made up of men of capacity and good judgment is quite as important to workingmen and to the poor as it is to owners of property , be the same more or less .                     