@@675127

txt There is a deal of prating in these days about the principles of THOMAS JEFFERSON , the founder of the Democratic Party . Some of the praters understand the political philosophy of JEFFERSON as little as they understand the philosophies of HEGEL and SCHOPENHAUER . Mr. BRYAN writes of " Democrats who stand upon the Chicago platform , " and the promoters of the dollar dinner of silver men and Socialists announce that the true Jeffersonian principles are to be honored and expounded at that frugal board . Upon this fog of ignorance and audacious misrepresentation let us direct some rays of light from the original source . Let THOMAS JEFFERSON speak for himself . JEFFERSON 'S political beliefs were expressed in their most compact and compendious form in his first Inaugural Address , delivered on March 4 , 1801 , from which we quote a celebrated passage that ought to be familiar to every Democrat in the country : " About to enter , fellow-citizens , on the exercise of duties which comprehend everything dear and valuable to you , it is proper you should understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consequently those which ought to shape its administration . I will compress them within the narrowest compass they will bear , stating the general principle , but not all its limitations . Equal and exact justice to all men of whatever state or persuasion , religious or political ; peace . commerce , and honest friendship with all nations , entangling alliances with none ; the support of the State governments in all their rights as the most competent administrations for our domestic concerns , the surest bulwarks against antirepublican tendencies ; the preservation of the - general Government in its whole constitutional vigor , as the sheet anchor of our peace at home and safety abroad ; a jealous care of the right of election by the people ? a mild and safe corrective of abuses which are lopped by the sword of revolution where peaceable remedies are unprovided ; absolute acquiescence in the decisions of the majority , the vital principle of republics , from which is no appeal but to force , the vital principle and immediate parent of despotism ; a well-disciplined militia , our best reliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till regulars may relieve them ; the supremacy of the civil over the military authority ; economy in the public expense , that labor may be lightly burthened ; the honest payment of our debts and sacred preservation of the public faith ; the encouragement of agriculture , and of commerce as its handmaid ; the diffusion of information and arraignment of all abuses at the bar of public reason ; freedom of religion ; freedom of the press , and freedom of person under the protection of the habeas corpus , and trials by juries impartially selected . These principles should be the creed of our political faith , the text of civic instruction , the touchstone by which to try the services of those we trust . " This body of Democratic doctrine has been in the hands of every competent writer of party platforms since the custom was established of making a platform declaration of principles . This " creed of our political faith " was never flouted and repudiated in a convention assembled in the name of Democrarcy until Democracy was overwhelmed by Populism at Chicago in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gold and silver , coined at a ratio determined by their commercial value . Black is not more different from white than that doctrine from the Bryan doctrine of coinage at the arbitrary ratio of 16 to 1 . Writing on Sept. 11 , 1813 , to JOHN WAYLES EPPES , JEFFERSON said : " To trade on equal terms the common measure of values should be as nearly as possible on a par with that of its corresponding nations , whose medium is in a sound state ; that is to say , not in an accidental state of excess or deficiency . Now one of the great advantages of specie as a medium is that , being of universal value , it will keep itself at a general level , flowing out from where it is too high into parts where it is lower . " Every argument that JEFFERSON made against an inflated paper currency of fluctuating value holds good to-day against the silver monometallism of BRYAN . The founder of the Democratic Party declared for a stable measure of value that should be " as nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value in use in the countries with which trade relations are maintained . Interpreted by its fundamental principle of stability and the plain intent of his language , JEFFERSON 'S financial teaching leads straight to gold as the standard and measure of value and can lead nowhere else . When the upholders of BRYAN and the Chicago platform appeal to THOMAS JEFFERSON ? as the source of their doctrine and authority they insult his memory and assert an impossible kinship . They attempt to dignify their creed by clothing it with an antiquity to which it can ? establish no title . If they seek a parentage for their beliefs let them look for it in the Ocala platform and in the utterances of EUGENE V. DEBS .                     