@@674087

txt Secretary Olney has not taken any steps to prevent the expulsion of Correspondent Mannix from Cuba , and it is not probable that he will interfere with the plans of the Spanish authorities in that matter . He ? had not received from Havana any information about the intended expulsion , but he had lk arned of It from the newspapers and by private advices from New-York . To those who asked for information he said that he had no facts not given in the newspapers , and that Consul General Williams had not sent him any telegraphic protest against Mr. Mannix 's deportation . While it is generally admitted by those acquainted with the international law touching the right of a sovereign people to reject any and all persons regarded as distasteful or dangerous , it is the common opinion that if Mr. Mannix has been expelled the Spaniards have made a mistake . If the information sent by Mr. Mannix was not true or if it contained too much matter calculated to encourage the insurgents , that is the fault of the Spaniards and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good campaign , correspondents who are free to roam as they are inclined , will be as apt to send accounts of Spanish victories as of Cuban successes . ? Were it possible to shut up all sources of information , except those regulated by the press censors , and that fact became known , the authorized dispatches would be constantly discredited , and imagination would supply the belief that the Spaniards were really losing and furnishing the visiting correspondents with accounts of Victories that never were won . If there are in Cuba any other correspondents for American newspapers , and Gen. Weyler ascertains the fact , it is supposed that he will make them share the fate of Mr. Mannix . There may be some of them who will elude the Spaniards and get within the Cuban lines , taking chances upon having their dispatches forwarded to Florida by such messengers as they can find from time time . The task of securing contraband information will have imparted to it a zest that will be enjoyed by some of the bright young men who are waiting for an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is believed that it will be impossible for the Spanish so to protect the small ports against - the escape of inside information as to render the business of forwarding news about the insurgents very difficult . It is suggested that Consul General Williams has sent forward information by mail of the expulsion of Mr. . Mannix , in which case the news from Mr. Williams will reach the United States about as soon as does Mr. Mannix . It is not expected that Mr. Mannix will personally bring his case to the attention of the State Department .                     