@@673246

txt The Republicans in the RhodelslandLegislature have practically decided to keep the present State officers in office through the present year as " hold-overs , " regardless of the result of the last election . But this is a matter of minor importance , since the unjust election system of the State will be amended in accordance with the terms of a resolution adopted by both houses yesterday . A plurality election amendment will be submitted to the people , and there can be no doubt of its adoption . When the new excise law was passed last year there was a pretense of providing for local option in a section which declared that its provisions should not apply to " any town where the majority of voters have voted for or hereafter vote for local prohibition until such town shall reverse by vote such local prohibition . " We pointed out at the time that this ' was a sham , as no provision was made , in the act or elsewhere , for taking such a vote on local prohibition , while the old discretion under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been taken away . There has just been a decision by Judge PARKER of the Supreme Court at Kingston upholding this view . Excise Commissioners in a certain town had been elected for the very purpose of refusing to grant liquor licenses , as had often been done under the old law , whereby local option was practically exercised . An applicant to whom a license had been refused applied for a writ of certiorari and the Judge decides that there is no provision of law under which Excise Commissioners can refuse to consider applications for licenses or arbitrarily refuse to grant them . In point of fact , it was the object of the act of 1892 to do away with local option and the purpose was effectually accomplished . If in the case of ex-State Senator AlecFARLANE of Philadelphia , who has been a fugitive from justice and who surrendered himself to the authorities last Wednesday , the punishment inflicted by the courts on the same day had been made to fit the crime , he would not have got off with four years in the penitentiary . MACFARL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies , and in association with three or four men who were his tools , he caused much suffering by deliberately robbing many poor persons of all their savings and by making worthless the life , - insurance policies of nundreds who had arrived at an age when it was impracticable to replace what was taken away . The suffering caused by the wrecking of such institutions continues for many years . MACPAIMANt ' almost succeeded in obtaining control of the Phoenix Life Insurance Company ' of Hartford with the avowed purpose of grabbing its assets . Only by the most strenuous exertions of the policy holders and through the agency of special legislation was the company kept out of the hands of this scoundrel , and we do not think that the policy holders will ever forget that it was necessary to pass over the veto of Gov . MORGAN G. BULKELEY the law by which their investments were made safe . It is an interesting coincidence that the addition of 25 cents per ton to the price of anthracite coal , made by the agents on Wednesday , was immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There has been but one reduction of the price of coal since the combination began to be affected by the reverses which culminated in the collapse of the Reading Company , and this advance offsets half of the reduction then made . In spite of the decisions in New-Jersey and the condition of the Reading Company , the combination seems to have some vitality remaining . It will not be so easy now , however , to maintain the fixed prices ? and to prevent underselling as it was six months ago .                     