@@780959

txt Secretary Tracy proposes to push the cong truction of the 7,400-ton protected cruiser authorized by the Naval Appropriation bill approved March 2 . This vessel is to be known as Protected Cruiser No. 13 until a , name is selected for her . The appropriation will not be available until , July 1 , but the Secretary has issued an advertisement calling for bids to be opened June 1 . This will give the department time to settle any disputed point about the bide that may arise , and the contract may be signed July 1 . In the meantime the lowest bidder can be getting all ready for the work and ordering the material , for he is to have no spare time after the contract is signed . The vessel is to be completed by July 1 , 1893 , or in just two years , while for the completion of Cruiser No. 12 , of which this is to be a duplicate , two years and a half were allowed . The two vessels being alike , the department will simply duplicate the plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by contractors after May 1 . No. 13 , like No. 12 , is to bo an ideal Coin-mere destroyer , with power to maintain a sea speed of twenty-one knots per hour and twenty-two knots in a spurt . She will be able to attain at ordinary cruising speed 25,000 knots without recoaling . Her machinery will consist of three sets of triple expansion engines . having a combined horse power of over 20,000 , and driving three screws . When high speed is not essential a small number of boilers can be used with high pressure , and a single engine driven at its full power , thereby preventing the waste that is inevitable when a large engine is run at a lower power . The engines will be arranged in three separate water-tight compartments , each complete in itself and independent of the others , so that any two might be entirely disabled without interfering with the working of the third . The ship will be able to run with one screw and onethird power at fifteen knots , with two screws and two-thirds power at from eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a maximum of twenty-two knots and a sustained average of twenty-one . Her batteries are to be light and especially designed for use against unarmored or lightly-armored vessels . She will carry one eight-inch gua , two six-inch guns , twelve four-inch rapid-tire guns , sixteen six-pounder rapid-lire guns , eight one-pounders. and four Gatlings . William Cramp &; Sons are building No. 12 , and it is thought ' likely they will get the contract to build No. 13 , as they can probably bid lower than any other firm , having all plans and patterns on band . When the janitor opened the doors of Eugene Kelly &; Co. ' s office , in Exchange Place , yester ' day morning , he found a tall man outside waiting for admission . The stranger , who had a rather unprepossessing countenance , but was better dressed than the average rough , walked into the office with scant ceremony and said he wanted to see Mr. Eugene Kelly . As that gentleman is in Florida , he was not to be seen , and then the caller asked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While waiting , the man became very abusive in his language to the clerks , bathe was allowed to remain in the office . Mr. Kelly came in about 10:15 o'clock , and the man stepped up to him . " You ai n't the duck I 'm looking for , " the stranger said . " You ai n't Edward Kelly . You 're giving me a stand-off " Mr. Kelly assured the visitor that he was Edward Kelly . To this the caller responded that somebody named Kelly bad sent him to Sing Sing , and that Kelly was going to suffer for it . He talked volubly for some time , but In a way that made his hearers suspect that his brain was not in the best working order . From what-he said they got an idea that he had been sent as a boy to the Catholic Protee ' tory , of which Eugene Kelly is a Trustee . After being released from that , institution . he had stolen something and had gone to Sing Sing in consequence . When his term had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island for something rather unimportant in the larceny line . His imprisonment on the island appeared to have ended on Tuesday . As the man talked , he grew more and more abusive , and finally a messenger was sent out for a policeman . None was to be found just then , said a little later Mr. Kelly started out to see if he could n't find an officer . The man followed him into the hallway and struck him . Mr. Kelly resisted the attack , but he was overweighted , and by the time the affair was over the left side of his face was pretty well bruised . The clerks came to his rescue , and another call for a policeman was more successful . The man , who gave his name as Charles McCarthy , was locked up .                     