@@675003

txt The Duke of Devonshire , Lord President of the Council of Ministers , who was the principal guest at the Mayoral banquet at Eastbourne last even-. ing , said in the course of his speech in reply to a toast to her Majesty 's Ministers : " There is no reason to desist from the work of strengthening our naval forces and general defenses , since Fishoda is only an incident in a much larger question . " This expresses the prevalent feeling throughout England ; and there can be no doubt that . Lord Salisbury 's speech at the Guildhall banquet will not be received with much enthusiasm by the general public . Judging from , tbe comments.pf ? . the morning paterS. - more attention is likely to be paid to his grave warning of the necessity of upholding the Empire by making sacrifices to provide a strong navy than to his pacific assurances . Even the most friendly journals explain his reticence as due to the restraint imposed by the responsibilities of office . The Daily Chronicle frankly calls him " a muddler , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and protests against his " maladroit suggestion that the entrance of the United States into world politics will make for war . " The Standard says : " There is a deliberate vagueness in Lord Salisbury 's language  --  a tendency to hint rather than indicate unpalatable truths  --  which is not reassuring . " The Daily News also disagrees with his remarks about America and says : " Nothing that fails to conduce to peace can conduce to Great Britain 's interests . Probably . however , Lord Salisbury only meant that Great Britain and the United States are not likely to be found on opposite sides , and there we cordially agree with him . " The Daily News then proceeds to ask whether the Philippines are the storm-centre which the Premier foresees , and says : " The omens are certainly not favorable . The Peace Conference is a deadlock . Emperor William is hastening back , not to Berlin , but to Spain . If Lord Salisbury Meant anything by his remarks regarding America they point to a somewhat serious situation . If he meant nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitive a time and in such a public manner , in a fit of diplomatic blues . " The Times , in a rather colorless editorial , calls Lord Salisbury 's speech " weighty . " It says : " His reference to decaying States as likely to invite war will not be misunderstood by the country , and the recent proofs of British strength may Induce Germany to seek an understanding , if not an alliance , with England . "                     