@@781274

txt Lord Stanley today received a cable dispatch from London . England . informing him that his second son , the Hon. Arthur Stanley , is dying . The news oreated great consternation at the Government House . and the most profound sympathy is felt for the Governor General and Lady Stanley in their misfortune . Some time ago it was announced that two sons of his Excellency were ill in London , and Lady Stanley went to Now-York intending to sail for England , but on receipt of the news that the Hon. George Stanley had almost recovered from an attack of brain fever , and the Hon. Arthur , who was suffering With rheumatic fever was much better , she returned to the capital . The dispatch received to-day intimates that the Hon. Arthur Stanley suffered a relapse yesterday evening , and this morning his case was pronounced most serious . Lady Stanley leaves to-morrow for New-York , and will sail by the first steamer . It is generally understood that . in the event of young Stanley 's death his Excellency will leave for England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new Governor General , probably Lord Aberdeen . would assume the duties of office in Canada at once , as Lord Stanley would not return to complete his term . which expires next June . Sheriff John Courtney of Brooklyn met with a painful accident yesterday afternoon which will confine him to his home for a day or two . He had his daughter Rose out for a drive down the road . A new team which the Sheriff recently purchased drew a handsome new road wagon . Miss Courtney alighted at her father 's residence . 496 Vanderbilt Avenue , and the Sheriff drove on toward the stables in the Raymond Street Jail yarcL The team became a little flighty passing under the elevated road on Fulton Street , and continued restive until Willoughby Avenue was reached . As they turned into that thoroughfare they suddenly took the bits and ran . The suddenness of their start threw the carriage over , and Sheriff Courtney fell to the street , His great beaver fur coat no aonbt saved him from serious injury . As it was , he got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face and head . Several citizens ran to him and helped him to the office of Dr. Terhune , who attended to his injuries and then took the Sheriff home in his own carriage . The team dragged the upturned carriage for two blocks before a policeman and a citizen stopped it . The carriage was almost completely wrecked , but the animals were uninjured . They were led around to the jail stables and rubbed down and blanketed after their violent efforts . The horses are thoroughbreds , and Sheriff Courtney recently paid $1,500 for them . The carriage was worth $300.                     