@@781414

txt Senator Deboe left for Washington to-night , and after his departure a story was put abroad that in the event Goebel is given a certificate of election next Saturday by the throwing out of the vote of Jefferson , Knox , and Johnson Counties Senator Deboe , Senator Lindsay , Gov . Bradley , Gen. Taylor , and other Republican leaders will unite in an appeal to e'resident McKinley to declare martial law in Kentucky , recognizing Taylor as Governor and supporting his administration . Senator Deboe stated that he felt confident no emergency would arise requiring the assistance of the Federal authorities , but intimated he had assurances that Federal aid could be had if it became necessary . There was no change in the situation here to-day on either side . The expected move of Goebel leaders to take the Gubernatorial controversy into the courts prior to its handling by the State Ejection Board has not materialized so far , and many believe it has been abandoned . The story from Louisville that Jefferson and Elliott County returns had been mysteriously lost or tampered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , duplicate certificates could be easily obtained , and the theft of them would not affect the result . The hotels of the city are slowly tilling up with visiting Republicans and Democrats from many parts of the State . The report that Warden Lillard under the direction of Gocoel leaders is arming convicts and preparing to take the Goebel side in tile event Bradley calls out troops Saturday is absolutely unfounded . It is probable the sitting 01 laic : - . , Litte ' election Boartt will extend over several days and it is stated that the Denlocriiiic Commissioners will refuse to begin canvassing the returns in case Gov . Bradley places a military guard over them . MR . LINDSAY FEARS NO TROUBLE . United States Senator Lindsay of Kentucky , who was in the city yesterday , declared that he did not expect any serious trouble in his State as the result of the recent election , though he thought there might be a long lega ; controversy . " Do you think Mr. Goebel will try to go to the United States Senate it  --  he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That is a delicate question for me to discuss , " replica the Senator , with a smile . " You see , I am the retiring Senator , and while I am making no tight for a re-eection , still I do not say I would not be willing to go back to Washington for another term if the Legislature cares to send me there . "                     