@@673738

txt The President , in his message , has approved the proposal to transfer . the remainder of the - work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey to the Hydrographic Office and to the Geological Survey , the former taking what belongs to the coast and the latter what belongs to the interior . That project came to him with the combined recommendations of Secretary Carlisle and Secretary Herbert as one of efficiency and economy . Indeed , the coast survey work , except in Alaska , was all done long ago , except a few stretches on the Gulf and the Pacific seaboard ; and these stretches , if the Navy Department should be intrusted with them , would soon be finished . As to the hydrographic work in noting changes from shifting sands or other causes , it is now done by officers of the navy , detailed to the Coast and Geodetic Survey . the making and issuing of maps and charts , which is a constant task , could also , of course , be performed by the Hydrographic Office of the Navy Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now before Congress which provides for the proposed transfer , and there seems no need of longer keeping up a separate bureau for this duty . +mincrarmsoi THE UNITED PRESS%S . NEW ALLY . From The Newport News of Dec. 3 . Some time since the old " Associated Press " aid the United Press became practically one in the business of news gathering and supplying the papers with information from all parts of the world . The organization as it now exists tender the name of the United Press is by far the largest and most effective institution of its class which has ever existed in America . As it does not include or provide for all the newspapers in the country , various minor organizations were effected , such as the Western Associated Press , with headquarters at Chicago , the Southern Associated Press , Sec . These papers sent news from their several focalities to each other through an arrangement provided for that purpose , which under the circumstances was probably the best they could do . Of course , such uncertain and limited news gathering left the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now announced that the Southern Associated Press has withdrawn , an arrangement having been effected through which the papers composing it will hereafter be supplied bythe United Press . Many of the papers affected by the change express great joy over the new alliance , as it adds immensely to their resources . The Daily News received telegraphic news from the United Press before its union with the old " Associated Press , " and found it highly satisfactory . The association put a special wire into our office and provided a special operator for the reception of the news , which arrangement continues . And it is safe to say that no news agency in the world is more far-reaching and effective than the United Press , which enables us each day and at the earliest possible moment to spread the news from all countries before our readers . From The Sunday News of Dec. 2 . The United Press , which is the organization serving The News and three-fourths of all the other morning and evening papers in this city and throughout the country , has scored another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of the now defunct " Associated Press , " whose headquarters were in New York in its lifetime . For a brief period there was an interchange of news dispatches between the Southern Associated Press and this Chicago organization , but this has been discontinued and the news gathered by the Southern association will hereafter be furnished only to the papers belonging to the United Press . The Southern Associated Press includes in its membership every paper of any standing in the Southern States , except two at New-Orleans , which two the Chicago persons tried to favor in the hope that they would assist in an attempt to break up the Southern association , of which they were both members . The Southern Associated- Press managers discovered this trickery and they forthwith severed all relations with Chicago , so that the few papers taking the news peddled out from there are cut off entirely from getting any information from the Southern States , excepting such as the two New-Orleans papers and a few insignificant ones may be willing and able to furnish . The United Press papers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Southern Associated Press in all its fullness exclusively . With its connections absolutely complete in every part of the country , East , West , North , and South , and with Europe , Asia , Africa , Australasia , and the islands of the seas , covered with its agents , the United Press stands absolutely without a rival . From the Rochester Union and Advertiser of Dee . 5 . All the first-class papers are in the old and original New-York State Associated Press , or in the United Press Association , which covers the whole country . Only second-rate papers are in the wildcat Western so-called " Associated Press , " which has proved to be so unreliable that its members of any account are withdrawing from it . From The Columbus ( Ga . ) Enquirer-Sun of Der .. 2 . The new alliance between the Southern Associated Press and the United Press is attracting a great deal of attention throughout the newspaper world . It is generally regarded as a powerful combination , and the odds are on the Southern Association in its fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been badly treated . From The Florida Times-Union of Dec. 2 . Through recent arrangements perfected by the Southern Associated Press , the Times-Union does now , and will hereafter , present a telegraphic news service hitherto unapproached in the South , and the only service of the kind which can be rendered by any paper in its territory .                     