@@675237

txt An attempt was made to blow up a street car with dynamite at 9:30 o'clock this evening . The car was in Euclid Avenue returning to the Lake View barns when a terrific explosion occurred under the wheels at Anndale Avenue , opposite the residence of Henry A. Everet , President of the Big Consolidated Street Railway Company . The car was nearly jolted from the track , but was not stopped . The half dozen passengers on board were badly frightened , but none of them was injured . No damage was sustained by the car , and it proceeded on its journey . There is no clue to the perpetrators . About the same time , in Pearl Street , on the South Side , three non-union street railway men who had left the Holmden Avenue barns to purchase tobacco were pursued by a howling mob . One of the fugitives fired a revolver , but hit no one , and the bullet passed through a large plate-glass window across the street . The street car men sought refuge in a store just as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly , In the confusion a number of women who were In the crowd were thrown down , and a little girl was struck with a policeman 's club and severely bruised . Early this morning a dynamite bomb was thrown upon the roof of the Big Consolidated Street Railway Company 's barn at Lake View . A jagged hole two feet square was torn in the roof and many windows were shattered . A Wade Park Avenue car , which stood directly beneath the hole , was also wrecked , the roof of the car being torn off by the explosion . The wildest excitement prevailed among the men in the barn . The explosion was heard for blocks , and hundreds of people ran to the scene . No one was injured . The shock was such as to cause the ground to tremble , and it seemed for a few moments as it the barn would tall . It is not known who committed the deed , but the police suspect two men who were seen about the building acting in a suspicious manlier . In the excitement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setting away . It was not until late this morning that the immense amount of minor damage done by mobs under toe cover of night was definitely known at Police Headquarters . Hardly a ? street traversed by the 1 ; ig- Consolidated linos escaped . Last night aril early this morning lawless crowds were active , destroying trolley wires and feed wires and placing all kinds of obstructions on the tracks . Polite Director Barrett stated this afternoon that troops would doubtless be called out 50011 to suppress mob violence . " The action of the mobs Thursday has dissipated what doubt there remains as to the advisability of calling out the military , " said the Director . " Such a condition of affairs as prevailed throughout the city last night can no longer be toi .. rated . " The Naval Militia battalion is at its armory . having reported there at I ; o'clock ton gh t and it will undoubtedly be at once called out to suppress further rioting . There is a . strdre on among the linemen , polemen , and electricians of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and practically cripples the construction work of the company . The Cuyahoga Telephone Company is a corporation which is managed by Henry A. Everett . President of the Big Consolidated . It was said that the telephone men went out because they had been asked to do line work on the Big Consolidated . the railway linemen having . strucit in sympathy with the trainmen . General Manager Davis says that there were 17a : men in all in the wiring : and pole constru.tttion departments , and that most of trese did not report for work Friday morning .                     