@@781061

txt The return of Italian opera to New-York and its welcome to the new shrine that has risen unobserved behind the imperishable bulwarks out of the ashes of the old one was a significant spectacle last night . It arrived with pageants on both sides of the great curtain that fell slowly like the falling of a leaf or the fading of a dream and shut out the picture of the auditorium from the picture of the stage . There were two sides as well to the picture of the auditorium . The passion of art and the pride of splendor and show elbowed each other and composed a double tableau . The spectacle was one of social pomp and ceremony at which the fashionable monde of New-York appeared as if under the silent spell of some mysterious compulsion . But mixed with the splendid figures of the social show and infused with the enthusiasm of a vivacity both spiritual and intellectual , was a dense , wholesome , luxurious , yet unpretending , crowd of Americans who only found amusement in the dainty foreign affectations of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be looked at and wondered at . To reach this compound entertainment of the eyes , the ears , and the sense of goodnatured humor was by no means an easy task last night It will be found before long that the cable cars seriously endanger all social functions and ceremonials at the Metropolitan Opera House . The well-regulated assemblage of coaches , last night , was constantly menaced and disturbed by the clanging Polyphemuses of the cable , each with its ugly blazing eye gliding up or down with a hideous and alarming velocity . These fleet monsters , with their yellow eyeballs growing bigger as they advance , constitute a horrible nightmare for the well-bred and supersensitive horses of society . In spite of the careful and judicious marshaling of its equippages by the officials of the Metropolitan and the police , society clearly has a right at such times to reinforce the protests of the walking classes . It is hard to suggest a remedy for this uncomfortable state of things . But once arrived within the plain , yet stately vetibule of the great Opera House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a world of illumination . Nothing gaudy or meretricious in the decorations to vie impertinently or incongruously with the toilets expected to vivify the auditorium and fill the boxes with colors like So many caskets in which fresh-gathered orchids have found their dainty beds . A huge breastwork of roses , over which Florist.sti-loffheimer mounted jealous guard , and which combined the contributions to the general triumph of every public and private admirer of every singer thus fragrantly welcomed to the heart of NewYork , was the only artificial decoration . All the rest was supplied by the fine flower of the women of the American metropolis and by the splendor of their attire . As for the men , they simply composed an intermediate sub-tone of sombreness , but were , none the less , content . Everything but the people in the lobbies was severely Tilmin and welt-bred . Everything ' to be suspected of being criard had been banished . Everything blended decorously to make a background that should welcome and heighten good taste , but should be such a rebuke to vulgarity that it would make it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as has been said elsewhere , for orchids only , and not for poppies . The latter would have withered at its cold reproach . One of the features of the affair , on its social side  --  and it may as well lie added , on its ethnic side also  --  was the immense number of foreign folk of education and breeding , who have already formed a society , unNconscious of itself , as numerous almost , and quite as cultivated in its traits as the foreign colonies of Paris and of London . It may be that this foreign contingent , sd much in evidence last night  --  and which served to deepen the unintentioned humor of the imitators visible everywhere  --  was due , in a jarge measure , to the lingering of visit- , ors to the world 's affair . We can not shut our eyes , however , to the fact that New-York 's cosmopolitan character is no longer sustained by peanut vendors , sellers of bananas , dealers in cheap flowers , pastry cooks , and waiters alone . The life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans , by Frenchmen , by Spaniards . and even by Greeks of the higher class . All these last night made the triumph of Italian opera a melodious Babel at the In all the languages spoken , however , one heard a unanimous voice of praise for the beautiful new structure in which , under the benign and sagacious rule of Mr. Abbey , the stately muse of opera is to be happily married to the frisky harlequin of spectacle . It is , indeed , a noble building , and when the soft electric illumination fell blandly and with a chaste and soothing glow upon the terraced galleries mounting above each other ' to the star-litten firmaments that roofed it all , it was both pride and contentmertt that made the observer glad . What a constellation of tint and form it made ! The pearly human fieshtones that lurked in rich measures of arms and shoulders and bosoms i the exquisite convolutions of silken hair  --  here shining like ebony , there gleaming like gold ; the faces set as flowers are set upon their stalks , now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now suddenly revealed in conflicting flashes when the curtain sank , as if loth to shut out the glorious blaze of form and color on the stage ; the incessant quiver , like the play of Summer lightning reduced 4co globuled sparks , of diamonds here , diai:L'onds there , diamonds everywhere  --  all these flashing . gleaming , flickering , blazing , dancing , while the huge orchestra sustained a mighty ocean of harmonies in which the tinkling of the harps , the singing of the violins , the blare of the ti unapets inaigh-1 in superb delight  --  truly Opera returned to her home last night the tiaeen of a Titanic and glorious pageant , th a ruler of a divine revel . It is such a spectacle as this which marks high tide in the affairs of society and high art . No matter which of all the contending emotions triumphed , the salutation was a thrilling one and worthy of a goddess .                     