@@674848

txt munitions of war , horses , which they and that they will very few days . That there is no greater haste in getting them off is ascribed to the fact that the War Department authorities recognize that much time will be required to disembark the troops already sent to Santiago , and that they desire to have the first expedition well established on Cuban soil before sending more troops there . With direct cable communication established , it will be possible for Gen. Shaf ter to indicate any changes in or additions to his force that he may desire before the transports leave Tampa . Meanwhile , preparations for dispatching one and possibly two brigades of the troops encamped at Camp Alger to Santiago by the auxiliary cruisers Harvard and Yale , now at Norfolk , are in progress . The determination to send volunteers from the Washington camp is attributed to its proximity to Norfolk . After looking in vain for as many transports as will be required for the second Santiago expedition , the idea occurred to the War Department to ask the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one or two trips . As the only Spanish fleet on this side of the Atlantic is safely stored away in Santiago Harbor , leaving no urgent need of sea scouts . the Navy Department found itself in a position to accede to the request without inconvenience . As soon as it it had been decided to use the former liners for this purpose , the next step was to select to go aboard them the best-prepared regiments in the nearest-by camp . This is believed to have resulted in the choice - of the brigade commanded by Brig . Gen. Henry M. Duffield at Camp Alger , including the Ninth Massachusetts and Thirty-third and Thirty-fourth Michigan Regiments , as the first detachment to be sent to reinforce Gen. Shafter 's force before Santiago . Although the War Department authorities maintain their official reticence as to what , if any , troops are to be sent from Camp Alger to Santiago , there is good ground for the assertion that the regiments named will be sent to Norfolk to take passage on the Yale and the Harvard when those vessels are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's brigade , including the Sixth Massachusetts , the Sixth Illinois , and the Eighth and Ninth Ohio , may go to the same destination later on , when the two cruisers return for a second trip , but this plan , it appears , is at least subject to change . Supplies for the six regiments moved from Mobile to Miami are being hurried to the latter point , for the use of the volunteers while they await at Miami the movement on . Puerto Rico . So far no food supplies have been ordered to Fernandina , indicating that no immediate movement of troops to that point is contemplated . The preparation of the camp site near Fernandina continues , however , leaving no doubt of the War Department ' ? intention to use It as a point for the concentration and embarkation of the main body of the Puerto Rican. army .                     