@@674175

txt It will be a matter of keen disappointment to the people of this city that the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court has refused to confirm the report of its Commissioners in favor of the construction of the rapid-transit roads laid out by the Rapid Transit Commission , but from the decision there seems to be no appeal . The question to be determined in the absence of the consent of property owners was the very broad one " whether such railroad ought to be constructed or operated . " The decision of the court is in effect that the enterprise so carefully planned by the Rapid Transit Commission , ought not to be carried out , and in the face of this decision there seems to be no resource except such a radical change of plans as will obviate the objections of the Judges , and that does not seem possible . The only ground upon which stress is laid is the cost of the undertaking and the danger of carrying the city debt to the Constitutional limit without reaching its completion . The court does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost , but upon the refusal of its own Commissioners to make such an estimate and upon the assumption that the one presented by the Rapid Transit Commission would inevitably be exceeded . We might say that the uncertainty of the ultimate cost and the apprehension of the court that it would be greater than the city could bear without embarrassing its finances and impairing its credit are the grounds of the refusal to confirm the report of the Commissioners . It would be rather presumptuous to criticise a unanimous decision of so able and upright a tribunal as . the Appellate Division unquestionably is upon so important a subject . Otherwise we might be tempted to direct attention to the fact that the Rapid Transit Commission is composed of the same number of able and upright men , who have given exclusive study for a long time to the practicability of their undertaking , including the whole question of cost and the contingencies which it involves , taking the testimony and the estimates of the most distinguished engineering and financial experts . The report of the Commissioners appointed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same kind , they were disposed to accept the conclusions of the Rapid Transit Commission as a determining factor in their own action , instead of undertaking to present any of their own on the question of cost . The reflection which the court casts upon the Commissioners for omitting to do the latter hardly seems to be deserved , for the body most competent to decide that question was the Rapid Transit Commission , and it had decided it . As the matter stands , the process gone through has the appearance of an anticlimax . A specially qualified body appointed for the purpose , and devoting itself to the details of the problem with all the expert aid it could command , decides , among other things , that the underground system can be constructed within certain limits of cost and without embarrassing the city 's finances . Commissioners appointed to report whether the system should be constructed , although the property holders along the routes had not given the requisite consents , spend weeks in reviewing the ground , and find no reason for not accepting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then the court , as an incident of its judicial business , upsets the whole proceeding , not on Constitutional or legal grounds , but on the same practical business question , which it does not investigate for itself . However , it was within the competency of the court thus to bring to naught all that has been done and to inflict upon the city what can be regarded as nothing less than a calamity . The worst of it is that it seems to leave no immediate . Way out . The sion was absolutely bound by tEifliv to the plan of Municipal constrpction , if the vote-of 1894 should be in favor of it , and it is ' still bound to it and required by the terms of the statute to carry it out . What assurance is there that if it should change its routes and plans and go through the laborious process of preparation again it would not meet the same check on the same ground ? We have no doubt that with the valuation of real estate which the law actually requires the resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best rapid-transit system in the world , which , without ultimate cost to itself , would vastly increase the sources of municipal reyenue . But how is it to get it ?                     