@@674187

txt While the Western Democrats in the silver party are striving desperately to advance the chances of Boles , Bryan , or Bland , the " busy bees " alluded to by Secretary Morton in an interview published to-day , and are regarding with distrust the suggestions about making such halting silver men as Morrison or ex-Gov . Campbell the bearers of the silver banner , the campaign for Stevenson is going on in the Senate . The silver barons are determined to remove , if possible , the impression that politically they are of no more account in the the country than they , sere , when , in 1892 , they appeared at Chicago , a body of solid opponents of the le-nomination of Grover Cleveland . If Senatorial conniving could nominate a candidate or prevent a man from obtaining a nomination , the moving spirits in the Senate would have settled the contest at Chicago in favor of the nomination of Vice President Adlai Stevenson . The Democratic and Republican Senators want a President in the White House whom they can approach , and whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . tinder Presidents Hai risen and Cleveland the Senators have been resentful because the President has acted as if ne had prerogatives which Senators were not entitled to encroach upon . For that reason there are no Republican Senators who would care to see Harrison once more returned , and there are Democrats who would be happy to see Stevenson take the place of Cleveland , and as a silver PreSident . If rumor is correct , Kentucky will be Induced to declare for Stevenson us the candidate , Perhaps upon the production of a letter showing , In Stevenson 's own handwriting , that he was a free-silver man long before Senator Stewart owned a mine . The prospect of having Allison In the White House was attractive to the Republican Senators for much the same reason that the Democrats are friendly to the aspirations of Mr. Stevenson . With Allison to run business , the Senators who are to remain during the Administration to begin in 1897 are confident they would be able to secure recognition of the rule of Senatorial courtesy to a degree that would make possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With ally Senator or the Vice President chosen to occupy the place of Mr. Cleveland , things would go very well with the Senatorial circle . The favors would be turned out with liberality and Ith due regard for reciprocal action . Of course , a determined disregard for Senatorial comfort and greatness by either of tho National conventions will be unpleasant for the Senators who hope to control tile nominations to be made at the Whito House for four years . There is talk among the Democrats of the Senate to justify the Impression that Mr. Stevenson has been cal etully groomed for just the situation which ho is now about to meet . He has for years maintained a " discretion " equaled only by that of Major ; and while refraining from uttering one sentiment to show that he has had ideas onllying , issues , his friends in the Senate have had in mind the intention to apply him to any use to which he might appear to be conspicuously available . A man who has said nothing except Immaterial pleasantries while in a prominent position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration for free silver , and he would feel quite as much at home on one platform as another . Then , to rush Stevenson forward will prevent the nomination of a plain and strong man like Morrison , who has had opinions too sane to present him as a desirable candidate for the fanatical silver men . With silver and silver coinage at any cost , the prevailing idea . in the Chicago Convention , nothing but a silver man so rank that he can not he doubted will at all answer the expectations of those who insist that the candidate shall be a record treesilve ? man who has never so much as breathed a doubt about the safety of the experiment of independent free-silver coinage at the ratio of 10 to 1 .                     