@@672323

txt The most strenuous advocates of freedom and independence in political action admit the necessity and . the utility of organization . The most earnest believers in the representative principle in party management concede the importance of leadership . The rank and file of a political party have certain convictions or instincts in regard to public policy , certain tendencies of thought and feeling which lead them to one side of the dividing line rather than to the other , but in order to formulate principles and establish a recognized basis of agreement and united action there must be an organization effected and carried on through selected . representatives of the mass . The theory of such an organization is that these representatives , whether acting as members and officers of party committees , delegates to conventions and conferences , or elected agents of the people in public positions , reflect the convictions and wishes of those by whom they are chosen . But , necessarily , they must exercise their own judgment in behalf of their constituents . To an extent - they must lead and direct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study the conditions of politics and of pending questions and to devise plans of party action , appealing for support to the intelligence and the convictions of those whom they represent . There must necessarily be leaders in this work of organization , and in a normal state of things these will be men - with a clear comprehension of the principles that underlie popular convictions and , tendencies , a quick perception of the demands of the time , and a capacity for organizing and directing forces that have their source in the people and not in themselves . Their function will be to guide , to direct , and to give expression to party forces , not to dictate or to control party action for selfish purposes of their own . Those ' who undertake to do the latter become " bosses " and not leaders . They forget or ignore the representative character in party organization and assume that authority proceeds not from the mass of party membership , but from themselves . They assume to command and to exact obedience , I rather than to exercise an authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes . They undertake to ? use an organization , formed to carry out certain principles and to promote certain policies in public affairs , to give effect to their personal designs and to accomplish ends that are not consistent either with the public good or the well-being of the party itself . We have had in this country two kinds of " bosses . " One has flourished chiefly in large cities , where there is a mass of ignorant or indifferent voters and where the more intelligent part of the community is apt to be so absorbed in private interests as to neglect public duties . Political leaders have there found . the opportunity of controlling party organization to suit their own plans and purposes . and have depended . upon the manipulation of one class of voters , the easy acquiescence of another class , and the general disposition of party men to accept nominations made for them , for the success of their designs . The " boss " of the Tammany type , however , seeks to win support . He may be ready to deceive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indifferent by an appeal to selfish motives , to use the " spoils " of office and of public patronage to enlist in his service those who can control votes , bat at the present time , at least , he dare not resort to dictation and coercion and the exercise of autocratic authority . The Republican " boss " of to-day is a comparatively new type . He finds that his party has drifted . into a dependence upon certain combinations of private interests , which derive profit from the policy of the Government and desire to continue doing so . They seek to use politics to increase their advantages and their power . They have obtained practical control of a political party , and their alliances ate made directly with the so-called leaders of that party . It is a consolidation of power that has to be maintained . on the corporation principle and not on the representative principle . Influence is not proportioned to numbers , but to ownership of stock . Those who command . the largest resources have most power , and the springs of action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituent body . The designs contrived . by those few in their inner councils must be carried out or the whole scheme will fail . It matters not whether their purposes are understood or not , they must be accepted , and the orders issued must be obeyed , lest the whole party machinery break down . Party fidelity and the fear of the success of the opposition are made an instrument of coercion , and . party action becomes subject to " bossism " and not to leadership . " Bossism " of this kind necessarily becomes autocratic and tyrannical . It can not exist upon any other terms , and the power of a man like Tom PLATT in a party depends wholly upon the ruthless and unscrupulous use of coercion . The combination of interests which he represents cares nothing for the fate of any party unless it can be used to accomplish the ends that the combination has in view . It does not ask or plead , it commands and insists . It will reward those who serve it and it will destroy those who refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him obeyed , not his power to benefit ; his willingness to undermine , to stab in the dark , to wreck and destroy , not his ability to build up . It is a question how long such " bossism ? can last in a free country . Ai , party may submit to it . but will the people I If the party submits to it , will it not be at the cost of continual revolts and desertions which will end in a disastrous loss of all power ?                     