@@673780

txt Nine years ago there was in this city a situation not unlike that in Brooklyn . due to a strike on the Dry Dock street railway . It was first met in the most lax and timid fashion by the then Super-. intendent of Police , to whom The Times addressed the following words : What would have happened had the City of New-York been fortunate enough to have in Superintendent Murray 's place a man cf genuine courage and backbone ? In the first place , he would have told the Dry Dock Railway Company that It should have the protection of the police not only for one trip , but for a dozen or a hundred . And then he would have cleared the Grand Street railway from river to river arid would have said to the company : " There is your line free from all obstruction . Use it . " It is possible that Superintendent Murray was restrained from such vigorous and proper action by a judicial fear that the strikers were in the right of the quarrel and that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part to drive them out of Grand Street . The right or wrong of the question at issue was a matter with which Superintendent Murray had nothing whatever to do . He was facing a mob of men who were breaking the laws and destroying property . We presume the Superintendent knows his Penal Code . Section 635 of that code declares that any person who " places any obstruction upon the track " of a railway " or throws a stone or any other missile at . , a railway train or at a locomotive , ear , or vehicle standing or moving upon a railway " is punishable by imprisonment for ten years if any person is endangered by such act , or by imprisonment for not more than three years if no person is put in dam . ger by it . The gravity of the crimes committed by the Grand Street mob on Thursday can be measured by the severity of the punishment imposed upon such offenses by the Penal Code . Yet not one in a hundred of those persons who thus made themselves liable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superintendent Murray 's men . The Superintendent seems to have thought it was enough if his men patiently and laboriously removed the obstructions which the strikers or their sympathizers placed upon the tracks . It did not occur to him , except in one or two instances , to try a policy of prevention . The day on which this plain counsel was given the Superintendent of Police changed his methods , handled with swift severity the first offenders , and brought the trouble to an end . The situation in Brooklyn differs in extent , but not in character . The principle involved is the same . The ' duty of the authorities is the same . They were slow to see it .                     