@@674143

txt Five children were suffocated in a tenement house on L Street this morning . The names of the dead are Aime Dubois , four years old ; Lena Dubois , seven ; both children of Joseph Dubois ; Rosie Roumier , his stepdaughter , thirteen years old ; Josephine Coumartine , twelve years old , and Edward Coumartine , ten years old , the children of Charles Coumartine . The fire started in the basement of a market occupied by Roberts &; Son , in a four-story brick tenement house owned by the elder Roberts . It was discovered by Henry Roberts in his tenement above the market . Instead of awakening all the people in the house , he ran into the street shouting , " Fire , " and then to the engine house , where he gave a general alarm . His brother , Frank Roberts , also ran to the engine house , and in this way valuable time was lost . In the tenements above the Roberts family were twenty people , several of them children . Charles Coumartine was awakened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take their infant child to a place of safety , which she did . He then ran into the attic where the elder children slept , and took a girl and boy on each arm , and ran with them down the stairs . Down one flight he found the smoke had made great progress . He saw that he had not time to take the children to the street . He rushed to the front window and dropped the two upon a landing ten feet below . From there they were . taken by spectators to a place of safety . He then ran back through the smoke into the attic . There the smoke was blinding and suffocating- . Coumartine says he thought he should be overcome . He managed to get his boy , Edward , upon one arm , and Nellie upon the other . He groped his way with his load to the stairs , partly lost consciousness , and through the blinding smoke and flames all three rolled down the attic stairs to the kitchen below . His head struck the kitchen stove . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and with the instinct of self-preservation he rushed for the front window and jumped to the landing . It was only then that he realized that he had left the children . It was impossible to go back and come out alive , and the children were found suffocated on the kitchen floor . In the other tenement Dubois had aroused more slowly . When he became awake , he says . that twice he tried to get into the attic , but each time was driven back by the flames and smoke . His children were found on the floor .                     