@@674575

txt The uniformity agreement , which has been in preparation for a week , Is now ready to submit to the coal operators for their signatures . The members of the committee appointed by the convention of operators to put the document in proper form and to consult with attorneys as to its legal phases are confident that the compact will be acceptable and will be signed by the required 05 per cent . of the owners or managers of mines , and that as a result a better day will dawn upon the coal industry of the Pittsburg district . The general purpose and provisions of the agreement are well understood . The bind , ing quality of its provisions upon those who give adhesion to it are new . This is because after its submission to a number of the leading attorneys of Allegheny County it was decided that certain features required change in order that it might be binding in law . The agreement , as amended by the lawyers , provides that all disputes shall be submitted to the commission provided for by by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not satisfactory , an appeal can be taken and the matter placed in the hands of a Board of Arbitration for final settlement . The decision shall then be filed in the County Court , and thereafter shall have the same force and effect as a rule of the court . It is hoped to have the required number of signers in time to call them together some time within the present month to perfect arrangements to carry the agreement into effect . When this has been done the operators will be ready to confer with the miners about the settlement of the strike and to prepare for a joint meeting of miners and operators to agree on a wage scale to go into effect concurrently with the uniformity agreement Jan. 1 , ' SOS . The strikers , to the number of 2.000 or more , are still encamped in the vicinity of th , e De Armitt mines . They ? have practically closed the Sandy Creek and Turtle Creek mines , and the Plum Creek men are coming out in small bodies . The customary efforts were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mines , and in many cases they were successful . It is the intention of the strikers to keep up these demonstrations daily , and to march to the mines every morning at an early hour . By this method ' they expect to induce the few remaining- men at work to ? come out . No threats - Of violence have been made by the strikers . Brig . Gen. Wiley was in Pittsburg today in conference with Lieut . Col. Rutledge of the Eighteenth Regiment , and Major Fenny , Inspector of the Second Brigade . Gen. Wiley did not make public the reason of his visit , but the gathering of military men gave rise to the impression that the situation in the mining region was under consideration .                     