@@673619

txt Ex-United States Senator Warner Miller was at the United States Hotel here to-day . He is looking very much improved In health , and fa response to a request for his views on the political situation , he made some very interesting observations . Senator Miller was asked what , in his opinion , was the outlook for the Republican Party in New-York State this Fall . " The present sentiment of the Republican Party in New-York , " he said , " especially in the country districts , is one of comfortable confidence . The Republicans are determined to act in absolute concert in the Fall elections , with the full expectation of winning . This is due to the fact that the present National Administration has failed to meet the expectations of its own party . The present condition of trade and transportation in the manufacturing interests is generally charged to the failure of the Democratic Party to make the changes demanded in its platform . " " In your opinion , Senator , what will be the result of this ? " " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican majority north of New-York City to the next Congress . " " And in New-York City ? " " Men in a position to know say that we shall elect several from the city . I should not be surprised if we return five out of the New-York City delegation to the next Congress . To do this we will have to nominate substantial business men  --  men representatives of the business world , not mere politicians . " " To whom do you think the Gubernatorial nomination will go ? " " I do not think , so far as the nomination for Governor is concerned , that the opinion of the party has taken a set direction as yet . A large number of candidates have been mentioned  --  all respectable and competent men . The prevailing sentiment seems to nominate some one who will be recognized not only by his own party , but by the opposition , as a representative man . I doubt if the sentiment in that direction will be crystallized before the convention is held . In other words , I believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " Who will they be ? " " No one can tell . The candidate must be a man who represents the whole party , and not a faction or an especial interest . This is one of the most important manufacturing and commercial States in the Union , and must be represented by a man thoroughly in touch . with its interests and its people . " " What do you think of the next Legislature ? " " The last election demonstrated the ability of the Republicans to control the Assembly , notwithstanding the reapportionment . That , I believe , will lead the party to nominate this year more than an ordinary set of men . The Constitutional Convention will , by its deliberations , leave for the next Legislature work of great moment to the State . It will be the most Important session of the Legislature for years . I have no doubt that the Republicans are fully alive to its importance . If not , they ought to be . Only the best men obtainable should be put forth this year . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the important work left by the Constitutional Convention to the Legislature ? " " Well , there will be some amendments in regard to municipal questions . There will be some changes proposed in the judiciary , and these , with the questions of appropriations for sectarian schools , are all important and require men of careful judgment to handle . " " There is a good deal of talk just now , Senator , of the bossism ' of ex-Senator Platt ? " " It is ' well known in the party in this State that I am not a believer in the ' boss ' system . It has never succeeded in the Republican Party , and it never will , At the present time I will say that I do not believe Mr. Platt wants to be a boss , ' so called , of the Republican Party . The undoubted feeling in the party  --  among men who are of prominence enough to be called leaders is in favor of perfect freedom , in regard to matters of party policy ; and the fullest and freest consultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county matters . I do not believe that any one wants to be a ' boss , ' as you call it , or to assume such responsibility . If defeat should come , such a person would be held entirely responsible for it . " " Do you Fare to say anything about the differences between the Bliss-Patterson and Milholland factions in New-York City and their reference to a sub-committee of , the State Committee for adjustment ? " " As I am an advisory member of the State Committee , and as the matter is now in their hands through a sub-committee , it would be highly improper for me to say anything in regard to it . The Republicans in the interior of the State take a very great interest in the party in New-York City . Heretofore the Democratic majority there has often been large enough to overcome the Republican majority from the interior . The time has come when Republicans believe that there should be a change , and they believe the time has come . " " In view of the present tariff complication , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next Congress ? " " I think that there will be a fair working Republican majority in the House . In the Senate there would be the same if the term of enough Senators expired this Fall . In my opinion , that would make a much more pleasant situation for President Cleveland than at present . The President would be much more comfortable , I imagine , under a Republican Legislature at Washington than he has been for the last fourteen months . "                     