@@673568

txt The unanimous adoption yesterday at the meeting of the National Reform Union of a resolution declaring that the " hereditary principle " ought to be abolished in the House of Lords is an act of ? considerable significance . The truth is that the House of Lords , as a factor in legislation , is an obsolete body , with nothing whatever to say for itself . There is still something to be said by bodies which , like our own malodorous Senate , are chosen to represent the people in a circuitous way . But there is nothing at all to be said for legislative bodies like the House of Lords that dp not pretend to represent anybody but themselves , and that , in representing themselves , represent merely a class interest . That there should be an " upper house " is a plausible proposition ; but that there should be an upper house representing nobody but its own members is a proposition that is not plausible at all . SAYS OUR STATUES ARE BAD . Mr. Ruckstuhl Calls on Architects to Aid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Sculpture Society , declared before the Architectural League at its last meeting before the Summer adjournment last evening , at 215 West Fifty-seventh Street , that fully half of the twenty-seven statues in this city were bad , while most of the war memorials , soldiers ' monuments , &c.,; throughout the country were a disgrace to the Nation . Mr. Ruckstuhl was speaking-on " The New Sculpture Movement , and How Architects May Aid It . " He said architects could do much for sculpture by creating and fostering public taste in embellishing the designs for buildings by ideal groups . In his opinion a building without sculptural adornment was merely a pile of stone . The paper was discussed by George B. Post , President of the league ; Warren R. Briggs , and John Dufais . Others present were Bruce Price , Alfred H. Thorp , Charles I. Berg , John M. Carriers , Caryl Coleman , J. Scott Hartley , H. K. Bush-Brown , George Martin Huss , E. K. Rossiter , F. S. Lamb , Julius F. Harden , Lyman Nichols , Alexander Rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Tiffany prize for the best design for a flower vase had been awarded to Henry H. Braun of the New-York Sketch Club . The first and second prizes offered by Dominick &; Haff for the best designs for a silver ice pitcher were awarded to J. P. Benson and Stephen W. Dodge , respectively . ANOTHER TRAIN STOLEN BY TRAMPS . Sheriffs Ordered to Arrest All of Frye 's Army in West Virginia . PARKERSBURG , West Va. , June 6 . ? The fifty-six men of Frye 's army who were arrested yesterday were released to-day on promise to leave the county at once . Sheriff Dudley and deputies accompanied them outside the county . Shortly after they Joined another division near Kanawha Station , ten miles out , and captured an east-bound freight about 11 o'clock . They ordered the trainmen to start up , but they refused and got word to this city . Sheriff Dudley deputized a posse of citizens and called out the National Guard . Goy . MacCorkle ordered the Sheriff to arrest the entire army , and to prosecute them to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the station they learned that the army had been warned and had abandoned the train and gone further on , after greasing over two miles of track to prevent pursuit . The Sheriffs along the road were ordered by the Governor to call to their assistance the military , and to arrest the entire army and imprison them . As several hundred were reported coming from Ohio the officers were ordered to capture them and ship them back . All trainmen were armed with rifles and shotguns to-day , and ordered to use them if necessary , and if the tramps try to capture trains again , which they probably will do , there will be bloodshed . Fears are expressed that they will wreck some train .                     