@@672728

txt The right of painters and sculptors to represent men and women without clothes or draperies does not tend to become fixed by the unquestioning sanction of the world . We might expect that a license very generally given to artists in the past would be held by them unchallenged at present , when art appeals to and call be enjoyed by the public at large . Bat the reverse seems the case if we may judge the matter by the light of events in France , England , and the United States . A distinguished young painter of American origin is said to have given up Paris as a place of residence and made London his headquarters , owing to the real or simulated indignation expressed by amateurs or rivals at his portrait of a beautiful lady of the world , whom he painted in an evening dress which had , in place of the conventional short sleeves over the shoulders , merely slender chains of silver . For some reason not very clear to foreigners , who do not find the French exactly squeamish in regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital offense . Perhaps it was held that the artist abused the confidence of the lady by persuading her to be painted in a dress that went a shade beyond the line which fashion draws for women of good character . Yet the same lady may be seen this year painted in ball dress by other artists . The Americali 's shoulder chains appear to have constituted a libel . Cases of reprobation of the nude on the part of men and women on this side of the water are too recent to have been forgotten , such as the grievous rent torn in a Bouguereau in a Western city by a male fanatic , whose knowledge of art was so slight that he thought BOUGUEREAU 'S women looked like women , and the protest of ladies of Philadelphia against more human nudes by young American painters . Though a certain degree of familiarity with pictures and statues has spread very far through the people , it has not gone very deep . Every now and then one meets a mind to whom the commonplaces of - art which are accepted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most startling forms . This in some . degree accounts for the frequency of pretests against the nude in art here and in England . But there is also this factor in the present situation : never has there been so earnest a striving on the part of artists to be realistic , never since the time of the Dutch Republic have artists so insisted on actualities . Realism in art may be , therefore , set down as one of the chief reasons for rebellion against the nude , since realism will not submit to any disguising of the animal side of human beings . St. ELIZABETH of Hungary , a pions Queen of the thirteenth century , is the latest victim of libel on the part of an artist , who alas lately had the honor of a solemn discussion in the souse of Lords . Mr. CALDERON is a member of the Royal Academy , who makes up by the romantic appearance for weakness as a painter . His painting of St. ET ' MA BETH of Hungary , kneeling in a state of complete nudity while taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some excitement when it was bought for the Royal Academy , because it was pointed out that the Latin text on which Mr. CALDERON has based the nudity of the saint does not warrant the interpretation . St. ELIZABETH divested herself of most of her goods and chattels for the sake of the poor , so the monkish legend runs , but did not imitate the Lady GODIVA. it must be , in fairness , allowed to Mr. CALDERON that as an artist he has a license to change history or legend to suit his purposes if these are artistic . Moreover , the Middle Ages abound in extravagances like walking nude or half nude in processions . So far as Hungary and Eastern Germany are concerned , the people of the Middle Ages were as little concerned about appearing unclothed as the Japanese were twenty Years ago . Men and women frequented the same baths without clothes , harm to their morals , or blemish to their reputations . But Mr. CALEDRON stirred religions susceptibilities . The Catholic Lords of the upper house of Parliament make it a grievance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trust with certain Trustees , should be spent on a picture that contains a libel on a saint . One of them suggests that Protestants will point to the scene , and give their daughters to understand that only through such humiliation and exposure can a nun take the veil . This is supposing in the Protestants of England a denseness of which these legislators are better judges than Americans can be . One must accept it as al fact bearing weighty indorsement . Be it as it may , the dilemma is an awkward one , and perhaps Lord SALisisuRy could not have done better than to shirk it with a somewhat ponderous effort to laugh it - out of the House . " The only idea I have conceived of it , " said he , acknowledging that he had not taken the trouble to visit the gallery where it now hangs , " has been derived from a picture I saw in Plumb of Zaco showing her back to members of the County Council . Artists take a different view of the subject from that taken by the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent as praiseworthy would , if translated into ordinary life , attract the attention of the police . " Artists have now before them , besides the strictures of the Philadelphia matrons on the nude as naked , the prospeot of attack from churches , corporations , or nations whose feelings have been injured by an absence of clothing in the portrait of some worthy of the past . The WASHINGTON family has not yet protested against GREENOUGH 'S statue of the Father of his Country . As for the BoNAPARTEs , they can not object to PADLLUE 'S , because all the world remembers her answer : " No , t did n't mind sitting at all ; there was a fire in the room . "                     