@@673793

txt A young satirist who had achieved a limited reputation in a newspaper office by lively attacks upon an eminent citizen was condoled with by an acquaintance , after the death of the eminent citizen , upon having " lost his topic . " We may extend to the Hawaiian boomers in and out of the Senate a like condolence upon the abdication of Llliuokalani . They are bereaved of their topic . The disturbances in the Hawaiian Islands since the days of President Harrison , Minister Stevens , and the Boston have impressed many thoughtful men of business , in and outpf the United States Senate , with the bel*f that those islands could be bonded for a very handsome sum of money , and that those who procured the Hawaiian bonds upon the ground floor would be extremely fortunate persons . It is superfluous to explain that the ground floor represents the stage which precedes the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands to the United States , or the guarantee , by the United States of the securities of the insular Government . In behalf of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonds and all , under its wing , two main arguments have been introduced , one addressed to the moral and the other to the jingo sentiment of the community . The first was that the ex-Queen Liliuokalani was plotting against the provisional Government ; and that she was not only a person of immoral life , but an idolatress , who had " antagonized " the missionaries and made their labors of no effect . . The other was that Great Britain was casting covetous eyes upon the islands , and that if the United States did not annex them Great Britain would , and would convert them into a huge naval station and dockyard , with a view to the invasion of the Pacific coast . This last contention died out in face of the persistent and outrageous apathy which Great Britain has shown upon the subject . Even when Stevens and the Boston had taken possession of Honolulu in the name of the United States , Great Britain remained calm . The Government declared in the House of Cemmons that it had no objection whatever , . to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would ' preserve order and protect the rights of British subjects . When the protectorate was disclaimed and the provisional Government established , Great Britain still remained provokingly tranquil and showed no sign of interest . It was evident that any Government that could maintain itself in the islands had nothing to fear from her . The enterprising persons who had made up their minds to exploit the Hawaiian Islands , with the assistance of the United States , were thus compelled to fall back upon the idolatress and her plots for the restoration of a heathen monarchy . And now the idolatress has failed them . The repeatea assertions in her renunciation that she renounces of her own free will are calculated to excite suspicion by their reiteration . It will be suspected by the casual reader that " the lady doth protest too much . " But really there need be no doubt of her sincerity . When we consider the large and looming outlines of the Hawaiian job , as they have been adumbrated in the Senate and elsewhere , it will be seen that the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put pressure upon the ex-Queen for the purpose of taking her out of the way , and thus destroying her own utility as a " gonfalon " for the boomers in the Islands and in the American press and Senate . No feeling person will withhold his sympathy from Senators Lodge and Frye and the tumultuous Boutelle in their sad bereavement .                     