@@781859

txt It appears that the nocturnal cat has risen in Brooklyn to the proportions of a Public nuisance which it has become necessary to abate . The abatement has been undertaken , as readers of THE TIMES are aware , by members of the Midnight Band of Mercy , and they propose to show mercy at midnight to themselves and their neighbors , and incidentally to the cats , by tenderly chloroforming notorious performers into silence . This to the generality of mankind and womankind seems most well , but it is not to be expected that it should be approved by the cats and the old maids . Why ' old maids should be fond of cats , when the cleanliness of the cat is not more notorious than his cacophony and his moral delinquency , is an enigma which no philosopher has succeeded in solving . But it remains true that there is an alliance between them , offensive and defensive  --  defensive on the part of the spinsters and offensive on the part of the cats . It was therefore unlikely that a crusade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be accomplished without some other voice than the voices of the cats being raised in their defense . Their champion has appeared in the person of a lady whom it would be ungallant to call an old maid , though she is certainly palled " Miss ' I and confesses a fondness for cats . This lady suggests a modes vivendi for the cats , as if they were pelagic seals , whereas most Brooklynites whose slumbers have been broken will insist , with the French Judge , that they do not see the necessity , and that what is really needed for cats is a modus moriendi , Of this , in her turn , the lady in question does not see the necessity . She herself owns and maintains a herd , drove , pack , chorus , or whatever the proper term may be for a collection of oats , and she insists that they can be reduced to silence and subjection without recourse to the heroic remedy of felicide . Her recipe for this purpose is " syrup of buckthorn , " which she administers to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and when turned out for the night their behavior is model as compared with our neighbors ' cats . " This is very interesting , and it would be still more interesting to know how the syrup of buckthorn acts . Does it merely relax the vocal chords so that the patient can no longer sing , or does it disincline the cat for feline society I In either case , if the recipe is effective it is worthy of being generally known . But even if it were applied by all owners of cats to their pets , it is obviously impracticable to apply it to the waif and vagous eat , whose home is the back fence and which is term nets , ce . Unless the patrolmen are to carry syrup of buckthorn and to " exhibit " the same to all cats on their beats , the stray cats will continue to sing , and the evil will remain unabated , Besides . it will be difficult for the ? Midnight Band . of Mercy to make distinctions . When the reformer  --  the chloroformer  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lasting than buckthorn to every cat she can catch ; while the cats stupefied with buckthorn will fall her easiest prey . Obviously it will be necessary to append to each treated cat a certificaterthat she has been treated , and is warranted not to explode in song , just as they do in Chicago with the sterilized water . This might perhaps be effective , granting tho efficacy of the syrup of buckthorn ; but it must be owned that it is simpler just to kill the cats .                     