@@781122

txt District Attorney Foster L. Backus of Kings Cpunty had a talk with the Governor to-day In regard to John Y. McKane , for Whose pardon he preVionsly , had made application , and made some starl ling allegations . Mr. Backus said that he desired to call the Governor 's attention to what seemed upon the surface to be a violation of the jury laws , in that several jurors , who would have refused to convict MoKane , had declared under oath that they had been intimidated by other jurors in the jury room by threats of having charges preferred against them of accepting a bribe If they failed to vote to convict . He said that in a suit for libel brought by one of the jurors against a New York newspaper , In which the libeled man had obtained a verdict of St3,000 , the presiding Judge allowed several jurymen who served in the McKane trial , to testify as to what took place In the jury room They testified that they desired to vote for acquittal , but that other jurors scared and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bribe . They therefore Voted for conviction , with a plea for short sentence , which the court did not heed . The first application for McKane 's pardon was made to Gov . Morton in 1896 , two years after he was sentenced . It was made by the Rev. D. W. Couch , the Rev. T. L. Poulson , A. Treadwell , and Victor Redingfield of Brooklyn . Just before Gov . Morton 's term expired Judge Gaynor , who had aided in prosecuting McKane , made an application for pardon , but not restoration to citizenship , and then District Attorney Backus made his application , in which he says : " The jury would never have convicted McKane except upon a unanimous agreement to reconunend in the strongest possible terms a light punishment because of his good character . It seems to me that full force was not given to that recommendation in the sentence , and the only way that full force can now be given is by Executive clemency . " Other appeals have been filed and are on record by Col. Edward C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany , and when Gov . Black took office these were renewed and appeals were filed by Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy , Senator Thomas C. Platt , Jacob Worth , Lieut . Gov . Timothy L. Woodruff , Louis F. Payn , and Sheriff William J. Buttling . The Governor has the case under consideration . McKane 's term expires in April .                     