@@672839

txt The Barksdale Senatorial following In the Legislature in the last day or so have discovered something encouragin for their candidate . Most of them have said openly until to-day that there was no chanoe to elect Barksdale or defeat George . Now they say in mysterious tones that Barksdale yet has a good chance , and even if he is defeated it does not necessarily follow that George will be elected . The Alliance members held a caucus the other night , which they claimed was purely for business and that the Senatorial question was not discussed . Enough has developed to-day , however , to show that this was the principal question canvassed , and that out of that meeting they received some kind of encouragement for their candidate . They ' say that when the joint committee meets Tuesday night they have a Trojan horse to trot forth which will kick all the life out of George . It is anything with them to defeat George , who by his sturdy opposition to the Sub-Treasury scheme , has very much angered them . They claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and but for the instructions they would have no trouble in electing Barksdale . The principal thing discussed in the caucus referred to is believed to be the adoption of some scheme to relieve members from their instructions . Senator George during the canvass wrote a letter saying he would not vote for the SubTreasury bill if instructed so to do by the Legislature . This is believed to be the lever they are using . They argue that if George openly announces that he will not obey the Legislature 's instructions , the refusal relieves members from their Instructions , and they are not in honor bound to support him . The George men are somewhat frightened over the various rumors , but still do not think there is any chance of defeating him unless the Alliance has some secret card to play which they know not how to anticipate . One rumor is that Barksdale will be withdrawn entirely and some other candidate put up . The candidate most referred to in this connection is W. B. Sims of Columbus , ex-Lieutenant-Governor of the State . A large majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there is no question about both sides doing all the work possible . All of the absentees have been advised of the situation and requested to return at once .                     