@@674053

txt It Is a pity that the public and private utterances of the Republican Senators regarding the tariff and bond bills may not be placed side by aide , where the people might read them . It is essential to the game of politics now being played by the Republicans that the public shall be convinced that they are dziot insincere , and to this end nearly every Republican , when he talks publicly , assumes to be hopeful of the passage of both bills . In private conversation , most of the men who have allowed themselves to be interviewed for political effect , say they do not expect to see either bill go to the President . The silver Republicans are the only ones who talk alike in public and in private . They regard both bills as a menace to their pet hobby , and declare that if either shall pass the Senate it will pass with a provision for free coinage attached to it . They do not intend to take any chances . While they are in favor of increased tariff taxation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for advancing the cause of free silver , and they will not permit their I personal desire to return to to stand in the way of a stroke for silver . What the sound-money Republics ex ' pest to gain by following Reed 's vtactics and trying to hoodwink the country is not apparent . They know perfectly well that the tariff bill will not be signed by the President if it shall reach him , and that the bond bill is objectionable , not only to him , but to the Secretary of the Treasury . Mr. Sherman , who , only a few days ago , told J. Pierpont Morgan that he did not expect to see any revenue bill passed , says now that he is not prepared to say what will be the fate of the tariff bill in the Senate . Senator Shoup of Idaho says he has no doubt that the bill will pass the Senate . Mr. Shoup is for silver , which inclines him to believe that the bond bill will not go through . Mr. Frye- of Maine had supposed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would include a duty on wool , but as he has heard that , while Senator Peffer is in favor of a duty on wool , he will oppose a compensatory duty on woolen goods , he is not sure now that the bill will go through . He hopes , however , that the Populists will see the " value " of the horizontal bill , and stand from under . Mitchell Talks of Duty . Senator Mitchell of Oregon thinks the Dingley bill will pass the Senate , but that it may take a couple of months to put it through . It is his opinion that the Bond bill will take nrecedence of the Tariff bill when the committee shall be ready to report , and that it finally will pass with a free-coinage amendment . While the Tariff bill does not go far enough to suit him , he recognizes that " in the emergency at this time the Senate must be conservative and do the best it can for the country 's needs . " Senator of Michigan declares there will be some debate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he says . Contrary to the opinion of Major , given when the Morrison horizontal bill was being discussed in the House a few years ago , Mr. thinks " the best interests of all will be best served by a measure along the lines of the Dingley bill . " The Tariff bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on Finance , which , as at present organized , will not pay any attention to it . When the Republicans shall assume control of the committees next week they will take up the bill , and possibly will . report it without much delay . It already is evident that some of the rabid Senators will try to increase the rates agreed upon by the House . Burrotcs 's Tariff Bill . Mr. Burrows created a mild sensation today and incidentally displayed his ignorance of the Constitution , by introducing a bill designed to increase , to 60 per cent . of the rates included in the law the duties on iron ores and manufactures of iron , copper , acids , &c.,; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodities comprised in Schedules H , 7 , and N of the law . Mr. Burrows changed the form of this bill to that of an amendment to the Dingley bill after he had been informed by Mr. Sherman that the Senate could not , initiate tariff legislation . It is expected that other amendments to the bill will be offered next week . Of course the power of the ' Republican leaders will be directed to the passage of the bill as nearly as possible in Its original form . Regarding the Bond bill , there is no doubt that if it shall pass the Senate . it ' will be with a free-coinage provision . The Silver Democrats and Republicans will see to that. - The alleged sound-money Republicans care nothing for Secretary Carlisle 's assertion that the bill is unsatisfactory to him . The Administration asked for bread , and the Republicans propose to give it a stone which shall look like bread when viewed from a distance . Lively Debate Coming . There promises to be a lively debate on the general proposition to issue bonds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced a joint resolution providing that bonds hereafter issued under existing laws may , in the , discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made payable either in gold- or in standard silver dollars at the option of the holders of the bonds , the Interest not to exceed 3 per cent . This was made the basis of a vigorous speech , by Mr. Hill , In which he asserted fhat authority such as he sought to confer upon the Treasury would save the country many millions . Mr. Hill 's remarks served to Provoke a reply from Mr. Teller which added ' nothing new to the , general topic of the National , finances , Judging from the tone of to-day 's ; Agbatzl.there ? wlll be some bitterness ' en:gendered ? as , the result of the Republican attempt , to ; . : .  - -  put : - through bills which ? . the ciountrp oes not want .                     