@@675249

txt Although the Democrats who have passed through Washington on their way from the recent Chicago meeting have little doubt that the National Convention of Democrats in 1990 will nominate Col. W. J. Bryan , and place him upon another Chicago platform , with a strong anti-trust plank , and their expectations all find expresssion in most hopeful phrases , it is learned that In some of the consultations of those Democrats here occasional doubts have arisen as to the ability of the leaders , if they are the same leaders as those emnloyed in 1896 , to raise the funds with which to prosecute a campaign that will develop confidence in the Bryan cause . The Bryan Democrats are very anxious on Account of the fact well known to all Democrats that the East has been depended upon to provide the funds for Democratic campaigns , even in the South , to make an arrangement with the weak silver men of those States to abandon their sullen attitude of 1890. and join heartily in the attempt to maka Bryan President . No Democrat , it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hogg of Texas the importance of securing the money ald of New York and Massachusetts , for while Massachusetts is not expected to go for Bryan in 1990 , it is believed that the State will contribute largely to help the Democratic candidates . Some of the Democrats have suggested puerile plans for raising money , such as the offering of a brand of cigars to be sold for the campaign fund , but the leaden , : do not encourage this small business . The anti-trust campaign , which the Democrats are certain will be imitated by the Republicans , will deprive the Democrats of the assistaroe , it is assumed , of all corporate and trade combinations . They have learned that Senator Hanna has said that the campaign fund of 1896 will never be duplicated , but they are also aware that Mr. Hanna has asserted that the Republicans will have all tbe money they can need . Senator Elkins , who has observed the unanimity with which the Democrats are calling for Bryan as their candidate , says he fears they will abandon him before the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hanna is credited with holding the same hope . The advantage in running against Bryan , these men say . will be In knowing beforehand just the sort of campaign he will make , and in knowing also just the sort of fight to put up to defeat him . With a new man , not so well known or so distrusted by a part of the Democrats , the task of a Republican seeking re-election would be harder than it will be with a beaten man to beat again .                     