@@672622

txt The Australian Ballot bill is practically dead . It was killed in the House yesterday by a - vote of 74 to 71 . Seventy-four Republicans voted against the bill and the forty Democrats and thirty-one Republicans voted for it . The bill will come up in the Senate to-morrow , and will probably meet the same fate . An immense influence was brought to bear on the Republican members by the party managers to kill the bill . The lobby was a large and powerful one . In the course of the debate that has been going on in the House for several days it has been sought to influence the Republican majority to vote against the bill by pointing out that the Democratic minority was going to vote solidly for it . Indeed , it has been attempted to make com mitment to or against the bill a test of party fealty . Not one of its opponents .. in the speechmaking had anything to say about placing greater safeguards about the ballot . They concentrated their fire . on the Democratic Party because the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that bribery and corruption existed in Maine , nor could the open-ballot men meet the effective arguments of the ballot reformers in their party . The Portland Press ( Republican ) says : " This attitude of the Republican opponents of the bill is one that is disoreditable to them and degrading to their party . " The Lewiston Journal . another Republican paper , commenting on the attitude of the members of its party in the Legislature , says : " We know of Democrats who support the Sermon on the Mount , but we trust no Republican will on that account offer a motion to eliminate the Fifth of Matthew from the Gospels . " The Portland Advertiser , ( Republican. ) an ardent advocate of the bill , says ! " More harm has been done to the Republican Party during the last week by this attempt to put it on the wrong side of the ballot-reform question than it has nattered in the last twenty years . " And again the same paper says : " The Ballot-Reform bill killed in the present Legislature will be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ballot-Reform bill passed  --  yes , three times over . " The sentiment of the people of Maine is undoubtedly in favor of the bill One petition alone from Portland had 1,100 names , embraclug the most prominent and influential men of that metropolis . The Democrats stood firm as a rock in their support of the measure , and its defeat will undoubtedly greatly strengthen the Democratic Party . Ballot reform will be made a prominent issue in the next campaign , and it is not unlikely to give the Democratic Party control of the Pine Tree State .                     