@@673676

txt The modification of the injunction of Midge Jenkins in the railroad strike eases - will cause little surprise and less regret . " The basis of the injunction as understood at the time was that whatever interfered with and hindered the transportation of the mails , or inter-State commerce , was illegal , and that a strike of railway employes did so interfere , and oould therefore be enjoined . But this was certainly straining the law to the utmost , and , as decided on appeal , beyond what the law could bear . It could not be assumed that the intention of the Strikers , if they did not by violence or otherwise get beyond the limits of the law , was to interfere either with the mails or with inter-State commerce , because that was not the necessary consequence of their actions . Had the rail-Toad companies yielded to their demands and cut off the Pullman cars from their trains , there would have been no interference , so that it would seem that a mandamus to the companies would have been as logical as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered was the effect on the railway service . No one doubts that the motive of Judge jankius was a good one , but it is expect-iddof a Judge that his motives will be carried out in strict accordance with the There is another aspect of this case that can not be disregarded . It is not to be denied that the impression prevails among the workingmen of the country that the law and the lawmakers and the law courts are influenced by corporate wealth . Whether just or unjust , such an impression is mischievous , and should be dispelled in every possible way . Corporate wealth has not so invariably been managed honorably and for the best interests of all concerned that it can always be given the benefit of the-doubt in any obscure question brought before the courts . It is , therefore , fairly to be accepted as for the public good that in this case the Circuit Court of Appeal , with the great prestige of Justice Harlan 's name , should have insisted that the rights of the workingmen , even of those whose acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower courts be entirely respected . This decision gives all the more weight to the judgment of the court that strikers can not combine and conspire , by violence or otherwise , to cripple the service of railways without coming within the jurisdiction of the courts of equity . The Kings County Democracy shows signs of returning sense . At a meeting of the committee of the regular organization last night a resolution was adopted denouncing the behavior of Coffey , Delmar , McCarty , and McCarren at Saratoga , and calling upon them to resign . Nothing could be more wholesome or of better augury for the Democratic organization of Kings County . These men are savory . The mention of their names in connection with the organization does harm . But in addition to their disrepute they are dull , stupid , stolid creatures , quite incapable of satisfactorily performing the task assigned to them at Saratoga . The overtures made to the Shepard Democracy by the regulars will of course be considered carefully before an answer is given . But the trouncing of Coffey , Delmar , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That eminent jurist , Hogan , continues to maintain that the law which gives policemen power to enter saloons during the hours when the saloons may lawfully do business prevents them from entering when the saloons may not lawfully do business . Hogan holds , in other words , that when the law provided for the punishment of unlawful liquor selling , the law carefully nullified itself by providing that there should not be any way of securing this punishment . Hogan has hereby entitled himself to the gratitude of the saloon keepers who desire to break the law without molestation . But the community will scarcely accept as conclusive Hogan 's dictum that the Legislature stultified itself when it undertook to punish unlawful liquor selling . A decision should be had from some tribunal of more acknowledged learning and authority than Hogan.                     