@@672348

txt We referred yesterday to a reported intention on the part of the Ways and . Means Committee to impose a duty on raw silk , and to compensate silk manufacturers by a higher duty on the finished product . This would certainly be . a senseless thing to do , but no more so than many others that the politicians who favor the protectionist scheme have done in the past . It proceeds on the principle of the heavy duties on wool , and is closely analogous to the duty on carpet wools , which are not produced in appreciable quantities in the United States , can not be produced in quantities sufficient for the demands of manufacturers , and can not be produced except at a very much greater cost than that , of foreign carpet wools . It is also closely allied to the principle on which metals or metallic ores have been heavily taxed . It is true that iron , copper . and lead can be produced in large quantities in the United . States , and might be produced at very moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate competition to use all the means at their disposal to reduce the cost . But as they are under no such necessity , they do not use such means , it being an unfailing attribute of our weak human nature not to exert itself any more than is requisite to secure a desired end . If an outside force like legislation can be called in to do away with this necessity , the exertion is relaxed . Had there been no such intervention by the National Legislature , the ironmakers of the United States would have had much cheaper raw material than they now have and a much wider and more profitable market for their manufactures . It is particularly absurd and particularly cruel as well for Congress , to interfere in silk manufacturing in Unlit way proposed by the committee , because the manufacturers of silk , unlike the iron men and the woolen men , in times past , so far from wanting any such interference , resent it and protest against it , and have formally demonstrated to the committee that their scheme would be injurious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the beginning , in a degree quite remarkable in these days . They have known there was no profit in the Irish way of loading a horse for the mill by putting corn in one end of the bag and a stone in the other , and they have especially known that in their case the consumer , who takes the place of the horse , will resent the double load and leave them , who depend upon him , in the lurch . The whole business of every active community in the world in these modern times turns on the question of cost , and of cost in very small fractions at that . In many lines of goods the makers who can sell a very trifle the lowest not only sell the most goods , but there are large portions of the general market in which they are the only ones who can sell at all . In the case of the American silk manufacturers , they may be said to have made their own market by their energetic and persistent fidelity to this principle . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods suitable for an almost infinite range of tastes and uses , at such prices that thousands of people have to come to use silks in some one or more of these forms , not as a luxury , as in former times , but as a matter of daily habit . So successful have they been that it is safe to say that there are many times more women of the most modest means who now wear silk in one shape or another than twenty years ago there were of wealthy women who wore it at all , while the use of it by those in better circumstances has multiplied in like manner . Now , for a groat industry like this , and for all the collateral industries and interests with which it is connected and which are dependent upon it , the security of raw material at the lowest possible cost and in the greatest attainable variety is an absolute necessity , If the cost of material is increased and its variety diminished , it is no compensation whatever to protect the Industry from foreign competition by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inviting that competition . The injury to the American industry from such a policy is not in the danger that its customers will buy from foreign makers ; it is from the danger that they will not buy at all , for the vital condition of a very large part of the sales is that the price must be low . In a considerable and profitable part of the silk trade , a part that is spread over the whole country through the large retail stores with their infinite variety of little articles , and so on to the counter of the village stores and the " packs " of the peddlers in the remote quarters of the land , there is no more question of foreign competition than there is in the sale of chewing gum . The foreigners can not by any possibility supply that trade , and the American makers can supply it only on condition that they can sell at incredibly low prices . A very slight increase in those prices , made necessary by the duty on raw material , would simply kill the trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and very cheap , they will not take them , for the very sufficient reason that they can not pay for them . And this principle runs through the entire tariff and is the secret of the oppression exercised by the " protective " duties on raw materials . If the Ways and Means Committee were made up of men of honesty and common sense , who had a fair knowledge of the practical business with which the tax laws deal , it would see this . But , apparently , its members know nothing about any business except politics , and that they treat in a very narrow and short-sighted fashion , for nothing is plainer to any clear-headed observer than the fact that the American people are steadily becoming more and more convinced of the mischief of Congressional interference with private affairs , and ready to turn out and keep out the greedy meddlers who practice this interference .                     