@@672916

txt Army officers have about given up hope of having the President send any nominations to the Senate except the usual matter-of-fact ' and unexciting notices of advancements of subalterns from one grade to a higher . Nothing has been done toward filling the vacancy among the Brigadier Generals caused by the retirement some mouths ago of Gen. A. V. Kautz . All predictions are confined to safe generalities that come no nearer specification than the mention of the three or four names of prominent Colonels who by right of seniority or valuable service may be considered seriously in connection with an advancement to a Brigadier Generaloy . No one undertakes to say just why Mr. Harrison persists in his delay in the naming of the officer except that the nomination of any one would precipitate ill feeling between two prominent men , both of whom the President desires to keep in accord with each other and with himself . The nomination of the Surgeon General of the Navy , Dr. Browne , an excellent officer and capable physician , who did not possess the requisite influence to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Medicine and Surgery , was the result of a somewhat similar case . The President assured his friends that there was little likelihood of the selection of Dr. Isrowne to succeed himself . The doctor 's friends ceased their efforts , and the junior officers who had before been content to look on redoubled their endeavors to secure the place . The result was that the President was involved in one of the fiercest political and personal conflicts that ever went on behind the scenes . As the one way out of it , the President appointed the man whose friends had taken no part in the battle . It may be with the army appointments that the President will have to wait only a few more weeks before lie will have another vacant Brigadier Generaloy at his disposal  --  that caused by the retirement for age of Gen. Stanley . Later in June he will have an Adjutant Generaloy to rill. and early in December he can select a member of the tinbsiStence Department for promotion to Chief of the corps , with the grade of Brigadier General . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four places of this grade to Till this year . In addition to these he has six staff places at his disposal , for which it is sate to say nearly every officer in the line and a good many civilians are on record as desirous of selection .                     