@@674128

txt That apathy with which nature mercifully protects old age against the increasing mischances of life has doubtless come to BISMARCK along with his increasing infirmities . Otherwise the contrast between the brilliant celebration of his eightieth birthday and the comparative seclusion in which he was forced to pass his eighty-first might well have given him a pang . Indeed , the very unanimity and heartiness with which his birthday was celebrated last year , seeing that he had devoted so large a part of his life to making enemies , might have  --  admonished him that he already belonged to history and that he was regarded by those of his countrymen who had been hostile to him as " hors contours . " But , he might also have consoled himself , yesterday as well as a year ago , with the reflection that since his enforced retirement from active life he had already " made himself desired . " For it is evident to younger men , if not to him , that Germany is not the power in Europe that she was in his time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from affairs . Germany is as strong , as rich , and as powerful as ever , but she has not the same influence in Europe . We are not speaking now of purely domestic politics . A man so intelligent as BISMARCK could not have failed to perceive that the tide of democracy was rising , and that sooner or later the partial concessions to the democratic spirit that had been made , even in Russia must be extended . He may have thought that the existing system ' would last his time , as it did , and that the system that threatened to supplant it was not so well adapted to maintaining the place of Germany in Europe . But at all events this place he did maintain . For the last ten years of the old Kaiser 's reign BISMARCK wielded a power such as has been intrusted to no other modern man . He was really the arbiter of Europe , and to say that he maintained that place so long is to pay a tribute to his large intelligence as well as to his iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is clearly because she has no.longer BISMARCK . An active-minded and impulsive sovereign will get himself more talked about than a sagacious and experienced Chancellor , but he will not command the same authority . If he be so active-minded and so impulsive as to bring about a chronic - wonder " what he will do next , " he is doing his utmost to fritter away the influence that belongs to his power . BISMARCK never did these things . He was not without imagination , but it was never just to call his politics fantastic . They were shaped after a seribus consideration of the real and solid interests of Germany , to promote those interests , and the means were adapted to the end . It is not an exaggeration to say that his highest praise is to be found in a comparison of the position of Germany now and when he ceased to direct the German ?                     