@@674739

txt The report of the naval board of inquiry into the Maine disaster was received in Washington at 9:35 to-night . The four naval officers who have guarded it since its departure from Key West were hustled at once into a carriage by an attache of the Navy Department and driven . to the E/bbitt House , where they tried to catch a little needed sleep and at the same time withstand the crowd of newspaper men who thronged the lobby in hopes of some stray bit of information which had escaped the scrutiny of numerous correspondents along the route . The party consisted of Lieut . Commander Manly , Lieut . John Hood , Lieut . Carl Jungen , Passed Assistant Engineer Bowers , A. T. Marix , a nephew of the Judge Advocate , and Ship Carpenter Helms of the Maine 's crew . There was an immense crowd waiting at the depot when the train pulled in . The naval contingent was in the last sleeper on the train , and deftly avoided the crush of citizens by alighting at the upper end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tired , and Lieut . Commander Mari was asleep in the corner of the seat when the train pulled in , and was gently shaken into sensibility by his companions , who were on guard . The party was met at the steps of the car by Cadet Ward of the Navy Department , who was the sole representative of Secretary Long . He informed Lieut . Commander Marix that the Secretary would not receive the report to-night , and , gathering the tired travelers under his protecting wing , made for the hack stand through the rapidly thickening crowd , which , balked of its prey at the gate , had swarmed out over the pavement to get a glimpse at the outside of the much-heralded report . Lieut . Hood , as the most muscular member of the party , carried the bulky document in a white canvas bag slung under his arm . It must have weighed 10 or .20 pounds without its case , and portended endless reams of complicated testimony to be digested by the Administration before the next step in the progress of the Maine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying the report was armed was demonstrated in a rather theatrical way just as they were about to get into the carriage . The crowd closed around the party and jostled them considerably . Some one ran against the end of the mysterious canvas bag in which the report was concealed . Quick as a flash Lieut . Hood 's hand Nip-tit back to his hip , and Lieut . Jungen laid his hand on the butt of a revolver that was sticking from his side pocket . The movements were sufficient to prevent further jostling . On being driven to the Ebbitt House the whole party retired , first having ordered some light refreshments to , : heir rooms . It was not long before the report of their arrival spread , and the lobby was filled with a. curious crowd of idlers , while the negro bellboys worked overtime carrying up cards from the various ' correspondents in search of an interview . Young Marix was deputed as a sort of a press committee , and met all inquirers with the stereotyped reply of " I do n't know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that the report , in due process of law , must first be delivered to the Secretary of the Navy , and this , according to all precedents , will be at the Navy Department . It will then be submitted to President , upon whose decision its future migrations will depend . It was announced that the report would be read at the Cabinet meeting to-day . It is reported that the President in conversations with Senators and Representatives to-day frankly acknowledged the expectation that the report of the Board of Inquiry will find that the Maine was blown up from the outside .                     