@@780977

txt The House Committee on Banking and Currency held an animated session to-day . It had been planned to report to the House at once a bill embodying the President 's financial recommendations , and Mr. Brosius from a sub-committee made a favorable recommendation on this course of procedure . The plan was opposed by Messrs . Johnson of Indiana , Mitchell of New York , and Newlands of Nevada . It was evident the committee could not agree . A compromise was made by Which the bill covering the Presi-. dent 's recommendations and the bill of Secretary Gage and that of the , Indianapolis Monetary Commission shall be taken up at the first meeting after the holidays , It was agreed also that after hearing Secretary Gage to-morrow the committee would adjourn , until the second Wednesday in January . Chairman Walker then brought forward a general programme for dealing with all financial bills . The programme had the approval of the Chairmen of the sub-committees , save Mr. Johnson . Mr. Walker in his statement said : " First  --  I am thoroughly convinced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of United States legal-tender notes . " Second  --  They do desire that their Government shall continue to control and issue all the currency notes used by the people . " Third  --  They desire that the banks only shall put the notes so furnished into circulation , and be responsible for their redemption in specie . " Fourth  --  They desire that banks shall be required to keep each and every form of coin and paper money at a par with every other . " Fifth  --  They desire also that the Government guarantee the final payment of every dollar . issued ; and " Sixth  --  To justify this guarantee and save the Government from loss , it should collect a. tax upon all currency notes supplied by it , sufficient to guarantee the United States Treasury against loss , because of its guarantee of their final redemption . " Mr. Walker added an explicit programme Substantially as follows : " First , consider the President 's recommendations ; second , take the sense of the committee as to whether it shall proceed immediately to frame any bill making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these changes are determined upon ; then consider , in order , the bill of Secretary Gage , that of the Monetary Commission , and that known as the Walker bill . " This programme met with some opposition , and it was not acted on by the committee up to the time of adjournment .                     