@@675136

txt Our neighbor The Sun learns that the Governor 's investigation of the canal fraud charges against ADAMS and ALDRIDGE has come to a full stop for lack of money . It will be remembered that Mr. AUSTEN G. Fox and Mr. WALLACE 11cF.anLANE , both Democrats and lawyers of this city , and Mr. BENJAMIN J. SHovn of Syracuse were appointed special counsel to examine the evidence and advise the Governor whether there was ground for an indictment . Judge COUNTaratas , who first examined the testimony taken by the Committee of Investigation , advised criminal proceedings . The new special counsel have made no report . They have simply informed the Governor that they must have money for the expenses of the investigation if it is to go on . Thus far they have disbursed their own funds . The work can be continued only at considerable cost . They will not go on until somebody furnishes the money . The position they take is professionally and ethically sound . On being informed of this most painful state of affairs the Governor sent for Senator Mocxxsox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once appropriated for the continuance of the investigation We are afraid the Governor will be disappointed . The Legislature will not be keen to appropriate money for the exposure of Republican rascals . There is no campaign material for Republicans in the charges made against GEORGE ALDRIDGE . The nine millions have been spent . It is pretty well known that some of the money was stolen . And the canals have not been deepened . They are fast going to ruin and abandonment . But in the opinion of Mr. PLATT and the Legislature there is a great deal more to be got for the party out of Tammany corruption in New York than from Republican corruption on the canal job . This is a fine , easy ending of the whole disagreeable business . The Governor gets rid of it , and his great campaign " if " will be triumphantly justified . PLATT will be rid of it , the Legislature will be rid Of it , and GEORGE ALDRIDGE Will hold up his head again and go to work like a beaver getting delegates for PLATT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after all , will this be the end ? The State 's canals are worth two hundred millions , and they have been made practically worthless by Republican maladministration . They may be altogether abandoned during the administration of Gov . ROOSt. v.t.LT . What if some Democrat comes to the fore with ability and fervor enough to arouse the people about the destruction of two hundred million dollars ' worth of their property and to inspire them ' with a desire to fix the responsibility ? A party can not always depend upon the incapacity of its adversary . Now and then some Tilden appears and the long course of comfortable fraud and secure stealing is cut short with exemplary consequences at the polls .                     