@@673255

txt The reports as to the prevalence of cholera in - the region at the head of the Persian.Gulf may direct attention to the agencies and routes by which this scourge is carried westward from its home in India . A few days ago it was announced that the disease had appeared at Bassorah , a , city near the mouth of the river formed by the union of the Tigris and the Euphrates . Now it is said that the inhabitants of the province in which Bassorah is the chief city are dying by thousands , and that fugitives are spreading the pestilence northward . While the sanitary authorities of Egypt have repeatedly checked the westward progress of cholera at Mecca , the Holy City , to which the disease is carried almost every year ' by swarms of filthy pilgrims from India , it has been impossible , apparently , to prevent the admission of the plague at the ports near the head of the Persian Gulf , and its subsequent march up the valley from those points . The great epidemic of last year in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route . Beginning at Bassorah , the disease was carried northward through Persia to the shore of the Caspian Sea . It soon made its way across the Caspian , and from Baku entered those provinces of Russia whose inhabitants were very poorly equipped for a struggle with such an enemy . From Russia the disease was carried to Hamburg and . from Hamburg it came to this port . In all probability this epidemic in the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates has been caused by fresh infection from India , and once more it is the dirty pilgrims that have brought the germs of the disease . There are " holy places " in the neighborhood of Bassorah to which the pilgrims make journeys , and the bodies of persons who have died in India are brought to those " holy places " for burial . This traffic , which is carried on for the most part from Bombay , continually menaces the health of Europe and the entire civilized world . It has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people west of the Caspian Sea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be measured only in hundreds of millions of dollars . The European powers could well afford to spend even $100,000,000 in the effective sanitary supervision of the holy places in Arabia and Asia Minor , the steamship and land routes by which pilgrims come to those places , and the pilgrims themselves after their arrival . Power to do this work for the protection of the civilized world could be exercised by the nations of Europe acting in concert , and the most terrible plague of modern times could be confined to the country where it was born , where it is always to be found , and where the most sanguine sanitarian can not hope that it will be stamped out in the next hundred years .                     