@@675189

txt The Young Men 's Club of the Protestant Episcopal Pro-Cathedral , at 1:30 Stanton Street , held the last of a series of " smokers " in the basement of the church last night . The programme consisted largely of music and recitations , but the numbers that were awaited with the most interest were two sparring exhibitions and a wrestling match . The boys drew their chairs in a ring when Announcer John Gambert took the door to introduce the first two contestants . " Gentlemen , " he said , " I have the pleasure of introducing to you Kid ? Bowling of Buffalo and ' Kid ' Floss of Avenue A. They will spar three rounds , with Louis Anchutz as referee . , This is a preliminary bout . " The two contestants fell to and boxed three tame rounds , and a " draw " was the decision . The boys carried out the customs of the ringside , and vociferous cheers . hisses , and catcalls filled the large room . As a matter of fact , both of the sparrers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Flossie 's correct name is Frederick Kinzinger . Then came the great event of the evening " Fellows , " said Announcer Gambert , " I now introduce to you , with great pleasure , ' Dick ' Wunderlick , ex-champion welterweight , and ' Phil ' Kelly , the coming welterweight . They will box three rounds , and in the last introduce their original ' knockout , ' which has been imitated by many , but successfully copied by none . Kelly is a clever boxer and is ambitious in a pugilistic way . He has fought several fights , and once served at . a subject for ex-Champion Corbett to hammer . Wunderlick is his trainer , and has a wonderful capacity as a human punching bag . " From the first Kelly rained blows that were anything but playful on his opponent 's head and body , and , . in the last round delivered the realistie " knock-out " blow . Wunderlick simulated " groggyness " in a clever manner , and finally fell to the floor on his face . He strugg:ed up on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent him to the floor , this time to be carried to his chair . It is all play , however , and in an instant he was on his feet and receiving compliments from the enthusiastic spectators . The wrestling match was between Mike Zimmer and George Burke , the instructor of the gymnasium attached to the church . The contests were witnessed by the Rev. Mr. Paddock , vicar of the Pro-Cathedral. and he seemed to enjoy them . Mr. Paddock said that doubtless many people would not approve of such amusements in such a place . but he said the aim was to hold the young ? en 's interest and keep them off the street and from worse places , which abounded all about the neighborhood . At times dances . he said , are held in the church for the same reason . 