@@673370

txt Fire started about 8 o'clock yesterday morning in the basement of the dispensary of the Presbyterian Hospital . The dispensary is a brick building , one story and basement . It stands 200 feet east of the main building , and is connected with it only by a stone passageway . An alarm was sent to the engine rooms , and the engineer put extra force on the pumps . An alarm was also sent to the Fire Department . The basement where the fire started contained carboys of turpentine and alcohol , which burned with great fierceness . Superintendent Fisher organized a fire brigade from the hospital ern-. ployes and fought the flames until the firemen arrived . The dispensary is nearly fireproof . The flames spread from the basement to the room above . Before the fire was under control most of the bottles on the shelves were broken and all the woodwork ruined . The loss to building and contents , Superintendent Fisher estimated , would amount to more than $3,000 . There was no alarm among the patients in the hospital , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and because they knew the building itself was practically fireproof , and the fire could be confined there . The Old Guard Worships in Chicago . CHICAGO , Oct. ** Old Guard of New-York , which acted as military escort for the New-York delegation on Manhattan Day , held divine service at its headquarters in the Grand Pacific this morning at 10:30 o'clock . Members of the battalion and their friends , to the number of 150 , were present , and listened with devout attention to the music , reading , and adresses . The Rev. Dr. John W. Brown , rector of St. Thomas 's Church , New-York , and Chaplain of the Old Guard , officiated . Music was furnished by the Old Guard Band . Dr. Brown preached the sermon , after which the hymn , " Jesus , Lover of My Soul , " was sung , the band accompanying . The guardsmen sang this hymn with great heartiness . Bishop Perry of Iowa then delivered a spirited address upon the " Char-acter of Washington . " The service closed with the singing of " Nearer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 200 Feet  --  Nobody Hurt . CHICAGO , Oct. ** elevator , with thirteen persons in it , dropped last night 200 feet from the landing under the great roof of the Manufactures Building at the World 's Fair . No one was killed or hurt , for the brakes on the car brought it to a stop when it was thirty feet from the floor . The drop was caused by the elevator man losing control of the car . It shot downward at tremendous speed . The car is supposed to have automatic checks to prevent it from exceeding a certain rate of speed , but the heavy load caused it to fall almost to the ground floor before these checks worked . After the brakes caught the car could not be moved , and the passengers had to come down on a ladder .                     