@@673782

txt Chapter 1 of the Laws of 1S95 will be the act providing for a public hearing on special city bills in cities of the first class in this State . It has been passed by both branches of the Legislature , and will prepare the way for the important legislation relating to this city for which we are waiting . The Constitution requires that all bills relating to one city or to less than all the cities of a class shall be sent to the Mayor of the city or cities to which it relates for acceptance , after it has passed the Senate and Assembly . Fifteen days are allowed the Mayor in which to return any such bill with a certificate of its acceptance or non-acceptance , and the Constitution re quires the Legislature to provide for a public hearing upon the bill in the city , to which it relates " before action thereon . " The bill that has just ' been passed assumes that this mk eans " before , action thereon " by the Mayor , though the Constitution does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forthwith upon the receipt thereof , " to fix a day for a public hearing " in such city concerning such bill , " and to give nOtice of time and place for two successive days in two daily newspapers . He must attend at the time and place appointed and " afford an opportuniti for a public hearing . " Provision is made regarding the return of the ? bills and the expense of hearings . The way being clear , after the approval Of this measure , the people of New-York will await with interest the coming of special bills , but it is desirable that they should come in acceptable form . If they are accepted there will be no further occasion for legislative action upon them , but if . they are not accepted they may become laws nevertheless , by being again passed by both houses and approved by the Governor . We do not see how they can be modified or amended , after the hearing , without going through the process again , for in that case they would not be the same bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the acceptance or non-acceptance by the city , without submitting it again in the amended form ; it will be possible to evade the purpose of the Constitutional requirement and nullify the safeguard intended . Consequently , hearings before the legislative committees at Albany are as important as ever .                     