@@781069

txt Edward Miller Cameron , a millionaire resident of West Islip , a broker doing business at 26 Broad Street , New-York , President of the Hygeta Distilled Water Company , a well-known New-York clubman , accidentally shot himself through the heart with a pistol here last night . Death was instantaneous . Cameron had been feeling poorly , and when his wife returned from church yesterday morning she found him lying down . Mrs. Cameron also retired after dinner . Her husband appeared to be very nervous , and from an adjoining room she could hear him tossing and turning about . " Annie will you get me some cigars in the other room ? " he called to Mrs. Cameron , a short time before 5 o'clock . She arose , went to get them , and , while absent , heard the report of a pistol from her husband 's dressing room . She rushed to fhe room and saw the dying forth of her husband stretched on the floor . Blood was oozing from a pistol wound in his breast , and in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empty . He soon breathed his last . An inquest was held to-day . The relatives of the family claim that the shooting was accidental , and state that Mr. Cameron was in the habit of handling firearms very carelessly . The Coroner 's jury returned a verdict to the effect that Edward M. Cameron came to his death from hemorrhages of the heart , caused by a bullet wound inflicted by himself . The funeral will take place Wednesday , and the remains will be taken by special train to Woodlawn Cemetery , Westchester County , for burial . The incident has created a great stir among the Summer residents of West Islip and Babylon , and Mrs. Cameron is being overwhelmed with letters of sympathy . Why he should have shot himself intentionally , if he did so , no one knows . He lost heavily a year or two ago in Wall Street , but was still possessed of an ample fortune , amounting to a million or more . Mr. Cameron was the only son of the late Annanias Cameron of New-York . He was thirty-two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a Miss Arnold , daughter of the late William Arnold of the firm of Arnold , Constable &; Co . She died about , three years after their marriage . He married Miss Annie Carll , daughter of the late Harvey Carll of this village , about five years ago , by whom he had two children . Mrs. Annie Arnold , widow of William Arnold , Jr. , is a sister of the deceased . Mr. Cameron was formerly a member of the brokerage firm of Kerr &; Co. , but retired from that firm Dec. 31 , 1892 , to become the President of the Hygeia Distilled Water Company . He joined the New-York Stock Exchange in 1890 , and was a member of it at the time of his death .                     