@@673649

txt Gen. Banks had so long outlived himself that the announcement of his death will come to the younger generation as a startling reminder that he has so lately been alive . Indeed , - " before the war " is already remote and mythical , and a man who attained eminence in that period seems now to belong to a distant Past . The four years of Lincoln 's first term divide our modern and our ancient historical periods . Gen. Banks is sure of a place in the remembrance of his countrymen and . the history of his country as the Speaker of the first Republican House of Representatives . The election , even the nomination , of a candidate whose support carne exclusively from the North was a very disturbing circumstance to the Southerners who believed that in the extension of slavery lay the only hope for the perpetuation of slavery and of the slave power . Lincoln 's election itself was scarcely more exciting than the dead-lock of months that was at last opened by the election of Mr. Banks as Speaker . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was cut in the Congress by a book , Helper 's " Impending Crisis , " which the Republican candidate was accused of " indorsing , " and could not be induced to deny that he indorsed , and which the Southerners declared to be a direct incitement to raise insurrection . It was really this election to the Speakership that constitutes Gen. Banks 's claim to be remembered . Of a striking and distinguished presence in his prime , and in his prime also a master of fluent and persuasive speech , he was the natural candidate of his party for the Speakership of the first House that that party had been able to organize , difficult and slow as the combination of opposing elements made the organization . After he was once seated , his significance became symbolic only , and not personal . But when the war broke out he was a man so much in view that it was almost a matter of course that if he chose to accept it a high rank in the volunteer army should be put at his disposal . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unsmirehed by suspicions and explicit charges of self-seeking . Even it we throw out these charges , it must be admitted that Gen. Banks was but a " political General , " who carried his politics into the service . Neither in Virginia nor in Louisiana , to which he was assigned as to a dignified asylum in which he was not expected to do much good , and was supposed to be reasonably seethed against doing much harm , did he distinguish himself as a soldier , or command the confidence of his own troops , of the Government , or of the country . But the first Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives is sure ' of a place in American history .                     