@@672310

txt Municipal elections in this city are held under what is kno.wn as the Wallace law , which was passed by the Legislature two years ago , and which is fashioned after the Australian system . The law provides that the vote shall be by secret ballot , and the clerk of election in each precinct is Proviaed with a stub book of ballots containing the names of all candidates for the various offices . The clerk is required to sign these ballots on the back , in order to prevent others being substituted for them , anti each is numbered . When a voter enters the voting place one of the ballots is torn out of the boos , the voter 's name being placed on the stub which remain us iu the book . The voter Is then required to go into a small compartment , mark his ballot , snaking an X after the uatuos of the candidates he favors , seal it up . and upon coming out drop it into the ballot box . The law provides that two compartments shall be placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mark their ballots at the same time . These compartments are made of plain boards nailed together in the shape of a long bus . They must be G feet in width and depth , and 8 feet high . They have four sides . Three of the sides are closed tightly , and in the fourth , which is the front , is a door 6 feet high , whien opens outward and which fastens on the Inside by a bolt or latch . There is no top to the compartment . which affords light and ventilation . On the lUdiAlt5 of the compartment is placed . a shelf four and one-half feet from the ground , which serves as a desk upon which the voter can mark his ballot . There is no floor to the compartment , the frame resting upon the door of the room in which the poll is situated . The law provides that all tile compartments shall be of the style and size stated above . The law has been tried in three city elections and has worked . wonders . There are numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in session , will runway- Bribery is Practiced under the law , but ward workers are greatly hampered , since they have to trust to the honesty of the bribed voter and have no means of knowing whether or not their goods are nellverea . The favorite way of praoticing bribery is as follows : Au election worker who lavore a certain candidate goes to the polls , where he votes at the opening hour . He enters the mom to vote and is given a ballot , duly signed on the back by the clerk , and an envelope . He enters the compartment and marks the ballot for the candidate he favors . Instead of putting the ballot in the envelope and sealing it up , however , he puts in a blank piece of paper , Seals the envelope , and drops it in the box . Of course his vote is lost . but he has a genuine ballot . When a floating voter comes along a bargain is mace with him , and he is given the ballot thus ohtainrd , which is properly marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polling place , secure another genuine ballot from tae clerk , and go into the compartment . His instruetlens are to place the ballot obtained on the outside in the envelope and drop it in the box , and return the one given him by the clerk to the worker outside , who marks it properly and goes through the same process . The worker has no assurance , however , that the voter does not deface or destroy the ballot . and has to take chances on his voting at all or not . In this way bribery is somewhat hindered and intimidation partially broken up , an all persons are required to keep fifty feet away Irons the polls . One trouble is that the system practically disfranehises illiterate voters . On a. test case the Supreme Court of the State decided recently that the election clerk had the right to go into the compartment with an illiterate voter and mark his ballot . Unscrupulous clerks , as was shown at the last municipal election , were thus enabled to control all such votes by marking toe ballots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session of the Legislature the ballots will probably be ordered to be mace self-sealing , like a letter sheer , thus preventing the first voter from carrying one out and working it as described . The other evil will probably be remedied by allowing the representatives of the candidates to go into the compartment with the clerk and the illiterate voter , thus in-sunup : a proper marking of the ballot . The Constitution of this State prohibits voting by ballot in State elections . and the Wallace law only applies to elections for city officers in Louisville.                     