@@674416

txt The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations will tomorrow morning endeavor to frame an amendment that will meet the objections that have been advanced in debate against the general treaty of arbitration with Great Britain , that has been under discussion in secret session for the past week . Unless this amendment can be satisfactorily framed , it is probable that the consideration of the treaty may not be pushed until after the 4th of March . The debate so far has shown that not five men in the Senate look at this treaty from Identically the same standpoint . It is charged with being ambiguous , but this defect is found by different men in different portions of the Instrument . That it will be amended before being ratified is admited by its best friends . The amendments are , in fact , the only things that will save it , for few , if any , agree with Senator Turpie that the treaty is perfect as it stands .. Mr. Turpie 's position is based upon his own construction of the terms of the convention , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think as Mr. Turpie does , the treaty would be ratified without a moment 's delay . Senator Purple 's Influence . The Indiana Senator 's speech has made a strong impression , and hisTideas have suggested to the committee an amendment which will be patterned after that which Mr. Morgan yesterday gave notice that he would offer at the proper time . This will change Article I. so that it will provide for the submission under this treaty for arbitration of all subjects subject to the limitations of this treaty , " and in the manner and form provided by either of the contracting parties for the negotiation and ratification of treaties . " This , it is claimed , will make the Intent of the Senate clear and provide that every subject to be submitted to this tribunal must be first submitted to the President and by him to the Senate , as now provided for in the case of original treaties . In this manner the objection that the Senate is yielding its prerogative is met and that body maintains control of every matter connected with the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will submit to-morrow , in an effort to bring about speedy action . The debate to-day was begun by Mr. Stewart , who laid some additional stress upon the necessity for eliminating the Alaskan boundary question , and pointed out in what particulars he believed the treaty to be vague and indefinite . Blackburn 's Objections . Mr. Blackburn of Kentucky was against the treaty and was ready to vote . It seemed idle to consume more time for , as he believed , every man in the Senate knew just how he intended to vote . This treaty went entirely too far in its scope . Still he had no fear of war from anything that might be in the treaty . War was more likely to come from the things that were not included . It would be safe enough to leave the question of arbitration to the Senate when the cases arose and let the Senate then in existence deal with the , subject . Mr. Hoar of Massachusetts said he would vote for the treaty as it reached the Senate , or he would vote for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbi  --  ratiott , and the sooner the Senate ratified this treaty the better , he thought , it would be for the country . Mr. Chandler of New Hampshire urged that it go over until the Senate convened after March 4 . The treaty found one of its strongest advocates in Senator Lodge , who urged that action be taken . He declared that he was not irrevocably joined to the committee amendments . He would favor any amendment that might be suggested that would remove the doubt existing in the treaty if such amendment would be conducive to action . He did not believe the treaty could possibly be ratified unless it was amended somewhat on the lines of the committee amendment . He favored the treaty because arbitration was the policy of this country , and he believed in the American policy . He wanted the treaty to pass , and for that reason hoped the amendment that might be framed Would be satisfactory to the Senate . Sherman 's Promises . Mr. Sherman then made the statement that was construed as an intimation that the committee intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that if the discussion went over until to-morrow he thought the committee would be able to bring in an amendment or amendments that would remove all doubts and ambiguity from the text of the treaty . When this was done he hoped the Senate would be able to come to a speedy vote . If such proved not to be the case then Mr. Sherman said he would not feel justified in pressing the consideration of the treaty further to the hindrance of the business that was pressing upon the Senate . Mr. Hill replied jocularly that the Senate was to understand that if the opposition to the treaty would hold out until to-morrow the Senator from Ohio would withdraw the treaty from further consideration . Mr. Sherman denied that this interpretation was just , and the Senate adjourned . The amendment indicated above will be reported to the Senate to-morrow when the treaty is again taken up .                     