@@674707

txt At the New England dinner in Brooklyn there was a passage between.Senator HAWLEY and Mr. GEORGE W. SMALLEY which possesses an interest and significance not confined to the company to which the words were spoken . Responding to the toast " New England and Old England , " Mr. SMALLEY praised the virtues of both in warm terms , from which few will dissent . But the correspondent of The London Times was less happy when he spoke of Anglo-American relations . The Venezuelan message of President CLEVELAND convinced Europe that we are a menace to the world 's peace , and amicable relations with England were preserved only by England 's forbearance . Our Cuban policy is now such a provocation to Spain , and our sermonizing about Armenia and Greece are so offensive to other nations as to have convinced Continental powers that they must unite for self-protection against the United States . Under such conditions Mr. SMALLEY asked , in words that may well seem eloquent to those who agree with him , whether or not the friendship of powerful England was worth seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth seeking . But too much may be asked or paid even for a good thing . If , for instance , England 's favor had been purchased by acquiescence in her old Venezuelan policy , who can say how remote , or how near , would be the duplication upon American soil of events now marching to a stormy settlement in Asia and Africa ? During this current week a Berlin journal remarked that our acquiescence in the disciplining of Haiti by Germany and our forbearance regarding Cuba show that our maintenance of the Monroe doctrine is controlled by our fear of iron-clads . We do not disparage the Spanish Navy , nor yet the two German schoolships which won such a famous victory at Port-au-Prince . But it would be unfortunate for our foreign friends to get the idea that the Monroe doctrine would yield to those forces , either separately or together . The strength of that doctrine does not lie in the United States Army nor in the Milted States Navy , but in the rooted conviction of the American people that it is not for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories of hinterland , and spheres of influence , and other principles which result from European conditions . The remarks of the London press upon President ' 8 message are in accord with Mr. SMALLEY 'S idea that our sermonizing is offensive to Europe . Upon Mr. 's statement that the forcible acquisition of territory was obnoxious to our National conscience , the London sneer was that we seemed to think there was a special American morality . Of course we think no such thing . The American idea is that in the immutable code of universal morality the acts of nations are of the same quality , without regard to the comparative strength of the parties . The London papers asked yesterday what was the attitude of the United States toward current events in China . The answer is that the carving of helpless China is so repugnant to the principles of national morality that upon this continent it would be forbidden , and the covert invitation to participate has no charms for us . That may be sermonizing , but it can not possibly offend any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this position is shown by our applying it in American affairs , despite European obloquy and misunderstanding . CLEVELAND was truculent when he served warning about Venezuela . MCKINLEY , they say , is weak and nerveless when he declares that international law , which is simply international morality , forbids our remedying Spanish misrule in Cuba . There is a very simple principle which reconciles these inconsistent criticisms . America is first In the thoughts of our Presidents , not Europe . CLEVELAND and INIcKrxLar were not thinking solely , nor even chiefly , of England or Spain . There was no desire to menace or offend England , and there is no wish to displease Spain . Both nations were simply Informed of what was passing in the American brain and conscience . Spain will do well to emulate England 's recognition of finality . Now , if these things are so , it is obviously important to England and to Spain and to Germany , and to all concerned to know them . No true friend of England would do England a service by telling her , nunc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends , that CLEVELAND meant nothing , and that the American people were not behind him . The wrong both to England and the United States in that case was repeated in less degree by those representing to England that the American agents in the seal case Were pettifogging attorneys whose shallow wiles were easily circumvented by Sir WILFRID . The question here is not whether the American contention is intrinsically good or bad . The point is whether the English people and London editors are well served by those who think their salary earned by misrepresenting American opinion . Mr. SMALLEY has had more than one experience which should go far to convince him that if he does not knowingly misrepresent America it is only because , in Senator HAWLEY 'S words , he fails to understand it .                     