@@672603

txt Every incoming Western train on the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad was late yesterday on account or the floods. ' fee through cars ran into trouble as soon as they reached the Mohawk Valley . Later on , at 6chodack and Stuyvesant , the ice and water over the tracks made a complete barrier . The trains were therefore sent down the Harlem Bead from Albany to Chatham and then across to Hudson . Lome came down all the way Over the Harlem line . All the trains to Albany were also sent in this manner . The worst delay was that of the Chicago express due at 8:50 Wednesday night , which was over thirteen hours late . The Chicago express due yesterday morning at 6:15 did not get in till afternoon , while the 6:45 Northern and Montreal express and the 7 o'clock FA Louis express were both six hours late . The delays were out down a little last night . The Chicago limited due at 7:30 was only three hours late , but the Southwestern limited due ai 6 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The trains due at 4 P. M. and 8:50 P. M. were also three hours late . The two limited trains came down via Chatham and Hudson , while the others used the Harlem Road . All trains between Hudson and this city and the locals ran on regular time . A notice was posted in the station that some delay might be expected . The 3:30 , 3:55 , and 6:25 trains only ran to Hudson , while the 4:50 and 7:20 used the Chatham route and the 9:15 went up the Harlem Road . At midnight a train started for Albany by way of Chatham . Encouraging dispatches were received at the station last evening . They said that through the Mohawk Valley the road was now In good order , and trains over that division would be run without delay to-day . Officials who visited the submerged section at Stnyvesaut ordered crews of a couple or work trains to clear off the ice tonight , and expected to make the road passable by morning . The water is receding and has fallen considerably , and now only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Ice is thick , however , and the big blocks must be cleared away before travel can be resumed . The mails were delayed yesterday owing to the freshets along the railroad lines . The mall from the West over the New-York Central and Hudson River Road due at 6 A. M. did not arrive till 12 , while other through mails were from two to six hours late . On the Erie Road there were delays , and local malls from the north were behind time . PASADENA , Cal. , Feb. ** the looal railway trains are again running , but there are no prospects of any overland malls tor several days yet . Over two miles of track i u the i ? ; atits . Fit In Cajon Pass are either washed out or covered with landslides.                     