@@672395

txt Gov . Gordon to-day addressed a convention of representative colored men from different States . The body had previously passed resolutions reciting the injustice done the race , and concluding as follows : ? " We ask the Governors and Legislators of the Southern States to protect us . We do not believe there is any solution of this problem by em ration . The South is our home . We were born and reared here . In the prosperity of the whole people we rejoice ; in their adversity we sympathize and sorrow . The interests of all are one , identical and inseparable . There may be times when political differences may cause spasmodic storms , but we have yet to be taught that the best white people of these Southern lands of ours will forget our devotion to their wives and children , while they were at the front , in the sixties , lighting to keep us in an ungodly slavery , when we could have used the torch and bludgeon and hastened our freedom . " Gov . Gordon was introduced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gordon began his address by saying that he was a friend to the colored men , too much of a friend to deceive them by delusive hopes . He had fought in the Southern Army in defense of Southern rights , one of which was  --  the retention of property in slaves , and he asserted that the South could at any time during the war have retained them in slavery by laying down their arms . He reviewed the Legislature since the war , in order to show the negroes that the whole purpose of the Radical Party had been political and not humanitarian or philanthropic . He took up the statistics which showed the great increase in the education of colored children since the Southern white people came into power , and the increase of property held by negroes , and then asked if there was a sensible man among them that thought they could do better in another country . While he felt that it - would be a grave error ' for the colored race , - still , . if they desired to emigrate ? anyhow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all means at his command would facilitate their going . He did not wish them to leave this country , for he felt an abiding assurance that if wise counsel prevailed it would be found far better for both races that they should remain peaceably in their Southern homes . Turning to the presiding officer , W. A. Pledger , he asked how many colored men had been appointed to Postmasterships in Indiana , the home of President Harrison , and in the entire North and West . This question was greeted with round after round of applause , and seemed to strike the audience with more force than anything that he had uttered .                     