@@673066

txt Under the orders of Sir Andrew Clark , his physician , Mr. Gladstone has depleted to limit his presence in the House of Commons during the coming session . He will attend the sittings only on the days when Important measures are under consideration . His deputy in the general leadership of the House will be Sir William Vernon Harcourt , the Chancellor of the Exchequer . As there are authentic ) reports that the eye malady from which Sir William is a sufferer is growing worse , the Liberals are disturbed at the prospect of a disorganized leadership . Mr. Gladstonb had a conference yesterday with the chief whip of the Liberal Party regarding the question of leadership in the event of Sir William becoming incapacitated . At the Cabinet Connell which was held to-day arrangements were probably made to have a substitute ready to take Sir William 's place as leader of the Government in the House , should his health become such as to render his absence unavoidable . It is reported that at the Cabinet Council today Mr. Gladstone submitted a rough draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of meetings of a strong committee of members of the Cabinet . The difference between the two sections of the Irish Parliamentary Party over the Paris fund is at last on the verge of settlement . The origin of this Paris fund was as follows : Down to the end of the year 1885 moneys were voted from time to time by the Organizing Committee of the Irish National League for the purpose of drafting bills for Parliament , for the registration of Parliamentary voters in certain constituencies , and in some cases for defraying the election expenses of certain members of Parliament . At the end of 1885 and the beginning of 1S66 , when the number of members in Parliament supporting the programme of the Irish National League had been largely increased , and when in addition to the expenditures for Parliamentary purposes , it became necessary to defray the expenses in Parliament of a certain proportion of the representatives who wet e advocating the programme of the Irish National League , a special fund , called the Parliamentary Fund , was established by the league . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by subscription from members DI Ireland , but mainly from donations from America and Australia , from associations which had been established in those countries in sympathy with the objects and programme or the Irish National League . These donations from abroad were in the first instance sent either to the late Mr. Parnell personally ot. ? to the late Mr. Joseph Gillis ' Biggar , or W. P. Molony. the then Treasurer of the Irish National League , or to Mr. Harrington , Its Secretary . Some donations were also received by Mr. McCarthy , whom Mr. Parnell had nominated as one of the Treasurers . In 1886 the part of the fund not immediately required was deposited in Paris , with Messrs . Munroe ( Sr. Co .. bankers , in the names of Messrs . Biggar , Parnell , and McCarthy , as Trustees . After the split occurred in the Irish Parliamentary Party , and after the deaths of Messrs . Parnell and Biggar , a tight arose over the ownership of the fund , it being claimed by both sections . On Wednesday last Archbishop Croke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evicted tenants , and in a letter accompanying his gift declared that the fund should be taken from the hands or the Paris bankers and confided to three honest men , who are not connected with either side of the Irish controversy , until an agreement as to its disposal should be concluded . Mr. Timothy Harrington has signified that he unconditionally agrees to the Archbishop 's suggestion , and adds that ho desires that Archbishop . Croke be one of the three new Trustees . If the MoCartbyites agree to this proposition there will be little further trouble regarding the fund .                     