@@673381

txt The reverses which befall the New-York Democracy to-day will be remedial and wholesome . For eight years the party has been under bad guidance . Its State organization has been seized and controlled by selfish , tricky , and unscrupulous men . They have been out of sympathy with the Democracy of the Nation , and their abuse of political power has sorely tried the patience and loyalty of their party in this State . Their continued successes , broken only when the Cleveland Democracy rode them down on its way to victory last year , have made them unbearably impudent and daring . Their audacious disregard of public opinion shows itself in the State at large by the nomination of MAYNARD for the Court of Appeals ; looally by the municipal debaucheries of MCLAUGHLIN in Brooklyn and of SHEEHAN in Buffalo . It is the same power , the same spirit , whether it thrusts the impenitent thief before the people and bids them raise him to the bench ; or holds the limp and collusive BOODY before its hideous face in Brooklyn and asks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grasps the administrative powers of Buffalo preparatory to looting the city . These men have this year presumed too far upon the public tolerance , and to-day their presumption is to be rebuked . The State Democracy will desert them by tens of thousands . Their bespattered candidate , MAYNARD , will be beaten with an emphasis that will brand him for the rest of his days . Lieut . Gov . SHEEHAN , as it now appears , will be overthrown in Buffalo . and Ma ... At:GI:mix will meet the most crushing defeat of his miserable career in Brooklyn . It will be fortunate for the party , though no help to the machine , if the fires of defeat do not rage further than this and sweep the State . Alcli.A.NE 's outrageous crimes at Gravesend , crimes against the liberty of the citizen and the authority of the court , that stir American citizens to a swifter public indignation than any other breaches of law , wilt have an effect throughout the State that it is impossible to measure . It may turn the balanced scale . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-York must atone by crushing these men . It must mend its own body by undoing them . It will be a salutary process , and it is a necessary one . The purging can not be put off , nor is there any other remedy . The party itself is sound and patriotic . It proved that by its devotion to the candidate of the National Democracy last year . As soon as it shall have cast out its devils it will become once more worthy of the respect and the loyal adherence of good citizens . It is a duty that party fealty to-day commands to repudiate MAYNARD and to punish by exemplary defeat the ' rings of Brooklyn and of Buffalo .                     