@@674153

txt Misinformation as to the Venezuelan commission multiplies on both sides in : the Atlantic . The latest developed idea that the work of the Venezuelan Commission is being delayed through the influence of the Administration , in order that it may carry out some undefined plan of settling the boundary dispute by diplomatic negotiations , thus avoiding.any sharply drawn decision on the controversy , such as the commission was instructed to make , appears to be as wholly unsubstantiated as many previous rumors on the same subject . Nor is there any firmer foundation for the guess that the trend of opinion in the commission is adverse to Great Britain . The Administration has never interfered in the least- with the progress made by the commission in developing evidence upon the disputed boundary , and a definite quietus is put upon the rumor that Secretary Olney has been able to threaten Lord Salisbury with a decision favorable to Venezuela by the declaration of members of the commission that up to this time much of the British contention has not been successfully attacked by Venezuela , the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sole delay that is now annoying the commission results from the slowness with which the Venezuelan copies of Spanish archives are being translated , and the consequent loss of time which will be involved in sending an agent to Madrid and Seville to verify the accuracy of all quotations submitted by both contestants , . The case , so far as the Dutch records are concerned , is practically complete , except in its verification , and these broadly combat Venezuela 's claim to any considerable possessions as the heir of Spain of the Orinoco River above its mouth . From an authentic source it is also learned that no unimpeachable evidence has yet been forthcoming to sustain any Venezuelan claim east of the Pomeroon River at the coast , as well as to large areas in the basin of the Cuyuni and other western tributaries of the Essequibo . These , however , may be subsequently presented , the Venezuelan case being concededly incomplete at present , and the agents of that country being still engaged in preparing documents bearing on the interior possessions of Spain when Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no possibility can the report of the commission ' be prepared in less than a month after all possible evidence has been collected , and none of the Commissioners , who are without exception ranking every effort to complete their labors , has any idea that the case will be in condition for final consideration for another month . In the meantime , the Commissioners are neither informed of any diplomatic negotiations to render their work superfluous nor have they intimated in any manner . directly or indirectly , to Secretary Olney , or to any other person , that their decision would be unfavorable to either one of the parties in controversy . This for the simple reason that , like all Judges , they are waiting for a complete presentment of facts before formulating any decision . FEELING IN BUSINESS ABROARD . ' Ulysses D. Deity Says Inveesiors Await Our Position on the Currently .. Ulysses D. Eddy of Ftint , Eddy &; Co. has returned from Europe , where he passed the Winter , convinced that European confidence in American investments , can be regained only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money . When that policy shall be declared , the surplus stores of capital in Europe , in his opinion , will yield generously to the inducements offered here for the profitable employment of capital . Mr. Eddy arrived Saturday by the St. Paul , and appeared at his office yesterday . " Money is so abundant in London , " he said , " that call loans are made at the rate of one half of 1 per cent . per year . Time money is also very cheap , while consols have risen to the unprecedented price of 114 . High-class railway securities sell on a 3 per cent , basis . English investors are eagerly searching for opportunities to get better rates of interest . They . have been buying mining stocks in great quantities , hoping in that way to average up their incomes . The European competition for desirable investments , particularly in Belgium , Holland , and France , is very great . " Yet , anxious as they are to place their money , they look with suspicion upon American investments , preferring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are sure that they will get back the same kind of money that they invest . There is no reason to expect liberal investments in America until the financial question is settled upon some permanent basis . If that settlement be upon the basis of the gold standard , money wil ' pour in upon us by hundreds of millions of dollars . " In spite of the recent friction in reference to Venezuela , the feeling among Englishmen toward America seems to be kindly . Every one expresses the hope that the matter may soon be settled in a way honorable to both countries . " The German Emperor 's message to President Krtiger of the Transvaal was made the basis of a violent outbreak against Germany . That country has lately been cutting very heavily into English trade . German goods are not only sold to England 's former customers in different parts of the world , but in England itself in great quantities . "                     