@@673582

txt Though the'teStimony of yesterday and the day before was by no means so sensational as that given at several previous sessions of the , Lexow committee , it may be doubted whether any previous testimony has been more significant and symptomatic than that which has made evident the habitual bribing of the police by storekeepers . These men , the storekeepers , go before the committee and swear that the police blackmail them and make them pay for the privilege of using the public sidewalks as annexes to their private premises . They ' teem to regard this as an outrage . It is an outrage , but they are the last ' people In the world who are entitled to complain of it . They doubtless consider themselves respectable people and good citizens . But , in point of fact , they are bad citizens , and they ought to be very much ashamed of themselves . For really what they are doing is precisely what the keepers of saloons and brothels are doing and what they despise these people for doing . They are carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for permission to violate the law . Every storekeeper who pays the patrolman on his block for the privilege of keeping his goods on the sidewalk is contributing as directly and powerfully to the demoralization of the force as the saloon keeper or the keeper of a disorderly house who pays for the privilege of breaking the law . In one aspect of his case , the respectable storekeeper who bribes the police is more blamable than the disreputable person . He is robbing the public and paying the police to keep quiet about it . When he stores his goods on the sidewalk he is converting public property to private uses , and he bribes the appointed guardians of the public interest to betray their trust . He does this simply to save himself money . If the blackmail he pays were more than the additional rent he would have to pay for premises in which he could carry on his business in a lawful and decent way , then , of course , he would enlarge his premises and pay the additional rent . He prefers paying blackmail to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person , a worse citizen , or a person who has less standing in the forum of equity among all the witnesses ' who have testified before the committee than the respectable business man who pays the police to let him carry on his business on the public property instead of hiring room enough to transact , his business on his own private property like an honest man and a good citizen . No doubt there are people who are entitled to complain of the exactions of the police . and who find it very difficult and troublesome to transact perfectly lawful business without paying tribute . But these trespassers are not among them . They show to great disadvantage even in the comparison with some saloon keepers , for there are saloon keepers in ITew- . York who do not pay blackmail to the police . There are saloon keepers who know what their rights are under the law , and , " knowing ; dare maintain . " They are men who , having- paid for licenses under certain understood legal restrictions , observe those restrictions , do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the favor of the police , and , consequently , pay the police nothing for favors . Such saloon keepers do not get themselves beloved by the police , who , as to them , do their duty and are very strict in watching for iniquity . But such law-abiding saloon keepers are very much better citizens than the men engaged in lawful and reputable business who bribe the police to let them carry on their business unlawfully and at the public cost . This point is very well worth making , because the behavior of these storekeepers is a symptom of what occurs more or less throughout the whole community . We all have to take to ourselves some share of shame for the corruption which has been shown to permeate the police . It is not possible that a police force should be so rotten as our police force has been proved to be without grave fault upon the part of the public . The excesses of impudence in which members of the force have indulged while this investigation has been going on in attempting to deter witnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone . These particular instances can and should be dealt with by the committee itself , but the disease of which they are symptoms pervades the whole community more or less . The payment of blackmail to ' the police in preference to the payment of horest rent is an extreme illustration of the lack of civic pride ' or . civic shame and of a sense of public duty that has permitted the police to become what it is . It is the aggregate population of New-York that IS undergoing investigation and that is coining out very badly .                     