@@673907

txt District Attorney Burlingame , appearing for the people , and Assemblyman John B. Stanchfield of Elmira and Judge Andrew Hamilton of this city for the interests of Eugene F. Vacheron , the jndicted Queens County Assemblyman , had a lively tilt when the case was taken up for trial in the Court of Sessions here to-day . Assemblyman Vacheron , who is alleged to have accepted a bride from an Albany County man for assisting in the defeat of a Hudson River Ice-Cutting bill , had been excused in the morning by the Court from further attendance . When the case was called , counsel filed a demurrer in the usual form to the indictment , particularly on the ploint that the acts set forth in the indictment did not constitute a crime . Upon the argument which followed , the counsel for the defendant attacked the validity of the indictment upon the ground that such indictment omitted to charge that the defendant had taken anything " as a bribe . " The indictment does charge that the defendant received money is his capacity as a legislator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he received it as a " bribe , " the term insisted on by the Penal Code to declare the offense . The District Attorney said that the filing of the demurrer was the first intimation of such a move , but that he was willing to argue it . Mr. Stanehfield said that not only was the contention made in his demurrer so , but there was nothing in the indictment to show that the defendant was even a member of the Legislature , simply saying he was a member of the Assembly . The Court seemed very much surprised at the curious questions raised by Mr. Stanchfield , as did counsel . District Attorney Burlingame said in reply that the argument raised by his opponent was a very ingenuous one , but that they had followed the requirements of the Code by making a plain and concise statement of the act constituting the crime . Their argument was not founded upon a good basis . The law requiring the drawing up of indictments laid down a form and demanded a plain statement of the facts . That had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allegations were sufficiently clear , because under the Constitution the Legislature was designated as consisting of two branches  --  Assembly and Senate . It was not necessary under the code to use the word bribery . The indictment charged him with the crime in other words . He held that the indictment followed the precedents in the sessions case , tried in this county . Mr. Stanchfield replied that the sessions case had no demurrer argued in it , and the Court of Appeals had not considered it . Judge Clute asked for time to consider the points submitted , and requested counsel to hand in the authorities which they had cited this afternoon . LOTS OF ROOM IN WISCONSIN Gov . Upham Wants Settlers for 25,000,000 Unoccupied Acres  --  His Mission to This City . Gov . William H. Upham of Wisconsin and G. W. Bishop , Secretary of the Wisconsin State Immigration Commission , are at the Waldorf . They come to New-York on business connected with the promotion of European immigration to Wisconsin . There are in Wisconsin about 25,000,000 acres as yet unoccupied and unimproved . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Gov . Upham said , " may be said to be solely for the purpose of occupying with settlers the thinly settled portions of Wisconsin , to place actual settlers in the northern portion of the State , and in that way add a revenue to the taxable property of the State , but in no manner looking to any increase to the number of laborers now in the State . " The bill creating the commission made an appropriation that will be expended principally in the maintenance of a publication bureau and the preparation and circulation of documents giving the exact facts concerning the virgin lands of my State . The statistics and statements will be official , and will present the situation exactly as it is , without exaggeration , evasion , or circumlocution . " A principal object of my mission to the East is to make a personal investigation of the character of the immigrants , the method of their transportation to America , and the system of inspection ? which prevails in the seaport cities under the present National immigration laws . I may say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced that with zealous work on the part of the State in circulating information concerning our lands we shall be able to attract to our fertile State a. tide of that honest German and Scandinavian immigration which has already done much toward the upbuilding of Wisconsin . Every family and every person that settles within our borders is a consumer as well as producer , and the whole State gains by every addition to its wealth or population . Wisconsin can well afford to add to her population more of the same classes which have done so much to give her high rank among the States for substance , thrift , and general prosperity . " " Wisconsin is a great State now in wealth and production , " said Mr. Bishop , " but its resources have only been half improved . The encouragement of settlement of the more thinly populated sections is an idea of our Governor , which the Legislature has acted on in a manner bound to bring about beneficial results . The settlement of the northern section of our State will not be by foreigners exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has already contributed so largely to our population . "                     