@@675036

txt Probably soon after the President 's return from the South , and certainly not later than Jan. 1 , he will send to the Senate the nominations of a successor to Secretary of the Interior Bliss and of Joseph H. Choate to be Ambassador to Great Britain . The reports that were published a short time ago that the appointment of Mr. Choate had been fully decided upon , and that notification to ' that effect had been sent to Mr. Choate , seem to have been wide of the mark . The friends of that gentleman who hope to see him made Ambassador ought to know that the decision of Mr. Bliss to leave the Cabinet has had about everything to do with determining the selection of Mr. Choate for the post of Ambassador . The President had looked upon the suggestion of Mr. Choate 's name as a helpful one , but consideration of the fact that he had not been able , for a long time , to offer any high office to a Western man , led him to make a special effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the proper training , but also the necessary means to qualify him for the place of Ambassador , as it is regarded as almost an indispensable qualification for that place that the holder of it shall not be straitened in his income . Even while the friends of Mr. Choate were hearing that he had been dicided upon , the President was searching the West for an Ambassador . A number of Western men were considered , men of learning and of fortune , but none was found who was considered to be in all respects so well fitted for the diplomatic service as Mr. Choate . The inquiry was still in progress when Mr. ' Bliss submitted his decision to retire from the Cabinets Mr. Bliss may have appreciated the situation , and seized the opportunity to assist the President , follow his business inclinations , and secure for New York the honor of having the Ambasador chosen from that State . At all events , his resignation changed the character of the search of the West for a new man . The investigation was no longer for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one to take ep the Interior Department work which Mr. Bliss is to drop at the beginning of the year . When that man is found the President will have the opportunity to extend a favor to the West , and he will get the sort of man for Ambassador that he wishes to appoint . L. B. SLOSS SHOOTS HIMSELF . Lottie Gilson 's Husband Says It Was an Accident  --  Had Quarreled with Her . Lemuel B. Sloss , a theatrical agent and the husband of Lottie Gilson , is confined to his room in th , e Hotel Vendome with a bullet wound in the right side of his head . Weilier the wound was inflicted by Sloss in , an attempt to end his life , or was the result of an accidental discharge of a rusty revolver , is not known . Sloss denies that he attempted suicide . He declares that he shot himself while cleaning the revolver . It was shortly after 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon when the clerk of the hotel was hurriedly summoned to Room 41 , and found Sloss lying on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back of the right ear . Sloss was in a semi-conscious condition . Dr. Henry B. Pettingill of 105 West Fortieth Street found that the bullet had entered Sloss 's head back of the ear , and after half circling the back of his head between the scull and the scalp , had come out at the left side . The wound was not considered a dangerous one , and after bagdaging it the doctor went away . Later in the day Dr. G. F. Laidlaw of laT West Forty-first Street was called in , and the wound was dressed again . Last evening Roundsman Fennell of the West Thirtieth Street Police Stattion , was informed that there had been an attempted suicide at the Vendome . He went to Sloss 's room , but as the theatrical agent denied positively that be had attempted to kill himself , the police dropped the case without further investigation . Dr. Pettingill said last night : " When I reached Sloss 's room he was lying on the bed . After bandaging the wound I looked around the room and saw that four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lodged in the ceiling , another in the wall near the window , and the third in the bed . The fourth , which I presume was the last , inflicted the wound in the head . Sloss said nothing to me about cleaning a revolver , and I did not ask him to explain the bullet holes in the ceiling and wall . " Dr. Laidlaw said that Sloss had informed him that he was cleaning the revolver when it exploded . The hotel clerk denied that any one had been shot or that there was any guest of the hotel named Sloss . From Dr. Pettingill it was learned that Sloss had quarreled with his wife on Thursday . and on the following day had moved to the Vendome . He told a number of his friends of his family troubles and seemed much worried . A picture of his wife was found in his bed .                     