@@675002

txt The Fifty-sixth Congress will be Republican in both the Senate and the House of Representatives . The returns from districts in Indiana , Illinois , Kansas , and Nebraska that on Tuesday indicated the election of Democrats or Populists have upon later information proved to have been premature and inaccurate , and the Republican gains have been sufficiently numerous to make it apparent that they have retained the lead in the House by the slenderest of majorities , which may be increased somewhat after organization by industrous work in the Elections Committee . The Senate will be Republican after March 3 , 1899 , with a majority very much larger than it has herd in that body for many years . With gains of one Senator in each of the States of California , Delaware , Nebraska , and North Dakota , the membership of forty-four straight Republicans in the present Senate is increased to 51 , giving a. majority of twelve over irregular Republicans , Democrats , Populists , and Silver Republicans . The Populists have suffered badly . In the present House they have twenty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Republican gains in Nebraska and Kansas having suddenly deprived them of half their present power to do mischief in Congress . But the prospect is that the Republicans have done much better than indicated by the figures just given . They have evidently gained a Senator in Indiana , they will hold on to one in Washington who was about given up as lost to the Populists ; they have a doubtful prospect of adding one from West Virginia , and they will elect one from Wyoming to take the place of a Republican who will r March 3 . If they hold on to all of these an ose none of those apparently gained by yesterday 's returns , 55 Senators will answer the roll-call next March as unqualified Republicans , leaving but 35 Senators to the Democrats , Populist 's , Silver Republicans , and Independents . There is but one Senator  --  Kyle of South Dakota  --  who calls himself an independent , and on all critical questions he has recently voted with the Republicans . His recent utterances plainly declare his determination to stand by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be added to the fifty-five already given as the probable maximum Republican strength in the next Senate . Even with West Virginia out of the count , the Republicans can always , for two years to come , depend upon a large working majority in the Senate . This means that soon after March 3 the Senate will be reorganized . The lack of a majority has induced the Republicans to submit to the retention of a Democratic Secretary , a Democratic Sergeant at Arme. and Democratic clerks in different positions about the Senate , including clerks to many - committees of which Democrats are Chairmen , and a few committees accorded to Populists who would have been troublesome if not pacified by patronage . A most important condition , in the eyes of the Administration and of all gold-standard advocates , will be the presence in the new Senate of a clear Republican majority against free silver , and the forty-six votes of that party against any debasing of the currency will be supplemented by at least the Democratic vote of Caffery of Louisiana , apparently the only gold Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of that of Chandler of New Hampshire , if that curious Senator should persist in being an occasional silver man . Among the men now in the Senate whose abilities may provoke some regret at their disappearance from the Senate are White of California , Gray of Delaware , Turpie Indiana , Gorman of Maryland , Mills of Ttl as , and Faulkner of West Virginia . Others will disappear from the Chamber to the advantage of that body and the country  --  Murphy of New York , Allen of Nebraska , Smith of New Jersey , and Roach of North Dakota . Quay will probably be returned by Pennsylvania , end Washington may restore Wilson , with his gold-standard convictions stiffened by the action of his State in the campaign just ended . The retention of the control of the House by the Republicans will avert the competition and strife that seemed threatened as long as it appeared possible that the opposition combined would outnumber the Republicans . To effect a combination of all opponents of the Republican Party to elect a Speaker , divide the patronage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been a task of prodigious difficulty , and could not have been performed with satisfaction to the country . As it is , the Republican Party will enjoy all the privileges and will have to assume the responsibility for the Fifty-sixth Congress . The next House of Representatives will be deprived of a few of the men who have been known by their ability or activity ler one or more sessions . Johnson of Indiana , a stanch gold man and supporter of the civil service law , will go out . Jerry Simpson of Kansas , who was never a " sockiess stateman , " and whose quaint speeches did not reveal the real ability of the man , has been retired by a former antagonist . Evans of Kentucky , who was sure that the Louisville district had become permanently Republican , gives way to a Democrat . Walker of Massachusetts , who hoped to remain in the House until his banking bill was passed , has been prevented by his constituents from persisting in the task to which he has devoted so much time and energetic argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sixth District , E. C. Towne , formerly a Republican , but in affiliation with the Democrats and Populists when last in service in the House in the Fifty-fourth Congress . Michigan sends three Smiths in a delegation of twelve members . Missouri returns Champ Clark . whose peculiar oratory , literally loaaed with quotatiops from Scripture , will be again at a disadvantage from the presence of Sibley of Pennsylvania , whose acquaintance with Scripture is accompanied by an audacity and occasional rudeness of speech that draws crowds to the galleries . With the Democrats and Populists holding control of the House , Sibley is sure to assume a prominent position , and perhaps will exert a considerable influence . The Republicans of the House will be united in support of the financial policy of the Administration , which will not be for free silver . While the Democrats and Populists 33 , ne:17 y all free-silver men , it is not believed that the support of the New York , Massachusetts . New Jersey , and Pennsylvania Democrats can be depended upon for a financial policy or legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ALLEGED STEWART HEIRS ' SUIT . A Lis Pendens Against the Manhattan Club Is Piled . A lis pendens was filed yesterday by Alexander Stewart against the Manhattan Club and others to obtain possession of the A. T. Stewart mansion , at Fifth Avenue and Thirty-fourth Street , which is occupied by the Manhattan Club . John Hunter . Jr. , the attorney for the club , said , when questioned last night concerning the suit , that it was brought by certain alleged heirs of A. T. Stewart , who claim an interest in the estate and have instituted various legal proceedings in years past to substantiate their claim .                     