@@675111

txt The officials at the War Department were asked to-day , why Gen. Otis had refused to recognize the Commissioners who had come to Manila from the insurgent headquarters at Malolos when they came to seek peace . The reply was that Gen. Otis was acting with the greatest propriety in this matter . He was careful not to commit his Government to any recognition of Agulnaido that would make a precedent , and then there was always the best of reasons for withholding confidence in every act of the insurgents where the placing of trust would imperil American lives and interests . The Filipino insurgents would have no difficulty in securing amnesty , it is said , if they lay down their arms and submit unconditionally ; for there is no purpose on the part of the American commanders to wreak vengeance upon a submissive foe . In addition . to the military reasons why ' Otis should be very cautious in entering into any entangling negotiations with the insurgents , there is also the ever-present danger I that he might by failing to be cautious in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - for formal recognition of the insurrection , with all the embarrassing consequences likely to fellow . Respecting the reported landing of foreign marines at Manila , not a word of confirmation has been received at either the War Department or the Navy Department . A press dispatch received several days ago mentioned the landing of a few British bluejackets each evening to wet down the British Consulate , a measure of protection from fire during the intensely dry season in the Philippines . and it is probable that this is the foundation for the Madrid story of a general landing . Some notice is beginning to be taken here of the markedly - hostile reports that are being cabled to Madrid by Col. Rios ? the ranking Spanish officer at Manila , and If he persists in this course he may be called to account by Gen. Otis . who probably does not understand what that officer is doing . Technically Rios is a prisoner of war , and his actions are subject to the complete control of the United States officers at Manila . His reports , it is said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or gross distortions of them . with the plain purpose of giving a false impression of the weakness of the American position in the Philippines . perhaps with a deliberate purpose to justify some of the poWers to recognize the belligerency of the insurgents . The latter are believed to be suffering from the lack of war supplies , and such recognition at the hands of even one of the nations whose possessions border on the China Sea would be of the greatest assistance to their cause . Just why Rios is going to Zamboanga , as announced from Manilla. is not known here , but it is presumed that Gen. Otis would not permit any such movement were it not demanded by the necessity for preparing the remnant of Spanish troops in the Philippines for for shipment home to Europe . When he evacuated Iloilo just in season to embarrass the Americans in their attempt to occupy the place , he took his garrison down the coast to Zamboanga , on the island of Mindanao . It is - supposed that when he came up to Manila . himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going there to ship them home , for accordingito the reports of the War Department the Spanish transportation company . will have taken aboard the last of the Spanish troops in the Philippines before the middle of next month . Touching Gen. Otis 's position at Manila it is said at the War Department that the truth is that not for a moment has he had any doubt as to his ability to maintain his position , though hiS lines are so long and thin , the estimates being that they extend over twenty-five miles of the worst kind of r'ountry , that without considerable reinforcements he is not able to carry on the aggressive warfare that he feels the situation ; demands . With the approach of the wet season the necessity increases for the dispersion of the insurgents from the neighborhood of , Manila , and this can be done only with the aid of reinforcements . It is estimated from Gen. Lawton 's pree diction yesterday that he would arrive at Singapore by next Sunday and will be at Manila by the Wednesday following at the latest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is known there is need for her and the troops she carries by Gen. Otis .. It is stated by Capt . Crowninshieict Chief of the Navigation Bureau , and by all of the other naval officials concerned , that the department has given no orders to the Iowa to proceed from San Francisco to Manila . and that none are in contemolation . It will be at least two months before the repairs to the Iowa can be completed .                     