@@674230

txt No romancer has ever had a more attractive subject for tragic treatment than the weird and mOnst-ous crime that has been committed on board of the prosaic barkentine Herbert Fuller , prosaically laden with lumber from Boston and prosaically proceding to Buenos Ayres . The tragedy of S'revENsoree " Wrecker " is scarcely more complicated and by no means more gruesome . Indeed , neither in fact nor in fiction is there any scene of crime upon the sea more adapted to stimulate the imagination than the account of the arrival of the barkentine at Halifax towing a boat laden with the decomposing bodies ' of the Captain , the Captain 's wife , and the second mate . The touch of grotesque comedy Which so deepens the direst tragedy is added by the fact that the Vessel was in charge of the first mate , the steward , and the pas. ! senger , an undergraduate of Harvard who had undertaken the voyage to South America on account of some trouble with his lungs . Decidedly the tragedy lacks the sacred poet almost as much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such mystery as it contains . The cheerful Dogberryism in the reported behavior of the provincial pollee seems calculated to befog what seems to be tolerably plain and is rather adapted to suggesting superfluous mystery than to clearing tip what mystery there may be . Official suspicion seems to have fallen , rather comically , upon the passenger , apparently upon the ground that he did not hear beige enough when the murders were committed , and upon the further ground that while the sleepers in the cabin On either side of him were murdered he escaped , a discrimination which the Atiltfax COnStabtilaty seems to find No " theory " of the crime could be more pl'eptittePOtte than the supposition that an undergraduate invalid who had paid his passage really took it With a design to possess himself of the stcred wealth of the skipper , or the alternative Supposition that , having taken his passage , in good faith . he was unable to resist the temptation offered by the skipper 's glittering treasury . There is , hoWeVer , a Serious moral to be drawn from this horrible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which seems to be so easy and so safe , is really more hazardous than like crime on land . A ship at sea is for the time being beyond the realm of law , beyond the confines of civilisation . There is no appeal to any quarter outside , and within there are common , pas : . ionate , vindictive men , who probably think they have cause to hate the officers , whom they outnumber ten or twenty to one- . The first wonder is , not that now and again a Captain is murdered on board , but that any Captain comes to shore alive . The solution of it is that a ship Canna remain at sea . She must make port , and when she makes it it is impossible that any crime that may have been committed on board should not come to light . The clumsy wits of sailormen are not equal to concocting any explanation of a missing Captain that would be plausible even to a Halifax constable . Moreover , there are the men , the murderers or the men Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and already within the grasp of the law they have broken . And so a really brutal and tyrannical skipper , or a skipper who is only so esteemed in the forecastle , goes safely his bullying and tyrannical way for voyage after voyage and dies peaceably in his bed on shore at last                     