@@673786

txt While the bulletin report of the State Board of Health for the past year shows that the death rate for the entire State has been declining since 1891 , the number of deaths - from diphtheria was larger last year ( 6,592 ) than it had been for several years preceding . The increase was confined chiefly to what the board calls the maritime district , which includes this city and Brooklyn , Long Island , Staten Island , and Westchester County . The death rate from diphtheria has been unusually large also during the last five or six months in Boston and its outlying towns , in Philadelphia and its suburbs , and in some other American cities . In some foreign countries there has been a steady and alarming increase for several years past . Those sessions of the recent International Congress of Hygiene at which this disease was the subject of discussion were peculiarly interesting , not only on account o ; the memorable report of Dr. Roux concerning the serum treatment in Paris , brit also because of the statistics which showed a growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The general death rate in England and Wales , it was shown , has steadily decreased during the last twelve years from 22.6 to 17.8 per 1,000 . During the same period the death rate from zymotic diseases has fallen from 5.4 to 2.4 , and that from typhoid fever from .37 to .17 . But while the general death rate and the death rate for all infectious diseases has been falling , the rate for diphtheria has been increasing . In the twelve years ending with 1892 it rose , in England and Wales , from 144 per million to 192 , and in London from 213 to 377 . It was reported that diphtheria was becoming more and more a disease of the town , rather than of the country , and that the rising mortality was due in some measure to the association of children in schools and the increased school attendance . While the English report did not suggest practical measures for dealing with this growth , the reports from France and Germany were clear and positive with re-. spect to what should be done , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sanitary science . They insisted upon notification , immediate bacteriological examination , isolation , disinfection , protective or curative inoculations , and the separation of patients , when convalescent , from the healthy " until the bacillus has disappeared . " The importance of this last recommendation is clearly shown by the fact that the bacillus of the disease lingers on the affected parts for several days after the patient has returned to a condition of health . The attitude of England 's representatives in the congress toward the sanitary measures suggested was all the more remarkable because of England 's great advance in general sanitation during the last twenty or thirty years , an advance indicated by the reported decrease of the mortality from zymotic diseases , in the last twelve years , from 5.4 to 2.4 . Owing to the use of the method of bacteriological diagnosis and inspection in this city , and the application of the serum remedy , we may reasonably expect a large reduction of the mortality in the year 1895 , and the same effect will be seen , we think , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis first established in New-York and have undertaken to manufacture supplies of antitoxine serum . Thus , both here and in Europe , an increase of mortality from this disease will have been met and changed to a decline by the great discovery of Behring and the municipal sanitary measures suggested by the discovery of the characteristic bacillus by Loeffler and Klebs.                     