@@675283

txt It seems to us , as we glance over some of the vehement speeches that have been made at recent meetings held to advance interest in Col. BRYAN and his anti-military , anti-expansion , and anti-trust preconvention policy that there is a trifle too much of surrender in the song that is sung to make it really effective with a people that is not overfond of giving up or giving in . Even the most vociferous of those persons who are willing to associate the idea of surrender te . AGUINALDO with the success of Col BRYAN may have reasonable doubt whether Cot BRYAN 'S election and the abandonment of the Philippines would be considere ? 1 double occasion for National pride and the applause of the world . If in order to assure the election of Col. BRYAN as a non-military President we must withdraw from the Philippines and permit the people to be governed by the Tagal leader , so that we shall give earnest of our abiding faith in the Colonial opinion . in 1776 , that " Governments are instituted among men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " shall we not also , in order to be consistent , withdraw our protection from Cuba and abandon Puerto Rico ? We have taken Puerto Rico , without consulting the men of that island from whom , under a strict application of the words of our Declaration of Independence from the rule of GEORGE III. , all just power to govern should be derived . It does not satisfy the surrender party to quibble with words , or to suggest that there is yet plenty of time to equip the Puerto Ricans and the Cubans to govern justly . But it ought to be borne in mind that during the occupation of Cuba and Puerto Rico the United States authorities have indisputably given the people of those islands peace , have lessened their burden of taxation , have by humane , ordinary , Modern methods of government made them acquainted with a degree of freedom to which they have never been accustomed , and have held out to them assurances of as large a measure of self-government as they can desire or as we of the United States enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President or his Cabinet , or in his party , in their determination not to ; ive up the possesions acquired from ; pain , to flout the principles laid down in the Declaration of Independence . No Party would hope to win in 1900 by insisting that Texas should be surrendered to Mexico because at the time of its acquisition it was possibly not clearly ascertained that the majority of the inhabitants of Texas would not have preferred Mexican rule . Alaska was bought , lands and peop'e , without the " consent of the governed . " We still govern the Indians with very little regard for their consent to our laws for them , which are not invariably just . The country has not yet Indicated hopelessness of its capacity to deal justly with Cuba , Puerto Rico , and the Philippines . It is not prepared to give them Up . They are not prepared to be given up . There is reason to believe that Cuba and Puerto Rico are better off , and that their people believe they are better off , because we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quote the Declaration of Independence at us . And in the Philippines , is it not fair to assume that the policy thus far successfully enforced in Cuba and Puerto Rico will bring forth like results ? Let us take time to find out . We have once indicated our willingness to abandon the 16 to 1 notion , and Col. BnYAN with it . There seems to be great probability that this decision will be reaffirmed before the country declares for the abandonment of its new charges .                     