@@673654

txt As Senator Jones takes himself out of the Republican Party , every rational member of that party can say to him , in the words of Hamlet to Polonius : " You can not , Sir , take from me anything that I will more willingly part withal . " And yet it must be a shadow on the joy of the parting in the fact that the Senator from the decadent State professes still to believe in the principle of protection , and thus retains a vital and significant connection with his old party , for it can not be denied that if protection , as practiced by the Republican Party in the fullness of its power , has any foundation in justice or reason , the Senator 's doctrine as to silver , which is now his chief doctrine , has just as good a foundation . That doctrine is , in substance , that the Government should compel people to take Nevada silver at a higher price than silver can be had for in other lands . The Republicans maintained exactly the same thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government to make silver mining profitable because it is an American industry , just as the Republicans made copper mining and , to a less extent , iron and coal mining more profitable than they otherwise would have been because they were American industries . The Senator has the same misleading notion as to the labor employed and the capital invested in silver that the Republicans had as to capital and labor in other industries . Both ignore the fact , that if profits were to be made by Government action which could not otherwise have been made , they must come out of the pockets of Americans , and so were necessarily offset by a corresponding loss . Underlying both the silver heresy and the protection heresy is the essential error that the Government has powers which the people do not support and can do things of which the people do not have to bear the cost . That is Socialism in theory , but in practice it is sure to be mere swindling . The power of the popular agency which we tail the Government is simply perverted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so soon as it is once conceded that the Government has the power to legislate for any but the general and equal good the control of the Government becomes a coveted prize sought by any means that will secure it , including corruption . Senator Jones waxes eloquent over the wrongs committed by the money power , but the I gravest wrong ever wrought by money in 1 this country was the sale of taxation to 1 rich and strong combinations under the protective tariff That was the gravest wrong , because it was carried on for so many years and over so vast a range of the necessaries and comforts of lige . The unnecessary and cruel tax on transportation alone , levied for the benefit of the railmakera of the United States for the last thirty years , very little of which has gone Into the public Treasury , can not be calculated , but it has been enormous . Of precisely the same character was the cost to the American people of their silver legislation , which was dictated by a. few wealthy mine owners , like Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last so long , but , considering that it produced the panic of last year , it is perhaps quite as monstrous an example of the evil wrought by the money power as protection itself . As for the Populists , to whom Mr. Jones now goes because they are the only party in the United States distinctly in favor of the free coinage of silver , their ideas have a good deal of resemblance to those of the Republicans , so far as theory goes , and in practice would lead to the same abuses . The Republicans professed to be  --  and the sincere men among them , the great body of the party , sincerely were ? trying to benefit the workingmen . In reality , they were malting a small class very rich at , the expense of the rest of the people , of whom the workingmen were the most numerous and the greatest sufferers . If the Populists , with their ideas of currency and Government warehouses and the regulation of corporations , &c.,; were to obtain power , they would be run by just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich men who would prostitute the extraordinary powers of the Government to their own advantage . This is really the worst mischief in all the Socialistic schemes . If they could be carried out honestly they would fail to do what their advocates believe that they would do , but , in fact , they never can be carried out honestly . They offer such a tremendous prize to those in power that that power is sure to be seized by those who would use it corruptly.                     