@@675196

txt This is the somewhat fanciful phrase used by Mr. A. MAURICE Low in a very sensible and informing article in The Forum . The article was written before the recent break in the negotiations for the settlement of differences between this country and the Dominion , of which Mr. Low seems to cherish hopes not quite justified by the present situation . Yet there is no doubt that he has the correct view as to the motives likely to control the Dominion Government , which we on our side must at least understand if there is to be any serious outcome to the negotiations . In substance these motives are a strong desire to promote trade between the two countries as beneficial for Canada and an equally strong or stronger purpose to preserve the support of the people of the Dominion , who are very- sensitive as to any even apparent surrender of their rights , interests , or dignity . We do not see that we can quarrel with that disposition on the part of Sir WILFaiin LAURIER . The resolution of a political leader to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unknown in the United States , while the doctrine that increased trade with ' our neighbors is a good thing for all concerned is more enlightened than the average American statesman professes . As to the settlement of the boundary questions involved Mr. Low has nothing to say , but we regard those as incidental and essentially unimportant , because they are peculiarly fitted for arbitration , and are practically sure to be arbitrated as soon as they are the only questions left undecided . The real points of difference relate to trade . The only solution of these lies in an agreement to remove obstacles on either side . That agreement , we fear , is not very near unless the United States Government is ready to go further than it has yet shown any disposition to go . It is possible , indeed , that even if the EAcutive should be ready to make the needed advance , it would require Congressional action , which in the present temper of the majority could not be obtained . Meanwhile , there is one fact that Mr. Low brings out very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should say that there are more persons in the United States , and especially in the public service of the United States , who understand and appreciate it than he is inclined to admit . This is the fact that the questions between the United States and the Dominion are essentially Canadian and not British , that is to say , they will be settled , if at all , as the Canadians shall finally consent to have them settled and not with reference to purely English interests or ideas . We can not conceive that Great Britain would go to war for any Canadian grievance that was not clearly an imperial grievance , but the mother Government will leave the quarrels of Canada unsettled until Canada is ready to settle them . She will neither coerce nor greatly urge the Dominion to come to terms with us . On the other hand , the Canadians fully appreciate this fact , and are ready to take advantage of it . Their policy will be guided by their own interests and sentiments and not by any feeling of sensitive " loyalty " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the English , therefore , that we must study . And practically the Canadians who will decide the policy of the Dominion are the two millions and over of Ontario . These Mr. Low describes as being in their character , capacity , habits of life , and way of looking at and doing things , the Americans of Canada . That does not mean that they will be any easier to deal with , for we are not aware that the American is specially pliable in a bargain But at least we ought to be able to understand them better . For one thing , we should be able better to . comprehend that they are not easily to be driven or bullied , and that if we are to make a bargain with them it must be one that is fair to both sides . That is really what both countries need , and in the long run we have no doubt that they will reach it .                     