@@672915

txt The Democratic State Central Committee of Delaware met at Dover to-day and selected Tuesday , May 17 , at Dover , as the time and place for holding the Democratic State Convention . The convention will consist of 182 delegates62 from New-Castle County , 60 from Kent , and 60 from Sussex . Its work will be almost entirely confined to the selection of delegates and alternates to the Chicago Convention , as another convention will be held during the latter part of July or early in Augast for the nomination of candidates for Presidential Electors and Representative in Congress . The members of the State Central Committee are decidedly in favor of the nomination of Cleveland for President , with only a natural reservation for Mr. Bayard or Senator Gray , in the remote event of the situation so changing as to make the nomination of Mr. Cleveland appear inadvisable . Several who were questioned by Tilt TIMES 'S correspondent answered as follows : Chairman William H. Stevens of Seaford ? Cleveland is the choice of everybody down our way , aside from Bayard or Gray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ en-Postmaster of Wilmington  --  The Democracy of Wilmington are in favor of Cleveland . Joseph  --  I am in favor of Cleveland . I believe he can win . William Dyer  --  I am for Cleveland first , last , and all the time . W. Polk Cummins , Smyrna  --  The Democracy of Smyrna are favorable to Cleveland unless there is a chance for Bayard or Gray . Garrett J. Hart , Wilmington  --  We are for Cleveland . W. E. Killen  --  I am for Cleveland unless there is a chance for Bayard or Gray . The other members of the committee expressed similar opinions . The assembling of the Democratic State Convention on May 17 will be the formal opening , as far as that party is concerned . of a campaign that promises to be even more desperately contested than was the campaign for Governor two years ago . The Republican State Convention for the election of delegates to the Minneapolis Convention will be held at Dover May 5 , but the Republican campaign work , particularly in this county , has been in active progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts put forth by the Republican managers to get in shape for a political campaign in this State . Their County Committee has been in constant session , and the work of getting the negroes assessed was never so vigorously prosecuted . Where many of these negroes came from will probably remain forever a profound mystery , for it would be impossible to establish a legitimate residenCe for them here . With a colored population in Wilmington estimated at 8,000 the negro poll taxables for this city alone already exceed 3,000 , a number far in excess of the generally-accepted ratio of voters to population . And all of these taxables , together with many white men , are furnished with money for the payment of their taxes by the Republican Committee . The amount of money required for all this preliminary work . particularly for the payment of taxes , is a matter of much comment and excites curiosity as to , where the fund comes from . It is far in excess of what the local office holders and interested Republicans could be prevailed upon to contribute at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rrom the coffers of the Republican National Committee . There is a well-defined impression that the Republican plan of campaign this year , instead of depending upon a desperate effort to carry New-York , will comprise an onslaught upon the States of Connecticut , Delaware , and West Virginia . The 15 Electoral votes of these three States , added to the States ( exclusive of New York ) that ' voted for Harrison in 1888. would give the Republicans 226 votes , or just 5 majority in the next Electoral College . It looks like a close calculation , but it could be made effective by carrying the States mentioned , and the campaign now under way here gives reasons for believing that the plan will be tried and that the necessary missionary work in Delaware is already in active progress .                     