@@674687

txt What purported to be an olive branch was extended yesterday by Senator Platt to the disgatisfled Republicans of this city in the form of a proposition to open the coming primaries to all Republicans , regardless of whether they voted for or against the party ticket in the last campaign . The offer was promptly rejected by the leaders of the opposition to the Platt-Quigg " machine , " who are going ' right ahead with their movement to form an independent organization . Mr. Platt 's alleged concession was Incorporated in a declaration attributed to him that the primaries to be held on Dec. 14 were to be " wide open " and that all Republicans were to be invited to take part in them . Senator Platt was quoted as saying. : " I am in favor of the most liberal policy and the broadest course , and Mr. Quigg fully coincides with my ideas . All Republicans of every class and character will be welcomed at the proposed new enrolment . " Address by Mr. Quigg . It was given out that Mr. Quigg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the approaching primaries and enroll themselves , and it was added that no obstacle would be placed in the way of the return to the organization ranks of any wanderer , even of such pronounced " antis " as William Brookfield and Gen. Wager Swayne . This proposition , being apparently a direct inspiration from Mr. Platt himself , was pointed to by his friends as evidence of a desire on the Senator 's part to make all reasonable concessions , and it was declared that if the discontented element did not accept it the blame for perpetuating the party division would . rest on them . The independent Republicans , however , laughed at the Idea of considering Mr. Platt 's action a concession , arid pointed to the fact that nobody- could vote at the primaries except those who are enrolled , and declared that Mr. Platt was simply making a virtue of necessity in declining to undertake to discipline those enrolled members who voted for Low . They pooh-poohed the vague talk about a future new enrollment , and insisted that , so long as the rolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could be made subservient to Mr. Platt 's will , no matter how many new bona fide names were entered on them . Mayor Strong 's View . Mayor Strong laconically expressed his opinion of Mr. Platt 's talk about " open primaries " by saying : " They talk a great deal about opening the -- primaries , but they do n't operrathem . " James B. Reynolds . Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Citizens ' Union , when asked his opinion of Mr. Platt 's invitation to all Republicans to come back into the organization , said : This matter is , of course , really out of our ken , since we have cut loose entirely from the Republican organization , but I take it that most Citizens ' Union members would feel it to be vain to go into the primaries , no matter how open they may be , so long as the padded rolls are there . You ca n't make the primaries open without making the rolls open . So long as Messrs . Platt and Quigg can recruit their rolls from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any danger of being outvoted . " Mr. Reyolds added that he interpreted the invitation as indicating that even Mr. Platt had realized that the situation demanded that something be done . William Brookfield , speaking for the Republican Organization of the County and City of New York , said of Mr. Platt 's so-called concession : " It is only a bait , thrown out to catch the unwary . It amounts to nothing , and will not change the situation one iota . We can have no really open primary without a new enrollment , under the ' supervision of fair men , and that we are not going to get from Mr. Platt . Thousands of Republicans will have nothing to do with the primaries because they know they are dishonest . " James Yereance member of the Republican County Committee for the Twenty-ninth District , who is leading the independent movement , said : " The rolls are what we are after . As long as they are dishonest , the primaries will be unfair . I do not see that Mr. Platt proposes to purge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing . He knew all along that he could not discipline the Republicans who voted for Low . The theory prevalent in anti-machine circles yesterday was that the talk of concessions by Messrs . Platt and Quigg was more in deference to up-State sentiment than to any fear of local independent movement proving formidable . Some Action Demanded . It is said that the country leaders have been for some time urging upon Senator Platt that his conduct of the " machine " in this city as a close corporation was damag-* ing the prospects of the party In the interior , and that he must make some concessions to the New York City " kickers " in order to keep down dissatisfaction in the country vote . It was on this idea , it is thought by many , that Messrs . Platt and Quigg have begun to talk about wide-open primaries and a new enrollment . It was said at the Fifth Avenue Hotel last night that the proposed new enrollment depended upon the abandonment of the present independent movement , which is considered out of the ' question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter , but so far as could be learned the only meaning to be attached to the proposition to throw open the primaries is that all enrolled members will be allowed to vote , regardless of their course in the recent campaign . District Delegation Acts . Another indication of the fact that Mr. Platt is aroused to the necessity of placating the protesting members of the party in this city was furnished by the action of the Twenty-ninth District delegation to the Republican County Committee , which met yesterday afternoon in Alexander T. Mason 's office in the Corn Exchange Building . All the members of the delegation were present with the exception of Edward Lauterbach , the following answering the roll call : Alexander T. Mason , Lloyd Collis , James Yereance . John V. B. Clarkson . Louis Carboni , Walter R. Benjamin , N. A. Ellsberg , ana John S. Wise . The meeting , it was explained , was called to consider the demand of certain members that the roll of the organization be purged . It was decided to undertake this work at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday evenings of next week at the . headquarters , SOS Lexington Avenue , when the rolls will be gone over in detail and corrected . Conferences of anti-organization Repub-. licans were heir= act night in the Fifth , Thirteenth , Nineteenth . Twenty-first , Twenty-fifth . Twenty-seventh , Twenty-ninth , and Thirty-first Assembly Districts , to discuss plans for organization to be presented at a general conference , to be held at the Plaza Club , Sixth Avenue and Fifty-eighth Street , to-morrow night . These conferences were private In each case , and it was generally agreed among those Participating that nothing should be made public concerning them .                     