@@674608

txt The British steamer Windward , having on board the JacksonHarmsworth expedition , which has spent three Winters near Cape Flora , Franz Josef Land , arrived here to-day from Franz Josef Land , with F. G. Jackson and his colleagues . All the members of the expedition are in good health . They report having explored Franz Josef Land thoroughly with the exception of some odd corners . Before the Windward sailed the quarters of the expedition at Elmwood. were fastened up , but Mr. Jackson left there a quantity of supplies in case the place is visited by Prof. Andree or other explorers . He also established a depot at Bell Island . Talking over his experiences Mr. Jackson said that since the Windward left Franz Josef Land last year with Dr. Nansen , the Winters had been less severe and less windy than usual . Mr. Jackson said Albert Armitage . nautical astronomer of the expedition , started on March 16 with a pony and dog sledges to explore the western part of Franz Joseph Land . They encountered boisterous weather , and at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the pony succumbed and the explorers were compelled to abandon all but the most essential part of their equipment . The party followed the coast line , sometimes on a sea of ice and sometimes along glaciated land , 1,500 feet high , bordering on Cambridge Bay . The constant mists which prevailed made the journey very harassing . They shot a bear , the only one seen , and having procured meat and blubber they returned to Elmwood in the middle of May , after meeting a party sent out to look for them , anxiety having been felt for their safety , as they were a fortnight overdue . A second expedition , which went eastward during the beginning of June , was less successful , as . on the second day out , the explorers lost a sledge through the thin sea ice and had a hazardous return journey . The result of these explorations , it is claimed , completely revolutionizes the old ideas of Franz Josef Land and proves that the much-discussed Gillios Land does not lie where arctic geographers have been in the habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The whole continental mass of land is replaced by a vast number of small islands and the lofty mountains by long-ridged hummocks and ice packs , while north of these areas has been found an open sea which is the most open north sea in the whole world . The most valuable magnetic , meteorological and geological observations were made , and very valuable botanical and zoological collections were brought to England . The Winter life of the explorers was uneventful . There were about two hours twilight in the middle of the day from October to November , and from thence on it was total darkness until the end of February . The members of the expedition killed 1,400 loon ( a web-footed bird found in the northern regions ) in the Autumn , which provided ample fresh meat . During the Winter they caught nineteen loon and twenty-two kittiwakes , ( a bird of the gull kind , ) to which they fastened labels initialed " J. , " and liberated them . The cold sometimes reached 40 ? below zero and jumped up to 20 ' nelow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see King Oscar Land , and are convinced there is no great land northwest of Franz Josef Land . They add that the existence of Petermann Land is doubtful , and that in any case it must be small . These alterations in the map render the prospect of reaching the north pole from Franz Josef Land more than doubtful , as the returned explorers are satisfied there Is no land north of 62 ? . They did not see anything of Prof. Andree , who started on July 11 from the Island of Tromsoe in an attempt to cross the north pole by balloon . Mr. Jackson announces his intention of heading another arctic expedition , this time on his own account .                     