@@674805

txt While a train containing the First Missouri Volunteer Infantry was standing this morning on the track of the Chattanooga , Rome and Southern Railroad , between Rossville and the camp at Chickamauga , the regular south-bound morning passenger train from Chattanooga crashed into it . One man was killed and several injured . The list of serious casualties is as follows : WALKER , GEORGE M. , Company D , killed . BROLASKI , HOWARD , Company D , left hip injured . LARASNBURY , ED. , Company A , multiple contusions ; not serious . LAME , A. M. , Company M , left hip dislocated ; not serious . LEIDELE , R. D. , Company H , back sprained and leg bruised ; not serious . Lieut . Col. John Jacob Astor of New York , as well as a number of officers , was on the regular train , but none of the passengers were injured , although severely shaken up . Jack McCade , a section hand , was killed by a passing military train a few minutes before the accident to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collision was very severe . The last car of the military train contained the horses of the officers , and into this the locomotive of the military train crashed , and also completely wrecked the baggage car , which was the next one forward . The man who was killed and those badly injured were all in the horse car . Three of the horses were killed . The damage would have been much greater had the train not been made up exactly the reverse of the usual order . If it had gone out in regular order , the sleepers would have been in the rear , and the officers who occupied them would have been killed instead of the horses . It appears that the passenger train had orders to run through to Rossville , and the second section of the military train , with a portion of the First Missouri , which was expected to run through to Rossville , was delayed at a switch about a mile from Rossville , on account of the congested condition of the tracks just beyond the wooded curve . The conductor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passenger train , but the flagman did not go far enough and the passenger train came around the curve at the rate of about twenty miles an hour . The engineer did ? not see the danger signal until within a short distance of the military train . He reversed his engine and put on the brakes , but did not have time to stop his train , which crashed into the rear of the military train . Dr. G. A. Baxter , surgeon of the Southern Railroad , was put in charge of the wounded and had them taken to St. Vincent 's Infirmary of the Catholic Sisters of Charity , where all are doing well in pleasant surroundings . Engineer Wheeler and Fireman Hanby of the passenger train were arrested by Lieut . Col. Cavendas and taken under guard to Chickamauga Park . They were afterward . turned over to the civil authorities . A trial will. , be had to-morrow and a judicial investigation ordered .                     