@@673730

txt Most of the morning session of the Trans-Mississippi Congress today was t4aken up with a discussion as to the voting representation each State and Territory was entitled to . It was finally decided that the maximum representation be placed at 30 votes to each State . This will allow Missouri , Nevada , Oregon , Utah , and California to dominate the proceedings so far as silver and irrigation are concerned . A number of resolutions were offered and retrred to the Committee on Resolutions . Among the most important were those recommending the immediate repeal of all national legislation giving to United States Consuls the privileges and duties of Custom-Horeise officers at points outside the United States ; recommending the appointment of additional Judges in the Indian Territory ; recommending the admission into Statehood of Utah , Indian Territory , Oklahoma , and Arizona ; recommending that a cable be laid between San Francisco and the Hawaiian islands ; for the restoration of silver at a basis of 16 to 1 ; deprecating the adoption of the banking system known as the " Baltimore system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Texas coast . George Q. Cannon of Utah was elected President of the Congress . The present Secretary , M. G. Butterfield of Oregon will continue to act as such during this session . A conference of free-silver leaders from all parts of the United States is being held here . Among the champions of the white metal in attendance are Gen. A. J. Warner of Marietta , Ohio , President of the American Bi-Metallic League ; ? J. M. Devine , Nebraska , SeCretary ; Congressman Bryan , Nebraska ; Congressman Sibley , Pennsylvania ; H. E. Taubeneck , Streator , Ill. , National Chairman People 's Party ; Gen. J. B. Weaver , Iowa ; A. L. Maxwell , Chairman of the State People 's Party Committee , Illinois ; Judge C. Cole , Iowa ; Col. Shinn , Kansas , and Congressman R. P. Bland . To a United Press reporter , Gen. Warner said : " This conference is called to decide upon our future plans . If we are to have a gold standard in the United States and the world over , we want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the welfare of silver . " The conference is called at this time to accommodate the friends of silver who are in attendance at the TransMississippi Congress .                     