@@675397

txt When the Mazet committee meets to prepare its report to the Assembly . as it will this week , John Proctor Clarke of counsel will present a r ? sum ? of the evidence and a number of suggestions for emergency charter amendments , and this report will , it was said yesterday on good authority , be used by the committee in drafting its final report . The report made by Mr. Moss , it was said , will receive a certain amount of consideration , but it will be entirely subservient to that of Mr. Clarke , who , from his acquaintance with municipal affairs , gained by his experience as an assistant to the Corporation Counsel during the Strong administration and his study of existing conditions during the Mazet investigation , is regarded by the majority of the committee as being eminently fitted to perform this duty . The fact that Mr. Clarke occupied a secondary place as counsel to the committee , one of the majority members said yesterday , was really a point in his favor , as he was thus able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impartial and judicial manner . While Mr. Moss in his report favored sweeping changes in the charter , Mr. Clarke , it was said , will present only suggestions for such changes as are absolutely necessary to the good government of the city until the Charter Revision Commission can offer to the Legislature of 1901 its draft of the revised charter . When asked what recommendations he would make and what could be the scope of his report Mr. Clarke refused to talk . Frank Moss , the publication of whose report before it had been submitted to the members of the committee has called forth criticism , would not admit that there was any friction over his report . " I see members of the committee quoted in the papers , " said he , " in a way that would indicate that they criticised the report , but none of them has indicated personally to me that there is any feeling in regard to the matter . " It was simply a matter of courtesy to the committee the withholding the report from the public till they had received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my part . I have written to the Chairman of the committee at his request , telling him that a garbled report appearing in a Sunday newspaper got out without my knowledge and against my wishes . That fulfills all the requirements of courtesy . " Something has been said about my having the report printed , and so many copies having been struck off . That is nothing unusual . A large number of copies were needed . I certainly did not write the report expecting that it was going to embalmed . " Mr. Moss was told that a prominent pollticfan had remarked that letting one paper have a partial report of a thing , and then giving out the whole report next day so as to let all papers have ? an equal chance was a common way of getting into print under such circumstances . Mr. Moss only replied that Senator Pratt may have known of these ways of doing things , but he had not given out the report ' in any such way . He added that he wanted to get into no controversy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clarke had not been consulted in maliang-up the report . " The committee directed me , on Dec. 15 , " he said . " to sum up the evidence , as the couriSel who- had - prepared the case and brought out the evidence . Mr. Clarke was at that meeting , and the request to me was made with his consent . As Mr. Laimbeer had assisted me directly with the work and the report , it was only right that he should sign it . If the report had not got out prematurely , Mr. Clarke would have been asked to sign it if lie approved of it . " Mr. Moss was asked about the reported disagreement between himself and Mr. Mazet at the time Mr. Croker appeared at the Mazet committee hearing just before election and was allowed t go after he had made a statement . Mr. Moss remained out of the room while Mr. Croker was on the stand . " There was no personal feeling at all over that matter , " said Mr. Moss . " I simply disagreed with Mr. Mazet about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained out of the room , because I did not want to be responsible for the . allowing of him to leave the stand as he did . " Mr. Moss said he could not estimate the expense the State had been put to for the investigation . One item that was still uncertain was the amount counsel were to receive . He could not estimate the mileage and other expenses of the members of the committee . " The expenses of this office , including clerk hire , the employing of detectives . furniture . telephones . and all pertaining to the making up of the case cost in the neighborhood of $16,000 . We were careful about all our expenses . " It was suggested that the Legislature might cut Mr. Moss 's fee , since his report has not beets well received by the committee . " I am not worrying about that , " he said . " I have no doubt that the Legislature will do the right thing by all of the counsel . We did not expect to make fortunes . " ME . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not Consider Mazet Report . Gov . Roosevelt unexpectedly came to the city last night , and is reported to be staying with a relative in Washington Square . Chairman Odell ofo the Republican State Committee , who was absent from the Fifth Avenue Hotel for several hours last night , declared he had not seen the Governor . It was conceded , however , that Gov . Roosevelt would have conferences to-day with the Republican leaders and others relative to the Educational and other bills . It is said that the forthcoming report of the Blazet Committee will not be considered .                     