@@674040

txt The London Times has for some time been publishing a series of articles on the " Par Eastern Question " from a correspondent in the East whose informs .. tion seems to be very ample and authentic and who-se faculty of drawing right conclusions from it evidently entitles him to a hearing . Naturally he " has been writing froth the point Of itieW " of " British interests " exclusively , but he has shown the power a discriminating between those that are solid and those that are fantastic . The concluding Paper of the Series appeared in a recent number of The Times , and the correspondent 's summing up is not without interest in this country as well as in his own . He begins by saying that the British notion that the alliance of China is either worth having or can be secured by condilatory measures has been finally dispelled by the events of the war . He might have added that the notion that China was not only a valuable ally but the only power in the East of which the alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a generation and more , and has led to all the mistakes of policy whereby the position of Great Britain in the East has been rendered so much less powerful than it was a few years ago or even a year ago . The fixed idea has included the belief that it was perfectly safe for England , so lag as she was on good terms with China , to ignore and Oven to insult and humiliate Japan . Even after the war had begun and proceeded far enough to show the superiority of Japan , the tradition of the British Foreign Office inspired Lord ilosEsEnY with the extremely unhappy thought of inviting a concert of the powers to put a stop to the war , deprive japan of the fruits of : ter inevitable victory , and save the Chinese market for British trade . The prop : ! sition was foredoomed to failure . Russia Was the only power that had any great stake in the terms of peace , and the interest of Russia was so far adverse to the British interest that Russia had nothing to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came , Russia intervened on her own account to Prevent Japan front reaping the fruits of her victory , and backed up by France , which is under heavy bonds to support Russia , and by Germany , the motive of which was the laudable but irrelevant purpose of keeping the peace in Europe , exacted what she chose to exact from China as the price of her intervention , and left Great Britain out of the question . So that England took nothing by her motion , except to add a fresh cause of resentment against her on the part of Japan to those causes that were in the way to be forgotten and to prevent herself from acquiring the valuable alliance of the victor in place Of the alliance with the loser that had been shown to be both delusive and worthless . It is this series of British mistakes that makes it so difficult now to formulate a policy that will regain any of the lost British prestige . The European powers that have real and solid interests in the " Far Eastern Question " are Russia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion , which needs an outlet to the Pacific Ocean , and Great Britain in the interest of her commerce . Mankind refuses to see anything solid in the colonial policy of France , any relation to the real interests of the French people , anything indeed beyond a jingo and electioneering policy , of which the chief purpose is to seem to annoy and humiliate England . The interests of Germany in the far East and our own interests there are the same in kind with those of Great Britain , though less in degree . The correspondent whose conclusions we are reviewing points out and repeats that Great Britain must rely upon her own strength in Asia , but that does not prevent him from looking about for possible allies . He assumes that Russia , in spite of the official denials , has received from China a valuable consideration , probably in the form of a concession of the use of Port Arthur as a naval and coaling station and of the right to construct a railway through Manchuria , With a terminus of some ice-free harbor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would give Russia a far more advantageous position on the Pacific than she now occupies . To counterbalance it , Great Britain needs a more secure position than she now has , and among her possible allies this country comes first . " The United States , " says the correspondent , " has larger and more direct interests in the far East than anywhere else outside the American continent , " and he adds that it is not easy to foresee any conflict between American and British interests in that part of the globe . In fact , an understanding , which need not take the form of an engagement , between Great Britain , the United States , and Japan would probably afford the best guarantee for the peaceful and industrial development of Eastern Asia . it is the more a pity that Great Britain should have excited such antagonisms in Japan as make it very difficult for her to lead in such a movement .                     