@@781728

txt The imagination of Mr. KIPLING , which has lately endowed the steam locomotive with mind and heart , and his facile literary art which has translated its puffing and snorting into forcible idiomatic English , maS , in time be lent to the idealization of the new mechanical wagon with the awful name  --  automobile . For that thing has come to stay . About the automatic or the motor bicycle we have doubts . Men and women who use the bicycle for the sake of exercise are certainly not anxious to possess one that will deprive them of the chance to exercise their muscles . But the wagons and carriages and cabs that run without horses are to be the vehicles of the future . Comparatively few of them are in operation on this side of the Atlantic Ocean at present , and it is likely that more of them will not be employed here until some further improvements have been made in their mechanism . But sooner or later they will displace the fashionable carriage of the present hour , and the horse will cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beings for pleasure hr business . Sensitive and sentimental folk can not view the pending change without competing emotions . There are reasons why the departure of the horse from the streets and the park drives should be considered gratifying . But it must be confessed that he will take with hfin a kind of picturesqueness which the self-moving wagon will never supply . Moreover , man loves the horse , and , he is not likely ever to love the automobile , even after Mr. KIPLING idealizes it . Nor will he ever get quite used , in this generation , to speeding along the road behind nothing . The gracefulness of the horse will be sadly missed for a long while , and the afternoon pageant an Bellevue Avenue , in Newport , will not seem nearly as fine as it is now . Yet the automobile has already reached Newport ; and before long will deprive the spirited horses who now shy at it of their business of hauling millionaires . Probably the horse will not soon become , extinct . He will still be bred for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trotting " and running tracks and in the polo fields . Man will still love him , but Will not so often be fooled in horse trades . And , after they get in good working order , the horseless carriages will be found clean , swift , and economical , and doubtless Will in time develop a poetry and romance of their own , like the steam locomotive .                     