@@673464

txt Representatives of the leading newspapers and news associations of the East met in this city yesterday and formally resolved to perfect an organization for the collection of the news of the world and its distribution among themselves and to their clients East , West , North , and South . There were present the renresentatives of The New York Herald , The New-York Tribune , The New-York Sun , and The New-York Times ; W. F. Balkam of The Rochester Union and Advertiser , who is President of the New York State Associated Press ; L. Clarke Davis of The Philadelphia Ledger , Charles E. Warburton of The Philadelphia Telegraph , H. H. Colclazer , representing William M. Singerly of The Philadelphia Record : Beria.h Wilkins of The Washington Post , and the following-named members of the New-England Associated Press : President John H. Holmes of The Boston Herald , Gen. Charles H. Taylor of The Boston Globe , Stephen O'Meara of The Boston Journal , G. H. Clark of The Hartford Courant , and Samuel Bowles of The Springfield Republican . Mr. Charles A. Dana presided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of news collecting and distributing . It was apparent from the outset that there was a determined disposition to maintain the integrity of the newspapers of the East and to conduct their business on broader business lines . The newspaper warfare which has been so aggressively conducted by the Chicago managers of the Western Associated Press was discussed in its various bearings . The opinion was unanimous that the time had now arrived for a combination of the newspaper interests of the Atlantic seaboard , the future to determine whether the sober thought of individual members of the Western Associated Press should develop a restraining influence upon their own managers . It was resolved that a committee should be appointed representative of the entire East , which should formulate a plan of combination . The Philadelphians selected L. Clarke Davis of The Ledger to represent them . John H. Holmes was chosen by the members of the New-England association as their representative . President Balkam will represent the New-York State Associated Press . Beriah Wilkins is the Washington representative , and Capt . Evan P. Howell of The Atlanta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By agreement among the United Press newspapers , The New-York Times was selected as the representative of the United Press on this committee of six . The Committee on Organization subsequently organized and selected John H. Holmes as Chairman and The New-York Times as Secretary . A meeting of members of this committee will be held to-day to consider the details necessary to the formation of this Eastern newspaper association .                     