@@672478

txt The appeal of the People 's Municipal League to the voters of this city is a. capital monograph on the government of cities . It sets forth briefly and clearly certain sound principles for which the most candid and competent authorities on municipal affairs have been trying for twenty years to secure recognition in this city . We reprint from THE TIMES of yesterday the " shorter catechism " of the League : " The People 's Municipal League has been formed for the purpose of advocating the following principles , which constitute the platform of the league : " Municipal government is business , not politics . " 2 . Municipal elections should be divorced from State and national politics . " 8 . Municipal officers should be chosen solely for business ability and personal integrity " 4 . Municipal officers should be independent of poUtloal parties , halls , bosses , and factions . " 5 , The care of city property , the management of city franchises , the collection and expenditure of city revenues , the development of systems of rapid transit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of measures for the improvement of the homes of the Industrial classes can safely be intrusted only to offibers chosen under the operation of these latneiples . " All voters who indorse the principles embodied lu this platform are eligible as members of the League . " Briefly put , this is the essence of wisdom in regard to the government of cities . It is not a new deolaration of faith on the part of the gentlemen of the League . The truths they enunciate have long been the common property of students of city government . They have been formulated through much thinking and observation upon the practice of large communities , and wherever they have been applied , in whole or in part , beneficent results have amply justified the experiment . For New York City the application of the theory that municipal government is a matter of business , not of politics , promises the fullest attainable relief from the notorious evils of government by parties and factions and . " halls . " The appeal of the People 's Municipal League brings that relief within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . It prepares the way for a union against the powers of evil and offers an assurance that-if the present occupants of the City Hall are cudgeled out of that soiled edifice this Fall the administration of the Municipal Government will be intrusted to cleaner and better hands . But if the platform of the League is to be something more than an empty form , the principles it embodies should be faithfully observed in the work and the discussions of the canvass . When a political party has put forth platform declarations concerning the tariff . the currency , and the pensions , it proceeds to discuss tariff , currency , and pensions with all its might from the opening of the canvass until the night before the election , seeking to convince the judgment and win the support of as many voters as it is possible to influence by such appeals . Now , the principle that " municipal government is business , not politics , " that " municipal officers should be chosen solely for business ability and personal integrity , " and the other averments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declarations that the tariff should be higher , that the currency should be more abundant , and that pensions should know no limit . To these last , or to their contraries , selfish interest or conviction will bring heart-and-soul converts , who will give money and carry torches for their propagation . Whatever zeal an ardent desire to beat Tammany may arouse , the sober truths of the League 's platform will of themselves arouse no visible enthusiasm , will bring together no army of laborers in the reform vineyard , will loosen no man 's purse strings , because they are purely academic pronouncements . Good citizens without number will admit their perfect truth and remain  --  perfectly unmoved . But in the final plank of this little platform there is the germ and . suggestion of an awakening canvass . It is true , though trite , that the care of the city 's property and of the city 's revenue and the development of rapid transit can safely be intrusted only to officers chosen for their intercity and ability . Nobody will dispute that , and nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But since the People 's Municipal League proposes the installation of a business city government , why should it not organize its canvass upon a business government basis , discuss with care and thoroughness the subjects of revenue and expenditure and rapid transit , and the other subjects it alludes to in its platform , and send its Mayor to the City Hall next January with a mandate such as an enlightened electorate is supposed to give a legislator , a Governor , or a President Hundreds of the most intelligent men in the city are now , or later will be . associated with the work of the League . Many of them are intimately familiar with the machinery of the City Government and well equipped to discuss it on the platform or in printed appeals of the League . The League might wisely assign to its expert associates the task of pointing out the errors and miadoings of our Tammany public servants in the management of the revenue , in juggling with the budget statement for the purpose of showing a moderate expenditure , and in largely increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Done throughout and in detail , this kind of campaign work would powerfully reinforce the League 's less specific denunciations of Tammany . But one subject more than any other should engage the serious attention of the League  --  the subject of rapid transit . It is the weightiest and most important subject now before the people of the city . Would it not be entirely proper for the League to prepare its own plan of rapid transit and publish it as its leading campaign document I Suppose it should authorize a committee of lawyers , engineers , and other citizens of competent and informed minds to prepare in its behalf a plan for enabling the people of New-York to get about more rapidly , and then pledge itself and its candidate to put the plan , with subsequent possible amendments , into operation ? The Tammany rapid-transit scheme and the Fassett scheme failed at Albany because there was " politics in them . " There would be no politics in the League 's plan , and its accomplishment would be the greatest boon , next to the overthrow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the city . The League will immensely increase the power of its appeal to the public if it will give the voters as many clear , weighty , and definite business issues as possible to think about and act about .                     