@@673181

txt Senator SHERMAN 's joint resolution to , amend the Constitution was avowedly introduced only for reference , and was , doubtless intended to elicit public discussion . It proposes that the terms of office of thb incoming President and Vice President , of the Senators , and . of members of the Fifty-fourth Congress , which would under the present law expire on March 4 , 1b97 , shall be extended to the 30th of April in that year , and that this latter date shall thereafter begin the official terms of the public officers named . So far as appears , the only object thatwould be gained by the change would be the avoidance of the blustering and dangerous weather that is likely in the latitude of Washington to accompany , and that does in fact generally accompany , the established and traditional inauguration day . We do not mean to underrate the importance and . desirableness of this change . Such weather as that of Saturday in Washington is doubtless dangerous to those who choose or who are compelled to form . part of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would probably be much pleasanter to take part in and much more impressive to behold if they were postponed for nearly two months , as Mr. SHERMAN proposes . At the same time , it seems scarcely worth while to make a constitutional amendment for the sake of accommodating the sightseers and the objects of their curiosity , when , in case the weather should be unfavorable to an inauguration out of doors , it is quite feasible to have it take place under cover . Especially it is not worth while to make constitutional amendment in order to avert a comparatively trifling grievance , when by the same amendment a much more serious grievance , which amounts , indeed , to a weakness of our political system , is not only left unredressed , but is rendered more difficult of redress than ever . We refer , of course , to the custom of ha , v- ? ing our laws made for four months by a Congress which has been superseded , and which is liable to have been directly discredited . This is a very serious matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable progress toward thwarting the popular will and hampering the Administration which is to succeed it . So far from remedying this state of things , the adoption of the amendment proposed by Mr. SHERMAN would aggravate it by enabling a superseded Legislature to make laws for a whole half year after its supersedure . The policy which the voters had condemned in November might continue to be enforced , and . the policy which they had approved might be postponed until May , while the first regular session of the Congress that represented the people could not begin until thirteen months after the Congress had been elected . in the interval the people might be completely misrepresented , and the misrepresentation might , in the case for example of a foreign embroilment , amount to a great national calamity . It is well enough known that the begin -- ping of the Congresses and the Administrations was fixed upon the 4th of March , not by design , but by accident . Now that it has been fixed , the laws regulating the length of office terms come into operation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. SHERMAN proposes to obviate the difficulty by lengthening one set of terms for two mouths , which would be well enough if the end to be attained were proportioned to the means to be employed . But a very much more important end could be attained by shortening one set of official terms for two months , that is to say , by beginning them with the 1st of January instead of the 4th - of March . In that case we should have in the National Government what we have in every State Government . There would be a ready response in the machinery of the Government to the will of the people . The Representatives and the President elected in November would take their places and begin to do the people 's business with the beginning of the new year . It is curious that so practical a people as we boast of being have not insisted upon this change before . In State politics we should all recognize as intolerable the condition to which we submit in national affairs , because in national affairs we are habituated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need a constitutional amendment , simply because the Constitution defines the term of a President . at four years , that of a Senator at six , and directs that Representatives shall be elected " every second year . " It is doubtful , therefore , whether the date could not be changed by statute so far as the House is concerned . But it would be absurd to go to the trouble of passing a constitutional amendment for the sake of avoiding discomfort for the spectators of an inauguration when the task of making our Government more truly popular and representative can be achieved by the same process , and is worth the trouble .                     