@@673996

txt Henry Convery and William Mack , who until early this morning were in the employ of the State Hospital for the Insane , at Morris Plains , as keepers , are now locked up in the county jail at this place on the charge of murder . Nicholas Dolfuz , a pauper patient from Passaic County , who had been In the institution for some time , lies dead at the asylum as the result of a terrible beating which the two men in prison are alleged to have given him . Dolfuz was about sixty years old , and very little is known about him in the institution . His mental delusions were of such a character as to make him violent at times , and he was anything but a tractable patient , breaking the rules whenever the opportunity for doing so presented itself . He was unusually violent this morning , and refused to go to the table for his breakfast . While making his rounds the Inspector of Corridors saw the two keepers , Convery and Mack , beating old man Dolfuz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an imperative rule at the institution to immediately discharge any keeper who is found guilty of abusing the inmates , or even of being uncivil to them in a very marked degree , and the Supervisor found ample reason for enforcing the rule in the conduct of Convery and Mack . Immediately after discharging the two keepers , the Supervisor went to the office of Medical Director Dr. P. D. Evans , and informed him of what he had seen and of the action he had taken . His ' course in the matter was indorsed by the Medical Director , and the Supervisor went to the dining room . There he noticed that Dolfuz was not at the table , although he had started for there after he had been rescued from the two keepers who were beating him . Inquiries after the old man failed to elicit any information as to his whereabout , and the Supervisor went to his room . There he saw Dolfuz lying on his bed . The old man was dead . Physicians were summoned , but they could do nothing . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fopnd by questioning several patients that the two keepers , after being discharged , and after the Supervisor had gone to the office of the Medical Director to report the case , had again attacked the old man and beat him brutally . As the keepers had not yet left the institution , the police were notified , and the men were taken into custody , charged with killing Dolfuz . Immediately after the arrest of the ex-keepers Coroner Douglas of this city was notified of the death of Dolfuz , and gave Undertaker Hughson permission to remove the body . It was brought here from the asylum , and a Jury Impaneled . An examination of the body of the dead man showed an abrasion of the chest , which might have been caused by a kick , and a big gash back of the left ear . After viewing the body , the jury returned a verdict to the effect that the man ' came to his death from wounds inflicted by Convery and Mack . The officials of the asylum were fully exonerated from all complicity or blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ verdict was given , Coroner Douglas notified the accused men that he would hold them without hail to await the action of the proper authorities . The asylum officials are very much exercised over the affair , and say that it is the first time in the history of their administration that any such thing has occurred . They say that they will do everything in their power to see that the two ex-keepers get their full deserts .                     