@@672612

txt Lieut . Gov . Jones 's way of getting the nomination for the Governorship is the way of a hungry man with his dinner . Frankly and without any thought of indirection or concealment he proceeds to the table and in distinct tones asks for what he wants . The late Mr. TILDEN would have opened seven different and circuitous avenues of approach to the coveted repast , and at least four of them would have been subterranean . Such methods are foreign to the Lieutenant Governor 's nature . He sees nothing to be ashamed of in a robust political appetite , or in seeking its full gratification . So he looks the Commonwealth calmly in the face and announces his purpose to be its Governor . This uncommon frankness , we take it , is at the bottom of Mr. JomEs 's slight misunderstanding with the Hon. ROSWELL P. FLOWER . When Mr. JONES asked Mr. FLOWER to support him in his aspirations , the latter was put in a position of no little embarrassment . His own name has been , often and prominently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends expect to see him nominated , and we may assume that he is not altogether indifferent to the honor they would bestow upon him . But Mr. FLOWER is a polite gentleman , considerate of the feelings of others , and Mr. JONES was his guest at the time the conversation referred to took place . What could Mr. FLOWER do but make a few general academic observations upon State politics , keeping his personal plans and wishes to himself , but allowing his guest to understand that he was not unaware that in his case , as in that of other men of ambition , the path to high places is steep , and in this glacial region is often strewn with noticeable boulders ? Mr. JONES evidently misconstrued his host 's remarks , but through no fault of the latter . At any rate Mr. FLOWER now declares that he never told Mr. JONES that he would not run if nominated , and that Mr. Jo. - sims 's inferences concerning his present intentions are unfounded . Of course , the Lieutenant Governor must take this into account . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FLOWER has had a wider field than his own , a more conspicuous place , and a larger share of the public attention . As a member of Congress from New-York for several terms , growing in experience and strength , and as Chairman of the Congressional Committee of his party , he has had to do with greater interests , ' with broader issues , and with men of higher station than have come within the scope of Mr. JcavEs 's activities at Binghamton and Albany . It is because Mr. JONES 'S exceeding straightforwardness compels our sympathetic interest in his noble struggle that we point out to him the necessity of taking MT . FLOWER Into account .                     