@@674873

txt Secretary of State Day has gone to the seaside for rest and recuperation , leaving the rumors about foreign intervention to secure peace with Spain to take care of themselves . Before he left he had been asked a hundred times perhaps whether the representatives of European powers had called upon him to suggest that Spain is ready to consider propositions for peace , and a settlement of the basis upon which peace can be arranged . He has said to all who inquired of him that no suggestion answering to that question has been made here or from abroad . Some reports have been heard that something of that kind is discussed elsewhere . Several of the Ambassadors and Ministers who are about leaving . for the Summer have called upon him to say good-bye . Among them were Sir Julian Pauneefote , the British Ambassador . He has not alluded officially to the war since it broke out . No one has heard him intimate that he desired to ask the Administration to listen to Spain . The French Ambassador , M. Cam-bon , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Spanish representative here , has not asked the attention of the State Department toe any wish of Spain touching peace . When Spain desires peace , he may be the medium of communicating that desire . The Administration is making known from day to day a strengthening determination to listen only to Spain in this matter . It may be worse than useless for other nations to interfere now . The war is between Spain and the United States . The President has proclaimed that war is not enjoyed and has hoped for peace in his proclamation , if Spain desires . to reach the American people , it needs no lessons in diplomacy to guide it to the proper officer . And the President does not expect to be addressed on the subject of peace by visiting powers , in groups or singly . There is the strongest indisposition on the part of the strategists to entertain favorably the proposition said to be under consideration at Madrid looking to an armistice of ten days in order to consider terms of peace . They believe that the United States has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposition . During that time Camara 's squadron might find safe lodgment in some strongly fortified coast town like Perrol , and thus elude Watson 's pursuit . However , history shows that the directors of successful armies always are averse to ceasing military operations until conditional capitulation is achieved , and that it requires the-strong hand of diplomacy to bring about the short pause before the final consummation of peace , necessary to reach a common understanding .                     