@@781849

txt The chapters relating to the political controversy in this State which has been in progress since the general election in November , will become more interesting as the facts are disclosed . TEE TLIIES 'S correspondent is able to give at this time Emits concerning Gen. Merwin 's position that have not heretofore been made public . It has not been talked about , outside of a limited circle , that a conference was held in New-Haven on the afternoon before tho long adjournment of the Legislature was ordered , in which Gen. Merwin discussed his interests and desires concerning the Governorship . Those present at this conference were Lynde Harrison , Chairman Herbert E. Benton of the Republican State Central Committee , and Hugh Dailey of Now-Haven , also of the State Committee . In the course of the deliberations Judge Harrison stated that the " For " ballot issue , as involved in the Branford case , would he argued the following week before the Supreme Court in Bridgeport , and that a decision could be expected within a few weeks at the latest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " For " ballots were legal , the Legislature , he held , ought to be in session to take advantage immediately of the court 's interpretation of the law . Chairman Benton also stated that he intended to send out circulars to the Chairmen of Republican Town Committees throughout the State , requesting an examination of the ballots , when the boxes should be opened on May 5 for the purpose of ascertaining the facts concerning the illegal and so-called " rejected double " ballots . All the members of this conference agreed that unless positive evidence should appear at the opening of the boxes that the votes in dispute were illegal , the minor State officers should be seated at once . This was considered a strong additional reason why the Legislature should be in session in May , only a short recess being taken . Gen. Merwin requested Chairman Benton to visit Hartford the next morning , reaching the Capitol at an early hour , and to elate the results of the conference to Republican Members of the House , urging the reasons that had been considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hartford as deslrett by Gen. Merwin and presented his reason . against a long adjournment . There was a vigorous minority in the Republican caucus , including Judge Olin H. Wood of Manchester , opposed to protracted discontinuance of the session . It was overridden , hOwever , by the Bulkeley adherents , and a recess until November was voted under the caucus lash . Mr. Benton was advised with by the minority , who were willing to unite with the Democrats in support of a short recess , not exceeding a month or six weeks at most . Chairman Benton , who was in Hartford to represent the interests of his chief , counseled conformity to the caucus dictum . The Supreme Court decision was rendered within a few weeks of the adjournment and sustained the Republican position relative to the validity of the rejected Prohibition votes . The ballot boxes throughout the State were examined May 5 and nothing was found - which could destroy the majorities of the minor Democratic candidates for State offices . Had the advice and desire of Gen. Merwin been accepted , the Democratic officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an honorable adjustment of the issue involving the rights of himself and Judge Morris . It is not charged that Chairman Benton intended to be-tray the interests of Gen. Merwin , but , coming fresh from the conference in New-Haven , which is now described for the first time , it was his duty , as the participants in that conference believe to this hour , to demand the enforcement of Merwin 's views . There is another chapter concerning the Republican situation at present , which has not been written out correctly . It goes back to the days of Gov . Bulkeley 's veto of the secret-ballot law In 1889 . More than a year and a half ago a venomous attack was made against Judge Harrison of New-Haven and Judge John AL Hall of the Superior Court on account of the part which they took in formulating the present secret-ballot statute in this State . Judge Hall was charged in this attack with selling his influence In the Senate , of which he was the leader in 1889 , for the Judgeship , which was conferred upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one man and edited by another , who bad taken considerable part in . the secret-ballot contest , but neither of whom was invited to the council which devised the measure now on the statute book . After Gov . Bulkeley vetoed the original bill , it became evident that his position would be an unenviable one in the State , unless a substitute was prepared and passed . He hastened to the Republican headquarters in the Allyn House , and solicited the presence of the party leaders at the Hartford Club rooms to canvass the situation , The members of this famous conference were Gov . Bulkeley , Samuel Fessenden orStainford , Judge Harrison of New-Haven , John M. Hall , and D. S. Day of Colchester , then Chairman of the Republican State Central Committee . There were three bills from which selections could be made in devising the act that would practically meet the public demands . The originators of the bills in question were Senators John M , Hall and E. S. Cleveland and exSenator AL S. Chapman of Manchester . The Governor favored the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were finally agreed upon . John Addison Porter , who had been an active promoter of the Australian law , and through whose influence with Judge William B. Glove : of Fairfield the bill had been introduced in the House . was not invited by Gov . Bulkeley to the council in the Hartford Club rooms . This oversight of the Governor 's was the occasion after-Ward of the attacks on prominent members of the conference , including Judges Hall and Harrison . Tile break between the latter and Mr. Porter , which has been a matter of publicity for months , was caused originally by the abusive articles which the Hartford editor published concerning the personal and public integrity of Judge Hall of this pity . This quarrel over the secret-ballot law has been an active factor for months in the political animosities that have existed among the Republicans in this State . There is one fact more that ought to be made public . It relates to the United States Senatorship , which will be the principal political prize to be won next year . It may be stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liawley 's place will not include the name of Samuel Fessenden - of Stamford . It may be stated with equal positiveness that against all other candidates for the Senatorship , including Goy . Bulkeley and Congressman Charles A. Russell of the Third District , Judge Lynde Harrison will support Gen. Hawley . Should a Republican Legislature be elected in 1892 , Gen. Hawley will be his own successor in the United States Senate .                     