@@674984

txt The Madrid correspondent of The Standard says : " The displeasure and disappointment felt in official circles at the- failure of the skillful strategy of Senor Montero Rios , concerted with Senor Sagasta and Duke Almodovar de Rio . to minimize the consequences of the war are keen and profound . Senor Rios foresaw that all depended upon inducing the American Commissioners even implicitly to admit the Spanish views of the protocol . He used the incidents of the Evacuation Commissions in Cuba and Puerto Rico to sound the opinions of the Americans , and he tried to ascertain their views regarding the Philippines by renewing the Spanish protest against America 's veto of Spains proposal to send war vessels to reinforce the Spanish commanders holding out at various ports , and by asking for the liberation of Aguinaldo 's prisoners . " Then both commissions offered written suggestions as to a definitive treaty . Senor Rios drew up a strong- case in reply to the American proposals . The American Commissioners , perceiving what Spain was driving at , distinctly and courteously put it upon record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain had solemnly accepted the irreducible bases for a peace treaty , clearly laid down in the protocol , in order to avoid misunderstanding . " Outlining the discussions regarding sovereignty in Cuba . the correspondent says : " The American Commissioners made the point that they had not insisted upon indemnities to Americans for damages from the war , and that Spaniards were assured of protection in Cuba during the protectorate that would last until a Parliament and Government were established , which might negotiate with Spain concerning the debts , 1 " When Sent ) Rios asked for delay in order to prove that much of the Cuban debt was contracted before 1895 , and devoted to public works in Cuba , the Americans invoked decrees to show that stocks issued from 1878 to 1890 were exclusively to cover war expenditu:es . " Spain is fighting hard because future budgets and her finances generally depend upon being relieved of much of the possible Cuban burden . It is an unpleasant prospect to be compelled to tell the Cortes that Spain has to undertake the interest and amortization of seven-eighths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fighting rebellion and the United States . " The drift of the negotiations greatly increases the difficulties of the Regency , because the United States are equally unbending In their demands for a more speedy evacuation of Cuba than the naval and financial resources of Spain will permit , although Senor Sagasta is anxious to bring home the soldiers in order to stop expense . " But the Government is most anxious because the Americans have not shown their hand regarding the Philippines . The Foreign Office has grounds for supposing that the United States Will not follow Admiral Dowey 's cautious advice and the opinions of hi ; frh naval authorities in America , which are decidedly adverse to meddling with the Philippines beyond naval stations , for military . financial , and international reasons . So that the hints that Spain would be glad to retain the Philippines . conceding relig- ' ious toleration and undertaking not to sell without giving the United States a chance to bid , indicate that somehow Spain once more seems to expect Continental assistance . "       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     