@@674113

txt At a meeting in the rooms of the Patriotic Republican Club , 24S East Seventyeighth Street , last night , resolutions were passed making the second choice of the Republicans of the club , in the event of Gov . Morton 's failure to get the nomination .. The crowd that filled the parlors of the clubhouse showed in every way , however , that it was for first and last . The resolutions adopted were as follows : Whereas , The members of this club have been and are in accord with the sentiment expressed at the last Republican State Convention when the name of our esteemed Governor , Levi P. Morton , was presented as the standard bearer of the Republicans of this State for President of the United States ; and , Whereas , The question is being agitated regarding the second choice of the Republicans of this State for the . office of President , in the event that the nomination of Gov . Morton should be-Caine impossible ; therefore , it Is Resolved , That we declare our second choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and statesmanlike record as a member of Congress and Governor would secure an unprecedented victory for our party , and result in a renewal of the prosperity which existed when the present incumbent Administration took charge of the affairs of our Government . The temper of the meeting was first shown when Major 's name was read out by Mayor 's Marshal Michael J. Sheehy , who introduced the resolutions . The reader 's voice was drowned in the cheers for . When Col. Charles H. Denison , Chairman of the Committee on National Affairs of the Republican Club , in a speech came out openly for for first choice , the crowd cheered lustily . Mr. Stirle , the first speaker , said , among other things : " I do not wish to say anything against Gov . Morton , and nothing can be said against him . His long career of public usefulness , his honesty and true public spirit , can not be overlooked . I believe that he is sincere in his canvass for the Presidency , but I do not believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the present crisis in National affairs , in its domestic trials and its tangled and strained foreign relations , I do not believe that the convention will commit the nomination to any man seventy-five years of age . It will give it to , Reed , or some other man in the prime of life . " Col. Charles H. Denison said : " The Republicans of New-York are now confronted with a great crisis . A few years ago , over the territory in which the civil war was fought , a widespread conspiracy and continued crime against the ballot box was fostered and carried out . Here in the State of New-York thieves thought they could do the same thing , and the Tammany organization did succeed in defeating the honest voters of the State , but in 1594 the people arose and swept the organization down . To-day the fight- in New-York is for honest primaries . " Col. Denison , in referring to the resolution passed , said that he was in favor of making the second choice first , and ' that he believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He finished his speech with a eulogy of , and a prophecy that he would be the next President . Gen. C. H. T. Collis , Commissioner of Public Works ; Commissioner of Charities Wright , and Alderman Goodman came in while Col. Denison was speaking . Gen. Collis made a speech in which he charged the Platt Republicans with trying to prevent the election of himself and Commissioner Wright as delegates to the St. Louis Convention by fraud . He said that he was working hard to checkmate them , and even if they succeeded he would go to St. Louis and make a fight before the committee on Contested Seats . He was cheered when he arose to speak , but put a damper on the meeting by saying that he was working honestly for Levi P. Morton for first choice . The crowd did n't cheer that . When he added that he was for for second place he was loudly applauded . JOHN BRADY , HOONSHINER , CONVICTED . Sentenced to Eighteen Months in the Penitentiary  --  Other Sentences . John Brady , said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convicted in the United States District Court , Brooklyn , before Judge Brown , of being the part owner in an illicit distillery on Driggs Avenue , which was raided a year ago . Brady is sixty-two years old . He lives at 151 Clifton Place , with his wife , two sons , and three daughters . He was arrested eighteen years ago for being in an illicit distillery and served ten months in the penitentiary for the offense . Judge Brown sentenced Brady to eighteen months in the Kings County Penitentiary and to pay a fine of $1,000 . Marcus Flohm , who was captured in an illicit still at 190 Meeker Avenue , was sent to the penitentiary for four months ; Louis Roffman and Abraham Schieffen for two months each , and Jacob Weinstein for one month . George Pardiger and Benjamin Alver , who were caught in the still at West Hills , were also sentenced . Alver was sent to the penitentiary for six weeks and Pardiger for two months . GEORGE V. HARMON IN A HOSPITAL . Cashier of the Southern Pacific Railway Stricken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern Pacific Railway , was , stricken with apoplexy yesterday morning at his office , 343 Broadway . In falling his head struck the floor , and it was at first supposed that he had sustained a concussion of the brain . Mr. Harmon , who is fifty-three years old , was taken to the Hudson Street Hospital . Surgeon Johnson stated late last evening that his patient was much improved , and would probably recover . He had recovered consciousness , and , though his left side was partly paralyzed at first , he had partly regained its use . Mr. Harmon is a brother of Granville W. Harmon , Register of Kings County , and lives at 1.237 Dean Street , Brooklyn . Suicide of George E. Daniels . George E. Daniels , fifty-one years old , of 62 Jefferson Avenue , Brooklyn , committed suicide yesterday afternoon by shooting himself In the right temple . He sat In a chair in the parlor in front of a mirror and took deliberate aim . Mr. Daniels had been despondent for some time . He was engaged in the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appraising property for the banks and trust companies . He invested in Brooklyn property , but the investment did not pay , and he became discouraged . Ambulance Surgeon Injured . Dr. John W. Schell of the Cumberland Street Hospital , Brooklyn , while responding to an ambulance call accidentally fell out of the ambulance at - Raymond Street . and Park Avenue last night . He was taken to the hospital , where it was found he had concussion of the brain .                     