@@674106

txt New-Yorkers awoke yesterday to find outdoors obscured by whirling sheets of large/ white cloud feathers . When the storm ceased about 10 o'clock eight inches of snow ; had fallen . When the snow had done its worst , the wind made up its mind to try what it could do , and the city was . swept by a cold and sportive blast yesterday afternoon and last ; night . The wind " blew a gale , " not only In the popularly accepted sense of the term , but in the technicd.1 meaning which the Weather Bureau men put upon winds . According to their standards , a wind becomes a gale when it blows from forty to fifty-nine miles an hour . If the wind runs from sixty to seventy-nine miles an hour , the bureau declares that it is a storm , and the wind yesterday was a storm more than once . By the offIciii.1 records the highest wind , yesterday was at 4:45 o'clock P. M. , when it blew from the West at a rate of sixty-two miles an hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the afternoon of Feb. 6 , when , with the wind at its height , it was necessary for one of the Weather Bureau 's men to climb out on the tows , - roof of the Manhattan Life Building . and fix one of the instruments . The wind dropped a little after 5 o'clock but in the course of the evening started on an attempt to outdo Its afternoon record . It failed , but succeeded in reaching sixty miles an hour at 9:50 o'clock P. M. The breeze played some queer pranks with poor human beings . At no place could this be seen better than at the corner of Spruce and Nassau Streets . The erection of the tall building of the Tract society has made a canon , through which the wind sweeps with tremendous force and velocity . It was no uncommon thing to see half a dozen hats in the air , and as many owners making frantic efforts to recover their headgear . One of the two policemen who were stationed at that corner to assist the feeble and " move on " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man whose hat sailed about the third story of the Tribune Building . He failed to see the humour of the . thing when his own helmet went racing down the street . At this same corner the Find lay in wait for women , and the helptItss skirt-incumbered female would be hurried ' down Spruce Street despite her efforts to continue to the bridge entrance . In Park Row the wind found an easy victim in. a one-horse delivery wagon , which it toppled over ? on its side , and the unfortunate driver of a two-horse- truck with . a canopy top found himself powerless to stop at the corner of Spruce and Nassau Streets . His horses planted their feet against the slippery stones , and the wind blew driver , horses , and truck down the grade with evident ease .                     