@@674115

txt Henry Hentz , the Chairman of the Special Committee on Sound Financial Legislation of the Chamber of Commerce , said yester-day : " We have received many responses from all over the country to the I declaration which the Chamber of Commerce at its meeting on March 5 unanimously adopted , urging clear and distinct platform utterances from both of the great political parties in favor of the maintenance of the present gold standard of value . It is evident that the Chamber has struck the keynote of the feeling of the business men or this country , and that it has aroused a spirit which is bound to be respected by the platform makers of both parties . " Such declarations as have come from the State Conventions in Ohio and Rhode Island are a disgrace to the intelligence of the American people . Every man in this country is either in favor of maintaining the existing standard of value , which has governed the business operations of this country for more than sixty years , or he is in favor of the selection of another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries like China and Mex-ico " The business men simply demand of the two conventions to say which road they propose to take , and not to put up confusing signboards . There never was a more earnest movement on the part of the business men of this country , and the pot ticians must feel before they get through with : heir conventions that their nominees can not cover deficiencies in their platforms . It has , indeed , been suggested from more than one weal ter . that if the two conventions do not gi ? . ' e out distinct , clear , straigntforward utterances on the money question . that the business men of this country shall at once assemble in National Convention and enter the political field with a ticket on a sound-money platform . The question must he pealed . It lang . ' s like a cloud co , er all the business of th ; s country . There is no reason why the whole business spirit of the country should be depressed and discouraged because of a doubt as to whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overthrow the very foundation stone of all business . The whole ueestion should be taken out of polities . If it remains an open question after this election . it abides with us for at least four years more . The cost to the country and to this generation of such a thing is beyond enleulation. if either party is in favor of the free coinage of silver , let it say so . Then we can know what It means . " The politicians of both parties may as well understand that the business men do not care the flip of a copper about party traditions and old party ties . in the presence of a burning onesiion which reaches to the hearthstone of every citizen . We will endure no more humbug or deceit . The fight Is on and it is a fight to the finish . "                     