@@781409

txt An ammonia tank in the refrigerating plant of the Hoffmann Brewery in the fifth story of the building , at 210-218 East Fifty-fifth Street , exploded shortly after 1 o'clock this morning , and set fire to the building . At the time , the regular night force of workmen was at work in the building , and it was generally reported that a number of the men had lost their lives in the fire . On investigation this was proved to be without foundation . All of the men succeeded in getting safely out of the building . Four alarms were sent in , and the flames were kept confined to the fourth and fifth stories of the building , which are given over largely to refrigerating purposes . The business and building are owned by Jacob Hoffmann . The loss will be in the neighborhood of $25,000 . EAST SIDE TENEMENT FIRE . Forty Families Routed from Their Beds in the Early Morning  --  Lives Lust Perhaps . Flames were seen about 1 o'clock this morning on the third floor of the double tenement house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forty families of about 150 souls in all live in the building , and four alarms were turned in in quick succession . All the tenants were sleeping , but most of them were soon awakened and taken out . Several lives , however , the police fear , were lost , as the blaze spread rapidly . The fire started in the rooms of a family named Markowitz . The cause is unknown , and will probably be the subject of an investigation . One serious accident Is known to have happened . Max Steen , a cripple , in trying to escape from the building by crossing an air-shaft , fell to the bottom of the area and was badly hurt internally . He was taken to Bellevue Hospital . BOYS HOLD UP A WOMAN . Two Lads Relieve Mrs. A. H. Segsberg of Her Watcn and Her Pocket-book In Central Park . There was a bold hold-up in Central Park last evening , and although the highwaymen were neither of them more than thirteen years old , Mrs. A. H. Segsberg , who said she lived at 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled as though they had been twice the age . Nor could she have been robbed more thoroughly than she was , for she lost all of value that she carried . Mrs. Segsberg was on her way home , and was walking through a quiet and secluded path on the west side of the Park , opposite Eighty-seventh Street , when the highwaymen appeared . Both were in knee trousers and neatly dressed , one in blue , the other in black . Mrs. Segsberg saw the boys running toward her , and thought they were playing some child 's game . She stopped to watch them , when they ran up toward her . One passed her , only to turn about just as the second grasped her by the throat . " Your m ney or your life ! " piped the boy . Mrs. Segsberg was overcome with surprise and fright , and sank down on a bench . Her pocketbook , containing something more than $5 , dropped from her hand . One of the boys pounced upon it . The boy who still held Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And " Billy " made a dive over the stone wall that extends along the walk . As soon as he disappeared the second boy took his han 1 from its firm grip on Mrs. Segsberg 's throat , snatched her gold chatelaine watch , tearing away a portion of the silk waist that had held it , dove for the stone wall , ann in an instant was gone . Mrs. Segsberg then began to scream . Bicycle Patrolman McLarkey heard the scream and saw one of the running boys . He jumped from his wheel , followed the lad over lots ann through streets , but lost sight of him at Eighty-eighth Street and Columbus Avenue . He thinks , however , that lie knows the boys . The police are investigating . At 31 West Eighty-second Street it was said that no Mrs. Segsberg had ever lived there .                     