@@672455

txt It is unfortunate for the cause of execution by electricity that its first trial was badly bungled . It was intended to be a merciful method of putting condemned murderers to death , painless and instantaneous , and there is reason to believe that properly applied it might be so . But yesterday at Auburn Prison it was evidently not successful . The hanging of a man in a clumsy and bungling fashion , suclias has many times been witnessed , is a revolting spectacle . Putting him to death unskillfully by electricity is not More so , though the novelty of the operation itself and the mystery connected - with the action of electricity on the human system make it appear more horrible at the moment . Perhaps it would be unjust to assume that preparation was made for a failure of the apparatus at Auburn Prison , but it is at least evident that inadequate preparation was made for its success . It seems to be admitted now that the ' hpparatTts was defective , and that it did not work properly . For months strenuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose current was to be used to pre-vent the execution of the law in RtmluLEIZ 'S case , and Warden DIVISION was evidently in sympathy with those efforts . This has generally been attributed to his repugnance to the unpleasant duty that was to fall to him in being the first to execute a death sentence by the new process , but the recent tinkering with the apparatus and the change of the fatal chair from one room to another at the last moment , without apparent reason , have given a suspicious appearance to the final preparations . Wherever the fault may be , it is clear that the arrangements were bad . It was the opinion of experts that to insure certainty a current of from 1,500 to 1,800 volts should be used . That applied to Kuniatnazu. seems to have " wobbled " from 700 to 1,300 , but not to have risen above the latter figure . The dynamo was a thousand feet away , and the system of signaling to the man in charge of it seems to have been clumsy or misunderstood in the working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been , the contact of the electrodes seems also to have been imperfect . All the " horror " of the execution was due to the fact that the first application of the ? current did not extinguish life , though at first it seemed to have done so instantly and without pain . The slight symptoms of reviving were naturally very distressing to the witnesses , and the delay in getting the current started again intensified their disquietude , which was not mitigated by the effects of continuing the current until there were indications of aburningof theflesh . Butnotwithstanding all this suppressed mental panic there is no ground for the assumption that the - victim suffered the least pain or had the slightest consciousness after the first shock . On the contrary , there is every reason to believe that if - the current had risen to 1,500 volts and been perfectly applied it would have produced instant death . Even as it was , if it had not been too hastily thrown off it is probable that the result would have been heralded as a wonderful success . The worst of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a clumsy hanging , which has been known to last for many minutes with every indication of conscious suffering on the part of the wretched victim , but that it will be seized upon by the opponents of execution by electricity , aided by the opponents of capital punishment in any form , to work up a popular sentiment against the law . The sensational descriptions , largely the work of excited imaaina-. tions , are calculated to aid such a design . No doubt the advocates of this method of executing , the death penalty are for the moment put upon the defensive , but they have not , a failure of the method to face . Nothing that they have claimed has been refuted . The first trial was of necessity an experiment , and it was not conducted with that care and coolness that were requisite to insure success . But it was made clear that with the current that has been recommended for the purpose , with appliances free from defect in construction and operation , and with a. firm and confident application of the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painless death . It would be absurd to talk of abandoning the law and going back to the barbarism of hanging , and it would be as puerile to propose to abolish capital punishment because the new mode of execution was botched in its first application .                     