@@781277

txt The Grand Jury , after investigating the failures of F. A. Lappen &; Co. and the Plankinton Bank . has reported indictments for 1111 the officers and Directors of the Plankinton . Bank . They are F. T. Day , President ; William Plankinton , Vice President ; William H. Momsen , cashier , and Eugene S. Elliott , F. W. Noyes , C. L. Clason , and Judge James G. Jenkins , Directors . Judge Jenkins was the first of the indicted bank officers arrested . The others soon followed , and Judge Walker fixed their bail at $5,000 each . Judge Jenkins is a United States District Judge . The bank officers , with the exception of Mr. Day , are charged with receiving money when the bank was insolvent . It is understood that Mr. Day will have to answer the more serious charge of embezzlement . Mr. Day is in an Indiana sanitarium . The announcement of the indictments and arrests caused intense excitement throughout the city . The parties are all prominent in business and society circles , and their unfortunate predicament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the indicted Directors , is too ill to appear in court , and consequently is under surveillance at his house . The Sunday schools of the First and . Second Reformed Churches of Hackensack went to Greenwood Lake on their annual picnic yesterday . It required eleven passenger coaches to accommodate the throng , many who enjoyed the outing not being Sunday school members . Much dissatisfaction was caused among the Sunday school officials by the presence of a large number of beer kegs on the picnic grounds , and the dissatisfaction was augmented later by a number of the younger members engaging in dancing in the pavilion . Pastor Vandewart appeared on the scene and endeavored to put a stop to this diversion . The noise was so great , however , that his words of remonstrance were not heard , and he was compelled to pound on the floor with his umbrella in order to gain attention . He asked that the dancing be stopped , but his request was unheeded . An actor and four soubrettes from NewYork , who are summering at the lake , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played lively airs on a violin and the soubrettes danced a reel and other fancy steps , finishing with a sensational skirt dance , in which high kicking was the principal feature . The pastor and the church officials were grievously shocked by this exhibition , and the women teachers hid their faces in their hands . It was decided that if the Sunday schools have another picnic , Greenwood Lake will not be selected as the place for the Outing . " I think I am as well informed as any man in the country respecting the intentions of what are known as the Liberals , and . I know there will be no split in the Presbyterian Church . " The speaker was the Rev. , Tennis S. Hamlin , D. D. , pastor of the Church of the Covenant of this city , and he was discussing the published report of a meeting of Prof. Briggs 's friends and adherents to organize a new Church . Dr. Hamlin had read the account while in Montreal last week , where . he was in attenuance upon the convention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " There is no truth whatever in the story . I firmly believe it is one of the many falsehoods which originate from a wellknown source antagonistic to Pro ? Briggs , and which are intended to reflect upon him and those who believe the General Assembly did not act wisely in his case . But they will fail of their object , for I know it is not the intention of any of she Liberals to leave the Church . There is room enough in it for us , and we shall remain unless forced out . " A dispatch from St. Louis announcing that Col. " Tom " Ochiltree and Mrs. Wickes , widow of E. D. L. Wickes , a millionaire of this city , are to marry caused a sensation here where both parties are well known . Close friends of Mrs. Wickes are unanimous in pronouncing the report to be without foundation , but a nephew of Mrs. Wickes states that the marriage is to take place . Mrs. Wickes spends her Winters here , and was here only three months ago for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ block . She had a marble tablet bearing Mr. 1 , Vickes 's name placed over the entrance of the building as a monument to his memory . Postmaster General Bissell has decided to abandon the three sizes of postal cards now in use , and to suDatitute one size for both single and reply cards . With that purpose in view , the specifications which have been sent to prospective bidders for the contract for furnishing the Postal Service with cards during the next four years call for single cards of the uniform size of 312 by 51e inches . This is what is known as the International size , it being used generally by the countries comprising the International Postal Union . The double or reply card now in use will be continued , with the size , when folded , reduced to that of the international card . These two cards will take the place of the small or ladies card , the medium , and the large card , and the large return card . There was some mystery in the Jefferson Market Pollee Court yesterday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ho remanded her for examination . She gave her name as Mamie Murray and said she lived at 67 East Twelfth Street , but nothing Was said publicly as to why she was a prisoner . There was a rumor that she was concerned in a large robbery . Judge R. T. Kerr committed suloide this morning by shooting himself through the heart with a shotgun . Judge Kerr was prominent in his profession , but recent illness affected his mind , and it is believed the sot was committed While the Judge was mentally unbalanced . The Benson . Mines of magnetic Iron ore . at the terminal of the Carthage and Adirondack Railway , west of Tupper Lake , have been closed . Four hundred men are thrown out of employment .                     