@@674208

txt There was a serious collision yesterday afternoon in Park Row , near Ann Street , between a Third Avenue cable car and a Dry Dock line horse car , which resulted in the smashing and overturning of the horse car and general excitement ? around the Post Office . A number of persons narrowly escaped injury , and but for the presence of mind of the driver of the horse car , his horses would have beeen killed . The accident happened about 5 o'clock . It occurred in front of the ruins of the old International Hotel , which is in course of demolition . As the cable car swung at terrific speed around the curve to the uptown track , the Dry Dock car switched to the same track just ahead of it . The cable car struck the horse car with a crash that was heard for blocks , and literally knocked it into a cocked hat . The front and rear platforms were smashed into unrecognizable masses of iron and wood ; the roof was torn off , windows were smashed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides . The driver jumped in time to turn his horses , so that they escaped without a scratch . Had he been a second too late they would have been crushed against a wooden shed which protects pedestrians at that point from falling masonry and iron work . The car struck the wooden supports of the shed with such force as to almost knock off several workmen who were on the shed . A number of persons who were passing under the shed were badly frightened . The Dry Dock car had a number of passengers who escaped , but no one could explain how . Neither the driver nor the cable car motorman was arrested . The motorman said the driver should have seen him coming . The signal man stationed at that point said he waved a danger flag to the driver , but the latter said the motorman should have let him get on the track first instead of trying to get ahead of him . Policeman Struck by a Cable Car . Policeman Patrick M. Bradley of the West Thirtieth Street Station reported last night that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across Twentieth Street and Broadway he was struck by a soith-bound cable- car on the hip , throwing him to the ground . His clothes were badly torn . The policeman will be incapacitated from duty for several days . RAN DOWN BICYCLE RIDERS . Eugene McCarney 's Reckless Driving on the Boulevard . One time last evening there were at least 500 bicyclists chasing a man who was riding in a light wagon on the Boulevard , and had he been caught he would have fared badly . Eugene McCarney , nineteen years old , of 171 Thompson Street , was the driver . His horse knocked down James B. Carr of 316 West Fourteenth Street at Sixtyfourth Street . about 10 o'clock . Carr was badly bruised about the head and had his bicycle wrecked . Several bicycle riders tried to stop Mc-Carney , but he whipped up his horse and lashed right and left at the bicycle men . He struck Daniel J. Weber of One Hundred and Forty-eighth Street and Tenth ' Avenue several times across the face , injuring , him badly . Then he wheeled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : down the Boulevard , scattering bicycle riders in all directions . At Fifty-eighth Street the reckless driver knoltecl down W. J. Donnelly of 21 West ** ZStreet , . an actor , in The Sperting ? Duchess " company . Donnelly had ? , with him several women friends , and they escaped injury . Policeman Brown of the bicycle squad of the West Sixty-eighth Street Police Station started in pursuit of MeCarney when he heard what had happened . When the driver saw the policeman he turned into Fifty-seventh Street , drove to Broadway , and thence down to Fifty-sixth Street . There the policeman succeeded in getting into McCarney 's wagon and placed hirii under arrest . Brown had to be assisted by several citizens before he succeeded in subduing MeCarney . McCarney was locked up in the West Sixty-eighth Street Police Station on a charge of reckless driving and running down people . He will be arraigned in the Yorkville Police Court this morning , and many bicycle riders will appear against him . FIRECRACKERS ' DEADLY WORK . A Five-Year-Old Girl Fatally Burned by the Piny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yard of her home , at 112 Eighth Avenue , Rosa Loewenthal , five years old , was fatally burned yesterday afternoon . She died in the New-York Hospital at 9:30 o'clock last night . A boy livino. in the house gave her the playthings , and , securing some matches , she commenced to explode them . One of them that she had thrown in the air , fell on her long hair and set it in a blaze when it exploded . Instantly her clothing was in flames . The first person attracted by the girl 's screams was her mother , who lives on the third floor of the building . She looked helplessly on her child for an instant , gave a piercing scream , and then rushed to the yard . Meanwhile Reuben Lowenberg , ten years old , who lives on the ground floor , and Felix Batrone , a boy of fifteen , rushed to the child 's aid .. They threw a quilt around the unfortunate little one , and soon smothered the flames . Then the child was taken up stairs by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was badly burned . The neck and face were in a terrible condition . An ambulance was summoned and the child was taken to the New-York Hospital . FIRE ON STREET CAR TRACKS . Flowing Turpentine ignited by a Mischievous Urchin . A truckman who was unloading a load of turpentine in Canal Street , near Mott Street , ? yesterday afternoon , dropped a barrel of the liquid to the street , and the barrel head was knocked out . The turpentine flowed along the street-car tracks as far as Mulberry Street , and a little urchin ignited it with a match . Flame shot along the track and scorched the legs of a horse that was standing on it . The horse jumped.out of the way , and the turpentine continued to burn until it was all licked up by the flames . A large crowd gathered to watch the unusual sight .                     