@@674062

txt Much time may be lost by persons and banks that are inclined to secure the new bonds if those would-be investors in United States securities make the mistake of sending their offers to a New-York newspaper office instead of addressing them to the Secretary of the Treasury or one of the Assistant Treasurers . No newspaper has been deputized to accept offers for bonds , and none will be secured for offers of that sort , which may be made for advertising purposes and cost nothing to the advertiser . Some amusement was furnished by a New-York paper to the officers of the Treasury who found at the end of a long editorial article about the " popular " bond issue the italicized statement that the people would subscribe for bonds , but that they would not do much bidding . Just how bonds are to be secured by subscription if the subscribers do not offer a price in competition with others the Treasury people do not pretend to know . be hesitation at first to make bids because of the impression abroad that the figures offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain bonds would be guided by the bids made by those who presented their offers early . But the Treasury does not help the people who are holding back plainly for the reason that the sale is not exactly an auction sale in which the bids are announced in open competition for the guidance of the bidders . There is still the belief that the men in New-York who have prepared to secure the bonds will calculate so closely that when they bid they will offer the very highest price for the bonds that can be paid with any hope of realizing a profit from them . Already the Treasury is shorter of gold than it ought to be . and if a sale had been arranged with the syndicate , the supply would have been secured before the end of the month , without the danger of the raid upon the Treasury gold that appeared to have begun to-day . Ingenious suggestions have been thrown out that under the terms of the sale prescribed by the Secretary , it may be possible for a purchaser to pay his first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , present more greenbacks , and agair use , for a third time , the gold employed ro make the first payment : and go on using the same gold over and over again until the bonds are entirely paid for , without having added to the permanent stock of gold in the Treasury . This scheme is not regarded as likely to be indulged in by anybody b ? t the most ingenious and patient of experimenters . The President has not really pleased his enemies so much as some of them pretend that he has in asking for bids for the new bonds . Seeking , as they do , continually some pretext to assail him . his conclusion to sell bonds without advertisement would have been much more gratifying to these predestined grumblers than the ordering of a sale after advertisement an to the highest bidder . He has deprived those who expected to be stimulated to more vehement abuse of the opportunity for which they were waiting , assuming that he would not take advice that was prompted not by a desire to be of use but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ' rejected as unwise and as suspicious by - reason of its origin in a quarter from which nothing but criticism of the most vehement sort could be expected . It is now only Jan. 7 , and the Treasury will be exposed until early in February to the assaults of all who have greenbacks for which they can get gold , if they desire to use the gold with which to purchase bonds to renew the gold supply of the Treasury . The gold for redemption purposes was $55,684,000 to-day , and there were notices of the withdrawal of a net amount of 89,400,000 , to be deducted from the stock . Should this process be repeated each day this week. , the Treasury gold for redemption purposes would be down to $50,000,000 on Saturday , with the larger part of the month left in which to cut the remainder down to very low proportions . The difficulty of getting greenbacks , and after that of exchanging them for gold , is admitted to be likely to act as a check to the tendency to clean out the Treasury vaults @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bonds to . a syndicate that would restrain the run upon the Treesury and secure a large part of the purchase gold from abroad , find in the menace of a run on the Treasury gold a new argument for the repetition of the old private arrangement Would Remove Mats from Car Floors . The Board of Health at a meeting yesterday afternoon considered an amendment to Section 164 of the Sanitary Code , prohibiting the use on elevated or surface car floors of matting or textile fabrics . This will make the use of wooden slatting necessary . The board thought that the road : should have a hearing before the amendment was adopted , and laid the matter over until next Tuesday , when representatives of the roads , who will be notified , are expeotec to be present ,                     