@@781065

txt A telegram received by United States Attorney Jackson to-night states that Deputy Marshals had a fight this afternoon with Cherokee Bill and his gang . Cherokee Bill was badly wounded , and two other members of the party were captured , together with two of the bandits ' horses . The deputies of deleted 2 lines members of the gang . Marshal Rent Cobb arrived late to-day , bringing in one of the captured robbers and a whisky peddler . The other members of the Cook gang are said to be surrounded by the Marshals . Cobb has asked the United States Attorney and the United States Marshal for recruits to assist him . Cherokee Bill is so badly wounded that the deputies think he will soon be obliged to give himself up . Cobb reports that he expects a hard battle , but that he has the adVantage of the bandits . Excitement is running high in Muskogee , and a company of men is being organized to start to the scene of the battle . Marshal McAlester is tired of being criticised , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , McAiester can get only eight to pursue the bandits . A number of citizens have offered to assist in capturing the Cooks if their expenses are paid . At a secret meeting of business men held early this morning , $1,000 was subscribed for the defense of the town . Ex-Indian Agent Leo E. Bennett was placed in command . He immediately held a conference with Al McKay , one of the Indian police , and a plan of campaign was perfected . The town is to be guarded by armed men both day and night . Scouts are to be placed in the suburbs to watch the movements of " Bill " Cook and his men . All suspicious persons found in the town are to be arrested on sight . If any person resists arrest , he is to be shot down . The streets are filled with armed guards , and this show of force has evidently impressed the outlaws . The first suspicious character who attempts to enter the bank will be shot before he crosses the threshold . " Cook evidently does not fancy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney Jackson . it is written in his own handwriting , and on a single sheet of note paper , and is addressed to the Prosecuting Attorney . The following is a copy : Camp Cook. ? We found out to-day that you fixed up some Deputy Marshals to run us down . 1 mean me and my gang . It you are going to run us down , we will bet you out of the way . We know what you do . it you let us alone , you are all right . If you do n't , you will hear from us . Take warning . BILL COOK . Among the marked men are Prosecuting Attorney Clifford L. Jackson , Leo E. Bennett , ex-Indian Agent ; D. M. Wisdom , and United States Commissioner Wayman C. Jackson .                     