@@673025

txt The President , having disposed of the task of issuing a Treasury circular ordering a twenty-day quarantine of Immigrants  --  a task , by the way , that Secretary 01 the Treasury Foster could have performed without Presidential assistance  --  left the capital this evening for Loon Lake . The stir created by Mr. Harrison 's hurried visit , and the conspicuous part he assumed in sanitary work has not altogether subsided , but the impression that the Federal authorities , in co-operation with the Health Boards of the States , will be equal to the duty of excluding cholera from all the borders is so strong as ye amount to confidence . The reports of the independent declarations of Health Officer Jenkins of New-York in regard to the term of detention to be insisted upon , are not taken as seriously as might have been expected . It is pointed out by officers of the Administration that the circular content . plated the approval of the State authorities , and that It was not supposed that any sanction of that sort , necessary to protect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a necessary detention was not expected or Considered desirable . The warning note of vigilance to be exercised by Collectors of Customs on the Mexican and Canadian borders , in co-operation with the ott ? ? era of the Marine Hospital Service and local health officers , will be observed by the Federal officers according to the circulars of prevention issued from time to time to the Marine Hospital Service . These circulars are explicit as to methods of disinfection . Immigrants known to be newly arrived Irma infected ports will be detained for the period prescribed for the detention of persons arriving by steamers at United States ports . If there is any doubt about the statements Made by persons seeking to cross the borders , the people of the United states who are demanding protection from the cholera will be given the benefit or the doubt , and tee doubtful person will be obliged to suaer too inconvenience of detention . Most of the border Collectors are stationed ou the Canadian line . The stations on the north in elude Bangor . Vanceborougn . Calais . Portland . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Albans . Itichford , Island Pond . and Newport . Vt. ; Rouse 's Point . Cape Vincent . Ciaytou , Morristown . Ogdensburg , Waddington , Fort coviu ' e ton . Moore 's Junction . Buffalo . Charlotte . and Niagara Falls . N. Y. : Ashtabula and Toledo . Ohio ; sault Ste. Mario , Port Huron . St. Clair , and Detroit . Mich. ; Chicago . III. ; Omaha . Neb. , and Pembina . N. L. At many of these points medical inspectors will be stationed to assist the regular Immigrant Inspector . While very few immigrants from the cholera-infected ports are likely to seek entrance immediately by way of Texas , the Collectors along the Mexican border will be supported by competent Federal medical officers , who will work in harmony and according to the regulations of the State health officers . It is assumed that the authorities and citizens of the interested States will be sufficiently concerned to contribute abundantly with medical men and supplies to protect themselves . Perhaps no one would have thought of attributing to the Administration a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it were not for a little story that has come out illustrating the concern of Postmaster General Wanamaker to be hit:mated with tho action of tile President and Secretaries Charles Foster and Miller . They were the only members of the Caldnatat Tuesday 's con : ... renve in the White House , but Me Wanamaeer asked several press representatives to say that he was there , and his request was complied with by at least one of them . Mr. Wanamaker was not there , but it was evidently regarded by him as a good thing to have It represented that he was there and contributed of his worldly wisdom in supporting what was believed to be a popular course of action . Dr. John B. Hamilton of the Marine Hospital Service , and formerly the head of the bureau , has been ordered from Chicago to Washington to assist Dr. Wyman in making arrangements for the repulsion of cholera . Dr. Wyman is represented as not taking this order gracefully , but the authorities believe the experience of Dr. Hamilton in righting several approaches of infectious and contagions cilsease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and Dr. Wyman will have no trouble in get tint ; along amicably and effectively . The people on the Canadian border are betraying some anxiety to know whether or not the provisions of the quarantine circular apply on the border . To-day the Collector of Customs at Detroit telegraphed to the Treasury Department asking whether the circular applied to immigrants from Quebec and Montreal He was informed in reply that they were not subject to its provisions , but that immigrants from the two places named should be detained until all danger was passed . The officials of the War Department feel the necessity of having every army post in the country put in such good sanitary condition that the disease if introduced shall not spread on account of bad hygienic conditions . Adjt . Gen. Williams to-day sent to each department commander and to each independent post in the country certain memoranda submitted by the Surgeon General and approved by the Secretary of War relating to cholera precautions . The cablegrams received by the state Department in relation to the cholera included one from the Consul at Stettin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case in Pomerania . Sailor from Hamburg . " Another was from the Consul at Bremen , who cabled : " No cholera in Bremen yet . Every sanitary precaution with all passengers taken . " The Post Office Department has received a number of replies to the telegrams Bent to Postmasters on the Canadian frontier directing them to confer with the local health officers , and to report at once what precautionary measures , if any , are necessary to be taken in connection with mails received at their offices direct from Canada in order to guard against the introduction of cholera . Postmaster Geutsch , at Buffalo , says : " Health officers advise immediate preparation for disinfecting mail matter from Canada by perforating letters and by dry heat . 1 receive no European mail via Canada , but it is believed immigrants diverted to Canada will send mail here . If disinfecting is commenced . it wilt be necessary for the mail now sent direct to railway Post offices to come to Buffalo . " Postmaster Hance , at Detroit , says : " Alter consultation with tho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to take any steps with the mail coming from Canada at the present time . as cholera has not made its appearance there , and this office receives no foreign mails through that country . " Postmaster Sexton , at Chicago , says : - Have consulted health officers , who advise Mancation by sulphur or steam . " Postmaster Avery , at Port Huron , Mich. , says : " Health officers advise thorough fumigation , and deem it necessary . " Postmaster Getieral Wanamaker late thisafternoon sent the following telegram to the Postmaster General of Canada : " Please state what , precautions against cholera are being taken on your side . Do you consider Mad . gatlon of malls necessary I ! Kindly wire answer . " The quarantine cordon was additionally strengthened to-day by the appointment of two Medical Inspectors at Port Huron , Miob. , and one at Pembina . N. D. At the request of Dr. Wyman , the Navy Department to-day turned the old wooden training ship Jamestown , now at Norfolk , over to the Marine Hospital Service for duty as a receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be fitted np with disiufecting apparatus . The Jamestown it is believed will be well adapted for hospital purposes , owing to tier spacious decks and the extent of room she offers for cots and other has Intel essentials .                     