@@673395

txt Those Republicans and protectionist Democrats who have been laboring under the impression since the election that the Ways and Means Committee would take the results of the elections as an instruction not to amend the tariff law on a revenue basis will discover that their predictions wei e as empty as their doctrines are fallacious . The Ways and Means Committee completed the schedules of the revenue bill today , and , as asserted in The New-York Times of Sunday , it is strong enough in reductions to satisfy all the reformers , except the radical free traders , who would at once abolish all Custom Houses . The secrets of the committee have been guarded better than was supposed . The schedules that have been guessed at , excepting only the sugar schedule , outlined in part in The New-York Times of Sunday . have turned out to be wild and erroneous , for all of them have assumed that the Tariff bill would be made up with compound duties , whereas the rule has been to apply ad valorem duties in all cases where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The bill may not be radical enough for free traders , but it is so courageous in its reductions of duties , bold:y laid on by Mr. , as to quite take away the breath of such professional protectionists as Reed , Payne , Burrows , and the other gentlemen at the " fat-frying " end of the Ways and Means Committee , who comfort themselves with the hope that the Democrats of the House and the Senate will never dare to pass the measure . These men could scarcely say less than that . Until the statisticians have been able to mp.ke computations of the amount of revenue that may be derived under the bill , on the basis of the importations of 1892-3 , all estimates of the amount of income are conjectural largely , but the loss by placing articles on the free list , and by reduction of duty , would appear to be about $55,000,000 . But this loss will be partly made up by increased importations . H it should be determined that the revenue would be insufficient to meet expenditures , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a part of the estimated loss by an increased tax on whisky , and perhaps a tax on corporations and inheritances . An income tax is demanded by some of the members of the Ways and Means Committee as a means for bringing up the revenues , but a very strong opposition will be made to any income tax that looks like class legislation ; that takes a tax from men of large incomes , and excludes and exempts the men of small incomes , say , those having an income of less than $4,000 . The objection will be made that if men with much money pay high taxes , they will be privileged beyond the men who pay low taxes . The contest will be made by the opponents of an income tax against any provision of law that recognizes any inequality of classes . Except upon the question of an income tax , there was great unanimity in the committee in reaching the conclusions embodied in the schedules of the bill . The reasons for making the changes proposed are set forth by Chairman Wilson , plainly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tricks of the tariff should be the avoidance of complex duties , under which enormous ad valorem rates have been imposed in such a way as to keep the oppressive burdens upon the consumer out of sight . The intention of the committee is to get at work promptly in the House , so as to make it possible to pass the bill through both houses of Congress , and have it on the books and in effect on March 1 , 1894 . The work of the committee is much more likely to be good than the changes that might be effected in the House , and it is probable that an effort will therefore be made to dispose of the bill in the House with such amendments only as are suggested by the Ways and Means Committee . Chairman Wilson of the Committee on Ways and Means for making the tariff bill public . At that time the corridor outside the committee room contained many newspaper men and others , who desired to procure copies cf the bill as soon as possible . There was considerable delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a miscalculation but comparatively few copies had been printed , and the supply in the hands of the clerk was far out of proportion to the demand . None of the importunate outsiders was admitted to the committee room , but the clerk unlocked a door opening upon a rear corridor , and from a barricade , formed of a long table turned upon its side , handed out copies to those who made it clear to him that they were entitled to them . Several of the minority members of the committee stood outside in the corridor and took their chances with the newspaper men . Thomas B. Reed of Maine was one of these . He arrived some time before u. o'clock , and waited patiently until the bill made its appearance . When he received a copy he hurried into the member 's lobby and began to study it . His opinion was sought by several newspaper men , but he said that he had not had sufficient time to become acquainted with the provisions of the measure , and preferred to wait awhile before discussing it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , minority members , were also in the throng . and they displayed considerable anxiety to examine the work of their Democratic associates . It was noticeable that many Republican Representatives were in the immediate vicinity of the committee room when the bill was released , - and several of them besieged the Clerk for copies . Chairman Wilson and his associates gave unmistakable evidence of their satisfaction over their practical ending of the task which has claimed their attention for weeks . There yet remains considerable work to be done before the majority members of the committee will be free , but Mr. Wilson is of opinion that it will not Oar cupy much time . To-morrow there will be consultations with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue , and when the committee meets on Wednesda , it is thought that substantial progress will be made on the internal revenue matters which require adjustment .                     