@@674227

txt The mails of yesterday and to-day have brought Major in the aggregate more than a hundred letters from sound-money Democrats in various parts of the country . The writers make their communications in corfidence , of course , but 95 per cent . of these letters contain direct promises of suppoi coupled with vigorous observations upon the action of the Chicago Convention . A significant fact in connection with this correspondence Is that quite one-third of these letters are from Western States , where the inflation sentiment is supposed to be overpowering . ? ' This will be a week of more than ordinary imoortaice at ' Canton . Major expects a god many visitors representing various interests , classes , and organizations . The event which is destined to attract the most attention , however , will be the coming of 600 or 800 representative women of Cleveland Wednesday to congratulate Major on his nomination , and to assure him that he has in a high degree their confidence , respect , and admiration . The Cleveland women probably will be joined by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger towns of Northern Ohio . It is not unlikely that the whole number may reach a thousand , or even more . The Cleveland women are coming to Canton on a special train , and will bring their own ba-id. quite in the style adopted by the visitors of the other sex who come here . The most active woman in organ zing this excursion is Mrs. N. Coe-Stewart , President of Surosis , and a society leader of high standing in Cleveland . The formal talking for the callers will be done by Mrs. Elcroy Avery of Cleveland . It is expected the Cleveland women will spend the day here , and elaborate arrangements for their entertainment are being made by the Canton people . There is , at the distance of two Miles from Canton , a charming little lake in the heart of the woods . This lake is an attractive body of water a mile or more in length , and its surroundings are admirably picturesque . It Is proposed to take the visitors to the lake on electric cars and to have luncheon served there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally will occasion many visits to Canton . The members of the comir:ttee will call on Major to pay Lileir respects , anti in the ware of ths body a large train of politicians of more or less prominence will be found .                     