@@673477

txt The Santa Fe train bearing ex-President Harrison and party pulled into the station promptly at 12:30 P. M. Awaiting to greet the distinguished visitor was a crowd of more than 1,000 people , composed of well-known Republicans and a generous sprinkling of Democrats . Mr. Harrison started in to hold a public levee , but after shaking hands with numbers of the crowd for ten minutes he responded to frequent calls for a speech . Mounting the steps of his car , and supported by Major William Warner , Gen. P. F. Devol , and Major Ross Guffin , Mr. Harrison made a brief speech . He thanked the people of Kansas City for their flattering reception , and said : " You know I am traveling now as a school teacher , and I am glad to notice by your presence here the great interest which the citizens of Kansas City take in education . I can not talk to you about public affairs , not , I hope , because I do not know anything about them , nor because I do not care anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything that affects the happiness , prosperity , and comfort of my fellow-citizens . I have not seen any reason to abate one jot of the confidence with which I hold the principles that " l endeavored to put into practice during the four years I was intrusted with public office . I dojnot think just now that those principles much need the tongue of an advocate . Experience is making an argument In support of the American policy , and experience is the most forcible speaker I know of . He has no gift of oratory , but he drives his argument home . I hope you here have escaped somewhat those depths of depression which are now prevailing throughout the country . " A voice : " Oh , we 've a few souphouses here . " " Well , we must feed those who can not feed themselves , but it is a great deal better that we should promote and use a policy that keeps the mill going than that we should resort to those temporary and not very happy experiments of calling upon our municipal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have a great and rich country , and we can not always be kept in the trough of the sea . We have great accumulated wealth , great industry , and great inventive genius , and things will be better , I am sure . I do n't know how they could be much worse . " At 1:05 o'clock , after a wait of thirty-five minutes , the train pulled out of the station for the West , and the remnant of the welcoming throng gave a parting cheer to exPresident Harrison and Baby                     