@@781087

txt A runaway horse ran madly through the Principal streets of the shopping district between 6 and 7 o'clock last evening , creating great excitement and injuring two persons .. The injured are : Miss Stella Schieffelin ; Park Avenue Hotel , knocked down on the sidewalk at Fifth Avenue and Twentyfourth Street , received cut over the left eye and on left cheek , and James Morrissey , Putnam House , knocked down on sidewalk on Broadway near Twenty-fifth Street , received severe bruises . The horse belong to Cyrus Quick of 52 East One Hundredth Street . It was first seen running west on Twenty-third Street , whence it wheeled into Broadway . running north . The frightened animal ran to Twenty-fourth Street , where a policeman tried to stop it . The horse dodged the officer and ran up on the sidewalk , where , just beyond Twenty-fourth Street . and close to the Hoffman House it suddenly slipped and fell . It instantly leaped to its feet and lunged forward into a crowd of people who had gathered in a doorway to escape . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who started to run across the walk and into the street . She slipped and fell , the horse jumping over her . One of the animal 's hind feet struck the young woman in the face , and left a deep cut over the left eye and on the cheek . She was rendered unconscious by the blow . An ambulance from the New York Hospital was called , and Dr. Solly teviveci Miss Schieffelin and dressed her wounds . She refused to go to the hospil al , and was taken to her hotel in a cab . In the meantime the horse ran on up Broadway , and just above Twenty-fifth Street ran over James Morrissey . He was knocked down , but beyond severe bruises was not badly hurt . He was able to walk to the Putnam House after having been attended by Dr. Solly . A short distance further on Policeman Albert Steinhauer of the Broadway Squad attempted to catch the horse . He was thrown to the pavement . The horse then turned into West Twenty-sixth Street , where all trace of it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who resides at the Park Avenue Hotel . The family has lived at the hotel for five years . CHILD 'S FATAL TRIP FOR CANDY . Run Down and Killed Almost at Her Own Door . Rose . the six-year-old daughter of Jacob Michlowitz , a painter , living at 145 West Ninety-eighth Street , was run over and instantly killed late yesterday afternoon by an express wagon belonging to the Manhattan Delivery Company . The accident occurred directly in front of the child 's home . Just a few minutes before the accident Rose had been teasing her mother for a penny with which to buy a stick of candy . Mrs. Michlowitz , who Was busy with household work , finally gave the child the penny , and , cautioning her to be careful about crossing the street , told her to go out and buy the candy . This Rose did , promising as she went out the door to share the purchase with her two sisters . The child went around the corner to a little Store in Amsterdam Avenue , where she bought the stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of the Michlowitz home there was a group of boys playing ball . One of them threw the ball against the front of the house ; it bounded back and Rose tried to catch it running into the street to do so . Just as the child jumped off the sidewalk the express Wagon , driven by John Armstrong of 230 Willis Avenue , approached at a rapid rate of speed . The child fell and the front wheel of the wagon passed directly over her neck , killing her instantly . John Franz of 433 West Thirty-ninth Street saw the accident and piekeff the girl up and carried her into the house . An ambulance call was sent to the J. Hood Wright Hospital , and when Dr. Satterlee arrived he said the child had died instantly , her neck being broken . John Armstrong , the driver , was arrested and locked up at the West One Hundredth Street Police Station .                     