@@674344

txt The Spanish Legation has no intelligence , confirming the report that the Spanish gunboat Baraous has captured three boats laden with insurgents and arms off the Province of Santiago de Cuba . It is believed at the legation that if there be any foundation for the report it was merely the arrest of certain refugees who were endeavoring to leave the island , and not of persons who were trying to effect a landing . I ) uring the last two months a number of foreigners , principally Americans and Frenchmen , residing in Cuba , have left the island and sought an asylum in Jamaica and the Bahamas until the insurrection in those parts of Cuba where they formerly resided shall be quelled . In some cases where these persons were known to be in sympathy with the insurrection , arrests have been made , and it is regarded as not unlikely that the arrests referred to are of a similar character . The legation officials give an emphatic denial to the Key West dispatches , which state that Gen. Weyler and his army were ambushed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish loss was fully 1,000 men . No information of this nature has reached the legation . Had such an engagement occurred , the officials state , they would have been promptly notified . Consul General Lee says the rumor that he may not go back to Havana because Spain objects to him , has no foundation in fact . He certainly would have heard of it If there were any truth in the idea . His relations with Gen. Weyler have been cordial , and when they parted several weeks ago they exchanged photographs bearing autographic expressions of friendship . There certainly can be nothing personal against him , and officially , as Consul General of the Unitod States , in the present situation Spain could hardly take an exception to his performance of duty . Gen. Leo says he is in this country solely for a vacation altor five months ' hard work in Havana , during the hottest time of the year , and that ho has considerable private business that demands his attention after his hasty departure from the United States last Spring . He trill go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Virginia . After a trip to West point to see his son , a cadet there , his leave will end . and he will rum : , to Elan- - etary Olney his readiness to return . ? Vhether he will take his wife to Cuba with aim will depend entirely on the state of he country at the time he returns .                     