@@674538

txt There were free threats of lynching here this afternoon , and to-night the strelet corners are still alive with excited groups ; discussing the details of what may prove to be a fatal tragedy . Policeman Henry Wendlestorf of this place is in Flushing hospital at the point of death , with a fractured skull , and Patrick Ready , a local farmer and milkiiirfi ,  - -  1s at Name badly injured . Both are the victims of one or both of two young colored men , who were pursued by a crowd for stealing cherries this afternoon and attacked Ready and the policeman in an effort to escape . The farmer was driving in from one of his fields when he saw two negroes , William and Thaddeus , alias " Theatre " Norsleet , stripping a cherry tree of its fruit . He slid down a load of hay on which he was mounted , and gave them chase with a pitchfork . A series of thefts had annoyed the neighborhood lately , and the laborers on Ready 's and adjoining farms joined zealously in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took refuge behind a stone wall , expecting Ready to pass them . He had seen them hide , and turned a. corner to intercept them , when one of them hurled a large stone at him . Ready fell with a badly cut face , and blood flowing from his wounds and nose , while the negroes fled . The farm hands renewed their chase with sticks and pitchforks , while the injured man was removed to his home , and the colored men were run to earth in the  --  village house they live in , and around which an excited mob soon gathered . The farm hands when refused admittance threatened to take the place by storm , but finally they withdrew . An officer was sent for , and Wendelstorp responded with a warrant which had been issued for the arrest of the negroes , who had meanwhile made a sortie and had been obliged to retreat indoors again in a hurry . When the policeman entered-the house and told the colored men they were under arrest one of them , supposed to be " Theatre , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landed over his right eye and fractured his skull . Wendelstorp was put out of the building while unconscious , and the crowd became furious . Word was sent for another policeman , and the rumor was spread that Wendelstorp aau Ready wer .. : both fatally hurt . The former was removed to a neighboring house , and medical aid was secured for him after some delay . William Norsleet now became frightened . He came to the door , and , throwing up his hands , announced that he surrendered himself . He denied having struck a blow . He was taken prisoner and held till the second officer , Thomas Rogers , reached the scene . Rogers called some of the men in the crowd , who were armed , to come to his aid in making the arrest and to-help him in protecting the prospective prisoner . He then went in and brought out ' Thaddeus Norsleet at the point of a revolver , while a cheer rose from the onlooker , When Rogers- put his sand or . Noraleet.V arm ; the negro growled : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens who had followed the policeman in warned the prisoner not to be " fresh , " or he would get rougher treatment outside . The people there were yelling with rage and shouting out threats . The crowd closed about the officer and his negro captives , and accompanied them to the lock-up . Here they hung about so threateningly that it was thought best to arraign the prisoners before Justice , who committed them to the Flushing Police Station . Ready was reported this evening as doing well , considering his injuries . Wendelstorp is likely to die . He has not recovered consciousness . His wife fainted at the news of the affair , became hysterical later , and is now prostrated.                     