@@673426

txt We venture to suggest to the enterprising and hustling gentlemen who are urging Congress to raise the Territory of Oklahoma to the rank of a sovereign State that their list of arguments is incomplete . They have taxed their imaginations and exhausted the resources of an extensive vocabulary in the enumeration and description of the wonderful advantages , natural and acquired , of this newly-settled region , but they have overlooked the provisions of the Oklahoma divorce laws . This curious failure of the representatives of Oklahoma interests now in Washington to set forth the prospects of what promises to become a very profitable local industry has not escaped the notice of other residents of Oklahoma who are not less loyal to the interests of the Territory , and who have undertaken to direct the attention of people in the effete East to the fact that the bid of Oklahoma for the divorce trade is one that even South Dakota can not meet . They are doing this by means of circulars , and from one of these , sent out from the new town of Perry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Since the Legislature of the State of South Dakota changed the law last Winter of that State , lengthening the residence required before bringing suit for divorce from three to six months Oklahoma Territory has been attracting attention as a divorce centre . " For the information of the general public , and the profession in other States , I have concluded to issue this circular letter , containing briefly the important features of the divorce law of this Territory . ? ? The statutes of Oklahoma Territory require ninety days ' previous residence before commencement of action , as in South Dakota before the change of law . Divorces in this territory may be granted for any of the following causes " : We shall not publish the list of these . Oklahoma easily surpasses South Dakota in the inducements of this kind by which it seeks to obtain a large share of the divorce trade , and with respect to one of the statutory causes we must admit that the enterprising attorney of Perry has ample warrant for saying that " it covers a wide field . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a non-resident defendant may be made personally or by publication . There is no statute requiring corroborative proof , as in South Dakota . and there is the following provision : ' When the parties appear to be in equal wrong . the court may in its discretion refuse to grant a divorce ' ; from which it may be inferred that the court could grant a divorce where the parties were both in fault . " Oklahoma has a beautiful climate , and Perry Is the largest and most enterprising town in the Territory . " Just the place for a " divorce centre , " with climate and laws warranted to suit , Sioux Falls recedes and Perry advances proudly to take in the divorce industry that high place which the Territorial lawmakers have sought for their " largest and . most enterprising town . " Now , why have the " Statehood boomers " at Washington made no reference in their arguments and printed statements of resources and prospects to the very mild and inviting divorce climate and divorce laws ? There is still time to repair this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed to be interested in Territorial statutes and . to have something to say about them , will surely give these gentlemen leave to add and amend .                     