@@674966

txt One of the most Interesting battles of the convention will be fought over the old issue of free coinage of silver . It was begun to-day by numerous conferences of the free-silver men . from which came many rumors of revolt that is to follow what these advocates of the soft metal call the betrayal of the money of the Constitution . It was concluded to-night by a. mass meeting called Democratic , but which was entirely engineered by the free-silver forces . It will be resumed and proba- bly finished to-morrow . by an ultimatum. ' to the DemoCratic Convention . The battle cry of the silver men is the Chicago platform . They will be satisfied with the reaffirmation of that platform , and by nothing else . One hears only these two words as the basis of all talk on free coinage . They are stamped in silver letters across the red , white , and blue badges of the silver men . If offered less than free silver they say they will bolt at once and nominate an independent Democratic ticket , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the silver forces will be held to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock . The sole purpose of the meeting is to draft and send to the Democratic Convention an ultimatum in the form of a demand that the Chicago platform be reaffirmed . The silver delegates , about 2,00 in number , according to H. M. of New York , say that they will not be put off by a statement that free silver is not an issue in the State campaign . They want it made an issue if it is not now so considered by the Democratic State leaders . They are not to be waved aside , they say , by the plea that it might imperil Democratic success this year if the money question is brought into the campaign . They would prefer the purification of the party , they say , to a victory on a false issue . They will not be content either with the bimetallic plank of the convention 's Democratic platform . They do not want gruel , they say , but solid meat . The silver men are at least frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention to-morrow fully reaffirms the Chicago platform . H. M. , the active leader here , said to-day that the free-silver forces will , in that event put out an independent ticket . He also said that if Elliot Danforth is not nominated by the Democrats he will be put at its head . Mr. Danforth has not expressed himself upon this matter . He is very actively engaged in getting together delegates who will vote for him in the convention to-I:narrow or next day . Mr. also said that such an independent free-silver ticket would poll at least fifty or one hundred thousand votes in this State . This would , he says , be sufficient to defeat the Democratic ticket , and the result would be that these independents would be recognized as the true Democratic Party of New York in the next National convention . He had the assurance as to this , he says , of a prominent member of the National Committee . As to making an active campaign , he said that he already had been promised abundant help from the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fight for the Chicago platform as against a compromising policy on the part of the Democrats . The Democratic leaders , on the other hand , are not willing to risk the issue of free silver . They say that it is not necessary at this time to revive the old question , and they want to make the light solely upon State issues , of which they are satis- fied they have the stronger side . It seems almost certain , therefore , that the platform adopted to-morrow will ignore the money question , as well as all other strictly ' National issues . It is said by nearly all the leaders here to-night that the platform will not only not say anything about National issues , but it will make it plain that the Democrats will make the campaign entirely on State questions . If Mr. and his friends stand by their declarations , it is almost certain that the free silver men will revolt to-morrow and launch an independent party with the hope of winning the recognition of the next I National Convention . The mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Convention will meet to-morrow , has just reiterated the threat made to-day by the free-silver leaders to revolt should the convention refuse or fail to reaffirm the Chicago platform . The mass meeting was called by the silver people , and the speakers at it were silver men , who have long been identified with the cause of free coinage in this State . It was presided over by Ole D. Snyder of Buffalo , and the principal speakers were H. M. of New York , Mr. Pierce of Monroe , Clarence Ladd Davis of Brooklyn . and Calvin ' IT . RFS .. Eh  --  a ? Troy . The hall was not filled at any time during the meeting , but there was a large number of persons present , and the utterances of the speakers , especially when they attacked the Democrats for not standing by the declarations of the Chicago platform , were loftily cheered . Every speaker who took up the subject of the platform repeated the threat to revolt to-morrcw and start an independent party if the Chicago principles were not indorsed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Ladd , Davis , Pierce , and Keach ; and there were a great many delegates in the audience , and it was noticed that these applauded as enthusiastically as any the threats of revolt uttered by the speakers Mr. Snyder , in opening the meeting , said that the object of the conference that has been called for 10 o'clock to-morrow morning is to enforce the Chicago platform , and to make the convention reaffirm it in its entirely . The State of New York 's Democracy would then have , he said , a platform that no Rough Rider could ride through . This was loudly applauded . He said , also , that no tax dodger should be allowed on the ticket . Mr. repeated the threats he had made several times to-day , that the silver men would form another party . which would , he said he was assured , have the recognition of the next National Convention . He also insisted that no candidate should be nominated who had not heartily supported Bryan and Sewall . Clarence Ladd Davis paused before he began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarking that he would do what the silver men intended making the gold men do to-morrow , take water . He said that the true Democrats of New York will not be content with the sort of straddle that the gold bugs of Connecticut had , paid for . Mr. Keach and others spoke in the same strain . Every reference to the Chicago platform was applauded , and the audience rose and shouted when Mr. Ladd said that they would force the gold men to take water , and to adopt a silver plank in their platform to-morrow . It is pretty generally believed here tonight that the silver men will cause trouble to-morrow in the convention . It developed at the meeting to-night that there are a great many delegates who , unless they can be checked in some way , will support the silver men in their demand for a silver plank . The Platform Committee now has before it for consideration , as soon as the convention assembles , a resolution reaffirming the Chicago platform , and the silver men in the convention will , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic leaders sill affirm , however , that they can control the most rabid free-silver advocates , and so keep all mention of silver out of the platform . Much of the deliberations of the leaders to-night is devoted , it is said , to just this point , and strenuous efforts will be made to prevent any reference whatever to the Chicago platform or to any money question .                     