@@675268

txt Board of Aldermen Wants an Examination of Mr. Whalen 's Office and Other City Departments . The Board of Aldermen yesterday developed a severe case of investigation fever , in the course of which they set under way two inquiries , which threaten to rival those of the Mazet committee and Richard Croker . Alderman Sherman ( Cit . Union ) fathered the first . which was directed against the city 's law department . Mr. Sherman wanted a committee of three members of each body in the Assembly to sit in judgment on Mr. Whalen . Mr. Sherman made a speech in support of his resolution . In the course of his remarks he said : " The Corporation Counsel , in the mandamus : . case , - was guilty of professional conduct and should be investigated . " Alderman McCall , the Tammany leader , said that in view of the fact that there is one investigation on foot in the ' city , it might look as though the Municipal Assembly were trying , to steal the Mazet commit- tee 's thunder . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigated , ' , ' McCall added . " I suppose Mr. McCall thinks that because a certain individual came to tavvn , on Saturday this is an opportune time for an investigation , " Alderman Woodward exclaimed . " If we do n't pass this resolution now , " he added , " we may find ourselves in jail soon . " On the roll call Alderman Glick , one of the Tammany members , said that he believed that the investigation was necessary , but being convinced that it was opposed by his party he would vote against it . Mr. McCall jumped up and indignantly denied that the measure was opposed by the Democratic organization , whereupon Glick changed his mind and moved to refer the resolution to the Law Committee . This was done . Alderman Burleigh , a Brooklyn Republican , was responsible ? for the other investigation scheme . He offered the following resolutionWhereas , By Section 44 of the Charter of Greater New York it is the duty of the Municipal Assembly to see to the faithful execution of the laws of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are unnecessary , inefficient , or unfit employes or persons engaged in violation of law , or excessive salaries or compensation paid in any department of the City Government ; therefore , be it Resolved by the Municipal Assembly , That , a committee , consisting of four members of the Board of Aldermen , be appointed by the President of the board , and three members of the Council , be appointed by the President of the Council , said committee of seven to be known as the Investigating ? Committee of the Municipal Assembly , and the said committee shall inquire Into the conduct of the various departments of the City of New Yorit , and shall have access to the books and records of the city , or of any department , or officer thereof , and generally shall possess all the powers that can be conferred on any such committee under the provisions of said Section 4-1 of the Greater New York Charter . This , too , was referred to the Law Committee . The Aldermen next took up some appropriation measures . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken for the Twelfth Ward Park . This was passed . The application of the Park Department for permission to expend $60.000 for cases for the care of private collections loaned to the American Museum of Natural History without public letting was defeated . An appropriation of 5150 to pay for engrossing a resolution of sympathy with the Emperor of Austria on the death of the Empress was passed without a dissenting voice . The Controller was authorized to pay out of the contingent fund 5542.50 for the expenses of the funeral of Alderman Siefke.                     