@@674655

txt Nearly two thousand persons , assembled in mass meeting at Brommer 's Union Park , One Hundred and Thirty-third . Street and Willis Avenue , shouted themselves hoarse last night cheering for Henry George and Charles W. Dayton , the principal speakers of the evening . The enthusiasm permeating the meeting was reflected in the face of every man present , and when Mr. George intimated that if he should have the power he would send Richard Croker to the penitentiary , the uproar was deafening . Ex-Congressman Tom L. Johnson was present , and came in for a large share of the cheering . He was forced to speak , although he came merely as a spectator , because of the request of Mr. George , who alluded to him as a friend , dearer to him than a brother , and as a man whom he would trust not only with all he had . and all he was , but with his honor as well . Dr. Thomas Darlington of King 's Bridge was chosen Chairman , and after a brief address he introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him as one of the few lawyers who do not work in the interest of monopolies . Col. Crosby 's speech was sarcastic , and evoked much applause . Among other things , he said : " There are men here who may have been Republicans , as 1 was for over thirty years . But the Republicanism they and I have stood for is past . Its leaders have turned everything over to the monopolies and corporations . Now there is nothing left for us to do but to go back to the old , genuine Democracy , the principles as announced in the Chicago platform and upheld by six and a half millions of people last Fall who voted for William J. Bryan , Loud cheering . These honest voters will eventually make this country the most glorious in the world . " Referring to the Chicago platform , the speaker said that Tammany was afraid to adopt it . It was not a question of silver , he said ; in fact , he did not want to talk silver , but it was a question of principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous , " he exclaimed . " Look at him . Is n't he ? " Then turning to the candidate he said : " Yes , Mr. George , you are dangerous with these boys behind you . " Cheers . " They tell you , " he continued , " that Mr. George will destroy society . How can a man destroy society without destroying individuals ? They lie  --  under a mistake , of course . " When Mr. George arrived he received an ovation . Men stood up in their seats , waved their hats , and cheered for fully five minutes . As soon as the candidate for Mayor reached the platform there was another outburst , which was renewed with even more vigor as soon as Mr. Dayton was noticed . For several seconds nothing but " Dayton " could be heard throughout the hall , and the ex-Postmaster made the next address . " I am not here . " he said , " to discuss economic questions , but merely as a protest against the undemocracy of the so-called Democratic Party of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner in which the candidates on the Tammany ticket had been nominated , and characterized it as an outrageous usurpation of the people 's rights . " The claim that I am against the ticket because of personal spite or grievance is not true . I should be ashamed to stand before you on such a basis . I am fighting for the principle of free speech at conventions and honest primaries  --  nothing else . " There is not a bit of anger in my soul . As for Mr. Croker personally , I wish him all prosperity . May every one of his horses win , may every memb , r of his family live long and happily . His domination , however , is a menace , and as such I am here to combat it . not only now , but even after the election , should I fail of my purpose . The fight is for personal liberty . " Before Henry George arose to speak a collection for campaign funds was taken up , and the returns were liberal . After reiterating the pledges he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The justice that I mean to carry out is the kind that carries the sword with scales . I have no time to compliment any of my political adversaries . Against their family , their religion , I will say nothing , but against their political relations it is my duty to speak . There are men who I believe have been systematically robbing the people , and If I have nothing to say against them after I am elected it will be because I shall not have the power , and I believe I shall have . " If Croker has honestly got his palaces , his hounds and horses , let him remain here . If . he got them by the misuse of power , let him take the first steamer to England , for if I have a power the penitentiary yawns for him . If I have the power he shall share the fate of Tweed and . If you intrust me with the power I shall go forward in the line of my duty . As I believe It a great crime has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Bray of Bedford Park and Lawson Purdy spoke next , and ex-Congressman Tom L. Johnson made a brief address . Jerome O'Neill delivered the closing address . An Old Scandal to be Revived . It was learned yesterday that members of the Labor Campaign Committee of the Jeffersonian Democracy had been looking up the records of the Board of Education , and that it is intended to bring to light an old scandal . It is alleged that a charge will be made that prominent among Tatrunany 's stanchest supporters and workers for the labor vote are men who swindled the city out of millions of dollars through the peculiar methods employed in the construction of school buildings about five years ago . Being doubtful of the liability of the contractors to criminal prosecution , It is not intended by the Labor Committee that any resort to the law shall be made , but the facts will be used as an argument with which the committee hopes to catch the votes of organized labor and thus injure Tammany . QUIGG AND THE POLICE . The members of the Police Protective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force belong , have received the following letter from Chairman Qulgg of the Republican County Committee : I have been assured that in the present political campaign your vote and , influence will go to the strengthening and sustaining of the Republican ticket . I write'to thank you , and to ask that you will throw yourself heartily Into the light . Gen. Tracy and the whole of the Republican ticket are surely entitled to your earnest support . The Republican Party has been your stanch friend , and it confidently relies not only upon the belief that It will have your vote , but that also it will have your assistance in obtaining the votes of all of your friends . I write you in the hope that you will make it your business during the next two weeks personally to talk with your friends , urging them to support the Republican ticket . LEMUEL E. QUIGG.                     