@@672342

txt There is but one opinion as to the need of facilities for rapid transit in this city . Upon that point all are agreed , except , perhaps , those who have a pecuniary interest in the present elevated railroad monopoly . Even they admit the inadequacy of their system to present needs , for they are trying to get the privilege of extending it and increasing its capacity on the existing lines . But the people of this city do not want any more railroad structures occupying the streets , and they are averse to extending the privileges of a monopoly that has shown a persistent contempt for public and private rights , and used all its resources to obstruct efforts to obtain real rapid transit . The fact is that the elevated railroads do not and can not furnish rapid transit such as the city needs . The expansion of population within the city is confined to one direction , and facility of movement is consequently needed over long distances . Trains which move only at the rate of twelve miles an hour can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the travel for comparatively short distances . The development of the city is seriously cramped , and the terrible crowding of population in the down-town districts is unrelieved year after year because no means are provided for carrying regale speedily and cheaply over the long distance between the lower and upper parts of the city . The large area above the Harlem River might be made to furnish comfortable homes for a large part of the population , if only it could ' be easily reached , but so long as means of rapid transit are lacking its development will continue to be paralyzed . Of the pressing need of rapid transit there is no longer any question . It is so obvious that there would be no difficulty in obtaining capital to provide it , for it would prove remunerative to investors from the start . Why , then , can we not have it ** is , or should be , a mere question of business , though a business in which the public has such a direct and deep concern and which has such a close relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful supervision of public authority . A company has been organized which proposes to choose a route and adopt plans for itself for a rapid-transit road . through the blocks , acquiring the right of way by purchase and constructing its road along the top of a line of buildings owned by itself and rented for various uses . This may be a practicable , but it would be a very costly scheme , and it is open to serious objections . It is claimed that all necessary authority for the purpose could be derived from the existing railroad laws of the State , but this is doubtful . It is a serious question whether a corporation organized to construct and operate a railroad could engage in a real estate business on the enormous scale proposed without a more direct authority than the general laws afford . /t could hardly be maintained that the holding and renting out of the buildings over which the road ran was a necessary or legitimate incident of a railroad enterprise . But it is not desirable that the location of routes and the plans of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Linos should be laid out , not with a view to the greatest profit of a corporation , but the fullest accommodation of the public . Whether a rapid transit road should be under ground or in the air , through the blocks or over or under the streets , should be decided by public authority and with reference to public interests , and not by a body of private investors . Neither should the plans and conditions of construction and operation be left to the corporation under the limitations of the general railroad laws . A commission to represent public authority is necessary to the protection of public rights and interests . The necessity of such a provision to control and direct the work of furnishing means for rapid transit is generally admitted . In this respect there is no difference between the two measures that are now pendingin the Legislature and that threaten to become the subject of political contention during the present week . But why should there be political contention on this subject ? If it is not avoided it is almost certain to defeat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for rapid transit , and they will have new reason for cursing the politicians who make the people 's interests subservient to petty partisan designs . The people want no politics in rapid transit , and the law which will most effectually exclude it is the one that will meet their heartiest approval . The two bills at Albany differ in many details , and both have been criticised in material points , bat there ought to be no difficulty in framing the provisions in such a way as to satisfy the conditions of the problem . There is only one point upon which there is a difference that threatens to be irreconcilable , and it will be shameful if the whole project is defeated by a partisan quarrel over that . It relates to the constitution and method of appointment of the commission to be charged with carrying out the other provisions of the law . The one essential thing is that this commission should be free from the suspicion of partisanship or political influence in the action it will be called upon to take , and that it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we to be satisfied upon that point ? One bill names the Commissioners and the other leaves their appointment to Mayor GRANT . In the one case , our assurance is in knowing exactly who the Commissioners are to be . In the other , it is only in our confidence , such as it may be , in the Mayor . This is the whole question . Shall we fail to get rapid transit if we refuse to place a blind confidence in one man for all that will depend on the commission ?                     