@@672847

txt All doubt about the pacific intentions of the Chileans was removed to-day , when it was admitted by the State Department that the Chileans had sent to the United States a dispatch extending an apology so ample as to meet every demand contained in the ultimatum of the President of Jau. 21 and promising the reparation asked for , the amount to be determined by arbitration , and , if preferred by the United States , to be ascertained by its Supreme Court . This news made its way from the Department to the Capitol with great speed , and the members of the Foreign Affairs Committees of both Houses were soon dismissing it freely , and congratulating themselves that they had been relieved from the further consideration of a very difficult and unpleasant subject . Upon receipt of the authorized news there was a dispoeition to interpret it as supporting the doubts yesterday expressed by Mr. Brook-inridge . That gentleman 's friends , who know his habit in public matters to be one of ( ) are , were sure that he had been informed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would surely apologize before he sent in his message with the correspondence . Soon after the report of the apology by Chile reached the Capitol there came another report that the President had admitted that he had learned on Monday that Chile had sent a dispatch intimating its desire to meet the demands of the United States . The explanation was furnished also that the President had not sent it in with the message because it had not been translated , and that he did not even know its purport . Mr. Blount , Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , was sure that the President had reserved nothing that should have been sent to Congress , and ho was happy about the apology acknowledged to have been received at tho White House . Ho considered the apology so humble . if he was correctly advised as to its form and character , that it seemed likely to him to excite sympathy for Chile for its completeness . That it had been regarded in the Cabinet as satisfactory was apparent from the remark made by Mr. Elaine to Senator Hiscock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator . ? ? The white wings of peace hovered over us this morning , " said Dir . Blaine , and then he gave to Mr. . Hiecock a brief account of the news that had been discussed . The dispatch to the United States carrying the submission of Chile to the President 's demand is reported to have been sent on Jan. 25 . That was the day on which the President sent the message and eerrespondence to Congress , but if the dispatch was in Washington on that day it was probably not translated out of the cipher in which it was sent and could not be used . But the assertions made by the friends of the Administration that the dispatch did not arrive on Monday , and that it was made known as soon as it could be published , are accepted generally as true , without much desire to establish an intention to play a trick upon the public that would be a dangerous one if exposed , as it would be possible to expose one by a little telegraphic inquiry . Members who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the piqua.ney and point with which Minister Egan refers to the conduct of the British in Chile during the revolution and after . Mr. Egan appears to have been as watchful of the British as of the Chileans , and to have considered the influence or the British in Chile as opposed to that of the North Americans . The Chileans appear to have shared the feeling of Mr. Egan to an extent , for the refusal of the Chileans to accept the offers of Germany and Great Britain to arbitrate the dispute between the Bithuacedists and the Congressionalists was certainly not au indication of Chilean admiration for the British or a manifestation of faith in British impartiality . political misfortune . They had become accustomed to thinking about a foreign war as likely to increase the popularity of the Administration party , and the early dissipation of the war cloud is to them the regard the collapse of the war prospect as It campaign discussion . The Democrats . who expected to cultivate popularity by adhering to the peace party . and by opposing war as unnecessary and extravagant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the now tamer rules Issues , , . and the oss of a very interesting subject of Many of the Republicans about the Capitol mysteries of Swinger 's leadership . It is suggested , by a member of the House , that it is just possible that the reports about trickery in the submission of the latest Chilean dispatch may yet be traced to the State Department , and the delay in submission , if any there has been . may be fixed upon the Secretary of : State instead of the President . Mr. Blaine has of late been forgetful of matters happening under his very nose , and it is believed that ho may show thane overlooked the apology of Chile at a time when he ought to have been presenting it to the President for submission to the Congress . But as Mr. Blaine was working with Mr. Montt to secure a peaceful settlement of the controversy , the imputation to him of e such neleet-ecanpols belief in a mental state so deplorable that it is not likely to be generally credited . There is a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversy . There was little or no desire for war , unless it should appear that an honorable settlement could not be reached in any other way . An undecided and vacillating course would never have done in dealing with this question . The Chileans have for ten years insulted . and annoyed American sailors in their ports , and they were inclined to believe that the United States would submit to any indignities . As soon as they found that the American people were aroused and would light rather than submit any longer , they realized the wisdom of apologizing . There can be no doubt that the flag of the United States will hereafter command more respect in Chile and in all South American countries , whether it flies over a man-of-war or a merchantman . There is no question but that the peaceful settlement of the controversy was made possible largely by tile prompt and energetic way in which the navy prepared for war . As soon as the facts about the assault upon the crew of the Baltimore were known and appreciated in Washington the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States might have to be hacked up by a show of force , and he and his subordinates at once set about the necessary preparations . At that time the ships of the navy were largely in the North Atlantic , and many of mom were at the navy yards . They were at once Hurried to sea , and now , when the crisis of the controversy has been reached , practically the entire effective force of the navy is bearing directly upon Chile , ready for a rapid . concentration at any point in Chilean waters . Yet no large force of ships has been sent to any Chilean port , where the effect might have been to increase irritation and make the Chileans feel that they were being coerced by a display of force while diplomatic negotiations were still in progress . To supply this fleet , largo quantities of coal , ammunition , and pro ViSiW/A have been procured and snipped on both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans . A repair ship bus been chartered and her equipment commenced , and arrangements have ! seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The navy work in private shipyards has been hurried along and the time of completion of a number of ships has been appreeiabiy shortened by the haste . The same is true of the contractors for armor plates and armor-piereine projectiles . In the New-York and a or:elk Navy Yards the world ott the ships under construction has been pushed to the utmost , and in the ordnance shops or the Washington Navy Yard there has been no suspension of the work or turtling out gulls and . cast-iron projectiles tor the naval vessels approaching completion and for the proposed fleet of auxiliary cruisers as well . When the trouble began the navy did net own a single auto-mobilo torpedo . Now there is a small supply on hand , and in a short time a complete outfit for all the ships will be ready . Tile experience has been a very valuable one for the navy . It has tested its ability to prepare for actual war and has brought to light many weak points . It has also demonatrated to the country the fact that , when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has afforded a strong argument for continuing the present policy of naval construction , for , if the united States has only thus far reached that stage where she eau compel the respect of a comparatively small nation like Chile . It is apparent that there is much yerre be done before she could contend on equal terms with even a second-rate naval power . , /t is true that , if the guns and other equipments are kept in stook , a small number of cruisers and torpedo vessels could be extemporized out of merchant steamers and fast packets , but battle ships and armor-clad coastdefense vessels can not be extemporized in this way . It takes years to build them , and they are really the most important part of a naval force . There was another meeting of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations to-day . Yesterday , before tho committee canoluded its session , it received word from the President that a dispatch had boon received from Santiago , which had not yet been translated . It was suggested that no notion be taken on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made known . To-day the committee was notified of Chile 's apology . There was a report In circulation this afternoon to the effect that , in answer to an inquiry by the committee , the President had informed . it that he received a dispatch from Chile Just before submitting his message to Congress Monday , but made no reference to it because it had not been translated . A member of the committee said this evening that it was absolutely untrue . It probably had its origin in the fact that the President communicated With the committee yesterday in relation to the latest Santiago cablegram . The Committee on Foreign Relations appears to be out of a job at present . so far as the Chilean ease is concerned , and the President again has it in his hands . It is expected that he will send another message to Congress embodying the latest facts in a day or two . Private Secretary Raiford said to-night that the additional correspondence between the United States and Chile would be sent to Congress to-morrow . It will be comparatively brief and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House to-day Mr. Martin of Indiana offered a resolution calling on the President to transmit to the House all correspondence had by him , by the Secretary of State , by the Secretary of War , by the Secretary of the Navy , by the United States Minister to Chile , and by all other public officials of the United States , including officers of the United States Navy , with each other and with any public ) officials of Chile upon matters concerning the Republic of Chile during the Balmaceda regime and since the overthrow of that regime as to all matters of public affairs of both the United States and Chile growing out of or connected with the existence , beginning , and overthrow of the Balmacedan regime and the establishment and continuance of the present Governnment of Chile . It was referred to the Committee on Foreign Airairs.                     