@@674686

txt Surgeon General Wyman has received a dark report from Havana to show the conditions in that city . during the week . There were 609 deaths in the city and in Regla , a suburb on the harbor . Inspector Brunner , who makes the report , tells the Surgeon General . that 10-per cent . of the deaths were not reported . The American Inspector says that nearly half of the 105 deaths charged to enteritis were from " starvation , pure and simple . " The official report shows six deaths from starvaaion . Inspector Brunner reports : " The sanitary conditions of the City of Havana continue to grow worse , and the death rate.is again increasing rapidly . " It may be said that there is absolutely no attention paid to sanitation , and the entire disregard of personal cleanliness becomes more apparent every day . " The supply of fresh meat is again short , the fleet of vessels engaged in the trade between Florida and this port being unable to continue the business on account of the heavy storms which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days , these vessels being small steamers schooners , and barges . The only cattle brought here during the period mentioned were from Texas and Mexico , and less than 1,0()0 head were brought , when the supply should have been . 3,000 . All foodstuffs are now beyond the reach of the poor , and this condition of affairs is demonstrated in the mortality table in this , report , although the number of deaths from starvation as stated there is but one-tenth of the actual number of deaths occurring from this cause . " I believe it to be my duty to state at this time that if this condition of affairs continues to exist during the coming Winter and , Spring , this city will become a great menace to the health of the United States . The people . as a whole , now present every ' evidence of bad physical conditions . The anaemic condition or the children is startling , and their abject indifference to their bad sanitary environments doubly insures their mortality . I estimate that there are about 300 cases of yellow fever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from that cause during the week , and but two of that number occurred among the civilians ; the others were in military hospitals . The deaths from enteric , malarial , and the so-called pernicious fevers show a marked increase over the preceding week . " There were two deaths from smallpox both of these deaths occurring among natives . The deaths from intestinal diseases are about one-third of the total deaths , but nearly half of those occurring from enteritis are from starvation . " Your attention is invited to the total deaths and annual ratio per 1,000 . I would also state that this total iS only approximately covered . I believe I. now get about 90 per cent . of the occurring deaths . " The deaths are at an annual ratio of 158 per 1,000 of population . That is about seven times greater than the ratio in most American cities . "                     