@@781501

txt ? The present sent by Emperor WILLIAM , through Gen. vox AHNK E , to Queen Wit , - HELMIN A of Holland on the occasion of her confirmation , is a cross made of seven chrysolites , surrounded by brilliants , and modeled after an ancient Netherlands cross in the Berlin Museum . ? Manchester College , the new haven of Nonconformity at Oxford , is fast acquiring an aesthetic notoriety which will probably make it toward the middle of the twentieth century the Mecca of many earnest pilgrims . All the main windows of its little chapel except two are filled with stained glass . executed by WILLIAM Mortals from designs by BURNS-JONES . ? It is stated as " a curious fact " that the languages used by the Czar and Czarina , in their private intercourse are English and German , French and Italian being but seldom spoken by their Majesties when alone . The Czarina did not learn Russian till after her betrothal , but though she as yet speaks it very slowly , it is with a good accent and great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London fifty-four years ago , he expressed indignant surprise that British patriotism , more generous in words than in cash , had left the Nelson Monument , in Trafalgar Square , only half built . He showed the sincerity of his admiration for the hero  --  or of his desire to reprove his English hosts  --  by contributing from his subjects ' pockets enough money to complete the monument .  --  WILLIAM POTTER , who has just been elected President of the Jefferson Medical College and Hospital , at Philadelphia , was United States Ambassador to Italy during a part of the Harrison Administration . He was born in 1852 , was educated at the University of Pennsylvania and aoroad , and for the eighteen years before 1892 was his father 's partner in a large manufacturing business at Philadelphia . He has long been prominent in Republican politics . ? in the last of his renorted speeches , made on election night , RICHARD MANSFIELD told his deeply interested audience that , being an actor , he neither knew nor cared anything about politics , but he did hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display of anxiety about mundane affairs Mr. MANSFIELD proceeded to explain by stating that , though artists like himself lived mostly in a region of dreams , yet , occasionally they had to get down among other men and look about for something to eat . On such occasions he liked to find the necessary food without too much trouble or exertion . ? New proof of the dangers incidental to giving to unworthy candidates nominations that seem to carry with them no chance of success has just been given in Massachusetts , where a colored politician was rewarded by the Republicans , for services of questionable propriety by what they thought was the empty honor of a nomination for the Executive Council . Now the man has been carried into office on the " landslide , " and the people who thought they were only pretended to support him find that a Councilor whose reputation is quite as swarthy as his skin will sit in an honorable place to which he would never have been elevated intentionally . - Miss CLARA EVANS and a mouse , the one a teacher in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same building , collided while traversing their respective orbits , one day this week , and so startling were the noises which ensued that a panic among the children present was the result . They rushed for the door and down stairs in wildest terror , and a citizen who saw them emerge tumultuously into the street profnptly turned in an alarm of fire from the nearest oox . When the engines arrived the entire neighborhood was filled with excitement and mothers ; but finally Miss Eva.Ns managed to explain most of the trouble and in the end it was decided that nobody had been hurt or was likely to be . So rejoiced were the assembled taxpayers at this that not for several hours afterward did it occur to them that to call out the fire engines entails on the city an espense amounting to about $100.                     