@@673467

txt The gossips here have already begun to speculate regarding the next selection to be made by tfie President for the vacancy on the Supreme Court bench . Having had full knowledge of the coalition between Senators Chandler and Hill , the public was not unprepared for the news of Mr. Peckham 's rejection . The absorbing question now is whether the President will proceed on the line he has adhered to thus far , and name some prominent New-York anti-machine Democrat for the position , or follow the advice which is being freely offered him , and select some one who has not been opposed to Mr. Hill in past political campaigns . The President has given no indicaitions of his intentions , but there does not appear to be any probability that he will depart from his usual course of selecting one whom he thinks to be fitted for the place , regardless of his former relations with Mr. Hill . As indicated in these dispatches last night , some of the Senators have decided to press the name of Senator Gray . It is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendered him , and Mr. Hill and others who opposed Messrs . Hornblower and Peckham say without hesitation that if Mr. Gray 's name should be sent to the Senate confirmation would follow without delay . Some men Who would be pleased to see Mr. Gray receive the honor have been identified with Hill and Chandler in their crusade against Messrs . Hornblower and Peckham , and for this reason it is not likely that their recommendations will carry much weight . Mr. Cleveland is understood to have expressed the opinion that Mr. Gray could not be spared from the Senate , where his services have thus far been of great benefit to the Administration . The members of the New-York delegation have determined to use their influence in behalf of several prominent New-York jurists , whose names have already been mentioned in connection with the vacancy . Gen. Tracey of Albany went to the White House to-day and put in a good word for Judge D. Cady Herrick of Albany . Already a number of telegrams have been received by the members of the delegation urging that the President be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioned regarding his probable action in case of the nomination of Judge Herrick , but refuses to commit himself . Senator Murphy , it is said , on what seems to be good authority , would not antagonize Judge Herrick if his name were sent to the Senate . It has been said by Democrats who are acquainted with the political situation in Albany County , that neither Hill nor Murphy would feel very much disappointed if Judge Herrick were given this place . He has been a thorn in the side of the State machine for many years , and his removal from Albany County might enable them to secure ' the control there which he has succeeded in retaining thus Tarim is understood that Mr. Cleveland . bcprdall that Gen. Tracey ha &; to say in behalf of judge Herrick , but gave no indication of his intention . Members of the Brooklyn delegation would like to see Judge Edgar M. Cullen of Brooklyn receive the nomination , and it is expected that on Monday his name will be formally presented to the President . Mr. Cleveland will also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends say that he would make an exceptionally strong candidate , because of his freedom from factional entanglements and his wellknown attainments . It is expected that a week or more will elapse before Mr. Cleveland sends in another nomination . After the rejection of Mr. Hornblower the opinion was entertained by many that Mr. Cleveland would go outside of New-York State for a candidate . In view of his selection of Mr. Peckham . it now seems to be taken for granted that his choice will again fall upon a New-York man .                     