@@674834

txt Now that the Santiago expeditimiary force under Gen. Shatter is on its way to co-operate with Admiral Sa121133311 in the reduction of that city and the capture of the Spanish ships in its harbor , the energies of the War Department are expected to be directed toward preparations for the invasion of Puerto Rico . ' While these preparations will be pushed forward as expeditiously as possible , there ae no reason to believe that any extraordinary haste will be resorted to . The volunteers at Jacksonville and Tampa , who are expected to form part of the army of invasion for Puerto Rico , are not in condition to be sent to that island , and it will take a little time to put them in shape . It is true that the progress made at Jacksonville , where Gen. Fitzhugh Lee is in command , has been much more satisfactory than at some of the other camps . Already clothing for 7,500 men has been delivered there , and owing to the abundant railroad faCilities no such congestion and confusion as occurred at Tampa in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been encountered . This encourages the hope that the volunteers there will be made ready for the invading campaign in less time than was required at Tampa and is being taken at Chickamauga . Regulars for Puerto Rico . No one supposes that the Puerto Rican army will be made up entirely of volunteers , and as Gen. Shatter he s taken with him to Cuba practically all the regulars , it will be necessary for the move on Puerto Rico to be deferred at least until Santiago has fallen and some of the regular troops now with that expedition can be withdrawn and combined with a detail of volunteers for investment of San Juan . The War Department preparations all point to the one . operation following upon the other . That this can be done speedily is not doubted . The capture of Santiago is looked upon as likely to require very few days , and after the city has fallen , a comparatively small force will be required , in co-operation with the insurgents , to take possession of the entire province . When that is done several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puerto Rican force . - The same transports that are bearing the Fifth Army Corps to Santiago will have to be used for the movement against Puerto Rico , supplemented by the additional ships that have been ordered to Fernandina There are seven of these  --  the Gate City , City of Macon Comanche , - Knickerbocker , Louisiana , Catania , and Arkadia . These ships , it is expected , will take on volunteers from Gen. Lee 's Seventh Corps , now at Jacksonville . while the transports that are to take the regulars from Santiago to San Juan may remain off the south Cuban coast until their services are needed . There s no disposition on the part of the Administration to underestimate the strength of the eeemy in Puerto Rico , in spite of the assurances of the newspaper strategists that it is inconsequential . Lieut . Whitney i.e said to have reported the Spanish strength in the island as small , but it is recognized by the . War Board , if its general attitude may be taken as meaning anything , that it will not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Insure a Quick Campaign . It is remembered that Admiral Sampson found that the reduction of the forts and batteries of San Juan was no child 's play , and that he succeeded in doing little damage to them in three hours of bombarding . It is reasoned , too , that there may be more Spanish troops in the island than Lieut . Whitney saw . At any rate , the War Department feels that while it has the men it will be wise to send enough to Puerto Rico to meet and defeat twice as many Spaniards as are believed to be in the island . The larger the force the quicker , more decisive , and possibly the less bloody will be the work of capturing the place . For these reasons probably 12,000 or 15,000 men will be sent to the island . Gen. Fitzhugh Lee is expected to command a part of the Puerto Rican eapedidon , but this is not taken as eliminating him from the main Cuban campaign . There will be plenty of opportUnity for him to take the part he is anxious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign in the lesser island is over . The story that he is to be made Governor of Puerto Rico is discredited by its inappropriateness , The Navy Department has been advised of the purpose of the army and the War Board to-day was making arrangements for Supplying the convoying fleet for the expedition to Puerto Rico . This will be of a more formidable character than that which goes with the Santiago expedition , for the plans contemplate a joint attack upon the San Juan fortification by the army and navy , and the fortifications are so powerful that heavily , armored ships only can be sent against them at the beginning . There fore it is believed that Admiral Sampson 's battleships will head this fleet .                     