@@674332

txt Residents of Seattle and vicinity who , by reason of the floods and snow have been virtually prisoners in the fastnesses of the Cascade Mountains since Friday last , are coming In , some on gravel trains , some afoot , and others by boat . They tell harrowing tales of suffering , devastation , and destruction . The situation as described in the dispatches from day to day has not been exaggerated in the least , if , indeed , the fury and fierceness of the storm have been fully portrayed . There has been much suffering and , no doubt , many miners and prospectors in the Cascades have been either drowned or have met death from snowslides . Four prospectors , headed by Joseph Nicholson , operating a claim on the Snoqualmie Pass , arrived this afternoon . One of the men is a raving maniac by reason of the suffering and hardships endured in the effort to get out of the mountains . Saturday night , to prevent being swept down the mountains by snowslides , they lashed themselves to trees , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours . Meanwhile great boulders and huge sections of snow kept sliding down into the canons and gulches below . Trees were torn up by the roots and carried away by the avalanche , and the noise was horrifying . At daybreak on Sunday the prospectors tore away the lashings and began their perilous journey out of the mountains . They followed Gold Creek to Lake Keechsler , tramping through snow four and five feet deep , crossing small stream s on logs , finally finding their way to the point where the Northern Pacific Railroad crosses the cascades , and thence they proceeded down the railroad track to this city . Two Seattle business men were caught at Index Thursday . They were three days waking thirty-five miles to Snohomish , crossing the small streams by means of driftwood and the larger ones in rowboats . They report that the Great Northern westbound overland passenger train , with forty-one passengers , due here last Friday morning , is stalled between Wellington and Madison , owing to great washouts on both sides . When last heard from , twelve first-class passengers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dining car , while the day coach and second-class passengers , including twenty-four Chinese , managed to procure ' scant food supplies from Wellington . The gentleman giving this information says that there are ten washouts on the Great Northern , between Index and Sultan , a distance of fourteen miles ; that en . the upper falls of the Snohomish River two bridges are gone , together with 1,200 feet of track . When the flood was at its height the Great Northern Line between Monroe and Snohomish , a distance of seven miles , - was inundated to a depth of from six to fifteen feet . To-day 's advices , however , are to the effect that the waters of all the rivers have receded except at Snohomish . In the flats and bottoms water covered thousands of acres of rich farm land , leaving nothing but wreck and ruin behind , The Great Northern Road is making no attempt to run trains save on the coast line north to Stanwood . Large forces of men are now at work on the coast and main line , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sunday night , three minutes after the Northern Pacific passenger train from Portland had passed Ainslee , half a mile of track and roadbed near that place slid into the Cowlitz River . The Eastern mails , due here Saturday and Sunday , were received to-day , but there has been none from San Francisco and the South since last Friday night . The Northern Pacific , by transferring , is now running overland trains east from Tacoma , and is also making steamer connections from this city to Portland .                     