@@675376

txt New York City 's charter is to be amended , but not in the manner first suggested by the leaders of the Republican State organization . This decision was reached yesterday morning at the conference held between Gov . Roosevelt , Senator T. C. Platt , and Chairman Odell at the Fifth Avenue Hotel . The Governor urged that a bill be introduced early in the coming session cf the Legislature to empower him to appoint a commission to revise the charter . The Governor told the Senator that he wanted a commission composed of residents of Greater New York ; men whose characters were high , and whose knowledge of municipal government was thorough enough to insure a revision of the charter which would not bear the taint of partisanship . The Governor said he did not want men on the proposed commission who were members of the Legislature , or wh.o hold other public positions . He argued so strongly in favor of the plan that Senator Platt and Chairman Odell finally agreed to support a bill for this purpose . This means that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frame the bills to amend the charter , as was originally intended by Mr. Platt . This plan was to draft the amendments in accordance with the report to be made by the Mazet committee , as the result of the recently abandoned investigation into the conduct of the local departments . Gov . Roosevelt 's plan is that suggested by the Chamber of Commerce , which at its last meeting passed a resolution advocating it . It is not thought probable that the proposed Charter Commission will be able to make a report until 1901 , although it might recommend to the next Legislature some measures which may be deemed urgent . If the commission fails to make any reconimendations it is likely that the Republican organization will push a few bills to amend the charter in such cases as may be thought to admit of no delay . There will be no rush of charter amendment bills , however , according to Air . Odell and those Assemblymen-elect who have been drafting such measures will have their trouble for their pains , as if any of them persist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be permitted to come out of committee . After yesterday 's conference , which lasted nearly three hours , Gov . Roosevelt left the Fifth Avenue Hotel , while Senator Platt hurried to his down-town office . Neither would talk about the subjects which had been under discussion . The Governor contented himself with saying that many matters had been talked over , but excused himself from commenting on anything or saying what decisions had been reached . Chairman Odell was more . corrntlpugly , e , and told of what had taken place , or as much of it as he wished . " We agreed to the proposition to have the charter of New York City ' reviseerbY a commission to be named by the Governor , " said the Chairman . " No report is expected to be made to the Legislature during the coming session , but the results of the work of the commission to be appointed will be submitted to the Legs-azure , which will meet in 1901 , accompa/lied by such recommendations for legislation as the commission sees fit to make . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coming session , but only in cases of urgency . " One thing in which Gov . Roosevelt and Senator Platt are understood to be in complete harmony is the shortening of the term of the Mayor of New York from four to two years . Mr. Odell said there was no intention on the part of the Republican organization to interfere in any way with Mayor Van Wyck , and he will be permitted to serve out the term of four years , for which ne was elected and which will not expire until the end of 1901 . Another matter which was discussed at length was the question of the appointment of a Superintendent of Insurance in February next , when the term of Louis F. Payn , the present Superintendent , will expire . Mr. Odell declared that no decision had been reached , and added that he knew of no candidates for Mr. Payn 's place . This subject has demanded much attention . The Superintendent of Insurance receives his appointment from the Governor , by and with the advice and content of the Senate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and until his sued ssor is appointed and has qualified . It has been freely stated that if Gov . Roosevelt refuses to reappoint Payn , his nomination of a successor to him would be the signal for a contest in the Senate over the confirmation of the nominee , and it has been said that not sufficient votes could be obtained to confirm the nomination . Mr. Odell said that much time was spent in discussing the question of appointments . " The terms of a number of State officers and Commissioners will expire next year , " said he , " and the Governor is anxious to appoint the best men possible to every place . Our talk was general , but we reached no decision except that it was determined to appoint County Judge James , W. Houghton of Saratoga to fill the vacancy caused by the death of the late Justice John R. Putnam of the Supreme Court . " The Governor will soon be called upon to designate three or four Justices of the Supreme Court , to act as Associate Justices of the Court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted at the last general election . There are many rames heard in connection with these designations. in fact almost every Justice on the Supreme bench has been talked of as a candidate for a place in the higher court . At yesterday 's conference the merits of the various candidates were thoroughly gone over . but Mr. Odell said nothing had been decided . Gov . Roosevelt went to the Century Club for luncheon in company with Capt . F. Norton Goddard and Jacob Riis . He saw several persons during the afternoon at the home of Douglas Robinson . where he is staying while in the city . He said he had intended to return ao Albany to-day , but did not believe he would be able to leave here until to-morrow . The decision of the Republican leaders to leave the question of charter amendments to a commission , was received with satisfaction by those members of the Chamber of Commerce who heard of it . Charles Stewart Emith , who introduced the resolution at Thursday 's meeting , said : " I am absolutely in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature of 1901 . This work could not te properly done in less time than a year . The work should be done by residents of New York . As to how such a commission should be constituted I should say two first-class lawyers and five men thoroughly conversant with the mercantile , financial , and industrial needs and conditions in New York City . " Other members of the Chamber expressed themselves pleased with the proposed plan . They said that a commission , such as is proposed . would be able to handle the entire matter and that much trouble from individual bills would be avoided .                     