@@781771

txt There are howling , wailing , and gnashing of teeth in the second and fourth census districts of this State . By some means a very large proportion of the enumerators appointed are Democrats . It is not yet known by whose influence this result was brought about , and the denunciation of Madison Hawkins , Supervisor of this , the second , district is unmeasured . So far as heard from , the demoralization of the Republicans is simply immense , and it the same state of affairs exists in the three other districts , the condition ofthings from a Republiean.poMt of view will beg gat description . Hawkins is a Republican , and therefore no pledges in writing were exacted from him . Of W. E. Webb , Supervisor of the fourth district , who is a Democrat , pledge in writing was exacted to bind Wehb'to give the patronage to the Republicans . It has been developed in his district that nearly all the enumerators are Democrats , consequently a copy of the original agreement has come to light , and here it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supervisor of the Eleventh Census for the fourth district of North Carolina , that the Republicans of each county in my district shall have the patronage , and that I will lend my influence to that party . This Dec. 10 , When Webb was Chairman of the Board of County Commissioners he refused to engage in counting out Republican candidates who were elected . He is cashier in the private bank of CoL C. S. Winstead , ex-Republican Collector of Internal Revenue , who also desired Mr. Webb 's appointment . When it is understood that there Is not a Republican holding office in North Carolina under the Btate , ' County , or Municipal Government , the rage and . madness of the average Republican over the success of the Democrats in getting these small places may bewail imagined . The apathy , demoralization , and dejection in the party were bad enough before these appoint . meats were made . It is ten times worse now . THE THOMAS CONCERT . The most striking feature of the concert of last night at the Lenox Lyceum was , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flrat appearance as a soloist this was since his return from a course of study in Germany . It was his first appearance at these concerts , at least , in that professed capacity , although at the opening concert he took the obligato in Wagner 's " Dreams . " and at the second the solo violin part in the prelude to Saint-Safins 's " Deluge , " which is virtually a violin solo , and was recognized as such by the audience . Moszkowski 's concerto , of which Mr. Bendix played two movements , is an unfamiliar though not an entirely unknown work- to our audiences . The andante exhibits the new concert master of the Thomas orchestra at his best , since the solo part is a flowing cantabile which requires the broad and sympathetic tone , which is the highest achievement of the instrument . This movement Mr. Bendix gave with a masterly dignity and . power that were heartily recognized . The second movement , though not without intervals of musical beauty , is in the main ? a , vehicle for the exhibition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approve the fidelity with which the performer , during the period of his preparation , has pursued his practice . In proving that Mr. Bendix did about all of which the movement is capable , although gymnastics on the violin , like vocal gymnastics , are sure to be received with enthusiasm . Undoubtedly the new player , if he . may still be called so , is a decided accession to the ranks of our concert performers . Among the attractions of the purely orchestral programme were the Bach prelude , choral , and fugue , the Tannhauser overture , and Schubert 's charming " Divertissement a la , Hongroise . " To-night Grieg 's suite " Peer Gynt , " " Waidweben " and " Walkiirenritt " will be among the orchestral selections .                     