@@675164

txt The Amalgamated Copper Company is the biggest financial deal of the age . It places Standard Oil capital and Standard Oil brains in control of a very large portion of the world 's copper production . It has a management that repreaents , all told , fully $10,000,000,000 of capital , and in that management are some of the leading financiers of the world . Local financial circles knew late this after . neofi that the story was coming . It did not , however , reach Boston until late this evening . It came from New York through the Boston Financial News , which kept its office open and its force of employes on deck purposely to get out special , bulletins giving the details of the deal . Brokers ' offices all through State , Con-. congress , and Devonshire Streets were open and at almost every place customers and friends were plying the brokers with querries about the important news and its significance . It was a condition of affairs that has never been paralleled on State Street . Telephones were kept busy all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the close of business , and every scrap of information was eagerly devoured . The companies absorbed are understood to be the Anaconda , the Butte and Boston , the Boston and Montana , the Arcadian , and the Isle Royale  --  all Montana properties , except the last-named . Parrot is also possibly involved . CABLE CAR PASSENGERS BURT . Switch at Lexington Avenue and 104th Street Failed to Work . A south-bound open Lexington Avenue cable car , crowded with passengers , came to a sudden stop while running at a high rate of speed at One Hundred and Fourth Street and Lexington Avenue yesterday . Some passengers were flung from their seats . Two were painfully hurt . All the glass in the car was broken , and there was a paAic among the passengers , whose screams were heard at the East One Hundred and Fourth Street Police Station , two blocks away . The accident was due to the fact that the automatic switch between One Hundred and Fourth and One Hundred and Fifth Streets did not work properly , and the wheels of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lexington Avenue Road change at One Hundred and Fifth Street , above that street electricity being in use and below it cable power . One of the injured persons is Mrs. Ada Carlston , thirty years old , of 170 West Thirty-seventh Street , whose legs were bruised . The other is John Nagle , twenty-six years old , of 244 West Twenty-fifth Street . The conduct ? , of the car lost two teeth and his lips and face were badly cut . His head was forced through a pane of glass . The injured were treated by ambulance surgeons , and they were taken home . Every other passenger sustained minor bruises . A similar accident occurred at the same point on Wednesday evening , and a half hour 's delay followed .                     