@@674973

txt A man who gave his name as William B. Travis , otherwise known as Dalton , thirty-two years old , residence refused , was arraigned in the Centre Street Police Court yesterday and was remanded back to Police Headquarters until Tuesday at the request of Detective Sergeants Kerr and Fogarty . Travis was arrested Saturday at the Grand Central Station , just after he had alighted from a train which brought him back from Hartford , Conn. , where , it Is alleged , he had committed a. series of burglaries during the week . When the police here arrested " Big Bill " Mason , now committed to prison in Philadelphia and awaiting trial on the . charge of murder , " Big Bill " told Capt . McClusky that he owed his misfortunes to association with thieves in his leisure hours . He told Capt . McClusky that there was only one really . smart thief , a man whom he knew well , but who never associated with thieves , always working alone . This mysterious person , " Big Bill " asserted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Captain lost no time in trying to find out who this strange individual was . On looking through some of the memoranda found among Big Bill 's effects , he came across several addresses . One of these was that of a. place on Schermerhorn Street , Brooklyn . This house was diligently watched night and day by Detectives Kerr and Fogarty . The occupant of the house , who proved to be the prisoner , Travis , appeared at his home at intervals only . He was supposed by his neighbors to be a commercial trLveler . He lived with his wife and her mother . The detectives followed him on several occasions to this borough and found that he called upon his own mother and sister , who live in a respectable neighborhood above West Fifty-ninth Street . There seemed to be nothing amiss with the man 's conduct during the period of his visits to this locality . One day he was followed to Jersey City . He repaired to the best residence quarter of that town and looked over the houses there . The detectives were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were compelled to stop watching him for a while . The detectives followed him from his home in Brooklyn to the Grand Central Station ' Tuesday . They saw him buy a ticket for New Haven , Conn. , and followed him thither . They dogged his footSteps in New Haven-as long-its they-da3 ed4bilid then went to the railway station to await his return , but were forced to take the train for this city because the policemen in the New Haven station thought they were suspicious chat ; acters . On returning to New York the detectives waited in the Grand Central Station from Tuesday until Saturday , when they saw their man step off the train frOm New Haven . They arrested him at once and took from him a brace of pistols and some small tools of the kind used by burglars . A package he carried in his hands was seized . The prisoner was ready to resist , according to the detectives , but he could not get at either of his pistols . The package contained silverware valued at WOO . There were three dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and some sugar spoons  --  the proceeds of a burglary in Hartford the day before , as the police learned from the Chief of Police of that city . In the prisoner 's house , in Brooklyn , the police found a trunkful of silverware and other property of doubtful valu-e . They also found crucibles for melting gold and silver , and scales ? for weighing the same . His wife professed not to know the true character of her husband , and her mother gave up a diamond ring he had given her , when she learned the truth . Some of his booty was found in the house in this borough occupied by his mother and sister . The prisoner is a man of fine physique . His chest and bleep measurements are the largest ever taken under the Bertillon system.of measurements , at the Central Office . His strength was his principal reliance in getting into the houses he robbed , say the police , for his tools consisted only of a small jimmy , a. wedge , and a candle . He told Capt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have shot himself If he could have done so to avoid arrest . His plan , he said , was thoroughly to inspect the property he purposed to enter in the daytime , and then to break into it at night . He said he had never stolen anything in New York City , having always worked in the suburbs and smaller cities , and the police are inclined to believe him . The silverware stolen in Hartford bore the name of Sumner . Whether he will be tried here for bringing stolen booty into the city , or in Hartford , has not been settled .                     