@@781242

txt A most disastrous freight wreck occurred on the Central Hudson Railroad one land one-quarter miles east of Fairport , ten miles from this city , about midnight , piling the tracks of that road with demolished cars and engines . Shortly before midnight a train drawn by Engine No. 572 , standing on track No. 3 waiting for another west-bound train to take water , was run into by the Syracuse and Rochester local running between Dewitt and East Rochester , and drawn by Engine No. 571 . The head of the train of No. 072 was rounding a sharp curve , but the lights In the eabooan were In a position to be seen for a mile down the track . Engineer Woodford of the local train was seen at the wreck shortly after the trains came together . He stated that ho did not have any signals thrown out against his train , and that he did not see the lights on the train pulled by Engine No. 072 until It was tQo late to stop his train , He reversed his engine , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete wreck , having telescoped the caboose and nearly a , dozen freight cars loaded with valuable freight . Inthe caboose of the standing train were ' several of the crew , and their escape from instant death is miraculous . The members of the crew who were in the caboose of the forward train were spilled out Into the wreckage , which is scattered all over Tracks 1 , 2 , and 3 . The rear brakeman , named Mitchell , is severely injured , and like other members of the crew , badly bruised . Engineer Woodford was severely shocked by the collision , but not seriously Injured . The crew of the local train were mostly on deck when the crash came , and they were thrown from the train with great all directions . A carload of caskets consigned to Crane &; Breed , un-dertakers of Cincinnati , were nearly all demolished . The wreck caught fire from the lamps In the , eaboose , and several cars were de-stroyed before help arrived . The head brakeman ran to Fairport and notified the operator to telegraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wooden cross beams of she engine of the local was hunted away when help arrived . The front of the boiler was crushed . in , the smokestack was turd off , the hellhangers bent , the driving rods twisted like wire , the cylinder head blown out , and the machinery was all demolished . Railroad men say , the loss will reach $50,000 . It could not he ascertained who was to blame for the accident , but the engineer of the local  --  Will likely be called upon for an explanation .                     