@@674475

txt Quite a commotion was produced in the Senate at Albany yesterday by the announcement by the Lieutenant Governor of his appointment of the Committee of Five to investigate the management of the State Department of Public Buildings which had been authorized the day before by a resolution unanimously adopted . Only one Democrat was named on the committee , and his party associates in the Senate promptly called upon him to refuse to serve because neither he nor they had been consulted about the choice . Two Republicans declined to serve either because they had not been consulted or for some other reason , and a distressing incident was closed for the time by resuming the " regular order . " Really , this seems strange . To be sure , there have been serious charges made by Republicans against Superintendent EASTON for extravagance , with insinuations of corruption . It has been shown that it cost over $350,000 to take care of the public buildings last year . There was a tremendous amount of costly cleaning and repairing done , with bills that remind one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was an army of men employed about the Capitol , and the Superintendent 's pay roll was $10 , - 000 a month or so . That the force was unnecessary was shown by the fact that more than 100 men were discharged some weeks ago at the instance of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor , who constitute a majority of the Capitol Trustees , Speaker O'GRADY being the other . EASTON is said by Republicans to have been the tool of the party machine at Albany under the direction of one BARNES , the local boss , and to have employed men and given out jobs for the benefit of the machine and the boss aforesaid . It really looks like it , but he was reappointed to his place by the present Trustees after the year of extravagance which was exposed in a general way in the annual report of the Controller . At least , attention was directed to the extraordinary increase of the cost of taking care of the public buildings and the enormous dimensions of the Superintendent 's pay roll and repairs account . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and though it was brought in the other day by Mr. MULLIN after much prodding , it was the same resolution , but PAVEY was not asked to serve on the committee . Nobody was appointed upon it who was known to favor a searching inquiry , and there is a suspicion of whitewash about the whole business . There is every appearance of a scandalous waste of public funds , amounting to a corrupt use of official power for local party ends at the State capital , and it looks as though there was an effort to cover it up and not to expose it in the appointment of an investigating committee to report next Winter . Can these things be hid ?                     