@@781648

txt Eternal vigilance is the price of keeping nuisances out of the Central Park . We all supposed that that monstrous scheme for making a straightaway speeding track in that pleasure ' ground was finally killed some years ago , when it was strongly opposed by everybody who had not a selfish interest in pushing it . It seems , however , that it has been revived again and is in a threatening condition of vitality . There is no need of reciting the overwhelming argument against the admission of such a feature into the Park . All the same , there is reason why there should be an easily accessible speeding track . The sooner the notion of ruining the Park far it is abandoned the sooner the need is likely to be answered . The " trotting men " themselves are a numerous , wealthy , and public-spirited body , and . if they made a feasible proposition the city could and should endeavor to meet their views . The speeding track should , of course , be where everybody who wishes to see the speeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon those who wish to avoid it . There is ground enough to be had for the purpose on this side of the Harlem River , or possibly along the southern shore of that useless stream . At any rate the first step toward securing a proper speeding track is the understanding all round that an improper speeding track at the expense of the Central Park will not be tolerated . The address of Mr. GEORGE Wu-1w ' CURTIS upon Jamas RUSSELL Lowita.a. will be found in full upon the ninth page of THE TIMES this morning . It is a fitting tribute to the memory of a citizen whose name is not unworthy to be associated with that of WASHINGTON , and no one could more appropriately offer it than Mr. CUIZTIS . The comic element in the make-np of Mr. Hiaa- 's list of delegates at large is the presence of the name of Mr- CECAPIN at the tail of it as an alternate . It may not be known to all of our readers that Mr. CHAPIN was for two terms HLCI ? MCLAUGELIN95 Mayor of Brooklyn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination as Governor , and that he is now a member of Congress . In the two first-named roles he was a conspicuous failure ; in the last he has , so far , been wholly unheard of . We suppose that he fairly represents the degree of available respectability at the disposal of the Hill machine in Kings County . But it is a little harsh on Mr. Mcl , .. kuonia , who has toyed so often with Mr. CTI4Pnses ambition , to put him now in still another post , destitute alike of profit and of honor . It was a perfectly characteristic piece of impudent unveracity for Gen. Sacimas to declare , at the opening of the Hill convention yesterday , that Hu.a .. had . had the aid . of the highest court in securing the control of the Legislature for his party . It is hardly to be supposed that Gen. Sicirfacs is so enfeebled in mind as not to know the facts in this case , and that they are diametrically opposed to his statement . Hui , captured the control of the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as shown by ' Judge CuLLm ' , by means of a conspiracy fraudulently to - withhold from the Board of State Canvassers documents that would have compelled the board to withhold its certificate from OSBoitlaE , the Democrat in the Fifteenth District , whosevotegave the majority to his party . It adds to the shamelessdeleted 8 lines lish a reformatory for women for the special benefit of the Counties of New-York and Kings . We have already explained in some detail the purpose of the - bill , which , . is more than good  --  it is practically indispensable . The principle of the institution is not in any sense untried . Its soundness and its complete efficacy have been amply tested by experience . The bill has been very carefully drawn with reference to economy , simplicity , and effectiveness , and we can assure . the committee without qualification that it has the earnest support of those best able to judge of its merit in this city . Not even one of Mr. Mac W. BLAIR 'S fourteen-day speeches ' on " My Education bill " in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blatherskite takes himself than his letter announcing himself a candidate for the Republican nomination for the Presidency . The letter is addressed to the Chairman of the Republican State Committee of New-Hampshire , and is practically a solicitation to be placed . in the position of New-Hampshire 's favorite son . The State will probably think more than twice before complying with the immodest ? quest . However , it is impossible for anybody except Mr. BLAIR to regard his aspirations seriously , and this letter may be welcomed as affording the relief of a momentary ludicrous emotion . Beyond this , there can be no effect deserving consideration . But we confess to a lingering curiosity to learn the names of the " men from another part of the country , who will be members of the next convention , " who have flattered Mr. BLAIR to the point of writing the letter . If known , they would take high rank among the audacious Practical jokers of the laud.                     