@@781326

txt At 9 o'clock this morning Emperor William boarded the imperial yacht Hohenzollern and started for Friedriohsport to meet the Czar . The Hohenzollern was escorted by a dispatch boat and another yacht . Upon leaving the roadstead , the imperial yacht and her escort were saluted by the war ships in the harbor . The yards of the vessels were manned and the Russian colors were hoisted . An hour later the Hohenzollen returned in company with the Russian imperial yacht Polar Star , on board of which was the Czar . Following closely in the wake of the imperial yachts came the Russian war ships Tsarevna and Admiral Korniloff , The Russian imperial fleet was loudly cheered upon entering the roadstead by the crews of the German war-ships and merchantmen lying there , and salutes from the War ships were fired in honor of the imperial visitor . At 10:30 o'olook the Emperor and Czar landed and proceeded to the Barbarossa Bridge , where was stationed a guard of honor , which saluted their Majesties Thence they drove to the castle . Here they were received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Naval Battalion , which was drawn up in the castle yard . The arrival of the Russian imperial vessels at Kiel was favored by perfect weather , not a cloud being visible . Besides the merchantmen which were lying in the harbor , twenty-five German men-of-war were at anchor there , and every vessel was gayly dressed with those . When the Polar Star , flying the German military flag at the foretop , passed the fleet she was greeted with a chorus of deafening cheers , the sailors manned the yards , and the German band played the Russian national anthem , while the band on the Polar Star played " Heil Der im Siegerkranz . " The Polar Star came to anchor opposite the castle , between the Hohenzollern and the German ironclad Beowulf. which Is commanded by Prince Henry of Prussia , the Emperor 's brother . Before coming ashore , the Czar , attired in the uniform of the German Alexander Regiment , visited the Hohenzollern . He was met at the gangway of the yacht by the Emperor , who wore the uniform of the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kissed each other three times . Then they descended to the Emperor 's stateroom , where they conversed for twenty minutes . The Czar then returned to the Polar Star . on board of which he was shortly rejoined by the Emperor . After another cordial iutervie-w their Majesties landed and proceeded to the castle . This afternoon , Emperor William , the Czar , the Czarowitch , and Prince Henry of Prussia were conveyed in a state launch to the German flagship Baden , and afterward proceeded to Holtenau to inspect the Baltio Sea Canal works . On returning to Kiel at 4:30 P. M. the party boarded the German war ship Beowulf . The Czar returned to his yacht at 5:30 P. M. , and Emperor William returned to the Hohenzollern . A banquet was given at the castle in toe evening , at which the two Emperors toasted each other 's health . At a luncheon given earlier in the day the Czar sat on the right and the Czarowitch on the left of Emperor William . All present conversed with animation , and the usual toasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9:30 o'clock this evening . As the Russian imperial yacht left the harbor the German war ships anchored in the vicinity Tired salvos and threw their search lights over the Polar Star . During the meeting between the two rulers , Emperor William appointed the Czar a German Admiral , and in return for this honor the Czar bestowed the insignia of the Order of the White Eagle on Baron Marsohall von Biberstein , the German Imperial Minister of Foreign Affairs .                     