@@673604

txt Strikers were less conspicuous on the streets today than heretofore , The people feel that the soldiers have had their feelings aroused by the stirring incidents of yesterday , and that they are not to be trifled with . The crowd of spectators around the picket line that bounds the station is very small , and the sentries are treated with mar ; zed courtesy . The railway officials intend to send the delayed overland trains to San Francisco as soon as the track at the scene of yesterday 's derailment is reco- .. structe ? . The scldiers declare that Col. Graham will not send another guard with the train until he has been reliably informed that the track has been inspezted . Col. Graham called upon the First Regiment of the National Guard , Col. Sullivan , this morning to co-operate with the regulars and citizen soldiery now doing duty at the station . The body of Private Dugan , who died last night from injuries received in the railroad wreck , was removed from the station to the pier this morning for transportation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive one . It consisted of a guard of non-commissioned officers and Battery L of the Fifth Artillery . The coffin was borne on a Gatling gun carriage . Officers of the regular army - have spoken In flattering terms of Privates ? ickel and Fifer for their heroic efforts to save Private Clark after - the latter was thrown into the slough . Both men extricated themselves from the wreck with considerable difficulty , and , although bleeding from many wounds , they jumped into the slough and almost drowned while trying to rescue their comrade . The concealed tools with which the rails were loosened from the track of the Southern Pacific Railway , and which caused the wreck , have been found . It is known to whom the tools belong . The locomotive laid to-day in the slough by the side of the broken bridge , with three of the cars of the train . Under the wreck , in the ooze and stagnant water , are the bodies of the engineer who held the throttle and the three privates . Two men have been arrested on suspicion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was on the train , saw the men just before the train left the track and pointed them out to the officers . The men arrested ? H. E. Bodner and William Burl  --  are both prominent members of the American Railway Union . A. W. Greenlaw , one of the men who threatened Marshal Baldwin , was also arrested . A. P. Warden , who was a delegate to the National Convention of the American Railway Union at Chicago , just before the strike was ordered , was later taken into custody . He is the most important prisoner of the four . He is charged with murder , in addition to the charge of obstructing the mails and conspiracy that was entered against the others . The State will probably charge Warden with train wrecking , which is punishable by death . Marshal . Baldwin late last night issued an order to search places known to have been frequented by strikers and to confiscate whatever weapons were found . Two of I Stockton 's companies of militia were ordered out and marched from the camp at ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the companies was halted on the sidewalk in front and the other placed so that it would be impossible for any one carrying a large weapon , such as a rifle or shotgun , to pass undetected through the lines . Then a detail of men was sent inside to examine the rooms . Weapons and ammunition were found in nearly every room . Altogether thirty-seven rifles were taken . Besides these , there were shotguns , sabres , over a thousand rounds of cartridges , mostly for use in pistols , and a number of revolvers . The gi eatest find , however , was seven jute sacks , each half filled with slugs about an inch in diameter . At the camp several officers of the First Regiment said they had been informed that the strikers had a cannon secreted , which they intended loading with slugs and the meet the troops with charges of eqnister.                     