@@672496

txt The indications are that Judge A. C. Haskell , a straight-out Democrat , will be a candidate in South Carolina , for Governor against Tillman , the nominee of the Demoorat# Convention , and that he will have the support of the Republican Party . Some infOrnial ? prepositions Contemplating ' taking a Gubernatorial iiandidatfief him were submitted to Judge Haskell a while ago , but no answer to thud came from the Judge until Tuesday of this week , When he declared his intention not to vote for Tillman , and that it was his opinion that a Democratic tioket should be run against him . As to his own nomination , the Judge says : " I oaainet seek or accept a nomination by the Republican Party , for I am not a Republican ; no more could I accept a nomination by the Tillman party , because its platform is anti-Democredo , as is the Republican platform . Referring to Chairman " Talbert , who presided over the State Conventions in August and September , he says : " The press denounces and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oppressive rulings of ilia Speaker of the House of Representatives in Congress , and perhaps properly . Speaker Reed 's rulings are but as child 's play compared with the expulsion of delegations and the passing of resolutions by this Demooratio Convention . " Speaking of the direct issue , he says : " We feel no assurance that the Tillman Government , an unrestrained , powerful minority , will be other than reckless and oppressive in as execution as in its incipiency . I-therefore ' imequivocally advocate an opposition ticket to organize a minority , if it can do no more , but to control the Government if possible . With this Democratic ticket in the field we should ask the support and maintain the rights of colored voters as we did in 1876 . " The farmers of Connecticut are not friendly to Lyman S. Catlin , the Republican candidate for Controller . Their dislike of him is based upon his action as a State Senator in Voting to sustain Gov . Billkeley 's veto of the Oleo bill . The NewEngland Homestead calls upon the Connecticut farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may understand that they may not " stab the farmer and then get his vote . " Czar Reed 's " What is reciprocity I " was as a mosquito sting to a tarantula bite when compared with the latest insult put upon Blaine , which consists Ma charge of plagiarism , brought by Gov . Dave Hill . The Governor says that Blaine is not the discoverer of the reciprooity idea . but that he stole it out of Hill 's speech before the Pan-American Congress . The latest news from the Second Arkansas District is that the coming Republican Convention will be forced hy the leaders of the party to indorse Langley and to recommend continuance of suPport to him upon the part of Republioan voters , in spite of his declaration that he thanked God that the Bayonet bill did not become a law . Itis suggested that the Democrats left in the House , that is to say those that have not been unseated , might with propriety hold a meeting for praise and thanksgiving immediately on the adjournment of Congress . Surely the Demoorat who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , if only as a looker-on , has much to be thanafal for . Col. Dow , who has just been appointed Collector of the port of Portland , Me. , is the proprietor and editor of the Portland Express , the Republican paper which , during the recent campaign in Maine , did not publish a line , nor even a word , which could be possiby construed into an expression of friendliness for Reed or of a wish for his election . While Mr. Blaine has been stirring up motions in his party with his reciprocity talks and letters , what has become of his " vigorous foreign policy " I There has not been a rumor of war with England for over two months . Senator Eustis of Louisiana , whose term expires in March , is developing considerable strength as a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Congress in the Second District of his State . Of the ticket made Up by the Democratic State Convention of Colorado the Rocky Mountain News says : " It is a clean ticket from top to bottom . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not far from Cork , with its round tower and remains of a cathedral now turned into a Protestant church , was lately the scene of a function rather seldom witnessed in Ireland . A recumbent statue of Bishop Berkeley by A. Bruce Joy was unveiled Sept. 17 by a descendant of the philosopher , whose years of greatest vigor are identified with America . Berkeley was educated in his native town of Kilorin , Kilkenny , along with Jonathan Swift , and was at Trinity College , Dublin , at the same time with that great wit . Marrying in 1728 , Dean Berkeley sailed for America and passed many years at a farmhouse a few miles from Newport , I. , where " Berkeley 's Rock , " a bold and picturesque hill , bears his name to this day . He was wont to lie in the shallow Dave under the edge of this rock looking out to sea across what is known at Newport as the Second Beach . Here lie composed same of his most subtle theories in philosophy . When he returned to Ireland to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ to Yale College , also a portrait of himself and his family . Mr. Joy 's statue shows this famous speculator on things metaphysical recumbent and clad in his episcopal robes . It will add a fine piece of sculpture to an array of memorials which are odd rather than beautiful , when they are not positively grotesque . There are two spots in America where a statue to Bishop Berkeley would be highly proper , one is Newport , the other the campus of Yale . Among Germane who paint portraits none is as famous as Franz von Lenbach . He has taken the likenesses 0 so many distinguished men and crowned heads that the public will be curious to see a specimen of his work . Mr. William Sahaus has imported his portrait of Prince Bismarck and will exhibit it at the little International Art Gallery which he has opened on Fifth Avenue , oppoeite the Windsor Hotel . An art school has been opened in Norwich , Conn. , in connection with the Slater Museum and the Free Academy . It has for Directress Miss Irene Weir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has been Superintendent of Drawing at the public schools of New-Haven and Is a graduate of the Art School at Yale University . The fair at Portland , Oregon , has a fine art section containing sixty paintings , of which Clement 's " Ciroassienne au Harem " is the costliest . " In October , " by the French landscapist Pelouse , and several paintings by German , Dutch , and Hungarian artists are of the number . A portrait of Benjamin H. Bristow , formerly Attorney General , has been painted by Robert Gordon Hardie at Brattleborough , Vt . This is for the Bristow family in New-York . Another portrait for this city is that of Prof. Eli Charlier , the ' head of the well-known school for boys , painted by the same artist . The Utica papers report that some vandal has been disfiguring the monument to Baron Steuben in Oneida County . The Oneida Historical Society has appointed a committee to investigate .                     