@@674948

txt The correspondent of The Associated Press has had an interview with Aguinaldo , who said there were 67,000 insurgents armed with rifles . He added he could raise 100,000 men . Indeed , the insurgent leader said the whole population of the Philippine Islands was willing to fight for its independence . Continuing , Aguinaldo said he had 9,000 military prisoners , including 5,000 in the vIcini , y of Manila , besides civil prisoners . Later Aguinaldo said the " Provincial Government " was now operating twenty-eight provinces . He asserted that on Aug. 2 they elected delegates in numbers proportionate to the population . As to the Americans , Aguinaldo remarked that he considered them as brothers , and that " the two sovereign republics were allied against a common enemy . " When questioned as to whether the future Filipino policy would be absolute independence , Aguinaldo excused himself from replying , and asked what America intended to do . The correspondent being unable to answer this question Aguinaldo continued : " We have been fighting for independence for a long time . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is merely a ruse to ascertain American views . " Asked if the Filipinos would object to the retention of Manila , Aguinaldo declined to answer . " Would the Filipinos object to America retaining a coaling station if recognizing the Independence of the islands or establishing a temporary protectorate over them ? " was asked . Aguinaldo again declined to answer . Pending the conclusion of the assembly , Aguinaldo said he was confident there would be no trouble between America and the Filipinos . The insurgent leader denied having received a request from Gen. Otis and Rear Admiral Dewey to withdraw his troops to a prescribed distance from Manila and Cavite , and he declined to discuss the effect of such a request . Aguinaldo further asserted that he had never conferred with the American authorities since the capitulation of Manila , and that he had never authorized the insurgents to search or disarm Americans crossing the lines . The correspondent closely questioned him about ast Saturday 's incident , when the Pennsylvania troops proceeded to establish a new outpost . The Filipinos objected , and nearly precipitated hostilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They issued ammunition and intercepted the American reinforcements . Finally Gen. Hale ordered all the Pennsylvanians to advance , and the rebels withdrew . The local Governor has explained that the incident was a complete mistake , and has repudiated his subordinate 's action . Aguinaldo declared to this correspondent that the Filipino who made the trouble merely pretended to be an officer , and was not connected with the insurgent army . Aguinaldo complained that the Spaniards were " disseminating false reports for the purpose of fomenting antagonism between the Filipinos and the Americans . " The whole interview conveyed the impression that Aguinaldo desires absolute independence , regards the mission of the Americans here as accomplished , and expects their withdrawal , just as the French , with Lrfayette , withdrew after helping the Americans in the war of independence , a war of humanity . "                     