@@674868

txt We . are in no such desperate haste for the capture of Santiago de Cuba that we need sacrifice the life of a single soldier by a premature assault . It was not the town , but CERVERA 'S fleet , that called our ships and troops to that point . We invested the town as a necessary preliminary to the capture or destruction of a fleet that had shut itself up in a mined and fortified harbor . The moment the Spanish Admiral in desperation delivered his fleet to destruction and himself into our hands , the entire aspect of the campaign was changed . We can not , indeed , retire from the positions we occupy around Santiago . That would look like a reverse , would Interrupt the sequence of our triumphs , and would deprive the people and the Government of Spain of their last trace of common sense . Moreover , we must destroy the army that holds Santiago in order to put it out of the power of BLANCO to give us any annoyance in the rear when we make ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not need to take Santiago to-day or to-morrow , or until we are fully ready to crush the Spaniards utterly and promptly with an overwhelming force . For such a work of expeditious destruction Gen. SHAFTER needs siege guns and more troops . The American people perfectly well understand now that Ssfairrzu was inadequately equipped for the assault upon the Spanish outer line of defenses , and they know that the terrible responsibility for the needless sacrifice of the lives of so many of our brave officers and men rests with the grossly unfit and incompetent being whom President Mclansfamr in a mindless moment made Secretary of War . The guns that lay upon the beach where they were landed because the slothful War Department had made no provision for getting them to the front , and the other guns that were left at Tampa , with the mounts of the cavalrymen , because no transport ships had been procured. , would have wonderfully facilitated the assault on the Spanish blockhouses and intrenchmeats , and many a brave fellow who now sleeps in Cuban soil would . live to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reassurance to know that the blame for all this rests not upon our professional soldiers but upon their civilian superior The arrival of PANDO with reinforcements naturally strengthens Gen. Li ( CARES in his intention and his capacity to resist to the last . There is no escap ' ing the conclusion that PANDO 'S success in joining LINARES was due to the inefficiency of Gen. GARCIA and his Cubans . It is now the opinion of both Gen. SHAFTER and . Gen. Lawrox that if serious work is to be done at Santiago it must he intrusted to our own troops . Meanwhile the situation will grow more terrible in Santiago with every day that we devote to preparation for the final assault . There is an abundance of rice In the city , and very little else eatable . But the Spaniards can fight on a rice diet . If the bombardment is deferred un ' til reinforcements of troops and batteries reach Gen. SHAFTER , he will be able to subject the city to a fire that will destroy it and everything in it at a minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better than SAMPSON himself whether It is practicable and worth while to force an entrance to the harbor in order to bring the guns of his fleet to bear on the city . Manifestly , It will be desirable to destroy the shore batteries of the inner harbor before our men attempt to enter the city . The requisites just now are for the attacking force full                     