@@674065

txt Set-10r Dupuy de Lome , Spanish Minister , late this afternoon received a cablegram from the Duke ' of Tetuan , Minister of Foreign Affairs at Madrid , saying that " the official news from Cuba and the state of insurrection are as satisfactory as I telegraphed you this morning . . " Independently . of the military action , the Government has authorized Martinez Campos to resign his command to Gen. Marin and return to Spain , in consequence of the conduct of the political parties of Cuba , contrary to the policy of the Commander in Chief , asking a change in the system of conducting the war . " Senor Dupuy de Lame does not think that the change in commanders at this juncture will have any injurious effect on the campaign , or that any radical change in the conduct of operations will take place . Spain has shown a readiness to agree to the retirement of Gen. Martinez Campos on the request of leading loyal citizens of Cuba , who found , as had been stated , when Gen. Campos was first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lenient with the insurgents . He was frequently criticised , however justly , for being too conciliatory . As shown by its dispatch , the Government is perfectly satisfied with the state of the campaign generally , and does not borrow any trouble as long as the rebels are controlled within a small territory . ALARM FELT IN ** Cuban . ! Sympathisers In Thin City linnerve Good Neva . " There is no doubt now that something important will happen in Havana in the near future , " said Fidel G. Pierra , the head of the Cuban Press Bureau , yesterday . " The attitude taken by the organ of the Spanish sympathizers indicates the extreme restlessness under the administration of Gen. Campos . " A member of our press bureau whom I can not name received a letter yesterday from his relatives , who are now living in Havana In it they say that the city 's inhabitants are living in a. continued state of excitement . They note a very pronounced feeling of dissatisfaction with the policy and failures of Campos among the Spanish sympathizers and volunteers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a new policy . " They also say : ' The alarms , coming from fear of an attack on Havana by the Cubans , are frequent . At times the wildest sort are prevalent in all parts of the city . ' " The most suggestive statement in the letter , , , however , is that the prices of provisions have generally been raised . So completely has the city been shut in that at the time the letter was written it had been practically impossible for several days to get any milk . " I do not doubt , from the experience I have had in Cuba and from a knowledge of present conditions , that Gomez could dash into Havana and take the city . But he is not likely to do so , as it would do him no good . He will probably shut up the city for as long a time as he desires . He will cut off provisions for the troops and people , and thus make the Spaniards pay more . The strain can not be stood very long . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months , and some civilian officers are behind over seventeen months . The food of the troops is poor , but costly to the Government . All these things help the Cubans . " American interests will be largely affected within the near future because of the destruction of the crops . The Seidenberg failure yesterday was the first bomb . Now I am looking for others . There will be no large shipments of either tobacco or sugar from there this year . But other American interests will be affected . It has been the habit of capitalists for a number of years to make advances to the - planters , the only security being the prospective crop . This system has been in vogue during the last season and now the advances are left without security . " The Cubans learned much in their other revolution . It was a very costly experience to the island , but it has been worth a great deal during this war . Among the lessons was the one that the crops must be destroyed . Spain drew her support from the island before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The hardest , blow that could. , be struck was to destroy this source of reS. - enue . " Spanish soldiers have deserted in great numbers during the last few months . Many of them have been turned back , but getter- ally they have pleaded earnestly to be retained . Their arms and ammunition are given to Cubans , and they are not made part of the army , but are sent to the Eastern mountains , where the insurgents have their large fields , gardens , and herds . In the eastern hills there are now fully 4,004 ) of these soldiers , who have deserted . " The only wonder is that more do not desert . They are very badly clothed , and their food is absolutely unfit for consumption . I know something about Spanish methods , and my information in the present case tallies with what I have seen in the past . I have known officers to ask for barrels of pork that were partly spoiled , rice and pease that were wormy , and other things on the same order . The profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The hospital service is simply horrible . Dr. Antigas , who was here a few weeks ago , stated that fully 80 per cent , of the deaths in the hospital was due to lack of proper treatment and proper remedies . I am told , on what I consider good authority , that quinine is not provided , though paid for by the Government . Some cheap white powder is given in its place , and the officers and dealers divide the profits . " The hot season will come early in April and then the Spanish troops will be in a terrible condition . The unsanitary condition of the barracks and the poor food will engender malignant diseases , especially typhoid fever , and will make it almost impossible to keep the men in the cities . If they go into the country they will be subject to swamp fever , malaria , and other ills that attack those not acclimated. "                     