@@673549

txt The one hundred and sixth General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church North will open in this city Tuesday next . The chief business of the opening session will be the sermon by the retiring Moderator , Willis Green Craig of McCormick Theological Seminary , Chicago , and the devotional exercises that follow . But it will not be long thereafter before the 500 Commissioners will be plunged into the " politics " of the Church . This will be the fifth time in the history of the Presbyterian Church that Saratoga has been ' the seat of the Assembly , the last time being in 1890 , when the business of revising the ancient Westminster Confession of Faith in accordance with modern ideas of theology was undertaken after a prolonged and earnest fight . Matters as weighty are to be considered by this body . Lines have been drawn in the election of Commissioners in all the 230 Presbyteries of ' the United States . The old lines of revisionists and anti-revisionists , which so evenly divided the last Saratoga Assembly , have long been wiped out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issues of that famous trial . In nearly every Presbytery , tickets for the choice of Commissioners were prepared in advance by both liberals and conservatives ,  --  and the interests of both sides were carefully canvassed . The result is that the conservatives , or anti-Briggs men , will control this Assembly five to one . Some of the most important liberal centres  --  Chicago , Albany , Rochester , and Buffalo  --  have been captured this year by the anti-Briggs men . New-York City , which has heretofore sent divided delegations , will be representated this year by sixteen solid conservatives . New-York State , which at the last Assembly , in Washington , mustered a large following of Briggs men , will be found this year almost unanimously on the other side . The first test of strength will be in the election of a Moderator Thursday afternoon . In the Moderator 's hands rests not only the direction of the Assembly , but the appointment of committees which prepare the business of the sessions . The liberals will probably advance Arthur J. Brown . D. D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the other side many names have been suggested , among them Henry C. Minton , D. D. , of San Francisco ; Samuel A. Mutchmore , D. D. , of Philadelphia ; Col. John J. McCook of New-York City , and James Gardner , D. D. , of Gloversville , N. Y. Col. McCook led the prosecution against Dr. Briggs and his name was suggested in recognition of this service . If he were cnosen it would be the first instance of an Elder 's elevation to that place , but Col. MeCook has declined to allow his name to be used . Dr. Gardner is the representative of the New-York Synod which met at Rochester last year and took important action sustaining the snethod of procedure in the trial of Dr. Briggs . His candidacy will be urged on that ground . Dr. Mutchmore is the editor of The Philadelphia Presbyterian . The Eastern conservatives tvill probably be divided between these two candidates . The chief business to come before the Assembly will concern the theological seminaries of the Church . The withdrawal of Union Seminary of New-York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action of that body in the Briggs case arouses Western Presbyterians to demand a change in , the charters of all the seminaries and benevolent boards of the Church so as to prevent further alienation of property and investments held by these institutions . The list of seminaries involved includes Princeton , McCormick of Chicago , Auburn of New-York State , and Lane of Cincinnati . These institutions possess large endowments and are in receipt yearly of fresh gifts , all of which come from Presbyterian sources and are held to be used for denominational purposes . Each seminary is organized on a more or less independent basis , and to bring all under closer control of the General Assembly presented grave problems in law and equity . A committee headed by Thomas of Cincinnati has been studying these problems for two years . It is now ready to report a plan to bring all the educational institutions under closer control of the General Assembly . The minority of this committee , comprising the liberals , will present a second report on the same subject . The Assembly will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith of Cincinnati , charged - with heresy on account of his support of Dr. Briggs . The case comes from the Ohio Synod , which affirmed the verdict of the Cincinnati Presbytery , finding Prof. Smith guilty as charged . Prof. Smith has been in New York City for several months preparing his case . He will argue for the entertainment of his appeal , and a division of the General Assembly will be reached at an early session on that question . The large conservative majority is warrant for the prophecy that the appeal will be thrown out . But if it is sustained , then will come the argument on the merits of the case . and the prolonged scene at " Washington , when Dr. Briggs pleaded with the Commissioners , will be repeated . The Briggs case itself may be heard again . This may be raised on an inquiry as to how Dr. Briggs has conducted himself while under sentence of suspension from the Christian ministry . It will be shown that he has appeared frequently in pulpits to " lecture , " if not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazines he has shown a spirit that may be interpreted as defiant and rebellious . On such an inquiry a movement would be in order to depose Dr. Briggs from the ministry and so disqualify him from teaching in a seminary in which the charter required its Faculty to be members of the Presbyterian Church in good and regular standin*his Assembly will probably bring to an end the overtures that have been conducted for years between its representatives and a committee from the House of Bishops looking to a union of the Episcopalian and Presbyterian bodies . Last year ? Bishop Coxe startled the Assembly at Washington by causing it to be announced that the Episcopalian Church was ready to amend its canon law so as to admit of a more liberal application of its teaching concerning the Apostolic succession and the Historic Episcopate , and so permit the admission of the Presbyterian ministers into the union on the same basis as the Bishops of the Episcopalian Church . This announcement gave church unity another lease of life , but the year has brought no evidence of a disposition on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the canon . Steps , however , may be taken to a closer federation of the ten Presbyterian denominations of America . Yearly efforts are made at the Assemblies to reunite the churches which separated at the outbreak of the war . The last two years developed a strong movement in that direction , but there are now signs of a sudden reaction . The Presbyterian Church South has stood like a rock in the ocean . unmoved by any of the controversies that have disturbed the Northern Church . It is now openly said by the leaders that the North and South reunion scheme will not be mentioned at Saratoga . The Assembly may be called upon to take action concerning a new method of Sunday school teaching known as the Blakeslee system , which is said to carry into the Sunday school the net results of Briggsism . Many of the liberal ministers have introduced the Blakeslee plan into their churches , especially in the larger Eastern cities . As the General Assembly has declared the doctrines brought forward , in the Blakeslee publications to be contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catechism , some action looking to their suppression in Presbyterian churches would be in order . ? Soon after the adjournment of the Washington Assembly the Briggs leaders met in Cleveland to prepare an address to the ministers and officers of the Church . This address was of the nature of a protest . It was sent through the Church for indorsement and for signature . The ultra-conservatives pronounce this to be a defiant and rebellious proceeding against the highest court of the Churchsand hence a fit subject for action by the General Assembly .                     