@@781287

txt There was an interesting exhibition of guns , big and little and rapid-fire guns , mortars , and . gun carriages , and gun firing at Sandy Hook yesterday , incident . to the visit of inspection made by Secretary of War Alger . Gen. Alger arrived here from Washington Friday , and went at once to Sandy Hook , where he spent the night . With him were Gen. Flagler ; Chief of Ordnance , and Gen. Ruggles , Adjutant General of the army it was Gen. Alger 's desire that the fortifications at Fort . Hancock and the work carried on at the Sandy Hook proving grounds should be seen not by army officers alone , and therefore a number of promineat men , including a party of the Secretary 's friends from . Detroit , had been invited to be present to witness the firing of big guns , the operation of the CrozierBuffington disappearing gun carriage , - and pie other sights at the Hook . The Detroit party arrived in Gen. Alger 's private car , and they were met at Jersey City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kemble , the Quartermaster General of the Department of the East , was in charge . Gen. Wesley Merritt , Lieut . Hale , his aide ; Col. Gillespie of the Engineer Corps , Major Phipps , and Capt . Ayres of the Ordnance Board ; Gen. Wilson , Chief of Engineers , and Capt . Carter of his staff , and Col. Corbin , the Adju.tant General of this department , were among the officers who also went down to the Hook . Secretary of the Interior C. N. Bliss joined the party , - and present were George M. Pullman , Edward Cooper , George Westinghouse , Lieut . McKenna , son of the Attorney General ; M. S. Smith , Cal . George H. Hopkins , Col. Henry M. Duffield , George H. Russel , Thomas F. Greer , C. B. Hull , C. F. Freer , B. F. Parsons , Edgar J. Mayr , J. A , Marsh , V. L. Mason , and Capt . Stuart , who is a powder expert . Inspecting the Reservation . The party was met at Sandy Hook by Capt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and his assistants , Lieuts . Jamieson and Montgomery . The programme Included an inspection of the Government reservation , the mortar battery , gun emplacements , and the buildings under construction for the garrison of Fort Hancock . The inspection of the reservation involved a trip over the Government railroad the entire length of the Hook , a distance of several miles , to Highland Beach , where Gen. Alger desired to observe the inroads made by the ocean , which , if continued , will make of Sandy Hook an island . A heavy rain in the morning interfered somewhat with the arrangements , and the haze which hung over the ocean made inexpedient the quick-firing tests to which it had been proposed to subject the twelve -- inch gun mounted on the disappearing carriage . Th-e workings of the carriage were shown , however , and later in the day the gun was fired . In the forenoon softie of the smaller guns and an eight-inch gun Mounted on a Crozier carriage were fired . Mortar Battery Tested . An exhibition of the mortar battery was given however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The occupants of 1 a small boat that came out from behind a point were doubtless subjected to something of a fright when the shells fell with a tremendous splash a quarter of a mile beyond them . They were in no danger , however . The haze was not so dense as to obscure a range of that distance , and it was known that nothing not in sight when the guns were fired could reach the point where the shells would fall . A ten-inch gun was also fired , and then a twelve-inch mortar on the proving ground was loaded with a deckpiercing shell , which was shot at a fourg and-a-half-inch steel plate . The plate was smashed , but the projectile was not . damaged . Six Hundred Shots a Minute . A new 30-calibre Gatling gun was then fired at the rate of 000 shots a minute . It was explained to the visitor 's that it could be manipulated to fire 1,200 shots a minute , and if worked electrically it could fire 1,500 shots a minute . Lieut . Montgomery handled a rapid-fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interest in the accuracy of the firing . There was a four-foot target one mile distant , and the General said that if the gun could be made to hit four times out of five within a space of two feet he would have the target placed on exhibition at the War Department . The shots were fired , but no one walked the mile to determine the exact result . There was an interruption for luncheon , and then the afternoon interest turned to the big disappearing gun carriage . Capt . Crozier personally attended to its handling , and received many compliments . Gen. Wilson took occasion to remark that while many army officers sold their inventions to The Government , Capt . Crozier had given . to the Government the benefit of his inventive labors . The Disappearing Gun Carriage . The gun was fired three times , and it was loaded and ready for tiring the first time in 1 minute 50 seconds . The twelve-inch gun is 57 feet long and weighs 110,000 pounds . The carriage weighs 350,000 pounds . The powder charge weighs 475 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ammunition is. rolled front the magazine on hand trucks that fit flush to the breech , and the projectile is slid off and home with dispatch . The powder , in bags , follows , the breech is closed , a lever is moved , the gun rises up and forward over an imaginary parapet , ( for there is no parapet at the proving grounds , ) the order to fire is given , the lanyard is pulled , there is a thundering report , and the gun , working by mechanism under the ' power of the recoil , returns to its former position . Incidentally , yesterday an onshore wind blew back the gases , fumes , and sineke of the burnt powder against the visitors , and many - of them discovered later that their straw hats had turned to a soiled yellow . A parapet would ordinarily afford some protection to the gun 's crew ; , which would be seriously impeded if the conditions of yesterday prevailed generally . The haze on the ocean had cleared away by the time the big gun was fired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rapidity of firing . The gun was fired at - an elevation of 7 degrees , and the projectile struck the water about six and a half miles out to sea . Capt . Crozier Explains . Gen. ' Alger requested that Capt . Crozier should describe the mechanism of the carriage . The . Captain , hard at work apart from the company , responded in soldier-like fashion to a call from Gen. Wilson , who introduced hint by saying : " Capt . Crozier is as modest in his personal character as-he is eminent.in his profession . " The Captain expiaired that the carriage had a rise of nine feet , which would bring it over a parapet on a plane sloping downward , inside , at seven degrees . The carriage had a . compensating balance , or . counterweight , ' weighing 160,000 pounds , which carries up the-gun when . the lever is pulled . Its most interesting feature is the , recoil . One of the officers graphically described the , velocity of the . recoil as being equal to an engine and train of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to a. stop in a space of four , feet.I The recoil of the gun is four feet , and it is taken up by cylinders on either side of the carriage filled with a neutral oil . The piston that runs through it is pushed back as the gun recoils . The piston ' head is perforated ' with slots , and through these slots work sta-tionary bars , so graduated in size with reference to the slots as to regulate the quantity of oil that may be forced through , and thus to regulate and distribute the pressure , the first shock of the recoil being , of course , greatest , and Vie force lessening as the recoil is taken up . All these particulars greatly . interested Gen. Alger and his party . The General Meigs left for the city late in the afternoon . Secretary Bliss was taken to Atlantic Highlands , whence he proceeded to his place at Seabright . Gen. Alger was taken to Jersey City , where . he took the train for Baltimore , where he is to spend Sunday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Governors Island and to the city . The steam yacht Helvetia , owned by Columbus O 'D . Iselin , who was aboard with Adrian Iselin , . Jr. , and three other gentlemen , was struck while going up East River about 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon and seriously damaged by the tug Theresa Verdon . The Helvetia was on her way to New Rochelle , with Capt . Frank Butler at the wheel . Loaded car floats on either side of her were proceeding in the same direction . She had just made her way through the crowd of craft opposite the foot of Pike Street when the Verdon bore down on her . The Verdon's-mate was at her wheel and seemed to lose his head for the moment , because he threw the tug 's helm so that the tug headed directly for the yacht . The Captain of the tug saw the danger and jumped to the wheel , but he was too late . The two boats ' met squarely bow on . Four feet of the Helvetia 's bow was stove in . There were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compartment bulkhead held and she was landed safely at the Atlantic Yacht Club 's house , and will be put in dry dock to-day . The heavy tug was not injured . She is owned jointly by Capt . Hopkins and C. B. Benson . The Helvetia was built at Boston in 1891 , and Is 01 feet in length , with a gross tonnage of 37.12 . The Theresa Verdon is registered at 49.01 . Both boats were going at good speed when they struck , and the collision caused much excitement along that part of the river and among the passengers of several ferry boats who saw it . Mr. Iselin has been recently using the Helvetia to bring him to the city to business from his Summer home at New Rochelle , and to return on in the evening .                     