@@673772

txt It is according to the saying of a French writer that the French people are now entitled to congratulate themselves , for their recent annals are tiresome . Since the excitement caused by the murder of Carnot has subsided , French politics have held neither the first nor the second place in the interest of mankind . Indeed , the business of Madagascar is the only incident of those politics that has commanded attention outside of France . Our London correspondent , however , points out that the coming contest for the Presidency of the Chamber of Deputies may bring French affairs again into the foreground . The situation is especially interesting because of the reported purpose of M. Casimir-Perier to go to the country rather than to accept a Cabinet composed of Radicals or advanced Republicans , and to resign the Presidency itself if the decision of the country is against him . The fact that such a threat can be made draws attention anew to the peculiarity of the French Constitution , which , being framed partly upon the British and partly upon the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that could not arise either in Great Britain or in the United States . It is an old discussion whether the fitter head of a constitutional government be a hereditary and irresponsible Chief Magistrate , who is practically only a dignified figurehead for the ship of State , or an elective Chief Magistrate , who is the representative of a party and ? is expected to promote its interests and carry out its programme . Walter Bagehot devoted a good part of his book on the English Constitution to arguing in favor of royalty  --  that is to say , of an irresponsible sovereign and a responsible Ministry . It is evident that the present British Constitution has come about by fitting old forms to modern ideas , not without some distortion on both sides . The maxim that the King can do no wrong is a good deal older than the frame of government that has been adapted to it , and it has now come to mean that the King can do nothing , and that the best course for his personal comfort is to take no interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before him , asking no questions . When a member of Parliament who would ordinarily have been eligible to the Cabinet was supposed to have been kept out of it because he was personally offensive to Queen Victoria , he declared that the issue thus raised was a constitutional question , and intimated that her Majesty had no right to keep a man out of the list of " her Majesty 's Ministers " merely because she detested him . In this Mr. Labouch ? re was doubtless right . The Queen behaved " unconstitutionally , " and would have been compelled to succumb if the question had been of more importance , if , for example , it had concerned the choice of the House of Commons for Prime Minister . Such a question evidently could not arise under our system , in which the President is an active politician and the representative of his party , and in which the " Ministers " are merely his subordinates and responsible not to the people , but to him . But a much more serious question will arise in France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is theoretically impartial and irresponsible , like a hereditary sovereign . Theoretically , it is the business of the French President , as it is the business of a British sovereign , to accept the Ministers chosen by the Legislature . Of course this duty is likely to be distasteful to a Chief Magistrate who has political opinions of his own , and it may make his official acts as President very inconsistent with his professions and his " record " before he was President . But It seems to be absolutely necessary to the successful working of the mixed scheme of constitutional government which the French have adopted . The British system of an irresponsible figurehead and " government by a committee of the House of Commons " is intelligible and practicable . The American system of a responsible President and of heads of the executive departments appointed by him is also intelligible and practicable . But a mixture of the two has the advantages of neither . An active politician and party leader can not all at once become an impartial spectator of events and give his assent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bringing himself and his office into disrespect . That is the view which M. Casimir-Perier seems to take of the matter , and which has induced the expectation'that he will resign rather than be instrumental in putting into power a Government of which he disapproves.                     