@@673857

txt The President does not indorse all that Secretary Morton said on the money question in his interview published yesterday , and he has deemed it proper to make public the following statement : " I am in no manner responsible for Mr. Morton 's interview , and knew nothing of it until I read it in the newspapers . When I have seen fit to say anything to the people on the money question , or any other subject . I have thus far found it quite easy to do so directly , and on my own account . " Mr. Morton also is out in a statement to-night in which he disclaims any intention of conveying the impression that his utterances were inspired by the President . No one who is acquainted with Mr. Morton doubts that the interview in question , which has attracted wide notice , was entirely original with him It was unfortunate that in some of the newspaper accounts of the interview it was asumed that , inasmuch as Mr. Morton had but a. short time before its publication been with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressions were the result of an understanding with Mr. Cleveland This inference was the source of much annoyance to the President , who makes it a point to speak for himself on questions of great national import . He concluded tonight that nothing short of a declaration like the one quoted in this dispatch would satisfy him . His disclaimer naturally has caused a sensation , and the gossips already are busy with reports of a break between the President and his Secretary of Agriculture . It is not believed in Administration circles that there will be any further trouble over the interview in question . s , As a matter of fact , Mr. Morton was unwilling to have the impression go forth that he was acting as the President 's mouthpiece . Some of the Secretary 's expressions  --  notably that concerning the proposed monetary conference and the future of silver as money  --  are regarded as the main cause of Mr. Cleveland 's statement . While his desire for sound money is as strong as that of Mr. Morton , it is known that the President differs with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocates of free silver are now doing their utmost to spread their pernicious doctrine , it is regarded by some as unfortunate that the Morton interview should have brought about the appearance of discord in the Cabinet . It is not unlikely that , in the near future  --  possibly on the occasion of the Memphis sound-money convention  --  the President will have something to say to the country on the money question which will leave no room for doubt as to his position and reaffirm his present contention that he does not speak through members of his Administration .                     