@@781105

txt Prof. Henri Belmont of Paris , France , a snake:charmer , stopped here on his way from San Francisco to New-York . He registered at the Grand Palace Hotel , and had Bent to his room a blue box about the size of a trunk containing a number of writhing reptiles . During the evening a party of friends visited the professor in his room , and the snakes were taken out of the box and fondled by their owner ' for the edification of his guests . The party then went to the barroom and had several drinks , which caused the professor to forget that.he.had left the lid of the box open . Then he went to bed . Fred Newberry , who occupied the next room , was awakened about an hour afterward by a scuffling noise , quickly followed by cries and shouts for help . He ran into the hall and knocked on the door of the room from which the sounds came . " Hurry He choke me ! " gasped a voice and Newberry threw his weight against the door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could hear gasps and moans of pain . He stepped toward the bed , but with a yell of horror Jumped back again , for his bare foot had come in contact with a wriggling , slimy snake . By this time the alarmed guests were Peering into the hall . The night clerk , William Payne , entered the room and lighted the gas . A horri- ble eight was presented and one of the Women in the crowd fainted . Lying on the bed , his face black from suffocation , and his eyes bulging from his head , was the snake oharmen . Around his limbs and body was Ugly collect the " King of Snakes , " a great python. on . The diamondshaped head was waving to and fro , and from the mouth shot the long , black , forked tongue . Some cried " Shoot him . " " Kill him , " and one man ran into the hall and seized the fire axe . " Untwist his tail , " faintly whispered the half-choked professor . It seemed a case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grab his head while you untwist his tail , " shouted Newberry , and with a spring be caught the serpent by the nee ) close to the head . It took all the night clerk 's strength to untwist the steel-like cells of the angry reptile . Finally the arms of the professor were freed and he grabbed the neck of the serpent , making at the same time a hissing noise with his lips . With one hand he stroked the reptile until he caught It ilrmly around the centre of the body and with a deft fling threw it into the box and quickly shut the Bd . The work of capturing the smaller snakes was easily accomplished . The python is about seven feet long . It could easily have strangled its owner .                     