@@781078

txt The American Evacuation Commissioners , at a meeting held yesterday afternoon , decided to notify Capt . Gen. Macias that they were present , and ready to proceed with business . A communication to this effect was drafted in most courteous terms . It asked where and when the Spanish Commissioners would meet the Americans . About noon to-day the American Commissioners received a reply from Captain General ' Macias to their communication of last evening . Gen. Macias said the Spanish evacuation Commissioners would be ready to meet the Americans at the palace tomorrow morning at 10:30 . Later in the day Gen. Brooke , Admiral Schley , and Gen. Gordon held a conference at the Hotel Inglaterra regarding the attitude they will assume at the meeting . Lieut . Sears , Rear Admiral Schley 's flag Lieutenant , delivered the communication to the Captain General . He drove to the palade in a carriage . When at the gate a brick was hurled at him from the sidewalk . Being an old baseball player , he was able partly to ward the missile off with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ankle , but doing only slight injury . This is the first incident of the kind since the Americans ' arrival here . The Lieutenant did not deem it advisable to lodge a complaint , and the police made no arrest . The American Commissioners are determined to brook no delay , as indicated by their action . Although Capt . Gen. Macias recognized their presence by official visits , they have not been notified of the appointment or of the names of the Spanish Commissioners , and the names of the latter have not been officially gazetted here , in spite of the fact that it is understood unofficially that Gens . Ortega and Vallerino and the Auditor of the War , Sefior Aguilar , comprise the Spanish Commission . The thirty days expire on Sunday , and if the Spaniards are not prepared to proceed on that date they will be required to explain matters . The Spanish torpedo-boat destroyer Terror and the gunboat Ponce de Leon sailed for the Island of Martinique to-day , where they will be placed in dry dock , as their bottoms are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II . and Concha will follow on Monday . Some of the American naval officers regret the decision of Washington that these ships , which formed part of the defense of the island , were not held . The barkentine Sceptre , from Lunenburg , Nova Scotia , with a cargo of fish , has arrived here . This is the first food cargo to reach this port since the blockade was raised . The censorship of press dispatches by the Spanish authorities continues . Fresh outrages are reported to have occurred in the interior . At Cocoas , in the neighborhood of Cialos , a number of brigands recently raided a plantation and shot the proprietor in the leg . A detachment of fifty Spanish soldiers has been dispatched from Arecibo to restore order . The Fourth Ohio Volunteers are still at Guayama . The regiment has not been ordered home : There has been no new disposition of the United States troops to-day .                     