@@672781

txt The Evening Post of this city has been arguing  --  at least , it was arguing a while ago  --  that national issues have no proper place in the State canvass . In discussing the Massachusetts campaign , however , it admits that it " is fought on national issues mainly , and of these the silver question appears to be the most prominent " Of this it expresses no disapproval , and closes its article by saying : " It is undoubtedly true that the re-election of Gov , RUSSELL would be a very cold bath for the silverites all over the country . It would operate upon both parties . It would teach the Democrats that free coinage is not the winning issue next year , and it would tell the Republicans that the four-and-ahalf-million law ought to be repealed as soon as possible . The election of Mr. PLOWER in New-York will have a similar effect on national politics , and for similar reasons . " Is it not very important that this - effeot should be produced , and is notthis an admiasiop that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the State canvass ? The effect produced by the election of Mr. FLOWER in this State would have more significance and far more influence upon national politics than the election of Mr. RUSSELL in Massachusetts . Both parties admit that New-York is the " pivotal State , " and that its Electoral vote is likely to be a decisive factor in the Presidential election . The position it takes this year upon national issues , as indicated by its vote for Governor , would be likely , therefore , to determine the action of the parties on the silver question . It may fairly he argued that the position of the parties on the tariff question is already clearly defined , and that neither can withdraw from it , whatever the result of State elections this year . Whether MCKTNLEY is elected or defeated in Ohio , the Republicans will have to stand by the policy which he represents . Whether FLOWER is elected or defeated in this State , the Democratic Party will have to stand by the policy of tariff reform , to which it is fillip committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not only hero , but throughout the country , by a victory in the New-York State election . But on the silver question the position of the national parties is not clearly defined , and certainly it is not fixed for the Presidential campaign . The Republican Party is practically committed to the present dangerous law which provides for an enormous inflation of paper() errancy by the purchase of 4,500.000 ounces of silver per month with Treasury notes issued for the purpose . The practical basis of this addition to the paper issues of the Government is depreciated silver coin , and it is a distinct menace to the stability of the whole currency fabric . It is carrying the country inevitably toward the silver standard which would precipitate the whole volume of currency to a lower and a fluctuating basis . This danger has been recognized by the most important commercial bodies of the country , and they have demanded the repeal of the law . In some of the Western States the Democrats were some time ago disposed to yield to the free-silver cry , and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of free and unlimited coinage . But in the Eastern States , and notably in New-York and Massachusetts , they have taken their stand for sound money . Their position is much sounder than that of the liepublican Party , inasmuch as they haranot only declared against free coinage , but have denounced the present Inflation act . They are in accord with the sound and conservative sentiment of the business community , as expressed by the Chamber of Commerce of this city , the Merchants ' " association of Boston , the Merchants ' Exchange of Buffalo , and other similar bodies in various parts of the country . This is not a question that can be safely left to be discussed arid settled in the national campaign , because it is important that an influence should be exerted upon Congress and upon the conventions which are to be held at the opening of that campaign . From the point of view of national polities and of national interest ; it is by far the most important matter upon which the people of this State are to pa- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it outweighs in importance all ether questions involved in the State canvass . Shall the Republican platform , which approves the present law , with its dangerous tendency toward the single silver standard and a sudden and disastrous depreciation of the currency , be sustained , or shallthe Democratic platform , which is absolutely for a sound and safe currency policy , be accepted as representing the attitude of the State of New-York on this question- ? Not only will the answer to be given at the election have an important influence upon the future course of parties in regard to silver and upon the issues of the Presidential canvass , but it concerns the practical interests of every business man , every depositor in savings banks , and every wage-earner in the State and in the country . It is a national question which is a real issue in the State election , and a most important one .                     