@@674001

txt The Chronicle , in its issue to-morrow , will recall the old rumor that Lord Salisbury will withdraw from the Premiership in favor of his nephew , the Right Hon. A. J. Balfour , now First Lord of the Treasury , and will mention a report that the Prime Minister intends to relinquish the foreign portfolio in favor of Lord Dufferin , the British Ambassador to France . The Chronicle admits that there may not be much , if any , truth in the reports . AMENDMENTS TO SUNDAY LA.W German-Americans and Liberal Sunday Workers Make a Questioning Proposition to Candidates . The -German-American Reform Union and the United Societies for Liberal Sunday Laws have sent to each of the local candidates for the Legislature a letter , asking him for an expression of his views in regard to amendments to the present Sunday laws . The proposal made by the joint associations is that in cities of the first and second class the sale of wine , beer , and other beverages shall be permitted Sundays between 6 and 10 o'clock in the morning , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also proposed that the sale of foodstuffs Sundays shall be permitted until 10 A. M. , as at present ; and also between 5 and 7 in the evening , to accommodate those who have no means of keeping food fresh in their houses during the hot season . Following is the text of the letter : New-York , Oct. 21. 1895 . Dear Sir : . The German-American Reform Union and the United Societies for Liberal Sunday Laws hereby respectfully request you to favor them with a written expression of your views on the passage by the next Legislature of a bill amending the present ** law to the effect that the sale of wine , beer , and other beverages shall be permitted in the cities of the first and second class on Sundays , between 9 and 10 A. M. , and 1 and 12 P. M. , under conditions which , for the securing a quiet observance of the day , the Legislature may see fit to imaose . And also your views as to the passage of a bill amending the respective sections of the Penal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed on Sundays until 10 A. M. , and between 5 and T P. M. Yours respectfully , CARL L. I.-EWE/an:MIN , Secretary German-American Reform Union . J. M. JACOBS , Secretary United Societies for Liberal Sunday Laws . It will be seen by the wording of the letter that it is tentative , and framed so as to elicit a statement of the views of the candidates rather than to commit either side to any fixed opinion of what should be voted for . The letter Itself indicates a compromise between the extreme supporters of more liberal Sunday laws and those who would be content with the opening of the beer gardens in the afternoon of Sun- day . This letter is intended to take the place of the pledge put forth some time ago by the German-American Reform Union for acceptance or rejection by Legislative candidates , as it was found that this pledge might be construed as an offense against the Corrupt Practices law .                     