@@781073

txt United States Consul General Lee and his staff , with Consuls Springer and Barker , left Havana at 6 o'clock to-night on the lighthouse tender Fern . The wharf was crowded , but no discourtesy was shown . Mr. Barker , the Consul at Sagua la Grande , arrived here from his post this morning . He was sent for by a private message . Alexander C. Brice , the Consul at Matanzas , is supposed to have left that place on a schooner . Pulaski F. Hyatt , the Consul at Santiago de Cuba , has already left that port , and is now in Jamaica . At 10 o'clock this morning Consul General Lee , accompanied by British Consul Gollan , called on Gen. Blanco to bid him good-bye . The Governor General was very busy , and could not receive Gen. Lee . The American flag upon the Consulate Building was taken down by Consular employes this morning . At 1 o'clock this afternoon Gen. Lee , accompanied by his staff , boarded the dispatch boat Fern , and Consuls Springer and Barker went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where they embarked , was crowded with curious persons , but no discourtesy was shown the officials . At 5:80 the American vessels began leaving port . The Spanish tug Susie towed out the schooner James H. Dudley , which arrived here on Thursday last from Pensacola with lumber , but did not discharge her cargo . The steamer Evelyn followed with about 50 passengers , and after her came the 011- vette with 247 passengers , among whom were Miss Clara Barton and the other representatives of the Red Cross Society , who have been engaged in relief work in the island . She was followed by the Bache , with ten passengers , and last of all came the Fern , which left at 6 o'clock , having on board Consul General Lee , Consuls Springer and Barker , Consular Clerks Fosca , Dolz , and Drain , Correspondents Johnstone , Pepper , Redding , Akers , Franke , Dunning , Nichols , and Scovel , Messrs . G. Lawton Childs , William Lawton , and Dr. Brunner . The Fern is commanded by Lieut . Commander Sawyer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to-day by the steamer Orizaba $424,000 in French gold for New York . El Correo asserts that sixteen electors from the suburb Chavez who voted at the last election left to-day , having been supplied with pass ports as American citizens . Alexander Gollan , the British Consul here , is ready to take charge of American interests so far as allowed . Mr. Gollan is likely to rise to the occasion , and may be an important factor in future events . During the day news of the American Consuls leaving their posts spread rapidly about the city , and produced considerable surprise . The matter was talked about generally-and the remark , " Well , let - tirein go , " was heard here and there . The Spaniards say the fact of the Consuls leaving has not produced the effect which the friends of the insurgents are alleged to have expected . The Spanish patriots also claim they are taking things coolly and are awaiting future events with serenity . They quote many prominent people as saying there is no importance in the action of the Consuls . Advices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lives and property of the Americans on the island are in imminent danger . The shipping firm of Bull &; Knowlton , general agents of the New York and Puerto Rico Steamship Company , received a cable message from Latimer &; Fernandez , their agents at San Juan , Puerto Rico , asking permission to charter the British tramp steamship Virginia to take the American Consul , P. C. Hanna , and his family , and all other Americans who desire to leave Puerto Rico , to St. Thomas in the Danish West Indies . The distance from the nearest point in Puerto Rico to St. Thomas is sixty-eight miles . The New York agents telegraphed to the State Department at Washington that the Virginia would be placed at the service of the American Consul without delay . Mr. Knowlton cabled to San Juan to the Captain of the Virginia to take aboard all Americans who desired to leave the island . He did this without waiting to hear from Washington . Soon after he had cabled he received a telegram from Washington asking what the compensation would be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to San Juan to take all Americans on board , and that there was too little time to discuss compensation . He intimated that he did n't care whether he got any compensation or not , so long as the Americans were safely removed from the island . The same firm received a hurry cable message from Havana , in which it was stated that Consul General Lee had ordered the American steamship Evelyn , Capt . Hutchinson , to start for Key West not later than 3 o'clock in the afternoon . The dispatch stated that the order was urgent , and that from 200 to 300 refugees would go on the steamer.                     