@@674109

txt Most of the Republican Senators from the cities which the Raines bill proposes to rob , who have been dragooned into a caucus agreement to vote for the infamous measure , have had the decency to wear their collars in silence during the so-called debate , but Of this city has had fend the bill on the that the city Would year by it . " Gain from Whom Senator JOHN Form the ten-lei-1W to degrottntl , as he said , " gain $2,000,000 a This is a most extraordinary argument to come from a being supposed to be endowed with the power of reasoning . However great an increase of revenue may be derived from the liquor traffic under this or any other measure , every cent of it must be drawn from the pockets of the people where the traffic is carried on . It comes out of the product of their labor , just as Mitch as it would if the tax were on the traffic in dry goods , and just as the proceeds of a tax upon the value of property come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any community from an increase of taxes , however they may be collected , but if the revenue is applied to its own legitimate expenses there may be no loss in the increase of a particular tax , because it will lessen the amount to be raised in other ways . The coniplairit against the proposed liquor tax is not that it is too high or that it will raise too much or too little revenue , but that it is to be used to extract money unequally from the different cities and towns for the use of the State at large . It is intended to rob the cities for the benefit of the rural districts . It is no answer to the charge of robbery that the State proposes to compel the city to raise so much revenue by a tax upon the liquor traffic that it Will have more than it had before from that particular source , after one-third has been taken away from it , even admitting that to be true . The robbery consists in taking the third . The city is entitled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own purposes . If it be conceded that this is a legitimate way of raising part of the State revenues , then the argument is irrefutable that the tax should be uniform . No State tax is legit imate which is four times or eight times as heavy in one community as in another . It is proposed to take from this city a million dollars or more for the relief of rural taxpayers , and a Senator from the city tells us that It is all right because we are to have the privilege of turning $2,000,000 from the same source into the local Treasury . Only a third of the money is stolen away from us , - therefore we have no right to complain . It would be better for Mr. FORD to offer no excuse for his complicity in a robbery of his own constituents if this is the best argument he can make .                     