@@673231

txt It was learned yesterday that the British flagship Blake had lost over forty men of her crew up to Saturday last by desertion . The British armored cruiser Australia has lost seven men , and the two British cruisers Magicienne and Tartar have lost more than twenty men between them . In all , the British fleet has lost by desertion more than seventy men since its arrival in this port . From officers of the Blake it is learned that the men who ' have deserted are for the most part sailors whom the ships could well spare . Every cruiser that leaves England , the officers say , is bound to be filled up with a number of indifferent men . This class finds life aboard a smartlydrilled war vessel anything but pleasant . The officers soon single out the objectionable men and proceed to either cure them or make life in her Majesty 's service anything but acceptable . In consequence of the discipline which is applied to the drones the latter , manage , it is said , to find it convenient to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first United States port in which the Blake has given liberty to her men since the big ship left England . The ports heretofore visited by the Blake have either been Halifax , Bermuda , or St. John 's , N. F. As all the three last:named ports are British , deserters find a sorry time of it there endeavoring to secret them1 selves ashore . In the United States , however , there is no opportunity afforded the British officers to capture runaways . Once the British sailor reaches shore he is safe from capture . The same rule applies on British territory to American sailors , and when the United States corvette Enterprise was lost in English waters under Commander McCalla , over seventy of her men deserted . These mon were seen daily iu the streets of Ports-. mouth by the officers of the Enterprise . The Blake 's regular complement of men is 375 , made up of 100 marines . 250 seamen , 150 stokers and firemen , and the rest I of servants and special men . The Blake on leaving England was given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first to fill gaps made by closer ' tions , such as have occurred . The British Admiralty , it appears from the statement of British officers , is determined that the Blake shall never be deprived of a full fighting force , even if it be necessary to rob other ships in the squadron in order to keep her complement full . The small number of men who have deserted from the Australia is explained by the fact that this vessel will shortly be placed.out , pf commission and her crew discharged . Every man aboard the Australia has a comfortable sum of money coming to him , the result of the retention monthly of part of his pay . The Australia will sail from New York on May 10 and proceed direct to Halifax . At Halifax she will coal and proceed to Portsmouth , where she will receive orders to go out of commision . It is nearly four years , it is stated , since she was first placed in commission . She has put in nearly that entire period in Mediterrnean waters . On May 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bermuda , where they will remain about a fortnight , and then , in company , will sail for Halifax , Admiral Hopkins will issue orders coming Summer 's work to the vario of his command . The flagship Blake will remain in can waters until June , 1895 . The Blake has one American in he complement . He is a Bostonian and is a firstclass man , the Blake 's officers say . 0 her arrival in New-York two weeks ' leave of absence were granted to him in which to visit his home . Tho impression prevails aboard the Blake that a large number of the men who have deserted will endeavor to enlist in the United States Navy . The pay of a British sailor is about $12 a month . The pay of an American sailor is $25 a month .                     