@@674098

txt With the action to-day of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs in reporting a series of resolutions declaring for the recognition of belligerent rights for the Cubans , that a state of war exists in the island , and indicating intervention to protect American rights , and with the Senate prepared to vote tomorrow on one of the many propositions touching Cuba , that have been accumulating before that body , it looks as though the Congressional feeling on the CI-iban question soon would take shape in legislation . The resistance to the direct and comprehensive resolutions of the House Foreign Affairs Committee was so slight as to make it seem feeble . It was offered by two Republicans , one of whom  --  Mr. Newlands of Nevada  --  is called a silver man . Only one Democrat  --  Tucker of Virginia  --  voted in the committee against the resolutions , which were afterward reported by Mr. Hitt , and which will be taken up in the House at the earliest opportunity . The subject will come before the House in better form than that in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two resolutions from the Foreign Relations Committee , one asking Spain to grant independence to Cuba , and the other declaring a state of war and according belligerent rights to the Cubans . In addition there are under consideration by the Senate the resolution of Mr. White asking for recognition of the belligerency of the Cubans " at as early a date as the facts will warrant , " and the resolutions of Messrs . Call and Allen to the same purpose as that of Mr. Morgan , but without the careful language employed by the members of the Foreign Relations Committee in placing the matter before the Senate . If a canvass has been made to ascertain which resolution will be accepted , the maker of it has not yet divulged the result of his canvassing . It is hardlx probable that the Call or Allen resolutio6 will displace that of the committee , and Mr. Cameron does not count upon the approval of his resolution declaring independence as likely to be preferred to that of the Foreign Relations Committee . Whatever is done is likely to be done with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of Congress . Mr. Morgan prefers to get along without the President . Some Senators accept the suggestion that it would be proper , but it is not believed that any except Mr. Morgan IS so thoroughly convinced as he that his position is the correct one . A very decided empetus has been given to the movement in favor of recognition of the Cuban Government by the revival of the stories about the cruelty of the Spaniards during the rebellion between 1868 and 1878 . The fact that nearly ? 50,000 Cubans lost their lives in that ten years ' contest and that 40,000 were killed as prisoners was either not known before or had been forgotten by most of the members of the Senate and the House . Late news from Cuba , indicating that Gen. Weyler was preparing , if he had not already begun , a campaign of atrocity , has aroused the fear that a carnival of bloodshed had already begun , and that it is to be followed upon the theory that it is the only way by which the rebellion can be suppressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were presented from the Foreign Affairs Committee by Mr. Hitt . They are as follows : Resolved , by the House of Representatives , - ( the Senate concurring . ) That , in the opinion of Congress , a state of public war exists in Cuba , the parties to which are entitled to belligerent rights ; and the United States should observe a strict neutrality between the belligerents . Resolved , That Congress deplores the destruction of life and property caused by the war now waging in that island , and , believing that the only permanent solution of the contest , equally in the interest of Spain , the people of Cuba , and others nations , would be in the establishment of a Government by the choice of the people of Cuba . it is the sense of Congress that the Government of the United States should use its good offices and friendly influence to that end . Resolved , That the United States has not intervened in struggles between any European Governments and their colonies on this continent , but from the very close relations between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in consequence of its proximity and the extent of the commerce between the two peoples , the present war is entailing such losses upon the people of the United States that Congress is of opinion that the Government of the United States should be prepared to protect the legitimate interests of Americans by intervention if necessary . Resolved , That Congress pledges its support to the President in carrying out the foregoing resolutions . Mr. Hitt said he had been instructed by the committee to ask consideration of the resolutions at the earliest possible moment . An effort was made to get consideration at once , but objection was made , and the House continued consideration of the Van Horn-Tarsney election case . Another effort to get the resolutions before the House was made after a decision had been reached in the election case . Mr. McCall , ( Rep. , Mass. , ) who objected to present consideration when the resolutions were reported ; Mr. Boutelle , ( Rep. , Me. , ) and Mr. Bailey , ( Dem. , Texas , ) all demanded recognition . Mr. Bailey was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : if a separate vote can be had on the resolutions , I do not know that I shall object . The last resolution , as I remember , pledges the support of Congress to the President in carrying out the previous resolutions . I thing that should reoeive separate consideration . Mr. Hitt  --  That resolution , I may say , was added to the original ' draft at the request of some members , who may not now care to press it , and a separate vote , I doubt not , can be had on it . The resolutions were read by the clerk and again a wave of applause swept over the chamber . Mr. Boutelle , with much earnestness , addressed the House , saying : These resolutions , as I understand , grant belligerent rights to the revolutionists in Cuba . This may involve the United States in a war with Spain , and I must object to action now in the absence of a. word of explanation from the committee . I want to know what information was before them when they agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it will warrant me as a citizen , as a patriot , as a member of this House in approving their action , when the result may be to embroil my country in a war with a nation with which we are now at peace . This ended the matter , and , with a sigh of disappointment , many members voted yea , and none nay , upon the motion by Mr. Dingley . ( Rep. , Me. , ) at 5:05 o'clock , that the House adjourn until to-morrow .                     