@@672303

txt Our correspondence from Rio de Janeiro indicates that the only thing certain about the future of Brazil is that there is no chance of a restoration of the empire or of monarchy in any form . But for the present ? there isno republic there , but only a provisional which is in effect military rule and nothing else . There seems to be no present distrust of the army and navy officers and the eminent civilians ' associated with them in the administration of affairs , but an indefinite prolongation of their power will cause restiveness and suspicion . While accepting the theory of selfgovernment for the country they seem to be distrustful of the capacity of the people for practicing it , and not without reason . They are in no haste about calling a Constituent Assembly , and propose to have a , Constitution carefully prepared by a corn'mission for its acceptance when it does .. meet . In the meantime they are gradually instituting reforms and changes to prepare the way for a permanent Government and apparently expect to educate . the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be continued indefinitely . and while a republic in form seems to be a certainty there is little assurance of greater - stability for some time to come than . has been experienced by the Spanish countries of South America . The habit of the Portuguese , as of the Spaniards . is to look upon power as emanating from the Government to be exercised over the subjects , rather than as emanating from the people for the control of the Government . The habit is founded in the characteristics of the people themselves , and it will be a long time before self-government is a reality where such a view of the governing and the governed prevails . The contests for the control of administration will be in a governing class rather than among the people . For a long time the determining factor will be the army and navy , and at present the provisional Government seems to hove a firm control Over that .                     