@@673546

txt The most violent and reiterative denunciators of the income tax , we observe , are persons who are more or less justly suspected of strong leanings toward the doctrine of protection and Mc3zieleyism . The coincidence may be accidentaL What more natural than that an ardent patriot , longing for national affluence through the stimulated growth of American industries , should be revolted in his soul against the unAmerican proposition to tax incomes , both emotions being founded in his noble patriotism and having no selfish or insincere relation one to the other ? But all the same , patriots who are also eager tariff reformers may be misled by the fury of these attacks . Randallite Democrats of the past have been known to masquerade in all sorts of disguises . The disguise of furious opposition to the income tax is easily put on , and even Senator Hill may successfully defy inquiry into his secret motives so long as he makes outward and simultaneous profession of his Democracy and his opposition to the income tax The Tariff bill will be passed in the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when one considers the dangers it has run between the Protectionist Democrats on the one side and the Sugar Trust and sugar speculators on the other , the wonder will be that it should have passed at all . The problem of dealing with the indebtedness of the Pacific Railroads to the Government does not become any easier of solution as it becomes more pressing by the approach of the time when the subsidy bcnds will begin to fall due . The Government has had to pay the interest and it will have to pay the principal , for the bonds are its own and not those of the companies . For nearly thirty years the corporations which had the aid of the Government credit , and the men who have had control of their management , have gone on with their plans and their enterprises , using up resources and incurring debts , precisely as though there were no heavy obligations to the Government to be provided for . They have done nothing that they could escape under such laws as existed for securing the Government 's rights . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made for paying them or converting the debt into a new form . The problem has been taken up in both houses of Congress and several plans have been devised in the last few years , but nothing has been really done . The House Committee on Railroads is now worrying over it and hoping for some way out during the present session , but the suggestions and propositions before it are as perplexing and irreconcilable with each other as ever . The thing to be avoided above all is foreclosure , under which the Government would get nothing but a new load of debts and some railroads that would not sell for enough to pay off the liens prior to its own , they are now so tangled up with other lines and systems . The decision of the Overseers of Harvard University to withdraw the privilege of using the college buildings for political addresses has lately been the subject of some comment from Republican journals , because it went into effect after negotiations had been opened with Senator Lodge for an address to the Harvard Republican Club . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to the address of Mr. Lodge , and was based on the neglect by the various clubs and their ' speakers of the Conditions imposed by the Overseers . Yet it , In only fair to say that Mr. Lodge is precisely the kind of a political speaker  --  and there are too many of them on both sides  --  for whom no college should provide a hall . Some college students , of course , are old enough . to take an active part in politics , but many of them are not old enough , and partisan politics has I no proper place in the part of their life which the college authorities regulate . The business men of Atlanta seem to have sounder and more practical notions of financial and fiscal legislation than some of the Georgia statesmen . We published yesterday the substance of resolutions adopted by the Chamber of Commerce of Atlanta declaring that the repeal of the purchasing clause of the Sherman law was the first step necessary to restore prosperity to the country , and that the second and equally necessary step is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps were necessary for the same reason  --  to remove the causes of uncertainty , doubt , and apprehension from the public mind . The object of both is to undo bad legislation , tending to constant confusion and business distress . Unquestionably the sentiment and opinion of the business men of the most active and progressive city of the South are those of the sound business men of the whole section .                     