@@673597

txt The greater part of the day 's session was occupied in the further consideratim of the bill to permit States and Territories to tax green/lacks and Treasury notes . The bill was passed in an amended form , the vote being 173 to 41 . Mr. Cooper presented the following as a substitute for the measure reported by , the committee , in lieu of his original bill , to meet suggested amendments : That all circulating notes of national banking associations and all United States legal-tender notes and all other notes and certificates of the United States payable on demand and circulating as currency shall be subject to taxation under the laws of any State or Territory ; provided , that any such taxation shall be exercised in the same manner and at the same rate that any such State or Territory shall tax other money or currency circulating as money within its jurisdiction . Mr. Northway ( Rep. , Ohio , ) vigorously opposed the bill , characterizing it as a breach of faith on the part of the Government . He asserted that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress would be asked to agree to the taxation of Government bonds . " You need not say , " he added , " that nobody favors that , for a political party in my State has been twice successful upon platforms demanding the taxation of Government bond.3 . " The bill was further opposed by Mr. McCall , ( Rep. , Mass. , ) Mr. Hulick , ( Rep. , Ohio , ) Mr. Grow , ( Rep. , Penn. , ) and others . Mr .. Cannon ( Rep. , Ill. , ) saw no danger in extending thy permission to the States to tax , greenbacks , because it could be withdrawn if found to be Inexpedient , and the permission did not imply any violation of good faith . The principle of the bill was further advocated by Mr. Kyle ( Dem. , Miss. , ) and Mr. Hepburn , ( Rep. , Iowa , )  --  the latter of whom offered as an amendment to Mr. Cooper s substitute for the committee bill the following proviso : That the consent of the United States is hereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tax United States notes circulating as money within such State or Territory . Proposed amendments to the bill reported by the committee were disagreed to and Mr. Cooper 's substitute was adopted , Mr. Hepburn 's amendment being rejected . On the passag ' or the bill the yeas and . nays were ordred , the vote resulting : Yeas 175 , nays 41 . At the suggestion of Mr. Outhwaite , the eulogies on the ' ate Representative George W. Houk of Ohio , set for to-morrow , were made the special order for Saturday , July 14 . The election case of Williams vs . Settle from the Fifth North Carolina District was reported in favor of Settle , Republican , the sitting member .                     