@@675077

txt As the deliberate pen of history reviews the events of the land campaign at Santiago de Cuba the impression deepens that the awful mismanagement that sent SHATTER 'S expedition from Tampa so illequipped for its work came perilously near involving us in disasters more serious even than those actually inflicted by disease and privation . In view of the almost universal and ostentatiously manifested sympathy of the Continental powers for Spain it was almost a supreme necessity that we defeat the Spaniards in every battle . It is impossible to say what foreign complications might have arisen had we suffered a reverse in any important engagement ; while at home defeat would have filled us with shame and mortification . Yet it has long been known that there was a time during those anxious and bloody days before Santiago when in the judgment of the commander of the expedition our position was by no means secure , and retreat was under consideration . It was  --  after the battle of El Caney , a stubborn but not decisive engagement , on Friday , July 1 , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in his judgment he might be compelled to retire to a stronger position a few miles to the rear . That dispatch was of course not given to the public . But Saturday and Sunday were anxious days in Washington , and throughout the country , until the news of the destruction of CERVERA 's fleet on Sunday morning , July 3 , restored everybody 's spirits and made the speedy surrender of the city inevitable . From two widely separated sources there now come commentaries upon the Santiago campaign that show how defective was our preparation to cope with even so ineffective a force as that which defended that city against us . In Mr. HENRY NORMAN 'S London cable letter to THE TIMES of yesterday a summary is given of an Edinburgh Review article upon " The United States as a Military Power , " in which the writer , evidently a military expert , declares , as reported by Mr. Noiutu that " the victories of the war were won by the regulars , whose exceptional physique , intelligence , and heroism overcame obstacles which , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quote further from Mr. NORMAN 'S summary of the article : " He shows that nothing but CERVERA 'S suicidal dash from Santiago saved SFIAFTER . S campaign from utter collapse , with an indefinite prolongation of the war . He attributes the final surrender of Santiago to Gen. Alitms 's diplomatic conduct of negotiations and pays high tribute to MILEs 's strategic ability in winning the Puerto Rican campaign with the most inadequate means and without serious collisions with the enemy . " We turn now to an account of the fight at Las Guasimas given by Gen. S. B. M. YomcG and printed in The Sun of yesterday . Gen. YOUNG commanded a brigade in WHEELER 'S division . According to his own account he planned the advance and the attack and fought the battle as he had planned it ; there was no surprise and no ambush . We quote from The Sun 's report of Gen. YOUNG 'S statement : " The General was taken dawn with fever immediately after the battle , but remained in camp two or three days . He told Gen. SHAFTER and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if he were a Spaniard in Santiago he could lead out a regiment and by circling the American camp dash into Siboney and stampede the whole expedition . He was surprised at the rapidity of the deployment of the army for attack upon Santiago , for he supposed that it would halt in a well-defended camp for some time to get up supplies , ammunition , and artillery , and to put the men In shape after the ordeal of the voyage from Tampa to Cuba . " Gen. SIIAFTER 'S dispatch and the accounts given by eye-witnesses and participants in the campaign of Santiago make it very plain that our escape there from a reverse that would have spoiled our fine unbroken record of victories was too narrow for comfort at the time or overmuch pride in the recollection .                     