@@672662

txt It is stated in dispatches from Halifax that steamship agents and immigration officers at that port have very little to say as to the assertion that large numbers of immigrants intending to enter the United States are landed at that port in order that they may avoid the inspection provided . for those who arrive at our own ports . They do ; however , make a general denial . The same dispatches show that out of 5,700 immigrants who arrived at Halifax in the first three months of this calendar year at least 1,500 came into this country . The steamship passenger lists afford evidence of this , and it is probable that ' many immigrants whose real . destination was not noted in the lists have crossed the line . It is reported that a steamship recently brought 550 Italians across the Atlantic and landed at Halifax all of them except fifteen , who were landed at Portland , Me . Officers of the Treasury Department stationed on the border say that thousands of immigrants from Europe entered this country from Canada , in ApriL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has yet been made . There is positive proof that hundreds of immigrants from Europe who would have been excluded by a strict enforcement of the law if they had sought to gain an entrance at this port have entered the State oi New-York by way of Canada during the last seven years , and have become inmates of the State 's asylums and almshouses . Since 1883 the State Board of Charities has sent back to Europe 232 such immigrants . They were lunatics or idiots or feeble-minded persons or were public charges on account of other disabilities , and all of them came in by way of Canada . They did not become so disabled and dependent after they arrived in the State , but were in the same condition when they left their homes on the other side of the ocean . There is absolute proof of this , and it is also known that they were sent to this country by city officers , organizations , or individuals who knew their condition and shipped them to this State to avoid the expense of supporting them in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this . The immigrants in questien were wilt hack to thode /rho had shinned them to America , and in no case has there been any complaint ' or protest from those who received them . Undoubtedly many other persons-of the same class have been sent from Europe by way of Canada to other States . Undoubtedly there are now in the asylums and almshouses of this State many such immigrants whom the board can not send back for want of such evidence as has been procured and used in the cases already mentioned . The facts show that the immigration laws have been evaded by the shipment of insane persons and idiots to this State through Canada . Is it probable that they have been evaded in the same way by no other immigrants of the prohibited classes I The Treasury Department should no longer postpone the extension of the inepection system to the northern boundary .                     