@@672974

txt Since the excitement over Bismarck 's fall , in March , 1890 , there has been no such other spectacular upheaval in German politics as that which has this week set Europe on end with anxiety . Everybody has been saying to himself for a long time that if Bismarck did not keep a closer watch over his tongue ho would get into trouble . My dispatch last Sunday . it may be remembered , reflected this general German feeling . He could not possibly push the imperial patience much further , but when during the present week he went to hitherto unheard-of lengths in conniving at the publication of the Augsburg interview in which he spoke over and over again contemptuously of the Emperor as " Derjunge Mann . " and delivered himself of a long tirade of sneers , accusations , and insults against his successor in office , and the echoes of this diatribe were promptly drowned by the threatening official thunder of the lord-Deutsche Alloniebto Zeitang , everybody was as frightened as if there had been no anticipatiou whatsoever of the trouble . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day or two superseded in the English press the everlasting subject of a general election . Public opinion has settled down now to a conviction that Bismarck has had his lesson and henceforth will keep still . This feeling , perhaps , is based on insufficient premises . It is true that the incident has served to show that almost the entire newspaper press of the empire , Tory , Liberal , Clerical , and Radical alike , takes sides vehemently against him , and that he has got no real following anywhere among the substantial citizenship of Germany . Evou in Munich , where he counted on his greatest personal strength , the Town Council by a big majority voted down a proposition to do him special honor . If Kaiser Wilhelm and Caprivi had arranged the whole affair they could not have secured a more impressive object lesson as to where the true sympathies of the German nation are . But it may be a mistake to assume that all this will have the desired effect on Bismarck . He used to temper his apparent willfulness with a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old days , and a good deal can be said . for Eugen Richter 's theory , in the Ircisinnige Zeiiang , that his mind is now failing with age and the wear and tear of wrathful passions and that this former prudence is a lapsed quantity in his present mental outfit . A curious parallel between Bismarck and Parnell has been often pointed out in these dispatches . It has never been more striking than in the past few days , when the hitherto haughty and reserved Prince Chancellor , who used to disdain newspaper interviewers , and spoke only guardedly by the book when he consented to talk , has now excitedly sought every channel of publicity possible for wild and reckless harangues , and has poured out a mass of conflicting statements , the worthlessness of which is apparent even to the poorest political memory . The very pitiableness of these latest manifestations has increased . the prevailing hope in Germany that he will be induced to keep quiet and avoid the necessity of prosecution . It is not only that this would certainly go against him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he would say and do things which would irretrievably smash his reputation and make Germany ridiculous . It is interesting to note that the few writers in the press outside of Germany who are using this painful episode to belittle William and create an impression that he is a flippant youngster who is striving to persecute the great and good man are the same writers who persistently attack liberalism in England and France and labor to misrepresent every broadening and reforming impulse all over Europe . As was said . on a memorable occasion , one measures the value of a reforming force by the character of its enemies . It is important testimony to the truth of my theory about William that , in spite of his curious , not to say whimsical , way of doing things , he is really a great liberalizing power in Germany , and that we find . all the chronic antagonists of Gladstone and home rule now heatedly espousing Bismarck 's cause . Although the desultory firing on the skirmish line of uncontested seats has begun , the great electoral battle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold elections . Two are Scotch and three London , the rest being provincial English . By Monday at midnight we shall , therefore , have the result of the first general engagement as a basis for reckoning . Of these boroughs thirtyeight are Tory and two Unionist , but in only eight cases did their majorities six years ago exceed 1,000 , and in nineteen they were under 500 . The Liberals feel confident of winning at least ten of these seats . They think they have chances in fourteen others . This is about all that can be said until the returns begin to come in . The Monday elections will be eminently representative of the whole list of borough contests , of which there are 231 in England alone . All parts of the kingdom will be tested by the votes of such towns as Bradford , Cambridge , Chatham , Carlisle , Coventry , Derby , Durham , Exeter , Gloucester , Hastings , Lincoln , Northampton , Nottingham . Preston , Reading , Stafford , Stockport , Winchester , Worcester , and York . These will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a majority , for that is beyond dispute , but whether the rising tide of Radicalism , on the crest of which he is riding , will be high enough to sweep along with it even the borough or urban constituencies . If Monday 's ballotings show this to be the case , then hit majority in the next House will be in the neighborhood of 100 , with a possibility of oven more . On Tuesday over a , third of tericloii'il I sixty divisions will vote . and that night it will be possible still more exactly to estimate the proportions of the tidal wave . If anything like the victories won in the ' Council elections in March is maintained , what remains of the Tory-Unionist retreat will be turned into a rout ; but in receiving all these borough returns it should be remembered that Gladstone 's chief reliance is on the county divisions , which poll much later ; that is to say , chiefly during the following week and the next . Remote Orkney and the Shotlauds do not vote until July 20 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accident of being the first member returned for the new Parliament , no opposition having been offered . to his hopelessly Tory seat . This affords him an inviting chance to go around and make things unpleasant for his party friends in other districts , but it is doubtful if ho avails himself of the opportunity . His African trip and other matters have entirely changed Lord Randolph . His rough , full beard is only one of many signs of the sweeping metamorphosis . Ho slouches now in his gait , wears loose and shabby clothes , and displays hardly the vaguest interest in things Parliamentary and . politicaL The governing Tory clique , which still bears many scars from his claws , uneasily has suspected this to be a mere tactical device and was apprehensive that he would wake up at the wrong moment intent on a fresh campaign of mischief ; but his closest friends say he has lost his interest public matters and will never make a running in a party race again . Mr. Stanley is not proving so much fun as was anticipated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only ticket meetings , and so has audiences which hear him quietly . This is rather worse for him , because now his speeches are heard and reported and they are the most amazing farragos of egotistic bombast ever dreamed of . A number of big employers of labor are opening their factories to him and putting on all the pressure of wealth and power they can command to help him , but the Liberal workers are very confident that ho will be beaten by a big majority . That Maxim gun he took across Africa is being made the most of by Miss Coleus ? and a host of other philanthropic women more or less connected with Africa , who have gone into the division . work against him , and " nigger butcher is the principal hostile cry he hears when he drives through Lambeth . This in itself is effective , for though Lambeth men like to ' , mat their wives , and commit rather more than their sharesof London crimes of violence , they have - very soft hearts about cruelty on the Congo . But what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of other Unionist candidates in London , is the excited municipal reform movement which worked such wonders last March , and seems to have only gained added strength and fervor since then . One gets an inspiring promise of a utopian London from Tuesday 's session of the County Council , which marks the beginning . of the constructive period of this newly-elected body . It is , of course , heavily Radical , and perhaps there may have been just the least taste of electioneering in its decision to abolish the contract system of lighting and watering roads , repairing on the Embankment and . bridge , and start its own electric plant , stables , wharves , cFec. ; but if they are able to do contractors ' work at contractors ' prices minus contractors ' profits nobody will grumble . One can understand New-Yorkers being incredulous . Numerous English municipalities , and notably Birmingham and Manchester , already do this and . even , more . London is in earnest in a resolve to lead them all in efficiency and economy . Vastly more important was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street from Holborn to the Strand , to sweep a broad path through the ancient rookeries between Drury Lane and Lincoln 's Inn Fields , creating one of the finest thoroughfares in Europe . The very fact that the Chairman - who wrote and presented the report is Frederic Harrison , the famous Comtist philosopher and essayist , gives one new ideas of the composition of this Council and the splendor of the dreams they are dreaming as about to come in London . This 100 feet wide Broadway will enter the Strand . with a terrace in the centre , round which the roadways will curve down on each side 400 feet apart , the noble old church , St. Mary 's le Strand , standing alone in this space . A Council will control the achitecture along the whole avenue , and probably build a palatial . County Hall for itself on the terrace , giving London for the first time a municipal building rivaling those of Paris , Vienna , and Rome . Incidentally the Council is likely to take over the task of building now homes for thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these slums , and , if undertaken , this will be done upon a comprehensive plan , going far beyond . the present notions of model , tenements . Perhaps I seem to talk too much about these purely local politics and projects of London , but , in truth , they represent more of the realities which modern America is coucerued in than all the national and imperial affairs of combined Europe . No two countries in the world have identical problems in the high . state of politics . All big cities are confronted by exactly the same problems of an honest and efficient municipal self-management . Coming so late into the field , escaping from the grotesque and crippling fetters of the vestry misrule and the muddling of beadledom , long after every other English-speaking metropolis had . gained the freedom of control of its own affairs , London , no doubt , is prone to take exaggerated views of what she can do and . to minimize the dangers - which have swamped other communities ; but , on the other hand , the experiment is now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of personal jobbery in the Council , and the character and position of the men who shape the legislation of the new body is even higher than in the original Council . How long this will last it is hard to predict , but I feel that the present fact in itself is a splendid thing . Ten years ago no one could have dreamed that London would be in the vanguard of progressive municipalities. trying to get experiments in local co-operation and municipal socialism , and committing the English democracy to improvements and social reforms more artistic , more broadly philanthropic , than either imperial Paris or republican Paris ever attempted .. After years of popular agitation and some months of decisive Parliamentary action , the long-standing quarrel between Norway and Sweden has come to a crisis . The Norwegian ultimatum , backed by the practically unanimous national sentimeht , has been delivered . to King Oscar , and his decision on it can not be delayed more than a few more days . Judging merely by the census returns , putting Sweden 's 5,000,000 against Norway 's 2,000,000 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sweden is dull , slow , unambitious , and rural , with no commerce to speak of and with mediaeval faith in high thrills and a feudal aristocracy . Norway is alert , pushing , democratic , possessing the largest commercial fleet in Europe after the British , keenly alive to the advantages of free trade , and , moreover , fired by enthusiasm for that strange Norse renaissance which is now so powerfully affecting the dramatic and poetic literature of the world . That Sweden , in plain defiance of the terms of the original compact . between the two nations , and by more force of numbers , should persist in hampering Norway 's commerce by stupid tariff laws and denying her the right to control her own economic and political relations with foreign States , has at last become insufferable , and Norway has served notice that she will stand it no longer . What will come next is known only to the gods , but the conflict now joined can not fail to attract the attention of the whole world , and is likely to be fraught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? This balance of power , which used to be such a familiar phrase and is now again coming into use , will probably not be seriously disturbed by Oscar Wilde 's declared intention of renouncing British subjectivity and becoming a French citizen . His issue with the Lord Chamberlain as to whether it is seemly to make John the Baptist a figure in a drama as the rejected lover of Salome and bring in a wax effigy of his head on a salver for the divine Sarah to moan over and fondle involves many nice points ; but it is not calculated to disturb the European peace . Oscar 's threat , following George Moore 's abortive demonstration and Whistler 's later protesting flight across the Channel , opens up a new and enticing field of action against British Philistinism . We . can all threaten now to go to France if the British matron continues to put petticoats on our statues and to refuse a license to our little dramatic oddities , but how France will take it is not yet clear . Perhaps it is on account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two rival Salons of Paris are now earnestly discussing the project of a reunion . Committees sat around a common dinner table last evening debating the terms of reconciliation , and it is likely that we shall hear next week that it ' has been ' decided to come together again . ' Without knowing much about it , I hazard a guess that Meissonier 's death removes the most considerable of the bones of contention between the two factions . H. F.                     