@@673466

txt To-day the original copy of the Declaration of Independence was withdrawn from public exhibition in the State Department library , made into a roll , and placed in a tin box for filing with the archives Of the Government . The rapid fading of the text of the declaration and the deterioration of the parchment on which it is engrossed , from exposure to the light and on account of age , rendered it impracticable for the department to allow it to be exhibited or handled longer . In lieu of the original document , a fac-simile will be placed on exhibition . Some years ago it was noticed that the ink on the original parchment was fading , and it has been gradually growing fainter . Recently chemists were called on to examine it , and they gave the opinion that the full strength of the ink could be brought out again by coating it with a chemical solution . But this experiment was not tried , owing to the fear that the precious paper might be injured in some way , and also because no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the authority of an act of Congress . It required an act of Congress to bring the declaration from Philadelphia to Washington . Partial Victory for Col. ICearney . Surrogate Arnold yesterday denied the ' application for the appointment of a receiver of the estate of Frederick A. Lovecraft , who , on Oct. 2G , 1893 , committed suicide in his apartments , at Broadway and Thirtieth Street . Col. H. S. Kearney , the residuary legatee , was appointed temporary administrator , and the New-York Security and Trust Company was designated as the depository for all funds . Col. Kearney 's bond has been fixed at $10,000 . It was said that , outside of the insurance policy , the estate would not yield over $10,000 after the debts are paid . The trial of the contest over the will has been set down for March 12 . Big Water Main in Pittsburg Bursts . PITTSBURG , Feb. ** business portion of Pittsburg to-day suffered from a serious water famine . The thirty-six-inch main , the largest in the city , and the one through which Lawrenceville and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near the reservoir at 4:30 o'clock this morning . A huge volume of water poured down the heavy grade , carrying everything before it with such force that the tracks of the Alleghany Valley Railroad near MornIngside station were completely blocked with debris . An accommodation train ran into the slide , but , beyond derailing the engine , no serious damage was done . Forgers Rifling Letter Boxes . Banks received warning yesterday from Postmaster Dayton that letter boxes in the city have lately been rifled by experts in forgery , for the evident purpose of getting bank checks from letters and forging indorsements to them . Paying tellers are accordingly asked to detain all persons preseating checks the indorsements upon which may seem at all suspicious .                     