@@673681

txt The Twentysecond Congressional District Republican Convention is no nearer to a nomination than when it first assembled , on Sept. 14 . The three hundred and thirtieth ballot today was a weary repetition of the vast majority of others , and was as follows : Gen. N. AI . Curtis of St. Lawrence , 15 ; Gen. W. B. French of Saratoga , 9 , and Judge A. D. L. Baker of Fulton , 6 . The supporters of French and Baker again ex-. changed compliments to-day by uniting respectively for each other 's candidates , after which , for a few ballots , Saratoga voted successively for A. H. Parker , J. M. Kellogg , W. H. Remington , C. 0 . Tappan , V. , P. Abbott , and W , L. Proctor , all of St. Lawrence County , but the delegation of 15 from that county could not be persuaded to abandon Curtis for even a moment . While balloting will be resumed on Monday afternoon , it is doubtful if the deadlock can be broken . Democrats hope that It will remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . may be said , in the first place , that neither of the three candidates is entirely satisfactory to the men who are clamoring for his nomination . Judge Baker , the Fulton County man , was never strong with the rank and file of the Republican Party . and at this time he is distasteful to the politicians . Indeed , it is said by those who ought to know , that of the six delegates from Fulton and Hamilton who are now voting for him , only two actually desire his nomination . Gen. W. B : French , who is supported by the Saratoga delegates , is a shoulder-strap soldier , who does not command the friendship of the veterans , and is distrusted by the powerful element in the Republican Party in Saratoga County represented by ex-Congressman George . West and Senator Donaldson . It is an open secret that , had it been believed by the men who dominate the party in Saratoga County that Gen. French could secure the nomination , he would not have had the delegates . In St. Lawrence County , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been , %van the rank and file . The General is pugnacious and independent to a degree that irritates his fellow-politicians  --  a condition that is aggravated by his selfish devotion to his own interests in the persistent demand for office . There is a large crop of politicians in St. Lawrence County , however , all hungry for office , and the General has made himself so solid with the people that it is not deemed good politics to oppose him , and thus it is that St. Lawrence sends fifteen of her shrewdest politicians to the Congressional Convention to protect the interests of a man whom they would like to see permanently shelved . The situation presents another curious feature . Two years ago the convention was dead-locked , as this one is . Fulton , Hamilton , and Saratoga , with fifteen delegates , uniting against St. Lawrence 's fifteen . Gen. Curtis finally secured the nomination through a deal which Involved future apportionment and contingent considerations . Fulton County now sets up the claim that one of the considerations of the deal was that Gen. Curtis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave the field open to the counties at the south end of the district . In spite of this , however . prominent Republicans of Gloversville and Johnstown went into conference with the General several months ago and agreed to support him for the nomination this year . Subsequently , when the Fulton and Hamilton delegates were elected , a resolution was passed Instructing ahem to vote as a unit , for the purpose , as then openly proclaimed , of making the delegation solid for Curtis . It was not until several weeks later that Judge Baker entered the field as Fulton County 's candidate , and the unit rule was invoked to take the delegation away from Curt is . In Saratoga , also , a mixed condition prevails . The delegates from that county now declare , with great positiveness , that in the convention of two years ago , Gen. Curtis promised to throw St. Lawrence County for Gen. French this year in return for his own nomination at that time , and they have produced some strong affidavits in support of their claim . In proving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom those pledges were made of party treachery of the basest sort . Two years ago Senator Harvey Donaldson was the Saratoga candidate for the Congressional nomination . Was he betrayed ? If the present claim of the French men is made good , the answer must be in the affirmative . As to Gen. Curtis , there seems to be no doubt that he made such representations two years ago as led the Fulton. and Saratoga delegates to believe that he would not now be a candidate . Neither is there any doubt that he is willing to make similar representations now . It has come to be pretty well understood , however , that the General 's political declarations are all made with a mental reservation , and they are not likely to be received at face value this year .                     