@@673480

txt The so-called " Seigniorage " bill of Mr. Bland passed the House of Representatives yesterday by a majority of 39 . There were 19 Republican votes in its favor and 49 Democrats against it- Certainly the bill is mischievous in principle and would be in effect . Yet the long struggle over it in the House has hardly attracted attention , much less created any excitement in the business community . Every one feels confident that the bill can never become a law because the President would never permit it , and would have no hesitation in vetoing it . Even without that assurance , there is a strong impression that the silver craze Is dying out , and that in this last measure the silver faction is , as Mr. Patterson recently said , simply marching off the field with its side arms . The surrender is none the less made . In sentencing Dooley , the Election Inspector convicted of making a false return , to five years in the State prison , Judge Barrett took occasion to characterize the crime of which he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taw " and an " intentional deed for cor-upt purposes , " and to express regret that the " people behind " the offender could not be brought before him for an even severer punishment . Perhaps if the spirit which Judge Barrett displays in dealing with crimes of this kind prevailed in the District Attorney 's office , means might be found for bringing some of those - people " to justice who make tools of Election Inspectors for their own corrupt ends . There are " district leaders " almost as absolute in their control of election officers in some of the districts as was at Gravesend , and it might be possible to prove their responsibility for crimes which they instigated and procured . Not only the Inspectors who violated the law , but the voters who were guilty of fraud , were induced to such action by politicians whom nobody has tried to bring to justice . There ought to be some way of bringing those primarily responsible for these crimes before Judge Barrett for sentence . e The combination commonly called the Lead Trust is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in making paint rather than in the duty on lead ore or pig lead The present duty on white lead , 3 cents a pound , is equal to about 75 per cent . and is prohibitory . The Wilson bill , as passed by the House , reduces this duty to 1 1-2 cents , a rate which is certainly high enough . We published a few days ago a letter in which a company outside of the combination frankly admitted that some progress toward an agreement between the combination and the outside manufacturers had been made , but that the completion of the negotiations had been postponed until the new duty should be fixed , in order that these proceedings and the contemplated advance of prices might not attract the attention of Congress and cause a further reduction of the duty . The discussion of the question who is likely to succeed Major Gen. Howard on his retirement from active service seems little premature , inasmuch as this officer does not reach the statute age of siXty-four until next November . But it Chas undoubtedly been precipitated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of absence for a trip tO Europe , which would begin in June and last beyond the date of his retirement . In that case , should Gen. Miles prefer coming to New-York , to take charge of the Department of the Atlantic , he would undoubtedly be able to do so ; and in any case either his present department or Gen. Howard 's department would be left vacant on the latter officer 's departure for Europe . Hence it is suggested that the filling of the vacant command might offer a hint as to who the next Major General will be . But in point of fact the vacancy may not be filled , the department being temporarily put under Gen. Schofield 's charge ; and even if it were , the assignment to command would be a matter in which the President personally would not concern himself , whereas he will nominate the next Major General . There are two ways of looking at the declaration of the young Emperor of Germany that he has been placed by God in the post of Emperor and King , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be taken as a declaration of absolute independence , for of course there is no finding out what the Almighty expects from such a servant , except through the servant himself . Or it may be taken as a practically academic reassertion of an old doctrine which still has a vague hold on the minds of men , but which influences them only indirectly and very slightly where their definite interests are involved . And this is probably nearer the right view , for William neglects no purely human means of securing a majority in either the Prussian or the German Legislature for his policy , and , with or without divine guidance , is a very shrewd politician .                     