@@674557

txt The events of today in the Pitsburg coal-mining district , indicate that there is trouble ahead . The strike has been on for two weeks , with no cause for alarm in any quarter , but to-day the pangs of hunger and mutterings of discontent have taken tangible form , and before morning 1,000 miners will have marched on Cannonsburg- , the objective point being the Boone and Allison mines . A few days ago the operators of the mines made a requisition on the Sheriff of Washington County for additional Deputies . It is supposed that there are at leaSt thirty Deputies at each mine , well armed , for any friction that may take place . To-day the miners of the Miller 's and Tom 's Run district held mass meetings . The gatherings were attended by men , - women , and children . The women did not lag in the interest taken . Many of them openly branded their husbands as cowards . They argued that they might as well fight as starve . The men said the victory could be won providing every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is supplied would join the general movement of idleness . Plans for bringing out the miners at work in the Boone and Allison mines were dis cussed . Special committees were sent from one meeting to another . It was decided to march on to Cannonsburg mines to-night . The Ressing Brass Band and the Cecil Drum ' Corps were engaged , and the march across the country is on . The procession will be made up of three divisions from the different sections . They will mobilize at Bridgeville , and take up the tramp of twelve miles across the country . A miner who was very enthusiastic over the plan said there would be at least 1,000 men in line . It was learned late to-night that the scheme has been in process of formulation for several days . It was talked of several days ago , and got to the ears of the operators of the Cannonsburg mines , hence their decision to increase their force of deputies . The miners expect to be at the mines when the offending diggers are ready to go to work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going into the mines . Some of the conservative leaders say there will be no bloodshed . They say that when the colliers see such a big demonstration in favor of what they term a peaceful battle for bread they can not enter the mines and retain their manhood . Just what the result will be it is impossible to tell . The men are known to be in a condition of semi-insanity on the strike question . They have been goaded on by suffering wives . daughterS , and sweethearts . The negotiations to Induce the coal operators of this district to sign a uniformity agreement are still going on . The . Commissioners having it in elim , ge feel as if they would be able to accomplish it . ' - Secretary G. Prank Schmid said to-night that the prospects were brighter . than they had been before since negotiation 's began . He said that within the next few days powerful and potent influences would be brought to bear on the operators , and with the strike in the present condition , the indications were for successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators are ' not counting on arbitration , it was announced to-night by a prominent operator that if the strike in West Virginia does not prove successful . the Pittsburg operators will make an effort early next week to start their mines at the sixty-nine-cent rate , the rate now asked by the strikers . They will claim that as they are willing to pay the price asked , the law must protect them in the operations of their mines .                     