@@674740

txt There has been mucth talk here to-day about an alleged new communication from Spain to the United States proposing a plan of more liberal autonomy for the Cubans in order to induce them to abandon their war for independence and agree to a settlement by the terms of which they would obtain almost absolute control of the affairs of the island . According to the positive assertions of two members of the Cabinet there is no basis for this talk . No intimation has been received here  --  or if it has , it has not been communicated by the President to his Cabinet  --  forecasting an offer by Spain of a plan of autonomy that would give Cuba as free a government as Great Britain has accorded to Canada . It is admitted that the President- never has ceased to hope that Spain would make some liberal offer to Cuba , and it is understood that he would undertake to secure the approval of a plan of that sort by Congress ; but if Minister Polo has been instructed to propose such a plan , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far have not developed a tendency that can lead to the hope that such a proposition is forthcoming . The Spanish news from Cuba is that the Autonomists there insist that the plan now on trial is successful . Before a new and broader plan could be submitted to the United States for the Cubans , it would be regarded as wise , if not necessary , to consult with the large body of Autonomists who are loyal to Spain , but convinced that Spanish rule no longer can be maintained as it has been for many years . The Administration is informed daily by Minister Woodford of the talk at Madrid by the Spanish officials , in order to keep the President acquainted with the sentiment in Spain . Whatever talk Mr. Woodford ' hears about autonomy he repeats , but he has not intimated that the Sagasta . Ministry was about to offer such a plan as has been outlined to-day in some of the newspapers . " It would not be likely , " said a member of the Cabinet , " for the President to propose a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crown authority without first hearing how that plan was regarded by Cuba . No plan that does not obtain the sanction of the Cubans will settle the controversy , and it Is preposterous to suggest that the United States will say to the insurgents that the Government of the United States will guarantee the good behavior of the Cubans under a plan which they may reject and refuse to accept , upon the agreement of Spain and the United States . " Such an agreement has only to be mentioned to make it evident that the United States will not enter into any such entangling alliance . " To a well-informed man who spoke of the reported new proposition , it appeared to be On/v-an echo-of the report of a - we ? rc ego , - when- Oscar S. Straus - outlined practicallY - the plan republished this morning .                     