@@674372

txt The Board of Trade and Transportation , as we have said before , is doing a very notable service in eliciting the opinions of all men whose opinions are presumably worth taking- upon the regulation of the height of buildings in New York . It has succeeded in bringing out a number of opinions from various points of view which are of real value to students of the subject who are trying to make up their minds what measure of restriction ought to he enforced . That some measure should be enforced is the opinion of everybody who is entitled to an opinion and whose own personal and immediate interest does not render his opinion worthless . But on Monday the committee had a bewildering witness before it in the person of ' Mr. JEFFERSON M. LEVY , who dissented from this consensus and maintained that everybody who knew anything about the matter was all wrong . Whether Mr. LEVY was summoned by the committee as an expert or . appeared as a volunteer is not disclosed by the reports . But unless Mr. LEVY is interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to account for his testimony or to understand why it should have been invoked at all . The testimony of Mr. LEVY is that the skyscraper is a public benefit from every possible point of view . The more we have of them the better , and the higher the healthier . The effect of lining a street with tall buildings , according to Mr. LEVY , is " to make the street look broader . " He does not affirm that there is absolutely more sunlight in the lower stories of these buildings than there would be if the buildings opposite were away , but he does say that " the statement of every physician of prominence in New York is that the people have better health and more air space than before in these first-class buildings . " " High buildings improved the sewers . " Moreover , they are beautiful . " Everybody coming here admired them . " Finally , although he did not " believe that people would in future build higher than fifteen stories , " yet " to make fifteen stories the limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the full courage of his convictions and does not scruple to express his scorn of the people who differ from him . The Chief of the Fire Department has given testimony against the high buildings , and Mr. LEVY " does not think he should remain as an official . " The President of the Board of Health has given testimony against them , and Mr. LEVY cuttingly reminds him that he is " paid to benefit the city and not to ruin it . " It is possible that a man interested in the multiplication of tall buildings might have something to say In their defense which it would be worth the while of the committee and of the public to hear . But as evidently Mr. LEVY is not that man . His recklessness defeats its own purpose , and we do not remember having encountered less circumspect statements about a matter of public interest than those Which he addressed to the committee .                     