@@672805

txt The Sun has proved So good a friend of Mr. Mills in bis canvass for the Speakership by suggesting a series of pro gressive parallels that other newspapers could complete that it will be glad of the opportunity that Senator Pugh of . Alabama has provided for adding one more to tho series of propositions . Senator Pugh has been prompted by the letter of Senator Carlisle in behalf of Mr. Mills and the maintenance of the tariff issue as the paramount one for Democrats at this time to rash into the Post in another letter . He insists , in response to Senator Carlisle , that tariff reform and free silver must go together as of equal importance , although be strives to make silver the more popular of the two issues . a ow hero is the new parallel : If the Democrats of the Fifty-second Congress elect Mills Speaker , because Senator Carlisle commends him as the best representative of the tariff reform as the leading issue , they will indicate , by Mills 's election , the determination of the party to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the Democrats of the Fiftysecond Congress elect Mr. Crisp Speaker , because Senator Pugh insists that the party must stand equally for free silver , they will declare , by Crisp 's election , that tariff reform is not to be the leading issue in the Presidential campaign . In his letter , after quoting at length parts of Mr. Carlisle 's approval of Mr. Mills as a candidate and his opinions as to the disposal of the silver question , Mr. Pugh sass : If the friends of silver are to be classed as unwise counselors and unsafe leaders , because they Insist that the silver issue shall not De ? abandoned or ignored ' in the Presidential contest of 1692. but that it shall go hand in hand and receive the same treatment with all other issues made in the Democratic platform , especially when they are so classed and condemned at the instance and In the interest of those Democrats who throttled the freecoinage hill in the last House of Hepresentativee , all the friends of silver have to say is that they are accustomed to such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vindication of their convictions and integrity . As Democrats and friends of free coinage. they protest against being retired from the councils of the i Democratic Party because they are unwilling to allow the Corporal 's guard of gold representatives to dictate to tae friends of silver and silence and postpone them in their just demands until the veto power can be put in the hands of a Democrat for four years , to be exercised against any adjustment of the silver question except on the formula to De Tarnished by the wise ounnselors and sale leaders to be found only in the neighborhood of Wall Street . " It Is easier to tell what Mr. Crisp is for by - what his supporters say than it is from what he says himself in this matter of free silver . Mr. Pugs is undoubtedly for Mr. Crisp , as many of the Alabama delegation are supposed to be . Ho is also for tree silver , and , overlooking the fact that the sagacity of Mr. Croker in treating the silver question undoubtedly saved the State of - New- York toMr . Flower , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohio , and that sound-money doctrine elected Russell in Massachusetts , he pups into the Speakershlp campaign to reply to Ma Carlisle 's recommendation that Mr. Mills be elected and silver kept in the batikground , just as Gen. A. J. Warner of Ohio , the Silver-bill Democrat , who insisted naton having the silver plank in the Ohio platform , arrives in Washington to support Crisp as the best man for the tree-silver men to elect . Such friends will kill Mr. Crisp with mistaken kindness , Ho will scarcely win in his contest for the tipeakorship under the flag-of free silver .. and protection . Mr. Crisp was offered an opportunity to-night to say something about the utterances of Mr. Yugh on free silver . He could have saidasmnoh as he chose , regardless of space occupied , to ex plain why he considered that free silver should be made a prominent issue or an obscure one . Mr. Mills has already been heard upon this question . He has spoken publicly , and has advised that the Democratic Party should pat away one and stick to the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Ttills Mr. Crisp was alone in his headquarters , to-night when Thu TIMES 's correspondent asked him his opinion of Senator Pugh 's letter . " Really , I do n't care to say anything about . it . " he said . " A man who is a candidate for a ' position should avoid being quoted as much as possible . Talking for the newspaaers is not good policy . " But it would interest many people to la:low whether Fee agree with ianator Pugh that the silver issue should be kept in line with the tariff-reform issue in the coming contest . Won'tyou express yourself on this question I " ' " I must decline to do so , " Mr. Crisp replied . " I do n't wish to be discourteous , but I really . can not discuss this subject at this time . " This was the most that Mr. Crisp would say relative to the Pugh effusion . Can the New-York or Massachusetts delegation make any mistake about whether the Speaker shall be elected with his opinions on the silver question so imperfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to express them 3 This is the time to be heard and this is ' Me time for members to hear and decide . The Influence of Hill , it is intimated , will be brought to bear to constrain some of the New York members to vote for Mr. Crisp . As Mr. Crisp 's supporters , Mr. Pugh and Gen. A. J. Warner , are free-silver men . who believe that free silver is just as important as lower taxes , and are fairly representative of the Democratio opposition to Mr. Mills , will Hill be correctly representing the State of New-York in requiring any of its Representatives , elected upon the tariff issue , to come to the support of a candidate who silently permits himself to be advocated by the avowed.champion of the free-silver lathe 1 If Mr. Cummings or Mr. Dunphy or Mr. Fellows vote for a candidate who is acceptable to the mete who insistuponmakin g theissue of coins of doubtful value the main proposition before the party in the next election , it is plain that they will disregard the precautions so wisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who most sagaciously refused to permit the Governor 's silver notions to beincorporated In the platform . The various candidates for the Speakership have been quite busy to-day . A number of Democratic representatives have arrived within the last twenty-four hours , and all of them have visited the different headquarters . George Fred Williams and Sherman Hoar of Massachusetts came this afternoon . They will be round working for Mr. Mills to-morrow afternoon . George D. Wise of Virginia appeared at Mr. Mills'a headquarters this morning and soon afterward it was announced that he was heart and soul for the Texas candidate . Mr. Wise had previously been regarded by some as a supporter of Mr. Crisp . The Illinois delegation was reinforced by Repreeentatives Benjamin T. Cable , J. R. Williams , and Allen C. Durburrow , and these gentlemen were found at Mr. Springer 's headquarters early . " Long " Jones of . Chicago spent most of the day with Mr. Springer , and some one was - wicked enough to say that Mr. Springer indulged the Lope that he would operate as a mascot . FourDemocratic Representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and James D. Richardson  --  reported at Mr. 's parlor , and throughout the day that statesman was in a most comfortable frame of mind It is a fact that is generally commented upon that of all the candidates Judge Crisp is the only one whose rooms are not open to the public . The visitor to the headquarters of Mr. Mills or Mr. Springer or Mr. alemillin finds the door wide open and a cheery welcome is always to be bad . When Mr. Mills Sees a man at the entrance to his apartments he bids him enter and be seated . Once inside , the visitor is loth to depart , particularly if Mr. Mills has a good story on tap , which is generally the case . Mr. Springer will leave a knot of men with whom he is conversing to greet a new-comer . The a.tme is true of Mr. . M. Crisp , for some reasou that is not apparent , has chosen au entirely different policy . Ht. , door is permitted to remain open only long enough to g Ire entrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in vain to-day . There Is no placard announcing the position of Lis headquarters . One man opened all the doors except the right one in the corridor this morn- 1 Ina and then Went away disgusted . The person who manages to strike the right number discovers that Mr. Crisp has an inner sanctum  --  a small chamber opening from the main apartment . Mr. Crisp seems to prefer his snug retreat . Except at meal time , he sticks close to his quarters . Candidates Mills and Springer have each private rooms , but they use them very little , When Mr. M  --  Millin desires to talk confidentially to a visitor he draws him into a corner of his big parlor Mr. Crisp is cordial enough when once he is reached . The trouble is to find him . One feature of to-day 's proceedings has been the visiting between the friends of Mills , Fprincer , and . Most of the Springer delegation spent some time with Mr. Mills this afternoon . Representative Tom L. Johnson of Ohio . who is working industriously for Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found time to pay his respects to the other candidates . Representative Owen Scott , one of Mr. Springer 's right-hand men , listened to some of Mr. Mills 's excellent stories this afternoon and told a few himself.mor the New-York Representatives are Lore to-day , and they are not expected to reach the city before Monday . By that time the fight will be on iu earnest or definitely settled for Mills The struggle for the minor ? faces is daily growing warmer . Ex-Representative Malan of Pennsylvania is the latest aspirant for Clerkship honors . He arrived to-day , and the supporters of ex-Representative Kerr of Pennsylvania . who has been in the field for the Clerkship for some time , are considerably worried . To-night it is reported that a determined effort will be made by Kerr 's friends to induce Mr. Maish to withdraw , as a prolonged contest by two candidates from the same State will be fatal to both .                     