@@673872

txt The world hears a great deal from the critics of fiction , about wild imaginings , impossible situations , stories that are spoiled by beings far removed from the plane Of human experience , and of plots so far-fetched and extravagant as to be utterly absurd . Yet , strange as it sounds , We believe that these complaints are usually ill-founded . There are plenty of bad plots and foolish situations , but their badness and foolishness consist far less often in their impossibility than is popularly imagined . A man may , or course , sit down and concoct a monster , but as a rule the human imagination is singularly limited and confined . In the region of the human comedy , it seldom or never travels outside the region of actual experience , while even in the romance of marvel and adventure , the novelist as often as not is only " a little previous , " ? that is , Ole merely invents and discovers quicker than the legitimate discoverer , A remarkable instance of imagination being unable to overstep the bounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow fiction , is afforded by the discovery of helium . One might have imagined that when Prof. Ramsay discovered a new element in the air , he was out of reach of the novelist . Not a bit of it . Edgar Allan Poe had been there before him . Or if we put it the other way , when Edgar ' Allan Poe thought he was inventing an ? impossible new gas which Should enable Hans Pfaall to float his balloon , he was merely roughly sketching out in advance the work to be done in a London laboratory . The Lancet of last Saturday quotes the passage from Edgar Allan Poe , in which Hans Pfaall describes how he produced his new gas , lighter than hydrogen . Here is the ex-tract : I then took opportunities of conveying by night , to a retired situation east of Rotterdam , five iron-bound casks , to contain about fifty gallons each , and one of a larger size ; six tin tubes , 3 inches in diameter , properly shaped , and 10 feet in length ; a quantity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I shall not name , and a dozen demijohns of a very common acid , The gas to be formed from these latter materials is a gas never yet generated by any other person than myself  --  or , at least , never applied to any similar purpose . I can only venture to say here that it is a constituent of azote , so long considered irreducible , and that its density is about 87.4 times less than that of hydrogen . It is tasteless , but not odorless ; burns , when pure . With a greenish flame , and is instantaneously fatal to animal life . Its full secret I would make no difficulty in disclosIng but that it of right belongs ( as I have before hinted ) to a citizen of Arantz. in France , by whom it was conditionally communicated to myself . The same individual submitted tO me , without being at all aware of my intentions , a method of constructing balloons from the membrane of a certain animal , through which substance any escape of gas was nearly an Impossibility . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not sure , upon the whole , whether cambric muslin with a coating of gum caoutchouc was not equally as good . I mention this circumstance because I think it probable that hereafter the Individual in question may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material I have spoken of , and I do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very singular invention . We hope our readers will remark how very closely the manufacture of helium follows Poe 's receipt. ? To begin with , helium is prepared by pouring a very common acid , I. e. , sulphuric acid , on " a particular metallic substance or semi-metal , " e. , cl  --  velte . Next , its density is probably very much less than that of hydrogen . Azote is another name for nitrogen  --  a zoe , without life . Hence , if Hans Pfaall 's gas was not helium it was something very like it . Curiously enough , the writer in The Lancet suggests that helium . will be used for the exact purpose for Which its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained in tolerable quantity , what an important bearing it might have in aeronautics . Thus , if it be much lighter than hydrogen its lifting power would be much greater , and the cumbersome and clumsy dimensions of our present balloon , it is easy to see , could be reduced with very great advantage . " Clearly Edgar Allan Poe invented helium as much as Jules Verne invented the submarine boat . After this one wonders how long it will be before a projectile is shot on to the moon , or the centre of the earth reached by way of an extinct crater.                     