@@674845

txt Gen. Greely this afternoon received from Lieut . Col James Allen of Gen. Miles 's staff a dispatch announcing that the first American military station in Cuba , at Camp McCalla , Guantanamo Bay , had been brought into electrical communication with the rest of the world by the establishment of a telegraph office , which opened at 5 o'clock . This news caused great satisfaction , particularly in view of last night 's report of the cutting of the Santiago-Kingston cable , Which was the last link connecting the Spanish authorities in Cuba with the mother country . Not only is Captain General Blanco cut off from any communication with the outside world , save through the Key West cable , which is within our control , but the authorities in Washington have been placed in close connection with our forces , army and navy , which are conducting the invasion of Cuba . Credit Due to Gen. Greeiy . To Gen. Greely and his Signal Corps belongs the honor of achieving this feat . To him was intrusted some weeks ago the task of re-establishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Col. Allen , with officers and men of the Signal Corps , has been busily engaged in the execution of that work . The French Cable Company , whose cable runs from Santiago to Guantanamo Bay , and thence to Cape Haitien , where direct connection is obtained with New York , received the privilege of restoring this communication with Guantanamo and Santiago , with permission to send commercial and domestic dispatches under the strict military censorship necessitated by war conditions . The cable steamer Mancel was employed for the work , and communication was restored between Cape Haitien and Guantanamo about 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon. ? It is expected that the cable will be thrown open to the general public to-morrow , subject to censorship . The first message over the restored cable was one from Lieut . Col. Allen to Gen. Greely announcing the reopening of communication . Gen. Greely immediately directed the officer to obtain and forward the earliest possible advices as to the arrival of the United States troop transports . Lieut . Col. Allen applied to Capt . McCaila , in command of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent out a boat to Admiral Sampson 's squadron , which returned with the news that the transports had arrived safely , and were lying off Santiago , and that at the moment of the report Gen. Shafter , commanding the military expedition , was on board the flagship New York consulting with Admiral Sampson respecting the landing of the troops . Not a Military Cable . In connection with the reopening of cable communication between this country and Guantanamo the explanation is made at the Signal Office of the army that the cable is reopened not as a military line , but strictly as a private line operated and controlled by the French CaJble Company , subject only to the military censorship of the United States . The Government will have no special priyileges on the line . When it desires to send messages to or from the army and the fleet before Santiago , it will have to pay the usual rates to the cable company and its business will be handled as that of private persons . The line will be open for the forwarding of commercial messages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that point , and it will be the duty of the censor to prevent anything prejudicial to American interests from passing over it . The cable , being owned by a neutral corporation and passing through neutral territory , could not be seized without involving a violation of the neutrality laws . It therefore has not been seized , but , after having cut it in Spanish waters , as they had a right to do , the American authorities have agreed to allow the company to repair and operate it under their supervision . That supervision being an exercise of " force majeure , " no violation of neutrality is committed by the French Company in consenting to yield to it . When this arrangement is consummated the situation at Santiago as regards cable communication will be exactly the same as that of Havana as regards the Key West cable , which has been operated since the war began under American censorship . 