@@673645

txt Another move in the conduct of the Chicago organization styling itself the " Associated Press " was a raise of 50 per cent. , which was made last week on all its Chicago members and clients . It is said here that the step was taken for a double purpose  --  first , to narrow by a little added revenue the gap between the expenses and receipts of the organization in its warfare with the United Press , and , second , to promote the secret business schemes of certain newspaper owners by making qg burdensome as possible the publication of several local contemporaries . It is well understood that The Times , Journal , and Freie Presse are stumblingblocks in the path of the controlling spirits of the Western organization , The Times as a penny paper , particularly since the late railroad strike , being a strong rival of The Record , owned by Victor F. Lawson ; The Journal standing in the way of the success of John R. Walsh 's Evening Post , whose position and business standing in the newspaper world are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moneymaker as Mr. Walsh , and The Freie Presse being a menace to the monoply in the Ger . man field that Washington Hesing has so long striven to establish . The story runs that there is a good deal of the wisdom of the serpent in putting up the price of the service in Chicago , because , it is argued , a general raise can now be safely ordered all along the line without having to meet the standing complaint that the smaller cities are compelled to pay high prices for their news , so that Chicago , which is big and able to pay handsomely can be supplied at nominal rates . The large newspapers in the West are smarting under a condition of things which prevents them from exchanging news with their old allies in New-York as they had been doing for thirty years , on terms very favorable to themselves , and this , together with the increase in the price of news before a revival of business has fairly set in , will probably still further complicate the problem that is as replete with difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enormous increase in rates  --  the present increase of 50 per cent . having been preceded , as is well known , by one of 30 per cent . a short time since  --  is generally admitted in " Associated Press " circles to be due to the fact that the losses on the Eastern branch of the service are very large . The Western members must therefore be more heavily taxed in order to make up for the luxury of having an arm to the Atlantic seaboard with only one paper in Boston , and that one struggling with litigation recently instituted , to sustain the cost of maintaining a long stretch of wire with such assistance as comes from other weak papers scattered over the large expanse of territory east of the Alleghanies.                     