@@781029

txt Thomas F. Bayard , United States Ambassador to Great Britain , delivered the inaugural address at the meeting of the Edinburgh Philosophical Society this afternoon . His subject was " Individual Freedom , the Germ of National Prosperity and Permanence . " The address was of a purely academic character . It vindicated personal liberty and free government as essential to the happiness , progress , and permanence of national prosperity . In the course of the address Mr. Bayard said the movement of the day , sometimes open and sometimes concealed in robes of philanthropy , is toward State socialism as opposed to autocracy , but either is despotism and fatal to that individual freedom by which the world , under the laws of its origin and progress , was raised from brutality and barbarism . Autocracy , plutocracy , oligarchy , Socialism , and mob rule is each equally fatal to well ordered government , which aepends upon the scrupulous safeguarding of personal liberty and personal thought and judgment . Mr. Bayard defined Christian morals as including a perfect sphere , in which the laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamilton 's Federalist as foremost in the annals of political literature in applying the voluntary principle . He reminded his audience that the United States owed Hamilton to Scotland . Recurring to State socialism , Mr. Bayard said : " In my own country I have witnessed the insatiable growth of a form of socialism styled protection which has ' done more to corrupt public life , to banish men of independent mind from public councils , and to lower the tone of National represen4ation than any other single cause . Protection , now controlling the sovereign power of taxation , has been perverted from its proper function of creating revenue to support the Government into an engine for selfish profit , allied with combinations called trusts . It thus saps the popular conscience by giving corrupt largesse to special classes and throws legislation into the political market , where jobbers and chafferers take the place of statesmen . " In concluding his speech Mr. Bayard made allusions to Adam Smith , David Hume , Burns , Scott , and other men and things Scotch . Robert Cox , Member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent men of the locality were present on the platform . The audience was a large one , and included the culture and 6.1ite of the city . Mary ladies were present . Mr. Bayard occupied more than an hour in delivering his address , and was listened to throughout with the keenest attention .                     