@@673870

txt We have no wish to detract from the solemn dignity of the sessions of the Supreme Court at which the constitutionality of the income-tax law will be reargued . On the contrary , as our readers are aware , we have the deepest respect for the court and the highest appreciationfor the function it has to perform , and generally , though not always , has performed , in the - development of representative institutions in the United States . But the court is composed of human beings , who are neither infallible nor the channels of inerrant revelation , and there are certain aspects of the chapter in its history , which may close with the hearings of next week , that have an interest for others than lawyers or legal students . One of these is the appearance on the bench of the court next Monday of Justice Howell E. Jackson of Tennessee . On that day Justice Jackson will sustain a very curious and conspicuous relation to the court , to the case under argument , and to the constitutional history of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pageant will be enacted , and to a very great extent ? with all respect be it said  --  the proceedings will be a pageant , an orderly and marshaled procession of intellectual athletes , displaying to the best advantage their rare gifts and highly-trained powers . In theory there will be nine Judges with open minds , listening patiently and attentively to reasoning intended to enlighten them . In reality there will be eight Judges stoically maintaining the appearance of impartial attention to what is already entirely familiar to them , while the ninth will bring a mind certainly not unacquainted with the history of - the subject , and as certainly not absolutely free from impression regarding it , but relatively fresh . It will be his presence that constitutes the full court and justifies and explains the unusual course of a reargument , if it has not caused it . It will be his opinion that will be looked to as probably decisive , though it may not actually be so . What will be the result ? Far be it from us to undertake to anticipate matters more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is permitted to point out that there are certain forces which may have a considerable effect , and which are not derived from law books , or even from the history of the Constitution . In the first place , there is what we have heard very acutely described as the momentum of the court . Having already , with becoming deliberation , but with great vigor , destroyed so much of the law as levied taxes on the interest of State and municipal bonds and on rents , and having , in this , - gone contrary to the generally accepted interpretation of the previous action of the court , the court stopped . When almost immediately , with , indeed , startling promptness , the court again sets itself in motion , it is not an unreasonable inference that the line of its movement will be that on which it has already gone so far . That- is to be expected from what , roughly , may be called a law of mental mechanics , which operates with greater force in the case of a body of such magnitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in proportion to the vigor of previous movement , the suddenness of its cessation , and the brief interval before movement is resumed .. Other things being equal , the court may with some reason be expected to complete the work already begun . Again , the recent history of the Supreme Court has given an impression , justly or otherwise , that the court is not an insuperable obstacle to legislation that has no obvious authority in the Constitution . It had come to be thought by a good many people that the court had lost in independence and firmness , and was inclined not so much to bring Congress to reason when necessary as to bring reason to Congress for legislation quite opposed to reason . The decision on the reissue of the redeemed legal-tender notes was an extreme instance , and a very bad one . It is not to be denied that the recent decision in the income-tax cases counteracted this impression in part , and the willingness of the court to listen to a reargument of those cases has gone further in the same direction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the inference , indeed , is encouraging to those who most wish to respect the court  --  that the decision on reargument of the income-tax law may still further remove the impression of undue subordination of the judiciary to the Legislature . It is a dictum of a very great Judge , which has become almost a maxim in law , that every court tends to magnify its own jurisdiction , and obedience to that tendency has given to English-speaking people some of the I most precious safeguards of their rights . In this instance it is not a question of magnifying the function of the Supreme Court ; it is one , in all candor , of resuming a , function that has been to some extent abandoned , and with unfortunate , with really deplorable , results . These are some of the considerations that occur to an observer speculating on the probable outcome of ; the reargument next week . They attach with somewhat peculiar force to the central personage of the impressive scene . Justice Jackson is a man of original force , of independence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public affairs , as well as in the law , and has won deserved credit as a legislator as well as Judge . He began his legislative career as an advocate of the honest payment of the debts of his State when it was poor , and when evasion of hard obligations would have been pardonable to an ignorant man  --  and enticing to an ambitious one . He served in the Senate of the United States with honor to himself and his State . He was appointed Circuit Judge by President Cleveland and Supreme Court Judge by President Harrison , and each appointment was cordially approved by political opponents . What views he may have formed or may form , or what decision he may reach , we have no means of knowing and no desire to know . But we have a keen interest in seeing the effect of his course upon the people 's view of the recent tendency of the Supreme Court .                     