@@781797

txt At the silver Jubilee bane quet of the British Chamber of Commerce here this evening , the British Ambassador , Sir Edmund J. Monson , referring to the " new diplomacy " which is said to have come into fashion during the past year , said it was chiefly due to the enterprise of the press , but also it was in a measure due to " mother country innovations , and to the originality of the American mind  --  ever restlessly watching to improve everything ? which will perhaps end by improving the diplomatists of the old school off the face of the earth . " The Ambassador added : " I am quite ready to acknowledge that there is much good in the particular innovation occupying my mind at the present moment . America has invariably sent to England the finest representatives of her intellect and culture , and I think we may attribute in no little degree the happy development of the friendly feeling between Great Britain and the United States to the manner in which those representatives performed their tasks , especially in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I wish I possessed the facility of expression and the command of appropriate language which distinguished Col. Hay , the late Mr. Bayard , and their eminent predecessors at the Court of St. James . Such oratorical gifts I have not . But I feel the strongest desire to say a few words which may work toward the end for which a British Ambassador is sent abroad . It has not been without much reflection and anxiety that I decided to depart on this occasion from the traditional limits by which a diplomatist is hampered . " Sir Edmund Monson then proceeded to dilate on the recent remarkable outburst of public feeling in Great . Britain , provoked by the Fashoda incident , and said he ventured to express the hope that the idea of Great Britain being unduly squeezable and prone to make graceful but impolitic concessions is thoroughly exploded . After referring to the " mischief often wrought by reckless journalism , which is too apt to forget it can never be so accurately informed as the Foreign Minister , " Sir Edmund eulogistically referred to the Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " one of the most significant factors in restraining the combative elements now menacing the peace of the earth . " He appealed to France to disabuse herself of all suspicion of unfair intention upon the part of Great Britain , to try to believe there was no general animosity in England toward France , and to meet England on every question at Issue with an honest desire for an equitable arrangement . Sir Edmund Monson concluded as follows : " I would earnestly ask othclaIs in power and unofficial exponents of public opinion to discountenance and abstain from a continuance of the policy of pin pricks , which , while it can only procure an ephemeral satisfaction to a short-lived Ministry , must inevitably perpetuate across the channel an intolerable irritation . " I would entreat them to resist the temptation to thwart British enterprise by petty manoeuvres , such as the proposal to start colleges as rivals of Gen. Kitchener 's projected institution in the reconquered Soudan . Such ill-considered provocation might have the effect of converting Great Britain 's present policy of forbearance in Egypt into the adoption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not aiming . "                     