@@672445

txt A cloudburst Sunday in the foothills of Santa Rita Mountains covered an area of a square mile . The waterrushed down the canon in torrents , drowning a , number of cattle and horses . A number of deer , bears , and wolves were caught in the flow . The Schofeldt ranch was completely devastated of crops , orchards , and houses : A large freight train was caught in the flow and carried a mile . No lives were lost . DEBTS WAS VERY NEAR . A SNEAK THIEF FIRES POINT-BLANK AT A BOY , BUT MISSES HIM . Young Herbert England , the fifteen-year-old son of Benjamin F. England of 43 Downing Street , Brooklyn , found a pistol bullet in the hallway of his father 's house yesterday that he intends to have mounted and wear as a watch charm . It was fired at him from a pistol in the hands of a sneak thief at point-blank range , and passed through his coat and shirt without doing him any injury . The family were at the midday meal while the sneak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ho had entered through the front door by means of a skeleton key and had-stolen nojselessly up stairs when he knew that the fatbily was at dinner . Herbert left the table before the others , and as he was ascending the basement stairs he heard a strange footstep and the next instant caught sight of the thief descending the stairs from the bedroom floor . He is a big strong boy , and ' without a thought of the danger he made a rush for the intruder with the intention of getting between him and the hall door . As he did so , he saw the bright gleam of the thief 's revolver barrel , and then came the flash of the discharge not three feet away . He was stunned by the suddenness of the shot , and as he cried for help the thief plunged headlong out of the door and down the front steps , disappearing around the corner . The bullet passed through Herbert 's coat and shirt without doing any injury . The front bedroom had been thoroughly ransacked ; and a pair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be missing . The thief has not been caught . OFFICE PASSED ALONG . HOW ASSEMBLYMAN TREADWAY HAPPENS TO BE PUT ASIDE . An interesting group of statesmen and politicians held a sort of conference in the lobby of the Fifth Avenue last night . It was made up of ox-Senator Warner Miller , Assemblyman N. M. Curtis of St. Lawrence , Assemblyman Lewis of the Twenty-first District , this city ; ex-Congressman Burleigh , and United States Marshal John Wesley Jacobus . One of the things discussed was probably the nomination of William A. Palmer , a Platt man , for Assemblyman in the Essex district . Mr. Treadway. who is the present Assemblyman , is a Miller man . One of the gentlemen in last night 's group said that it was wrong a man has served two terms in the Assembly the nomination must be passed along . On this account . he said , Mr. Treadway was not a candidate .                     