@@673529

txt The prevalence of cholera in Constantinople may induce the Sultan to follow the suggestions of the Sanitary Conference recently held in Paris as to the reorganization of the Turkish sanitary administration and to pay some little attention to the resolutions of the conference relating to the Turkish lazarettos or quarantine stations on the Red Sea . The Sultan exhibited very little interest last year in the sanitary condition of those parts of his domain through which Indian cholera makes its way into Europe , partly because Constantinople escaped infection . The deaths of 40,000 pilgrims ' at Mecca , and the horrible condition of that city and of the ports on the Red Sea at which pilgrims are landed did not suggest to his mind the expediency or the necessity of taking measures for the sanitary improvement of these plague spots . But now , when cholera prevails in the immediate neighborhood of his palaces and has taken the life of one of his Councilors of State , he may consent to assist the Egyptian Sanitary Council and other sanitary agencies in their work , and take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . has repeatedly passed into Europe with pilgrims returning from Mecca . The Paris conference adopted precautionary measures with respect to the shipment of pilgrims from ports of India , the quarantine stations at the entrance of the Red Sea , and the station at Tor , which is just below the southern end of the Suez Canal . We do not understand- , that there was much need of improvement at Tor , for this station ( for the detention and disinfection of pilgrims returning northward from Mecca by water ) has been under the control and management of the Egyptian Sanitary Council , a competent organization , and the exclusion of the disease from the neighboring cities a Cairo and Alexandria has been regarded as proof that the work has been well done . Cholera was carried northward from Mecca last year , but we do not understand that it passed the quarantine barrier at Tor ; it made its way by other routes . But - while it has been possible to enforce sanitary laws at , the upper end of the Red Sea with respect to pilgrims returning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , there has been no barrier to prevent the movement of cholera northward from Mecca into Europe by the land routes . To guard these routes is a part of the work which the Sultan is asked to do . While the station at the upper end of the Red Sea is fairly effective and in good condition , those at the lower end , on the Island of Kamaran , have for a long time been nothing better than cholera nurseries . Almost every sanitary law is violated at those stations , and there is very little room for doubt that Kamaran has supplemented Mecca in the foul work of breeding and spreading the disease . Although the Kamaran stations are designed to intercept cholera and to prevent the transmission of it to Mecca on the pilgrim ships , the use of them has largely increased the number of cholera cases among the pilgrims on the way to Mecca and been responsible for a part of the appalling mortality in that city . There is no probability that these stations will ever become sanitary barriers so long as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can the Sultan be trusted to enforce in the Red Sea the rules of the recent conference concerning the transportation of pilgrims by water . Unless the European powers take this matter in hand and do the sanitary work themselves , compelling the Sultan to transfer to them the sanitary control of the traffic and the ports and - the holy cities , there will be scarcely any improvement of the conditions which were so deplorable last year . The Sultan may be induced to spend a little money in the erection of barracks at Mecca , and may reorganize his Sanitary Council , and may set up another row of sheds at the Kamaran stations , but his own attitude and that of his people toward sanitation and the pilgrimages preclude the adoption by the Turkish Government of the measures which are required . There appears to be no cholera at present in Europe outside of Russia and Turkey , except in Belgium , and it has not reached the ports of the last-named country . There were reported in Belgium during the first twenty days of February 82 cases and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virulent type prevailed in certain districts of Poland , near the Prussian frontier . One official report states that the number of cases in the Caucasus from July 18 to Jan. 22 was 1,542 , with 826 deaths . The number of cases In Batoum and . the ' neighboring provinces for the first two weeks of January was 57 . From Jan. 12 to Feb. 5 about 60 cases were reported in St. Petersburg and four provinces . Writing from St. Petersburg on Feb. 27 , Dr. Irwin of the Marine Hospital Service Said : " It will be seen that the figures , while not alarming , show that the disease is more or less active even in the coldest weather , and will probably reappear in full virulence With the advent of warmer weather . "                     