@@781649

txt By the log of the Cunard steamship Umbria , just received , we notice that in the first twentytwo and a half hours after leaving Queenstown on the 28th February she made 450 knots , on the Tuesday 493 , Wednesday 491 , Thursday 504 , having light to moderate breezes and fine weather . The following two days the wind increased , first to a moderate and then to a strong gale , with high confused seas . which reduced her speed to 474 knots and 456 , respectively . The vessel took the southerly route agreed upon by the leading lines , and so encountered neither fog nor ice . The average of the best half of the passage was no less than 20.25 knots per hour , and that of the whole passage , including the two days of strong gales and high seas , 10.5 , which , assum-ing she had gone the northerly route , on which most of the fast passages are made , would have been equal to a trip of 5 days 22 hours and 30 minutes , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long route taken , 6 days 2 hours and 42 minutes . This vessel has now been crossing the Atlantic in all weathers , both Winter and Summer , for nearly eight years , in the course of which she has carried no loss than 89,185 passengers without accident or delay . The subject of American roads , and Chiefly their unrivaled badness , is taken up in the April number of the Century by Isaac B. Potter , whose reputation as an expert in this matter is already considerable . The paper is illustrated from photographs showing how bad are many roads near great centres of population , and along with these are given pictures of European roads , where things have been done differently . At this time of year the article will be especially timely . A paper on the mother of Washington and his birthplace , written by Ella Bassett ' Washington , is also timely . Mr. Griffis 's account of an American man-of-war 's fight in Japanese waters in 1863 describes an incident of the civil-war period that will be new to most readers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is an excellent aonount of adventure in a strange calling . The article on the ocean-postal service , by ex-Postmaster General James , is not alone valuable for its anthenULaity . Other writers for this number are Prof. Holden , E. C. Stedman , Hamlin Garland , Edmund Gosse , Mrs. Moulton , and Mr. and Mrs. Pennell.                     