@@674399

txt The enlargement of the Erie Canal at the expense of the State ought to mark a new era in the development of traffic upon the waterway from the lakes to the ocean , and the most promising sign is to be found in the movement of capital on a large scale to engage in the business of transportation from the interior of the continent to this port by water . For years the power of capital has been working against the interests of this State and this city in the matter of transportation from the West to the seaboard , and has been counteracting in no small degree the advantage of our canal system . It has been greatly assisted by the fact that the relative importance of the canal in the increasing volume of traffics has been diminishing , owing to the ' insufficient capacity of the channel , the smallness of the boats , and their separate ownership by men of small means and little influence . Although the Erie Canal belongs to the State and is maintained at public expense , while no tolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars are to be expended in enlarging and improving it , corporate influences have been permitted to work against it and to divert traffic to other channels by unjust discriminations . Not only have the railroads put down their rates in Summer to an unprofitable point in order to make the canals unprofitable and thereby diminish their traffic and put them up after the close of navigation to make up for losses and encourage competition on other routes . but they have made contracts t with customers for ifavorable rates on condition that they make no use of canal transportation at any time , and they have practically monopolized control of grain elevators at Buffalo for the purpose of throttling traffic at the passage from lake vessels to canalboats . While the railroads which follow nearly the same route as the canal and river through this State have used all their power to crush canal competition , and used it largely in the lobbies of the Capitol at Albany , they have also , in combination with other railroads terminating at different seaports , discriminated against the City of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade elsewhere at the expense of this city . The State possessed a potent means of thwarting the devices of corporate combinations to regulate commerce in their own interest , but it has thus far failed to use it effectively . The City of New York owes its commercial supremacy largely to the opening of the Erie Canal before the days of railroads and its enlargement after they became a competing factor . As business gained in volume and the competing power of railroads increased , the tolls were first reduced and then abolished . Now a second enlargement is demanded and is practically under way , and the next step will be the development of transportation facilities on a scale capable of competing in force and resources with the railroads . The forming of a company to operate- in transportation through the whole line of lake , canal , and river from the shipping points of the West to the docks of New York is an event of great import in restoring the effectiveness of the canal as a regulator of traffic and in regaining for New York the pre-eminence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages as the entreptit of commerce between this continent and the Old World . Every obstacle to a fair competition of the waterway with the railroads should be removed so far as it is within the power of State and city to remove it , and every reasonable encouragement to suela competition . should be given .                     