@@673622

txt The philosopher who described the Brit- , ish Nation as a , club for minding other people 's business should have lived to see this day ? or , rather , he should have lived to see the day before yesterday . For . that was the day , according to the cable dispatches , when " a new antilynch committee " was formed in the British Islands to prevent , or at any rate to discountenance , the summary , execution of negroes in the Southern States of this Union . , This action may be taken to be the final outcome of the visit of Miss Ida B. Wells to the British Islands , though the purpose of that enterprising missionary may plausibly be supposed to have been an income rather than an outcome . At any rate , she seems to have succeeded in firing the slow-burning British heart , and in inducing the formation of a committee , quite according to the approved British precedents , with a real Duke at the head of it , if it be only the Duke of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of it " in politics , and , being of an.extremely active and Scottish turn of mind , has been looking out for new fields to conquer . The facts in the case are bad enough , Hea.ven knows . When it comes to burning people alive , the torch being applied by the immediate victim of the cremated criminal , or to the boring out of the eyes of another criminal , convicted only by the popular belief , by the father of his supposed victim , we are entitled to say that these are the acts of savages and that they could not take place in a civilized community . This remains true , no matter what the provocation to these acts may be , and the provocation in the South has been extreme . It is a peculiar fact that the crime for which negroes have freqtlentiy been lynched , and occasionally been put to death with frightful tortures , is a crime to which negroes are particularly prone . It is also a crime which there is no way effectually of preventing , and no way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability Of swift atid terrible punishment . There is no reason why the crime should not be made capital in all communities in which the existence of a large element of a race especially disposed to this crime makes it a matter of public concern that every possible deterrent should be interposed to the commission of it . It ceased to be a capital offense in England only in George IV . ' s time . The true safeguard for the Southern States is to make it again a capital offense , and to see that judicial processes are not so much slower and less exemplary than mob law as they now are , not only in the South , but throughout the Union . It is no remedy at all , because a single bestial savage is discovered in a community , for the whole community to convert itself into a set of bestial ' savages . While all this is true , it does not furnish a reason why the British public should interest itself in the matter sufficiently to form a committee for the putting ' down of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be deplored that it should take this action at the instance of a slanderous and nasty-minded mulattress , who does not scruple to represent the victims of black brutes in the South as willing victims . How ' does the British committee propose to go about putting down lynching in the South ? Doubtless by expostulating with the lynchers and informing them that the practice of roasting negro ravishers alive and . boring out their eyes with red-hot pokers is inconsistent with the highest type of civilization and , if persisted In , will incur the displeasure of the British public . Unfortunately , it is to be feared that the citizens of Texarkana and Paris , Texas , do not attach that importance to British opinion which British opinion attaches to itself . The fact that British opinion disapproved their doings would scarcely deter those wild and free Southwesterners from working their will . It might even stimulate them to fresh excesses in the way of torturing negroes . It would be almost certain to do so if it were generally understood in Southwestern circles that the British committee was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a mulatto refugee , who was a refugee because she had imputed unchastity to the victims of negro outrages in the South . Upon the whole , we fail to see any channels in which the Duke 's committee can be useful , and perhaps it had better disband . As the Psalmist meant to observe , Behold how good and pleasant it would be to see our British brethren minding their own business !                     