@@675081

txt The case of Commissary General Charles P. Eagan , charged with conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman , and with conduct tending to the prejudice of good order and military discipline , is now ready for final adjudication . To-day the taking of testimony was closed and arguments of counsel submitted . The trial had lasted three days and consumed less than eight hours of actual sitting . A session behind closed doors , of an hour or so , sufficed for the court to reach a. conclusion and embody it In a report . What the verdict was is altogether a matter of speculation , and officially , at least , will not be made public by the trial board , military regulations requiring that its finding shall go through prescribed channels and be kept secret until action is taken and promulgated by the proper reviewing authorities . The attendance at the court-martial was much larger to-day than at any other time since the trial began , and ; among the spectators were a score or more of women . Several of them were friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a witness , while others were attracted by curiosity . The testimony at the closing session of the court was directed largely to establishing the fact that the General had Jost his mental balance as a result of the charges made against him by Gen. Miles . II is daughter and her husband told of the General 's changed condition , and intimated that they had great fears that he might at any thee kill his accuser . The General 's daughter described her father 's appearance on the day he first read Gen. Miles 's statement . Standing in the door ef her house , she said . with the newspaecr containing the evidence in /es hand , he had exclaimed wildly : " I have beer . crucified by Gen. Miles . " Immediately upon the case being closed the room was ordered cleared and the court went into executive session to deliberate upon its findings . The court sat in private for a little over an hour , and when the doors were reopened it soon became known that a verdict had been reached . The fact was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court had adjourned without day . It can be reconvened only to correct a fault in the proceedings , which is a rare occurrence . REVIEW OF THE PROCEEDINGS . In the regular order the findings and proceedings must now be gone over by Judge Advocate Davis . He said this afternoon that he hoped to conclude his task to-morrow or Monday . He will place the papers in the hands of Judge Advocate General Lieber , whose duty it will be to make an examination of every part of the record and findings with a view to the detection of any irregularities in the forms . Presuming that he finds all of these things regular , he will forward the papers to the Secretary of War with his indorsement , if he see fit to add one , and the latter will act finally " by direction of the President , " according to the form of pract.ce adopted in Secretary Lamont 's time . It is possible for the papers to pass through the hands of Gen. Miles at some stage in the proceedings , he acting also in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a uniform practice and there was a notable exception in the Carter court-rne rtial . The first witness before the court-martial to-day was David R. of this city , for many years the agent of The Associated Press . He said he had known Gen. Eagan for about forty-five years . During the period between the time Gen. Miles gave his testimony before the War Investigating Commission and the day on which Gen. Eagan made his statement , the witness saw him two or three times . He then seemed careworn and much preoccupied . Mr. said that the impression Gen. Eagan then made upon him was that he had become insane . The witness said that he had expressed to Gen. Eagan his profound regret that he had given utterance to the language used in his statement , and reproved him mildly for not consulting him about the matter . The General had explained that he had not felt at liberty to consult the witness because he knew of the long-existing friendship between the family of the witness and the family of Gen. Miles , particularly between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not feel at liberty to bring the witness into the controversy . IMMUNITY OF WITNESSES . Major S. C. Miles , the recorder of the War Investigating Commission , was recalled , and in answer to inquiries said that so far as he knew the order of the President granting immunity to witnesses before that body had not been reduced to writing . At this point the Judge Advocate read the President 's address on the assembling of the War Investigating Commission , which . however , was unsigned , and the witness was asked whether any Other instructions had been given . He replied that there had not . Referring to the meeting between the President and the members of the War Investigating Commission , the witness said : " The matter of immunity for witnesses came up . I think it was called up by Mr. Dodge , and the President said that witnesses who should appear before the commission could do so without any fear of punishment or persecution . " Gem Russell A. Alger , the Secretary of War , was next called to the witness stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had with Gen. Eagan shortly after Gen. Miles had given his testimony . Gen. Eagan came into his office in an excited state of mind and said it was his wish to prefer charges against Gen. Miles for what he had said . I told him , " testified Secretary Alger , " that under the President 's order granting immunity to officers who testified before the commission , he could not do so . " " Did you receive any instructions from the President on this point ? " the Secretary was asked . " He said to me. immunity had been granted to witnesses , " he replied . Gen. Alger was then excused , the members of the court rising to their feet as he withdrew . Col. Alexander and Col. Davis were le-called and said that never during their acquaintance with the accused had they known him to use vulgar or profane language . He always had been correct and clean in speech , and never had they known him to use such language as was used in his statement before the War Investigating Commission . EAGAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Eagan 's son-in-law , was next called . He came to Washington after Gen. Miles had given his testimony and lived at the General 's house . He said he then observed that Gen. Eagan was very restless and nervous and could not eat or sleep normally . At the table he at times would stop eating and apparently would lose himself in thought . He was intensely nervous , and showed signs of congestion of certain parts of the brain . The witness had had long talks with his wife about her father , and he had told her that her father must be carefully watched , and that they must be prepared for anything . Gen. Eagan 's mind was non-receptive at this time , and the witness believed that something very serious might happen . Gen. Eagan , the witness added , was in a gloomy frame of mind in consequence of the things that had been said about him . He felt that his honor was destroyed and that he did not want to see people . He was ashamed to meet any one and keenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had destroyed his honor and that his life work was destroyed . In all the time the witness had known Gen. Eagan he had not known him to use such language as was used in his statement . Mrs. Hopkins , the daughter of Gen. Eagan , was the next witness , Mr. Worthington , Gen. Eagan 's counsel , explaining that he called her against the wishes of her father and husband and only because her absence from the trial might be remarked upon . She described her father 's actions when he first read . he testimony of Gen. Miles , and said that-since that time he had been a greatly changed man . He could think and talk of noting except that Gen. Miles had ruined his life Mr. Worthington then read Gen. Eagan 's military record from the Army Register , and also read - an interview with Gen. Miles printed in a New York newspaper soon afte : he had made his statement before the War Investigating Commission , at the conclusion of Which the defense rested its ease . " ARGUMENT FOR THE ACCUSED . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused , opening by saying that he contended that by the law Of this country civil , criminal , or military , the defendant could not be called to ac count for what he had said before the War Investigating Commission . He called attention to the President 's public statement that witnesses should enjoy immunity , and declared that this guarantee was claimed by the accused . Mr.- Worthington next quoted from authorities to show that to convict the accused of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman the offense must be such that any brother officer who should , after his conviction , take him by the hand or visit his home , or be on intimate terms with him . would himself be disgraced thereby and render himself unfit to associate with gentlemen and men of honor . The indorsement of several high reviewing officers in the United States Army on the findings , of courts-martial were quoted as showing that the offense must be exceptionally heinous . and such as would unfit the accused for association with right-thinking men . Counsel then reviewed the statement made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of the country . He commented upon the statement that Gen. Miles pretended to have known about the so-called beef frauds for three months before he had sprung them upon the country in his testimony before the War Investigating Commission . During that time , said counsel . Gen. Miles had not communicated the alleged facts to the responsible officers or taken any steps to put -a stop to them , In concluding , Mr. Worthington reviewed at length the testimony which had been given tending to show that Gen Eagan 's mind was so seriously affected by the accusations which had been made against him that his friends feared he would go out upon the street and shoot Gen. Miles on sight . He was no longer himself , and no longer could control his feelings or his actions . Counsel asserted that throughout this controversy Gen. Eagan had conducted himself as an honest man goaded to desperation by the cruel and unjust accusations of his superior officer . THE JUDGE ADVOCATE 'S SPEECH . Col Davis the Judge Advocate , closed the argument . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that all the facts and the whole truth in this case shou/d- be brought out . If the accused thougnt himself aggrieved by the statement of Gen. Miles . he had a positive and sure remedy . He had a right to demand a court of inquiry , and he also had the undoubted remedy of resort to the civil and criminal law . But he saw fit to ignore all these remedies and to take the matter in his own hands . He had prepared , with deliberation . a statement . which he had read before the War - Investigating Commission , which was grossly insulting and an undoubted infraction of the army regulations , as charged .                     