@@674928

txt The Hon William P. Frye , United States Senator from Maine , and a member of the Peace Commission , passed through Boston on his way from Washington to Maine to-day . In an interview Senator ' Frye stated that the repor.t that he has been selected by President as one of the Commissioners of Peace between Spain and the United States was true , but that he was very much opposed to accepting the position . " President did me the honor to say that he particularly wanted me to serve on the commission , " said the Senator . " What his reasons were , though , I must decline to tell you . Neither can I say what will be the terms of the United States that will be offered by the United States Cornsioners to those of Spain when the Commissioners meet in Paris . I hold everything that transpired between myself and the President yesterday in Washington as confidential . I can not talk about the conversation . " The Commissioners of the two nations will arrange the terms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gantlet of the Senate . The Senate will meet in December , and while there is no telling when the commission will conclude its labors , I hope that the treaty will be ready to lay before the Senate during its next session . As yOu know , the commission meets in Paris not later than Oct. 1 . " It is expected that if arrangements can be made for accommodations the commission will sail from New York on Sept , 17 . That is as far as we know at present . " Senator Frye declined to state his position regarding expansion , and stated that it was impossible to tell what the Commissioners would decide upon . " Puerto Rico , of course , will , go to the United States , " he said , " and the Ladrone Islands . So much was settled by the protocol . Beyond that nothing can be told just now . " In discussing the question as to whether or not the United States will be likely to demand more than Manila and the Island of Luzon in the Philippines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Philippines that are valuable . The Commissioners , you understand , can exact whatever trade benefits they wish . Outside the conquered territory it can not now be told what will be demanded . " Senator Davis in This City . Senator Cushman K. Davis of Minnesota , who is stopping at the Waldoi'D-Astoria ; said yesterday that he would startt , to-night for the West . to - remain until the middle of September , as it was not likely that the members of the Peace Commission would sail for Europe before Sept. 16 or 17 . He declined to say anything in regard to the work of the commission or its plans . He said that he did not know yet whether there would be any meeting of the commission before its departure . Senator Davis came from Washington on Friday evening , in company with Senator William P. Frye of Maine , another member of the commission . Senator Frye went on to Boston Friday night . Whitelaw Reid with Dr. Webb . Whitelaw Reid , who has just been appointed one of the Peace Commissioners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain , is at present spending a few days as the guest of Dr. William Seward Webb at Nehasane , Hamilton County , N. Y. Early this week he will go back to his own camp in the Adirondacks , where he ' has been since the end of July , but is expected to break camp soon and return to New York to prepare for his trip to Paris a fortnight hence .                     