@@674534

txt We learn from a Chicago dispatch to The Journal that Mr. E. V. DEBS , the organizer of the great Chicago strike of 1894 and of the new Social Democracy Commonwealth , has received the following letter from the Rev. Dr. W. S. RAINSFORD of St. George 's Church , in this city : " May I congratulate you most heartily on the manliness and wisdom , as it seems to me , of your communication to The New York Journal , dated the 17th of April . I wish we could get our friends among the working classes to realize how largely they have our future in their hands ; but it seems ever to jeopardize that future in their senseless and perpetual distrust of each other . " Here in New York none of the union men seem really to trust each other . They are always prepared to believe the silliest , the worst thing , about men that they have been previously co-operating with a short time before . Sometimes it seems as though in education they were making very little progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know the field that things are not so bad in the West as in New York . " I should be very glad indeed to see you whenever you happen to be passing through the city . " It is a perilous mistake to denounce men 's distrust of each other as " senseless . " Distrust is a great saving force . It ought to be cultivated more widely . If Dr. RAINSFORD were not so gullible , he would n't write sympathetic letters to this half-crazed Anarchist . If DEBs had more wariness of mind , he would n't waste any of his valuable time on sentimental Socialists like Dr. RAINSFORD . Simple-minded persons may ask , " What is the harm in writing thN letter ? " Precisely the same harm that would be done if Mr. J. PIERPONT MORGAN or Mr. ALEXANDER E. ORR , the President of the Chamber of Commerce , were to write to W. S. BRYAN congratulating him heartily upon the " manliness and wisdom " of his utterances . The sympathy or commendation of men of prominence and high standing feeds the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their followers , and , augments their power , ? for mischief . Dr. RAINSFORD has not the right to treat a criminal instinct as though it were a harmless delusion . He , has not the right to give any aid and comfort whatever to a demagogue and fanatic who , after serving a term for organizing a vast and dangerous conspiracy against the peace and prosperity of the country , in which he defied the civil , judicial , and military power , proceeds at once to get up another conspiracy on a different plan , but with the same anarchical end in view . DEBS is organizing a " Commonwealth " whose members , as he intends , will march to the State of Washington , where they will ultimately seek to get control of the State Government in order to put their fantastic social ideas into operation . For the " Executive Board " of this Commonwealth Mr. DEBS has chosen BURNS , GOODWIN , KELIHER , and HOGAN , four men who were with him sent to jail for contempt of court in refusing to obey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A jail delivery is an essential preliminary to the establishment of the Commonwealth . On Tuesday DEBS made speeches to a convention of Socialists in Chicago , explaining his plan . The correspondent of The Journal tells what manner of audience he addressed : " In spite of my natural sympathy with men who can not find work to do I Must , ' in common honesty , say that there was not a substantial-looking person in the hall , and by that I mean that I did not see a person who looked as if he had ability to he the foreman of an ordinary workshop . There were abstract Anarchists present , Single Taxers , Communists , new-fledged and illiterate Socialists , men of all ages and all conditions of shabbiness  --  although poverty is no reproach in times like these days , but the average face was either dull and unintelligent or was plainly fanatical . " Mr. DEBS was the most impressive personality there , but his speech destroyed the impression made by his face . I have seen enough of this remarkable man to convince me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecstatic , headlong enthusiasm for the bright vision that floats before his eyes , however vain and evanescent it may be . He has force enough , earnestness enough , and eloquence enough , perhaps , to start into westward motion the great multitudes of unemployed men who are tramping through the streets of the cities and towns or roaming desperately in the country districts . " It was appropriate , it was inevitable , that with such an audience and such a speaker sentiments like these should be uttered : " 1 do not know whether this great question can be settled peaceably . From the bottom of my heart I hope it can . But if it can not be , then I am one of those who believe in getting ready to solve it otherwise . " If , in defiance of the Federal Constitution . they send Federal troops to suppress us in the exercise of our Constitutional rights , they will be kept busy in their march across the country , and when they reach the State line they will find 300,000 patriots ready to receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hysterical taking on about the sufferings of the poor and the wrongs of the humble can make it anything but anarchy . " Settling this great question " does not mean giving work to the unemployed and prosperity to everybody . It means settling it DEES 'S way , with him and his fellowAnarchists in the Executive Mansion , in the Senate , and on the bench . His thoughts and his oratory are a close counterfeit of BRYAN 'S Chicago Convention speech . There is the same defiance of authority , the same proffer of quack remedies for real or imaginary ailments , and the same power to make men drunk with destructive passions . The power that these two men employed with such alarming effect in 1894 and in 1898 they are still using to awaken passion , and Dr. RAINSFORD bids them godspeed ! A , sympathetic heart does not in itself make a good citizen . Reason and judgment must supplement sympathy . Much maundering over the sufferings of the poor may bring a naturally good man into a state of ecstatic exaltation in which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty playthings . It ought to be possible to plead for the poor and help them without getting into a delirium about it . At any rate , public opinion will insist with some sternness that in their communications with the enemies of society ministers of the Gospel shall be prudently mindful of their respoipsibilities.                     