@@672948

txt In the House of Lords today Lord Dunraven moved for a copy of the motion agreed to by the Canadian Parliament on April 25 regarding preferential trade with the United Kingdom . He said he considered the motion as a distinct proposal for reciprocity with every part of the empire . This was the first time , he added , that such a proposal had been advanced by a self-governing colony in a practical shape . He thought that the suggestion should be attentively received by Great Britain Lord Salisbury had made a very practical suggestion at the beginning . of the session , when he proposed that the colonies should be invited to confer with the home Government on the subject . The resolution was an expression of Canada 's readiness to give Great Britain the preference in her markets if Great Britain gave her equal prefer . ence in hers . It was perfectly obvious that the preference that Canada suggested would be of enormous advantage to Great Britain . It would greatly increase the latter 's export trade with Canada and would expand her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on food imports , it would be necessary to place an ad valorem duty upon them , purchasing a reduction of the duty Imposed on British mannfaeturad goods by Canada by imposing a lower duty on Canadian raw food products imported into Great Britain than that levied on similar imports from other countries . A duty on food products would only increase the price of a loaf a farthing , and would give Immense impetus to corn growing in the British Empire . The French duty on imported wheat had not increased the price of bread in France . He did not believe that the adoption of his proposal Would lead to any sacrifice of other Britlett commercial interests . Such a measure , he held . was necessary to avert the disintegration of the empire which free trade was gradually producing . Lord Balfour . Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade , replied that the matter was of the greatest importamse to the House of Lords and to the country . The Government agreed to accept Lord Dunraven 's motion , because it was obvious that Parliament should know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he hoped it was clearly understood that he did not agree with Lord Dunravenai arguments or tile policy foreshadowed in Canada 's resolution . ' hat he desired to emphasize was that it was for Parliament and the country to Judge for themselves how far the method suggested would benefit Great Britain and Canada . He himself believed that an attempt to adopt such a policy would lead the country into great difficulties . It would be impossible for Great Britain to free herself of her foreign engagements without losing advantages of great value to her . If she attempted to give Canada preference on certain articles , it must involve her to a policy of protection . This would be very disadvantageous to Great Britain . lie did not mean protection of her own agricultural interests , but protection to the products of Canada . He did Lot agree with Lord Dunraveu in his contention that the Imposition of an import duty - would not raise the price or the commodity . Great Britain 's foreign engagements , he held , were of greater value to her than anything that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dunraven 's motion was then agreed to by the House .                     