@@673559

txt The dedication at Appomattox Court House , the scene of the surrender of the army of Gen. Robert E. Lee , and the final act in the collapse of the Confederacy , to-morrow of the tablets erected by the Government to mark the interesting spots in that neighborhood will attract considerable attention Among those who will be present on this occasion are Gen Horace Porter , Gen. Adam Badeau , Daniel Butterfield , and Capt . Davis of the War Department at Washington . The ceremonies will not be very formal , but they will be unusually interesting . The point of interest is the Confederate Cemetery , which is situated in full view of and upon a hill overlooking the old Court House . About half an acre of land is inclosed by a substantial plank fence , which is in a good state of preservation . There are plain plank boards erected at the heads of the nineteen graves . In the month of May , 1865 , the few ladies living at old Appomattox Court House and vicinity met and organized the Ladies ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteen taken up from the various points at which they had fallen in the battle and removed to this place , and , with impressive ceremonies , reinterred in this spot CENTRAL PARK 'S SUNDAY CROWD . Everything at Its Best  --  First Concert of the Season  --  Few Mishaps . Central Park , rendered all the more attractive by the long rain which had freshened the grass and helped along the foliage on every tree and shrub and vine , was enjoyed by thousands yesterday . Accurate count could not be made , but the Park Police estimated that at least 30,000 persons visited New-York City 's greatest pleasure resort . The ltrall presented an animated scene in the afternoon , when , for the first time this season , a Sunday concert was given by Rogers 's Seventh Regiment Band . As usual the menagerie , too , was a centre of attraction . In anticipation of the crowd , the Park Police force had been reinforced . The policemen , however , had only minor mishaps to furnish them occupation . They kept a sharp watch for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A young man who said his name was " Tom Jones " was arrested for fast driving . One bicycle rider came to grief . lie was Charles Waterbury , twenty-five years old , of 129 Manhattan Avenue . At the Fiftyninth Street and Fifth Avenue entrance he was run down by a team driven by William Dugan of 39 West Fourteenth Street . He was only slightly bruised . OLD MR . NEITIUS 'S NECK WAS BROKEN . Fact Not Discovered Until He Was Removed to New-York Hospital . William J. Nevins , the aged merchant of Elizabeth , N. J. , who was knocked down by a truck of the Adams Express Company last Wednesday , at Nassau and Wall Streets , died yesterday at the New-York Hospital of exhaustion and paralysis , due to a dislocation of the neck . When Mr. Nevius , who was eighty-three years of age , was taken to the Chambers Street Hospital , just after the accident , his injuries were diagnosticated as a broken arm and contusions of the head and hands . Despite his age , the doctors thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his transfer to the New York Hospital that the dislocation of the neck was discovered . For several days Mr. Nevius lay in a comatose state , completely paralyzed from the neck down . The case was regarded by the surgeons as one of the most interesting that ever came under their observation . Deupty Coroner Conlin viewed the body yesterday and granted a certificate . An autopsy was desired by the hospital doctors , but was opposed by the relatives . Joseph Kirality , the driver of the Adams Express truck , was arrested yesterday and held in the Tombs Police Court on . a charge of murder .                     