@@674257

txt TO THE DEMOCRATS OF THE UNITED STATES : A volitical party always has been defined to be an . association of voters to promote the success of political principles held In common . The Democratic Party , during its whole history , bas been pledged to promote the liberty of the individual , the security of ' private rights and property , and the supremacy of the law . It always has insisted upon a safe and stable money for the people 's use . It has insisted upon the maintenance of the financial honor of the Nation , as well as upon the preservation , inviolate , of the institutions established by the Constitution . These , its principles , were abandoned by the supposed representatives of the party at a National Convention recently assembled at Chicago . The Democratic Party therefore will cease to exist unless it be preserved by the volmitary action of such of its members as still adhere to its fundamental principles . No majority of members of that convention , however large , has any right or power to surrender those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that - assemblage ceased to be a . Democratic Convention The action taken , the irregular proceedings , and the platform enunciated by that body were , and are , so utterly and indefensibly revolutionary , and constitute such radical departures from the principles of true Democracy , which should characterize a sound and patriotic administration of our country 's affairs , that its results are not entitled to the confidence or support of true Democrats . For the first time since National parties were formed there is not before the American people a platform declaring the principles of the Democratic Party as recognized and most courageously and consistently administered by Jefferson , Jackson , and Cleveland , nor are there nominees for the oflieei of President and Vice President of the United States pledged to carry those principles into practical effect . The faithful and true Democrats of the United States are determined that their principles shall not be ruthlessly surrendered , nor the people be deprived of an opportunity to vote for candidates in accord therewith , Therefore , the National Democratic Party of the United States , through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that party , for the announcement of its platform and . the nomination of candidates for the offices of President and Vice President of the United States and the transaction of such business as is incident th ereto , to be held at Indianapolis , on Wednesday , the 2d day of September , 1896 , at l2 o'clock noon , and hereby requests that the members bt - the party in the several States who believe in sound money and the preservation of law and order , and who are unalterably opposed to the platform adopted and candidates nominated at Chicago , will select , in such manner as to them shall ? seem best , a number of delegates to the same , equal to twice the number of Electoral votes to which such States are respectively entitled . Such delegates shall be duly accredited , according to the usages of the Democratic Party . Their credentials shall be forwarded or delivered to the Secretary of WS committee with all convenient speed , and this committee will make up and announce the roll of the delegates entitled to participate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  