@@672676

txt The Administration Republicans have begun to realize that the attempt to organize the State in the interest of Harrison 's nomination for a second term is to be an up-hill business . Three months ago some of the leading Administration Republicans held a conference , and it was determined to make an effort to win over the anti-Harrison element , in order that the State might enter the next National Convention and cast its voto for him without interference from the sources that caused so much trouble when the last delegation was chosen . It was proposed to organize elulas in all the larger cities of the State , give the Blaine and Gresham men the largest representation among its officers , and by the use of arguments not unmixed with blandishment to usher in an era of good feeling . Millionaire C. W. Fairbanks of Terre Haute , the acknowledged head of the anti-H arrlson element , was selected as the person whose example would be most valuable . He was asked to become the head of a political club whose effort should tend toward restoring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican could expect anything from Imliana , so long as the party was not a unit , and that it was folly for Republicans to be at war among themselves when discord was sure to bring defeat . Fairbanks confessed that he did not like Herrisou.aud believed that it would be a mistake to renominate him , but lie could see how ridiculous it would lie for Indiana to oppose Harrison 's renomination if all the other States favored him . He believed that something must be done or the State would become hopelessly Democratic . The outcome of the conference was the organization of the " Marion Club " with Fairbanks as Chairman , Harry New as Vice Chairman , and the other officers equally divided between the anti-Harrison and Harrison elements . The club held a few meetings , but it was found impossible to e bite any interest among the rank and file of the party . Two months passed , and the club had less than a dozen members upon its roll . The Republicans would not join it . Fairbanks found that he was the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme , and it was not long before he saw that he must give up the club or the friends who had stood by him and to whom he was really attached . He sent in his resignation , giving as a reason his business interests . The club has not yet elected a successor , and it is not improljable that the organization will ' be suffered to end where it is , especially as there is no likelihood of succeeding in the object for which it was formed .                     