@@674804

txt The Dauntless was a. member of Admiral Sampson 's fleet during the latter 's cruise to intercept the Spanish squadron . The dispatch boat 's voyage lasted fifteen days and extended from Key West to St. Thomas and return , with two side trips to Cape Haitien , Haiti , the total distance traveled being about 2,600 miles . When the cruise began it was believed that the Spanish squadron of cruisers , torpedo-boat destroyers and torpedo boats , which had already sailed from the Cape Verde Islands , was bound for the West Indies It was Admiral Sampson 's plan to put his fleet between the . Spanish vessels and the port of San Juan de Puerto Rico ; failing in this , to attack the fleet before it could leave San Juan ; or , if too late , to engage the Spaniards on sight anywhere . Admiral Sampson 's fleet , ? which left Key West May 3 , was composed of the battleships Iowa . and Indiana , the cruisers New York ( flagship , ) , Montgomery , and Detroit , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coalship Niagara , and the tug Wampatuck . The . Dauntless , immediately on joining the fleet in the outer harbor at Key West , was ordered by the Admiral to take station within hailing distance of the New York and to remain there . On the first day of the cruise the Dauntless towed a coal lighter from Key West to the Indiana to enable the battleship to fill her bunkers on time ; later she carried dispatches - to Cape Haitien and St. Thomas . Leaving Key West on May 3 , the fleet sailed in the direction of Havana , then turned eastward , keeping in sight of the lofty exist of Cuba . At night the beacons on the Cuban coast were lighted as usual , but they gave guidance to few vessels besid  --  s tin enemies of Spain , for the war has driven ships from the seas . At night the fleet carried no lights , but there was much signal practice with colored lamps . Early in the cruise the Terror and the Indiana became troublesome , because of mishaps to their boilers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its progress of the fleet , and during most of the way to San Juan the New York towed the Terror and the Iowa pulled the Amphitrite , the Porter often hitching on behind the Terror . The officers of the fleet had many unkind things to say about the " crabs , " as they called the monitors . On May 7 the Montgomery went into Cape Haitien to send dispatches to Washington , and next morning the Dauntless entered the same port for a like purpose . The Montgomery 's call caused some stir , it is said , at Port au Prince , where it was reported that the whole North Atlantic Squadron was about to enter Cape Hoiden and . coal . Cape Haitian 's little pile of slaty coal , price $25 per ton , would not fill the bunkers of one warship . The Haitien Government is said to have ordered the General of the port to enforce neutrality to the letter . The Haitiens are almost unanimously in sympathy with the United States against Spain . The Dauntless returned to the fleet on May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Spanish fleet had been sighted at Martinique , St. Thomas , and other West Indian islands were current . On a second visit to Cape Haitien the Dauntless obtained from the American Consul a circumstantial report that a fleet of thirteen Spanish warships had been seen heading for Puerto Rico . In this report the naval officers placed some credence , and the bombardment- of San Juan was planned in the hope that the Spanish fleet was in the harbor . The fleet moved slowly eastward on May 10 and 11 , and in the afternoon of the latter day the Dauntless was ordered to be ready to carry dispatches to St. Thomas at 11 o'clock next morning . At daylight on May 12 the fleet bombarded San Juan , the seaport and metropolis of Puerto Rico . ? The Dauntless lay six miles off Fort Morro and viewed the bombardment and the reply of the forts . On May 13 the cruiser Montgomery , the auxiliary cruiser Yale , and the French gunboat Rigault de Genouilly came into Charlotte Amalie , where the Dauntless had gone with dispatches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the castle . Before midnight of the 13th the Dauntless set out to overtake the fleet , then moving slowly back to ? Key West . The St. Louis , towing the tug Wampatuck. left the fleet for Santiago de Cuba on the morning of the 15th to cut the cable that connected Spain and Cuba ; the Porter went to Puerta Plata to send dispatches , and the New York went cruising , leaving the Iowa , Indiana , Amphitrite , Terror , Detroit , and Niagara . The Terror had broken down , and ? was being towed by the Niagara , and the Iowa pulled the Amphitrite . The Montgomery , which went into Samana Bay on the afternoon of the 14th , had not rejoined the fleet when the Dauntless , off the west coast of Haiti May 16 , pushed ahead for Key West , taking the most direct course , and arriving here May 18.                     