@@674760

txt To-morrow at noon it is expected the Senate will take the first steps toward a settlement of the dispute between Spain and the United States by force of arms . It may adopt a declaration of war before adjourning . It was reported late to-night on good authority that an arrangement has been effected by which the resolutions to expel Spain from Cuba may pass . both houses to-morrow . It is understood that the Foreign Committees of the House and the Senate will confer before the assembling of Congress to-morrow , for the purpose of perfecting an agreement with that end in view . To-night the members of the Senate committee believe that the resolutions will pass both houses by a practically unanimous vote . It is said that if necessary a continuous sitting will be had in the Senate , in order to secure final action during the legislative day of Wednesday . The Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs practically have agreed , and it is believed they will agree absolutely before to-morrow 's session , upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the will of Congress and what is regarded by the committees as the will of the people of the country . The exact language of the report of the Foreign Relations Committee is guarded closely by the members , all of whom are pledged to secrecy , but the purport of it is ascertained pretty well by members of the Senate not members of the committee , who are interested intensely in having the resolution as strong as words can make it . Declaration for Cuban Freedom . The resolutions offered two weeks ago ' by Mr : Foraker arelacen as the basis of the resolutions to be reported . But where there was reference in the Foraker resolutions to recognition of the existing Cuban Government , the Senate Committee , in order to reach a unanimous vote , dropped the second clause . This will make the declaration of the committee one of Cuban freedom , a justification for war , and a direction that the President shall employ the land and naval forces of the United States to remove Spain and its flag from the island . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , will be supplemented by a minority report favoring recognition of the Cuban Republic . This arrangement , including as it does the opportunity to bring the question of recognition to a vote in the Senate , is acceptable to the belligerent Senator Foraker , as it is to the conservative Senator Gray , who is one of the minority asking for the additional report . The entire committee appears to be united in making a demand that shall render it impossible for the President not to use force to compel Spain to yield to the demands of the United States . According to the talk of leading Senators to-night the resolution that the Senate will consider and pass will undertake to meet some physical facts by commands . " The President , " said a Republican Senator , " gave us history and philosophy and talked about peace and stable government . But he did not ask us to get rid of Spain 's control of Cuba or request that he be directed to use force to accomplish the things he pointed out as desirable . The time has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . War the Only Road to Peace . " Congress can not authorize the President to make war . It must direct him to make war ; to kill and destroy the enemy ; to capture or ruin his property , and to overcome him wherever he may be found . The declaration to be effective must be explicit . All the peace resolutions suggesting the establishment of stable government and the restoration of honorable peace between the insurgents and Spain mean nothing . They would accomplish nothing . " War is the only way by which the President 's objects , so far as we can gather them from the words of his message . can be secured . To ' secure peace we must go over and conquer the Spanish forces . " The House Committee on Foreign Affairs is in possession of the language to be adopted by the Senate Committee , and there is every probability that the two houses will agree as to the language and scope of the resolutions to be adopted . So far as can be learned , Congress will present a solid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability that the recognition amendment will be carried . If it is not adopted , It will be the cause of division , not only in the Senate and the House , but in the Republican Party . About every Democrat is for recognition , and nearly if not quite 100 Republicans are found to be in favor of it , notwithstanding the admonitions of the President . Lee Fans the War Spark . Gen. Lee 's presence in Washington has fanned the war spark into a flame . A prodigious crowd has followed him since his arrival , and to-night it cheered him to the echo when he talked from the balcony of the Shoreham about imminent war and declared that the man would be most thought of in this country who would carry its flag furthest . The very mention of the word " war " brought cheering and no indications of disapproval . To the men who anxiously have been cultivating peace as possible and desirable the visit of Gen. Lee is embarrassing . A spectator who looked at the crowd in the street and heard its repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a testimonial for Lee as it was an expression of approbation of the war feeling which the President 's message rather discouraged . The Administration undoubtedly regards Gem Lee 's presence in Washington just at this time as vexatious . It was expected he would be greeted with a glad welcome . There was no way of checking the ovation to him . But it was not supposed that he would unbottle the war feeling that had not yet found expression from a large audience not restricted by such rules as those of the Senate and the House . It is not considered of much consequence by the street throng that Lee brought no information for the President or the Committee on Foreign Relations that they did not already have . The crowd did not need any further convincing . It shouted " Remember the Maine ! " with hoarse cries , and indulged in affectionate applause for the Consul General who had been called here from Havana . It was not moved by any of the considerations that have made Senor Polo 's assurances acceptable in official quarters . Speeches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet with the approval of the two houses , the committees of the Senate and the House having in hand the preparation of the declaration of war will not need to occupy much time in getting the resolution Passed . An effort will be made to dispose of the resolution in a day . This will be possible only with an agreement to refrain from long speeches . Most of the speechmaking will come on the supplemental report for recognition . Only two or three Senators have expressed an intention to indulge in protracted debate on this amendment . Mr. Caffery of Louisiana is decidedly opposed to recognition ; he is also opposed to war , considering it unnecessary . Senator White of California is also opposed to recognition and is prepared to talk against it . The other side will not occupy much time . At least , it does not now intend to do so . Senator Foraker is preparing a speech to support the report , including the recognition clause of the resolutions . As he intends to make it to-morrow , he has denied himself to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the submission of the report at noon . If the Senate shall dispose of its declaration of war with promptness , it will serve to hasten the action of the House . There is great desire in the House on the part of orators who wish to appear well before their constituents , to get allotments of time in which to make good impressions . The leaders intend to prevent the exploitation of individual opinions and to obtain action in a way that shall be businesslike and impressive . The fleets at Key West and Fort Monroe are waiting with fires banked and with all superfluous furniture and fixtures ashore , for the word from the Navy Department . Their plans are perfected . They will be carried out as soon as the word of command comes from the President of the United States .                     