@@674798

txt Captain General Blanco , two hours before sundown last night , attempted to execute a ruse , which , if successful , - would have cleared the front of Havana of six ships on that blockading station . Late yesterday afternoon two ships steamed out of Havana Harbor and headed east . By the aid of glasses , Commander Lilly of the Mayflower , which was flying the pennant , made out the larger vessel of the two , which was about 200 feet long and of about 4,500 tons ' displacement , to be the cruiser Alphonso XII. , and the small one to be the gunboat Legazpi , both of which were known to have been in Havana Harbor . At first he supposed that they were taking advantage of the absence of the heavy fighting ships , and were making a bona fide run for the open sea . As superior officer , he immediately signaled the other ships on the station , the Vicksburg , Annapolis , Wasp , Tecumseh , and Osceola , which were moving in , to form a column . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping up a running fire as they - went . The Alphonso and her consort circled in shore about five miles below Havana , and after running in for half a mile , head ' ed back for Morro Castle , The American vessels did not follow them in , Commander Lilly saw that the object of the Spaniards was to draw them in tin ' dor the guns of the heavy batteries , where Spanish artillery officers could plot out tlfe11 exact range with their telemeters , so the return was made in a line parallel with the II shore . Commander Lilly had not been rnisI taken . As his ships came abreast of the Santa Clara battery , the big guns opened and fired thirteen shells at a distance of about five miles . The range was badly judged , as more than half the shells overshot the mark , a. . d others fell Short , some as much as a mile . During the pursuit of the Spanish ships two of the shells from the Vicksburg burst in the rigging of the Alphonso , and some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether any fatalities occurred . The American fire was much more accurate than the Spanish , as every shell from the ships of the latter fell short of their pursuers . It is thought that the Alphonso has been stripped of her guns , and that those used yesterday were only temporarily mounted . If it was the Alphonso XII . she must have found new boilers , since lately she was a helpless cripple in Havana Harbor .                     