@@673631

txt Miss Agnes Murray , an eccentric woman , who lives on a handsome property on Greenfield Hill and is reputed to he very wealthy , and who has gained much notoriety because she keeps a pack of vicious dogs on the premises and does not allow anybody to enter , is again in trouble . It is all on account of her dogs . The home of Frederick Bronson , the wealthy New-York lawyer , is at Greenfield Hill , and the farm on which he keeps his flock of valuable Southdown sheep adjoins Miss Murray 's place . Mr. Bronson has a large flock . They are kept in a pen about forty feet square . Yesterday Foreman Lobbell of the farm was notified that a pack of dogs was in the pen devouring the sheep . He called other men to his assistance , and they started toward the pen . There were three large dogs in the pen , and lying on the ground , badly bitten , were a score or more sheep and lambs . The dogs , surprised in their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . The shotguns the men carried came in handy just at that time . Morris L. Wilson of this city brought down one of the dogs . Another dog belonging to the pack came rushing across the field to join in the attack , and Wilson fired again . This time his aim was-too high , and when the smoke cleared away Burr Merwin , a farmer living in the vicinity , was lying on the ground badly wounded . The dog was wounded , and , maddened with pain , dashed toward the prostrate man . Wilson fired again , and this time killed the dog . The other dogs escaped . Merwin was taken into the house , where he now lies in a critical condition , and there are doubts of his recovery . About a year ago Miss ' Murray 's dogs killed seven of Mr. Bronson 's sheep , and he brought suit for $1,500 . The suit is still in court . SENATORS SCORED BY REV . DR . WILSON . Four Benedict Arnolds , He Says , Fawn Before the Sugar Trust . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not ? " was the subject of the Rev. Dr. J. A. B. Wilson 's sermon in the Eighteenth Street Methodist Episcopal Churoh last evening . Dr. Wilson had some severe things to say about the men in the United States Senate who are delaying the passage of the Tariff bill . " We have seen the business of this country paralyzed for eighteen months , " he said , " while the tariff tinkering goes on at Washington . I have no quarrel with the tariff reformers . The prosperity of the country depends , not on tariff low or tariff high , but on a settled tariff , and for this everything has been held in suspense for eighteen months . And just now , when a suffering country feels its punishment over , four Benedict Arnolds in the Senate of the United States , who take sugar in theirs , ' are fawning like spaniels at the feet of this great oligarchy , by which craft , possibly , ( like the Ephesian artificers , ) they have obtained much wealth , and the poor must go hungry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want of work , which will be abundant when this everlasting tariff thievery is over . " What share of the swag ' this quartet is to get out of it deponent sayeth not , but when an attempt was made to find out by investigation witnesses refused to answer , and were never brought to the bar of the Senate for contempt . " I am surprised at Senator Gray , whom I always believed to be an honest man , and a man of courage , as well as integrity . The party pressure must have been strongly upon him to have prevented thoroughness in his work . " The truth is that nearly all of the great sugar interests of this country are owned by one great corporation , which is able to contribute hundreds of thousands of dollars to parties for considerations . And it is for this one interest that the Senate holds the country by the throat . "                     