@@673398

txt French politics . Whether it is possible to form a ? homogeneous " Cabinet that will be supported by the Chamber of Deputies may be questionable , but it is scarcely questionable that any heterogeneous Cabinet made up in the hope of conciliating the various republican factions would fail to stand the stress of a single session . M. CAR1NTOT is entitled to congratulate himself upon the disappearance of a formidable rival for the succession to himself , if it be true that the place of Premier operates as a virtual disqualification for the Presidency of the man who occupies it . It is extensively believed that M. CARNOT has a still more formidable rival in M. CONSTANT , and this belief will be strengthened by the sudden and inexplicable breaking out of scandals about M. CONSTANS in the newspaper which M. HENRI ROCHEFORT edits from the safe remoteness of London . As M. CONSTANS has for a long time been very quiet , this attack upon him needs an explanation , at least if it be necessary to impute an intelligible motive to the actions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act for this State has been announced . Its five members represent the City Club , the Reform Club , the Republican Club , and the New-York Citizens ' Democracy . We do not know exactly what is meant by the statement that it will draw a bill " based on the Massachusetts system . " The general characteristic of the blanket ballot is that it contains the names of all candidates for office to be voted at an election , and that the voter indicates his choice by a mark set against the names of those for - whom he wishes to vote . The peculiarity of the " Massachusetts system . " as distinguished from others that have been adopted , is that the names of candidates for the same office are placed together , arranged in alphabetical order , with an abbreviation after each indicating the party or organized body nominating the candidate . The voter has to mark the name of his candidate for each office separately . That is undoubtedly the best " system " for Massachusetts , where there is an educational qualification for the suffrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this State of all that have been devised . Here there is no educational qualification , and , however much it may be deplored , there is a large number of citizens who can not read , but whose constitutional right to vote can not be abridged without invalidating the law that produces that result . The best " system " for this State is that of arranging the names of candidates in " party groups . " and indicating the sources of nomination by emblems as well as printed designations . The Argus of Albany , which enjoys the reputation of being the personal organ of the actual Governor of the State . thinks it funny to say " Bembastes Furioso FAIRCHILD "  - -  a one who should say the enlightened and judicious FLOWER or the guileless HILL or the truthful and fair-minded Argus . The fin de siecle soldier has arrived . It is a notion of some military experts that the modern appliances for slaughter will eventually become so terribly destructive that war must cease . But devotees of the military art who are appalled at this prospect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . - with Othello 's occupation gone , may take heart from a recent invention . The Globo of Barcelona already tells of a machine soldier that has been devised , made of iron and set going by clockwork . When wound up he can fire forty rounds a minute from a large magazine of ammunition which he carries in his fort interieur , while if captured by the enemy he can be blown to pieces by electrically discharging a quantity of dynamite stored . in his head . A battle between armies of such warriors would indeed be a novelty worthy of a Stockton as its historian . But without expressing the remotest doubt as to the capabilities of these soldiers of the future , we yet fear they are too expensive a luxury to be indulged in . According to the veracious Giobo , their inventor has offered a hundred of them to the Spanish Government , for use against the Ruffians at Melilla , at $1.000,000 for the lot , besides his own services as Captain . This is more costly than FREDERICK 'S grenadiers , so that ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powder which their own subjects supply so much more cheaply . Still , the pension list for such an army could not be large . The consent which has at last been extorted from M. CASIIIIR-PERIER to undertake the formation of a Ministry is very probably the most fortunate opening that could have happened of the dead-look in It is not as yet clear how far the suspension of the Italian Credit Mobilier is due to the generally straitened condition of Italian financial institutions in consequence of the financial distress of the country , and how far it is a sequel to the Parliamentary report upon the bank scandals and to the political action taken in consequence of that report . Probably both causes co-operated . In any case the suspension will still further strain the financial situation and will add to the difficulties which Signor ZANARDELLI has to encounter at the beginning of his Ministry . We have ourselves recent proof of the hardships of a new Administration succeeding to an inheritance of unsettled financial questions for the unsettled condition of which it is nowise responsible . The report that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of intercepting and destroying the new Brazilian vessels on their way from New-York is probable enough , though perhaps it has no basis but its intrinsic probability . The fleet under MELLO comprises the whole insurrection , and the addition of an equal naval force to the resources of the Government would put an end to the rebellion . Of course it would be better for him to encounter the . Nictheroy at sea than to wait for her arrival , when she could be assisted by the forts . The encounter , if it occurs , will have a special interest for naval men as affording the first test in real warfare of the dynamite gun . The methods of naval warfare have more than once been very seriously modified , if not absolutely revolutionized , by naval battles no more extensive or important than this would be .                     