@@673239

txt The fighting qualities of the cruiser New-York are unknown , but if she can not whip the opponent she may meet in a sea duel , there is at least some consolation in knowing that there are few war vessels afloat that can catch her should she have to run for it , and very few that oan get away from her should the case be the other way . That the Government will get a run for its money in either case was proved to-day , when the superb vessel raced over the forty-one-mile course at a speed of 21.07 knots an hour . That is considered to be a splendid showing , and her builders think they have reason to be proud of their handiwork , as no cruiser built on this side of the Atlantic has ever equaled it . They claim that the speed requirement was a hard one to meet , owing to the C , . epartmejit 's plans , which called for the immense beam of 64 feet . That it would require enormous engine power to propel a vessel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arknots an hour was realized , and yesterday Mr. Cramp admitted that for a long time he was doubtful if she could be made to attain that speed . Every quarter of a knot short of it meani a penalty of $50,000 , and every quarter of a knot in excess guaranteed a bonus of the same amount . The final result affords one of those ran occasions when either party to the contract considers himself the winner . The Gov. ernment is anxious to disburse premium : for higher speed than it contracts for . mile ' the builders are naturally eager to wit them . In this case the Government wit have to pay a premium of $200,000 . The cruiser stripped for the trial like 1 vessel preparing for a fight . Her quartet boats were lowered from their davits anc stowed on board behind the after turret The other boats , on skids on the super structure deck , were moved close inboard in order to reduce as much as possible the resistance to the wind . Awning stanchion : were unshipped and placed on the deck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the searchlight pedestals had been pointed in a line with the keel , and the boat davits trimmed fore and aft , every . thing had been done that was possible to reduce the surface that was to offer resistance to the wind . Prior to the trial the engines received the most careful attention . Although the powerful machinery worked as gently as an infant breathing when it was hurling the 8,000-ton ship through the water on the preliminary run , every bolt and joint was given the most careful scrutiny to make sure that it was in , perfect order for the final test . The fireroom also received assurances of the Cramps ' most distinguished consideration . The furnaces were looked after as they never had been before , and the tubes were cleaned as bright as the inside of a breech-loading rifle . Another incentive to high speed was the quality of fuel used . Two bunkers full of selected coal of the best quality was reserved for use on the official run . The preliminary trial was made with ordinary an thracite . The racer went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department . Two of her eight-inch rifles were in place . and all of her four-inch rapid-firing guns were mounted . In the forward turret was placed 130 tons of pig lead , which represented the weight of the upper turret armor , which has not yet been put in place , and the two eight-inch guns - which are to be mounted in the turret , A similar weight was carried in the after turret . The shell rooms and magazines were empty , but the trimming tanks were filled with a quantity of water sufficient to represent the weight of ammunition which is to be carried when the vessel is in commission . The day was perfect . A gentle breeee from-the northwest sent sourrying cat'spaws over a sea that was smooth as glass , and overhead not a cloud could be seen . The weather continued on its good behavior throughout the trip . The vessel got under way at 7:30 A. M. and proceeded at a leisurely pace toward Cape Ann , gradually increasing her speed as she drew near that point . Three miles beyond it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty-one-mile course over which the vessel was to try her speed . Near the buoy was the Vesuvius. whose duty it was to record the strength of the tide when the vessel passed . Five other vessels were anchored along the route for the same purpose . The muffled roar which came from the cavernous recesses of the rireroom , indicated that forced draught was at work , and as the vessel drew near the line , dense volumes of smoke were pouring from each of her three funnels . The bow wave grew higher and higher and went seething past the foam-girt hull at a velocity which made the eye dizzy to watch . The wave of replacement swelled high under the counters , and astern there was a tumbling , boilingmass of foam . At 9:25 A. Id. , the cruiser rushed past the buoy and simultaneously a red flag fluttered from the forward mast , announcing to all concerned that the race was on . The race of a steamship against time does not possess that element of enthusiasm and excitement which is furnished when an opponent is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed to extract considerable excitement from it . Mr. Cramp , in particular , had an absorbing interest in her performance , and no one looked more anxiously at the fleeting waves . Tho engines were designed to make a. maximum of 1291u revolutions a minute . They were revolving at the rate of 130 when the vessel dashed across the line . Before 100 yards had been traversed they were reeling off 134 to the minute . The speed gradually increased , until 137 had been reached . About seven miles from the starting point the navy tug Nina was anchored . The racer swept by her like a hurricane , and the little vessel was nearly swamped in the tremendous swell that followed the cruiser . Next in line was the Bennington , her rigging black with men , who had climbed aloft to get a better view . They may have been forbidden to cheer the President , but they gave three hearty cheers to the foamimbedded cruiser as she went dashing by . The Fern was the next vessel to emerge from the haze ahead . Lying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both crowded with excuraionists from Gloucester , who had come out to see the race . They apparently did not know what . a tidal wave was following the flying cruiser , but they discovered it very soon . The last glimpse that was had of them was the glint of their metal sheathing and two funnels that were reeling through an arc . of 45 degrees . Other excursion boats were passed . The people cheered and the whistles shrieked admiration and encouragement . The cruiser had a more important use for her steam , and could not afford to expend any in a return salute . The tugs Fortune and Leyden were passed . and then the Kearsarge , which was anchored near the finishing buoy , hove in sight . The moment the buoy was passed the cruiser 's helm was put to starboard , and after describing a graceful circle she fell into the creamy wake , which stretched to the southward like a white river in the blue sea . The vessel seemed to gather fresh impetus as she stretched away on the return trip . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the run to the northward was now a seething hill of snow which reached almost to her hawser pipes . The turmoil in her wake perceptibly increased , and it needed only a glance at the foaming cauldron to appreciate the tremendous power that was driving the ship through the water . The first condition for high speed is fineness of form , so that the water at the bow may be thrown aside and brought to rest again at the stern with the least possible disturbance . But , however fine the lines may be , a ship going at a high speed must produce some disturbance , as the water displaced must be raised above the normal level and replaced at the normal level , so - there is always the crest of a wave near the bow and a corresponding hollow near the stern . The lines of the New-York can not be described as tine , owing to her immense beam , and it takes a tremendous engine power to overcome the inertia of the vast body . The engines were equal to the task , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight over the course . Panting and trembling , she rushed by the finishing buoy , and then the storm of cheers which rose from her docks was drowned by the shrieking whistle . Down below the scalded stokers were wild with delight when the word was passed that the New-York had broken all records for vessels of her class , and had earned a premium of 200,000 for her builders . They knew that meant something for them , as the Cramps have made it a practice on such occasions to award a handsome sum to the engineer 's force . After the race was over the vessel proceeded to Gloucester and chose an anchorage about twelve miles distant from that quaint old town . She took her departure shortly after midnight for Philadelphia , on a consumption of twenty tons of coal an hour . She made the first half of the run on an average of 20.78 knots an hour . On the return trip she did even better , averaging 21.30 knots an hour . This gives her during the four hours ' run an average speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the fastest armored cruiser in the world . Not only is the cruiser New-York a world beater , bat she will pay her builders the biggest premium ever paid in any country . To-day 's performance off the Massachusetts coast will be echoed from one end of Europe to the other , for it places the United States in the van among the navies of the world and gives her not only the most powerful , but the swiftest armored cruising vesseL There has been great enthusiasm in England over the performances of the cruisers Blake and Blenheim , some claiming that the latter has attained a speed of 22 knots . In the first place these vessels are not armored , but simply protected by fourinch decks over machinery and boilers . Even equal speed from them , therefore , would be nothing remarkable against a vessel carrying in addition to a six-inch protective deck , a live-inch side belt and two turrets , each eleven inches thick . In the second place , neither of these vessels has ever had an official trial over a measured course . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed of 19.7 knots in shoal water , and developingly on 13,000 hoi se power , while the Blenheim ' was ganged only by a patent log which it is claimed indicated 223-2 knots . This same instrument on board the New-York showed a speed to-day of 23 knots , and the difference-between that and the actual distance covered is a proof of how nnreliable patent logs are as official tests . In appearance the New-York is somewhat difficult to describe . She resembles nothing that has ever flown the American flag . Some have likened her to the Blake ; but she looks no more like that vessel than a catboat looks like a yawl . At a distance the Blake looks very much like one of the North German Lloyd steamships , but the New-York could not poSsibly be mistaken for anything but what she is . Man-of-war is written in every sinister line . Her triple-turreted. masts show her combative disposition , and the wickedlooking spur which projects from her bow seems anxious to try its penetrating qualities on the side of some antagonist . Noticeable features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from either side of the sharply-rounded stern . A spar , known as the propeller boom , is rigged from the quarter whenever the ship drops anchor , to prevent any incautious craft from impaling itself on one of the flanges . An illnwration of this peculiarity was given t. - dad when the ship was being brought to anchor . A tug hovered ou her port quarter , apparently anxious to get alongside . " Keep away ! " shouted Capt . Sargent . " One of my propellers will cut a hole through you . ' The pilot considered himself at a safe distance until suddenly the water began to boil all around his craft , and looking down he saw the flash of metal blades perilously near his vessel 's hulL Capt . Sargent , who commands the cruiser , is a sailor who runs considerably to avoirdnaois . He is usually exceedingly good-uatu:ed , but there are times when a sea blessing is a great relief to him . He was bothered with the double duty of warning the tug to keep clear and of bringing his ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had nothing else to talk about , approached him and . required how much he weighed , the Captain looked at his interlocutor a moment and said : " Well , ordinarily I weigh about 250 pounds ; but sometimes when I am put out and people ask impertinent questions 1 weigh a ton . " The reporter 's curiosity was satisfied , and he wisely refrained from asking any more questions . A steam pressure of 170 pounds was held thiougnout the trip Immense lumps of burning coal were driven out of the funnels by the blowers. ' 1 hick and fast they fell , until the decks looked like the base of a volcano . Live coals fell on a canvas boat cover and ignited it , causing quite a sensation for a moment . The flames were quickly extinguished without serious damage .                     