@@672935

txt The Administration has served notice on Senator Sherman that it expects from him some substantial return for its vigorous assistance in his re-election to the United States Senate . When Senator Sherman 's name was first mentioned in connection with Platt 's effort to defeat President Harrison . the latter expected a prompt repudiation or Platt and his colleagues by the Ohio Senator . But now President Harrison and his friends have become convinced that Senator Sherman is not only pleased with the manner in which his name is being used , but that he really encourages it . Mr. W. D. Briokell , the editor of the Columbus Dispatch , has been spending several days in Washington , and has had several consultations with Secretary Foster and other Ohio office holders , and to-night quite a sensation was created in the Ohio colony by the appearance of the Dispatch containing a Washington special severely denouncing Senator Sherman and arousing him of ingratitude toward President Harrison . The Dispatch , special ' not only denounces Sherman , but alleges that the President , through Secretary Foster and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State of Ohio and drew on the office holding contingent from outside States in order to secure Senator Sherman 's re-election and the downfall of Foraker . This , it is said , was done with the understanding that President Harrison was to have the loyal support of Mr. Sherman in his effort to be renominated at Minneapolis . Now the office holders charge that Sherman has broken faith and is allowing his name to be used by the President 's enemies for the purpose of bringing about his defeat Secretary Foster and his friends have waited a sufficient length of time for Sherman to repudiate the efforts now being made in his behalf , but he has neglected to do so , and they now propose to strike from the shoulder and fight Sherman as hard as they fought Foraker . From now on , the Administration forces will take advantage of every opportunity to discourage the Sherman boom , and all the friends of the Administration in Ohio will be asked to assist . Congressman E. B. Taylof is one of the President 's strongest friends in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which he gives the Sherman boom a dash of ice water . Said Mr. Taylor : " Mr Harrison is absolutely sure of the nomination , unless Mr. Blaine permits the use of his name in the convention . if Mr. Blaine appears as a candidate when the convention meets , Mr. Harrison 's name will not go before the con. vention at all But I do not believe that Mr. Blaine will be a candidate . I do not see how he can be , and .11 he is not , Mr. Harrison will be nominated on the first ballot . That opposition which is merely looking for a candidate with which to defeat some one , simply to gratify resentment for personal disappointment , can not accomplish anything . They can do nothing with Sherman , , or Alger as a candidate , and they are dependent entirely upon Blaine . " " I believe that the people in this country want Mr. Harrison renominated . Since Lincoln . I think there has been no man in the White House whose renomination has been desired and expeoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He will have the Ohio . Indiana , Illinois , and Pennsylvania delegations solid behind him in the convention . Quay will not oppose him after the convention meets , and , in spite of Platt , he will have many New-York delegates . " This sudden onslaught of the Administration forces and the bold determination to fight the Sherman boom with bare knuckles has amazed Senator Sherman 's friends and his new allies , the Foraker people . It is freely predicted that this strange state of affairs lead to a combination between Sherman and Foraker on one side , and Harrison and Foster and on the other , and that from now on the fight for the Ohio delegates will be fast and furious . In case Sherman should be nominated for the Presidency he will be expected to use his influence to secure the election of Mr. Foraker to the United States Senate , and this is a slate Foster and will try to break . A well-known Kentucky Republican said today ' , in talking about the disposition of the delegation from that State to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it contains no man who is attached to Harrison . and there are many men in it who believe that a new man , who has not made a crowd of diger ) ? pointed office seekers , would be much stronger . From what I know or the men in the delegation and the feeling behind them , I would say that they would be glad to take up a man who would interest all the party instead of interesting only those members of it who are in office and are only working for a sure thing . Should Blaine have a strong following , and other candidates secure enough votes on the first ballot to keep Harrison from being nominated at once , he will never get through that convention . It must be a nomination for him on the first ballot or not at all , While there has not been much said about it , there are many Republicans in Kentucky who believe that the nomination of Sherman would be more popular , as it certainly would be in Indiana . than that of Harrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Gresham as a miraculously popular one for the Republicans at this time , and should he be nominated by the Republicans and anybody except Cleveland nominated by the Democrats , I think that we would have a victory greater than any since Grant was elected over Greeley. "                     