@@674005

txt Only an amazingly perfect confidence in either the stupidity or the dishonesty of its readers can make it possible for a newspaper to say , as does The London Globe , that even the strictest application of the Monroe doctrine does not in any way affect England 's refusal to allow Venezuela to occupy a part of British Guiana . Of course this statement is absolutely , even ludicrously , true , but what on earth has it to do with the present controversy ? Tammany is indeed unfortunate ! Hardly had " No Enforcement of Law " been carefully paipted on its battle flag when the Commissioners of Accounts come along and force it to add , " And Sheehan is All Right , See ? " Either would make an inspiring cry , but the two , while so nearly alike in meanipg , are so dissimilar in sound that the braves may get mixed up , even to the extent of shouting , " No Enforcement of Sheehan ! " or " Law is All Right ! " They might even do both . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . For some mysterious reason which has , up to the present time , been successfully concealed from the public , several of our most important navy yards are known in official circles by names which people not in the secret insist upon regarding us obviously inaccurate and in some instances refuse to use . For instance , the department publications always ask us to believe , or at least pretend to believe , that there is a New-York Navy Yard , although conscience and eyes alike declare that Brooklyn , not this city , should furnish the appellation . Su , too , Kittery , Me. , which really possesses one of these Institutions , chafes to see that Portsmouth , N. H. , gets whatever credit or glory may accrue therefrom . This is a peculiarly irritating case , since the distinction is transferred , not only from one town to another , but from one State to another . Then consider the sad fate of Gosport , Va. , an unfortunate little place whose one claim to fame , its navy yard , has always been officially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never had a navy yard in Its life , gets into the papers constantly as a place of rendezvous for ships that could n't go near it if they wanted to ever so badly . Boston , having absorbed the ancient town of Charlestown a good while ago , has a moderately defensible claim to ? rank among the navy-yard owners , though nobody who was born or lives where the shadow of Bunker Hill Monument falls will ever admit it .                     