@@673452

txt Mr. Pickler 's desire to procure the repeal of the law under which army officers are now appointed as Indian agents wherever the President dues not deem that the public interest requires the selection of civilians will encounter some obstacles . One is that every officer so appointed saves an agent 's salary , since he gets only his own ordinary pay , which he would receive in any case , and in these days the needless additional expenditures involved by a change will probably not be relished by Congress . Still anethkeobsteele is that the agefeles pre7icleil aver by army officers seem than far to have been very quietly and effectively managed . In fact , the past year has been one of remarkable tranquillity on the re  --  ervations , so that lhe reasons for a , . loptinc. , - the present system are likely to remain potent against ? hangin : : , - it . It seems quite certain , however , that if Congress would like to make the change , the army will not protest or object . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own commands or elsewhere to make the return of those now at the agencies unwelcome . But we see no reason for expecting any overthrow of the present system . The Chamber of Commerce proposes to take a hand in examining " the subject of rapid transit . " Yesterday it authorized its President to appoint a committee of five to do the examining and to report what action , if any , it is advisable for the Chamber to take " for the purpose of aiding in the solution of this important problem . " Even an examination by a committee and a report of its conclusions ought to be of some service , though it conclude that there is no action for the Chamber of Commerce to take . Mr. Wilson declared at the meeting that he desired the opinion of the " intelligent people of the community " on his plan for solving the " important problem , " and remarked that it was impossible to get private capital to build the proposed underground road without aid , under the present rapid-transit act . " with its absurd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions " in the law , why is not the proper remedy a change in the law which would remove these restrictions rather than a resort to the credit of the city ? Can the law be so modified that private capital will undertake to build the underground road ? if not , the alternative would seem to be for the city to use its credit in its own behalf , rather than give it to a private corporation , and have the road built . Doubtless the Chamber of Commerce committee will examine this question , but the city itself has had a committee of five examining the " problem " for three years , and it has not yet reached a final decision as to what action it is advisable to take .                     