@@674614

txt President Oliphant of the Louisiana Board of Health sent a telegram to the office of that board in this city to-day confirming the report that the physicians at Ocean Springs had declared the prevailing sickness there undoubtedly yellow fever . The doctors of three States came to this conclusion after holding an autopsy on the body of a person who died yesterday . Ocean Springs is about 100 miles from this city . Rigid precautions will be taken to isolate the Springs , and it is confidently hoped by leading physicians that these measures will be successful in keeping the disease from spreading to this place . There is little or no alarm here , but sojourners on the coast are returning to the city . and will spend the remainder of the Summer home . The fever has been prevalent at Ocean Springs for some time . Two weeks ago , after a : careful investigation , the Louisana authorities declared the disease to be dengue fever , which it probably was at that time , the disease being mild and the death rate trifling . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become more virulent , and has probably developed into yellow fever . The State Board of Health has decided to enforce a rigid quarantine against Biloxi and Ocean Springs . Quarantine will also be enforced against the other watering places on the Gulf coast until the President returns and more light is obtained on the situation . Guards are to be put on the trains and at the stations , all baggage is to be fumigated , and every possible precaution is to be taken to keep the disease out of the city . The Louisville and Nashville trains have been ordered not to stop at either Biloxi or Ocean Springs . The houses of all people who have returned to New Orleans in the last two days are to be thoroughly fumigated . Raoul Gelpi , aged thirteen years , who had been spending the Summer at Ocean Springs , was brought to this city Thursday , and died this morning . Dr. Walmsley , Acting President of the Board of Health , after an autopsy , announced that the boy had died of yellow fever . The Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be thoroughly fitmigated and disinfected , and will take all steps to prevent a spread of the disease . Gelpi was buried this evening . No one was allowed to attend the funeral . Dr. Walmsley says this is the only case in the city . The death of young Gelpi naturally caused no little excitement in the city . Physicians , however , expressed no apprehension , and stated their belief that it was quite possible to prevent a spread of the fever . During the day the bulletin boards have been thronged , the Board of Health office besieged , and the wires freighted with messages to and from the various coast rescrts In the meantime , however , reassuring telegrams arrived from Ocean Springs , saying that the Mississippi Board of Health had taken every precaution possible to circumscribe the limits of the epidemic and prevent its communication to the outside world . " We have no fear , " said Dr. Walmsley , acting President of the Board of Health , " that the fever will spread in New Orleans . The Board of Health is prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see no reason to feel alarmed . People ought not to get frightened . This one case was taken charge of in time , and such scientific fumigation has been applied as to warrant the - hope that we shall promptly and effectively stamp out the disease . We have made arrangements to issue to-night a circular to every practicing physician in New Orleans commanding him promptly to report to the Board of Health every suspicious case of fever . We have made arrangements to act promptly in every case , and if other cases of yellow fever shall be brought to our attention we shall without delay notify the world of the facts . " There have been at least four cases , in addition to the Gelpi one , of people suffering from fever , who have come to New Orleans from Ocean Springs . Ten of the most prominent physicians of New Orleans have been pressed into service , and we give the closest attention to each of these cases . In every instance bacteriological examinations showed the existence only of malarial germs , and no evidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , when I say tha , t Gelpi 's case is the only one of yellow fever in New Orleans up to the present time , and I am sure we have the city fully covered . " During the week ending Aug. 21 reports reached President Oliphant of the Board of Health of the prevalence of sickness at Ocean Sorings , the nature or which was in doubt . Dr. Oliphant , with a member of the Board of Health , went there and learned that there had been up to mat time some 400 cases . Of these there had been only one or two deaths , but in two cases the symptoms were so suspicious as to give rise to the belief that the fever was of a virulent type . Dr. Oliphant then brought on Drs . Czarnowski and Salomon of the Board of Experts , and Dr. Patton , Secretary of the Board of Hearth , all experienced in the treatment of yellow fever . " They visited some eleven patients , and , after a careful and thorough examination and investigation , unanimously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicians ag2eed that none of the cases up to then showed any symptoms that would even lead to suspicion of a more serious disease . During last week , however , yellow fever in virulent form appeared at Ocean Springs . " The quick death of Dr. Bemiss aroused and by , Saturday . the Boards of Health of Mobile and New Orleans were in possession of information that justified the fear that yellow fever had slipped into Ocean Springs . Official experts of the Boards of Health of Mississippi , Louisiana , and Alabama , and the representatives of the Marine Hospital Service went on Saturday to Ocean Springs . They were at once convinced that their gloomy apprehensions were not unfounded . " Careful autopsies were made , but , aside from Dr. Saunders of Mobile . the experts were disposed to await a further and complete autopsy to remove all doubt before making official announcement to the world of the appearance of the scourge . Last night another patient , a woman , died , and this morning an autopsy was held . Its result was to dispel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold the representatives of the Marine Hospital Service and the Mississippi Board of Health to some responsibility for the invasion . He said that the fever had unquestionably been communicated by the constant intercourse of Ocean Springs with Ship Island , where there is a United States Government quarantine station . Ships from all portions of the world touch there . A large number from tropical countries , where yellow fever is indigenous to the soil report there weekly . There has been steady and uninterrupted communication between the island and these coast towns , and Dr. Walmsley has little or no doubt that this has been the means of bringing into Ocean Springs the germs of yellow fever .                     