@@674080

txt It was well for the Corporation Counsel of this city to impress upon the legislative committee having the Greater New-York question under consideration the seriousness and importance of the problem which it involves . It is not a Matter to be dealt with in an off-hand I way , least of all with p. view to immediate political effect . For the Legislature to deal with it in that way would be a crime . The point raised . in regard to , cpuuty lines . iri .. ; ? - ai important whatever limits- may be set- to ' the en -- larked. : gli8111d " contain . but one county , whose boundaries should be identical with its own . There- would be no occasion for separate county officers for different parts of the city , and the double capacity for incurring indebtedness is certainly undesirable . Mr. SCOTT 'S views as to the area that should be consolidated in the enlarged municipality are more open to question , and on the important subject of taxation his position does not seem to us to be judicious . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the limits of the Greater New-York , and , with a single financial administration for the single municipality , Brooklyn , Long Island City , and the outlying territory would at first obtain considerable benefit ' at ' the expense of New-York , but that is one of the inducements for them to consent to have their identity merged and it is part of the price which New-York would pay , and is willing to pay , for the larger ' advantages of the future , which would accrue to the whole metropolis . The reluctance or opposition still displayed in Brooklyn to the consolidation is chiefly due to a fear that there will not be a uniform system of taxation , and to allay that apprehension there should be a distinct obligation assumed in the legislation of this session . The claim of Brooklyn in this respect is well founded . Many of her citizens are engaged in business and employment in this city . They own taxable property and contribute to all forms of business activity here , and much of the revenue of New-York is derived from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's finances is mainly due to the fact that New-York draws so much from her people without making any return . Both ends of the ferries and all the public water-front property belong to New York . It would only be fair to Brooklyn to equalize this matter of burdens and benefits , and in the long run it would prove a gain to dwellers on Manhattan Island . The argument which Mr. SCOTT presented with reference to taxes and expenditures for certain local purposes does not strike us as convincing . He maintained that while taxes for certain general administrative purposes  --  the support of the Police , Fire , Health , and Law Departments , and the Mayoralty and Common Council , for instance  --  should be borne equally by all parts of the new city in proportion to assessed valuation of property , those for parks , pavements , sewers , and the like should be paid in greater part by the territory deriving the greatest advantage from them , and it would be unfair for Brooklyn and Richmond County to help pay for Croton water which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of the Kings County water system . We do not see that it would make any material difference with the water-supply question whether each part of the city paid for its own or all parts paid for the whole , and there would be no more ground for a distinction according to source of supply than there is now for distinguishing between those who use Croton water and those who draw from the Bronx . As a permanent policy there could be no stronger argument for apportioning the taxes for parks , streets , sewers , &c.,; according to districts in the Greater New-York than in the present city . Nobody will contend that there is no general benefit to the residents of Manhattan Island in having the parks and streets beyond the Harlem River improved , and that the cost ought to be paid by the residents of that section alone , or that when a new sewdr is required down town the people up town should not help pay for it . If such a policy had been pursued , the growth and development of the city would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole for the benefit of the whole has contributed to , ? , the general development and prosperity , and it would be the same throughout the metropolitan area . At first that part of the greater city most advanced in wealth and in public improvements would have to contribute of its substance to bring the other parts into healthy and harmonious relations for the common growth of the future , after which the mutual benefits and advantages would appear in the increased vigor and rapid progress of the whole community . It would be an anomaly in our system of government , municipal , State , or National , to undertake to apportion the burden of taxation by sections so that each should pay for what it gets in public service or benefit . Equalization of burdens and of benefits is tile basis of our whole system , and uniform taxation and valuation within the same jurisdiction is the only sound policy .                     