@@673507

txt The freight steamship State of Georgia , which sailed from Aberdeen on March 4 , arrived in port yesterday , more than a week overdue . The vessel encountered that field of ice which has been drifting across the path of the transatlantic mariners , and when she emerged from it , after a four days ' impris ' onment , both of her bow plates had been stove in . The State of Georgia is one of many vessels whose voyages have been extended . Immediately after leaving Aberdeen she got into trouble with the elements . A heavy gale was encountered shortly after the land was cleared , and there were high seas and baffling winds . I Nine days later the vessel met a more seTimis peril . She crushed her way half through the outskirts of an ice field before its proximity was discovered . It was in the early part of the night when the vessel ran into the pack . The engines were immediatrly slowed , and extra lookouts were posted . All night long the vessel threaded her way through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water was to be seen ahead . Capt . Laurie decided to head to the eastward and try to find his way out through the route he came . A dense fog which settled in just then made it necessary to slow the engines to their least possible headway . The fog lifted at 8 o'clock and disclosed a huge iceberg a short distance ahead . The vessel sheered off so as to avoid the berg , and made her way slowly through the floe . The fog closed in again , and then came a heavy gale . The great masses of Ice beating against the hull crushed in some of the iron plates . The carpenter was sent into the forepeak to sound the well , and found that the vessel was making water rapidly forward of the collision bulkhead . A stage was lowered over the bow and a dangerous crack was found in one of the plates of the star- board bow . All night the vessel drifted ' with the Ice , and in the morning a patch was prepared and holes drilled to bolt it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men found a crack in the port bow plate , and this was also repaired . At 7 P. M. the work was finished , but it was thought best to wait for daylight before proceeding . On the 16th the engines were again started , the course being south by southeast . Much Ice was passed through on that day and the next . All of it was very heavy , averaging twenty feet in thickness , and only a small portion appeared above water . At noon on the 18th the ship 's position was latitude 44 degrees 54 minutes , longitude 46 degrees 28 minutes . During the afternoon and evening six large icebergs were passed . At midnight the ship ran out of the ice and into open water . The course was laid southwest by west , and no more ice was encountered . The State of Georgia was formerly one of the State Line ships . The last time she left this port , being then in command of Capt . Donaldson , she was boarded by a huge wave , which carried away the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to port for repairs . Capt . Donaldson became sick , and Chief Mate Laurie took her to sea . Capt . Donaldson will rejoin the ship at this port . WITH A BULLET IN HIS HEART . Harry W. Dayton of Brooklyn a Suicide in a Broadway Hotel . Harry W. Dayton , thirty-five years old , of 457 Hancock Street , Brooklyn , shot himself through the heart in Brawn 's Hotel , 101 West Eleventh Street , Monday afternoon . Early Monday morning , according to the landlord 's story , Dayton came to the hotel and was assigned to a room on the third floor . The chambermaid went to call him at noon yesterday , but repeated knocks and calls failed to bring any response . Policemen were summoned , and they burst in the door of the room- On the bed lay Dayton 's body , shot through the heart . A revolver was beside him . His clothes were scattered round the room , and lying on the bureau was a letter addressed to Percy 0 . Seward , 02 Leonard Street , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dayton 's wife , with the request that Seward would deliver the same . There was also an eltipty envelope addressed to S. F. Foye , Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company , at Broadway and Park Place . There were besides a gold watch and heavy chain , silver match box , silver comb case , gold sleevebuttons , and $2.21 in cash . Dayton 's clothes were of a fine dark material , and everything about the dead man 's effects denoted that he was in comfortable circumstances . Dayton was employed at the office of H. B. Claflin &; Co. , and lived with his wife . four-year-old son , and mother-in-law . He had been working very hard of late , and was suffering from nervous prostration . On Saturday he came to New-York to consult ? a physician , and was traced to the Hotel Imperial , which place he left on Sunday afternoon . After that all trace of him was lost .                     