@@672804

txt We see no good reason why Now-York should join in the competition of the cities that seek the glory of having the Republican National Convention of 1892 held within their gates . It is difficult to see what would be gained by the city , the party , or any aspirant for the Presidential nomination from having that assembly here . It is true that New-York is the most attractive city for visitors on the contineat . It is true that in the amphitheatre of the new Madison Square Garden it has the largest and finest hall for a great pub- ? lie gathering of the kind in the world . It is true that its hotel accommodations are unequaled in extent and in quality in this country , and that its facilities for access and for travel are without a parallel , and in the month of May or June it is surrounded with attractions that are unsurpassed . But the world knows of these advantages , and there is no occasion to advertise them . If the representatives of the Republican Party from all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the National Committee do not appreciate them , or think that those whom they represent do not care for them , in comparison with other considerations , why should committees of citizens press the matter f New-York has nothing to gain by having National Conventions hero . They would come and go without causing more than a , ripple upon the surface of its daily life , and nowhere would they be less affected by their surroundings . Hotel keepers and railroads would reap a temporary profit from the influx of delegates and politicians , though it would not be great , and it scorns to be chiefly the representatives of their interests who have been making a stir in the matter . The city itself would gain neither honor nor worldly advantage . The Republican  --  Party could not hope to gather strength in the State of Now-York by having its National Convention swallowed up in this great Democratic city . It would not make a vote . Nor would its action be likely to be affected either in the declaration of principles or the choice of candidates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite convention cities for twenty ears , and it has been more of an object fon them to seek the benefits of a political crowd than it is for New-York . Their railroads and hotels felt the advantage more than it would be felt here , and it gave them a certain distinction which ' they seem to have craved . Besides , the stir and excitement was something unwonted , and they apparently enjoyed it . One advantage they had which is quite ? . substantial , that of central location and comparative ease of access from all parts of the country . That they have yet , but their ambition seemsato have abated somewhat , and Chicago is apparently not making her customary exertion in the matter . Perhaps she is too much occupied with ? preparation for the great World 's Fair and feels content with the glory of having secured that prize . Now Omaha , the twin cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis , Detroit , and oven far-off San Francisco have en ' tared the lists . The last-named is on a hopeless quest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as this , recognition of their importance would give them some prestige . In a Western city , too , the surroundings of a convention , the local political atmosphere , would have more influence than would be felt in a metropolitan community . The . convention will probably go West . As a matter of fact , no-National Convention has been held in an Eastern city since 1872 , when the Republicans met in Philadelphia and the Democrats in Baltimore , the historic " Liberal Republican " gather ' ing being hold in Cincinnati . Since then the eentre ? of popnlationhas moved steadily westward , and the Western influence in political organizations has increased . In 1808 the Republican Convention was in Chicago , , and that of the  --  Democrats was in Tammany Hall , when HORATIO SEYMOUR received his nomination . In 1870 the Republicans met in Cincinnati ; and Ohio furnished this candidate for President , while TILDEN was nominated at St. Louis . In 1880 the Democrats mot in Cincinnati and the Republicans in Chicago , whore their last two National Conventions were also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chicago in 1884 , and in 1888 the Demo , crate gathered again at St. Louis . There is little probability that the disposition to select a central city will be abandoned this year , and it would not be in the least surprising if Chicago were chosen again , even though she is not making her usual effort . Convenience of access from all parts of the country and adequate accommodations for visitors are really the most important considerations , and little enduring effect is to be secured to any party by the noisy accompaniments of a convention in any particular place , and so far as its action is swayed by local influences it is likely to prove a disadvantage .                     