@@675043

txt 1 , rom The Christian Advocate . In point of fact , such an enlargement of the army is actually necessary , and has been necessary for a consiherable period . In the civil war it was not so necessary , because the North and the South were alike unprepared ; and what army there was , with the exception of the Generals that went with the South  --  some a the ablest , it is true  --  was in the possession of the Federal Government . But the late war made it obvious that so small a body would be wholly inadequate in case of a serious conflict with a great power . We will assign another reason for an increase of the regular army : The danger of riots on a large scale in the United States Is not hypothetical by any means , and the local militia are liable to take on the prevailing sentiment ; and when a Governor of a State maintaining order is on the unpopular side , he may be compelled to apply to the Federal Government . If a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country may be in danger of being weakened in its energy and enthusiasm , and the situation would be still worse if the Governor , supported by the local militia of his own State , happened to be on the wrong side . No one can tell how far the riots in the great strikes in Western Pennsylvania and Illinois would have gone had it not been for the Federal authorities . Tanner , with his militia . proposing to shoot down negroes for no other crime than being willing to work , is a recent Illustration . But , while an increase of the regular army is demanded , it brings with it a great danger  --  a danger illustrated by the present condition of France , where for many months the civil and the military power have been antagonizing each other , and , in the judgment of most competent observers , the country has been upon the very verge of a reVolutitm : With such a small regular army as we ' lave had , no General in a time of peace could possibly become a hero . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands , unlesspatriotism , intelligence , and integrity unite , a new phase of things will shortly appear . But the army must be larger , entirely , ' , independent of the question of the Philippines , and we think that , in view of the heated oenditien of a large part of the people and the number of chameleon leaders . the fact that only an increase to 100.000 in Iasked for may be considered a cause for congratulation.                     