@@673581

txt Many thousands of people came hither to-day in search of the coolness of which the cities gave them none . All the transportation companies ran carriers on the Summer schedule , and the trains and steamboats ( were crowded to their capacity . The greatest number of people was at the West End , but there were enough at Manhattan Beach to give the place the air of a popular Summer resort . The piazzas of the hotels Aid the walks were thronged ; with men , women , and children . A string band played at the Manhattan Beach Hotel , and attracted a large gathering . The bathing pavilion at Manhattan Beach was the objective point of many . The water was comparative/y smooth and warm , and those who ventured in were amply repaid by the invigoration derived from the dip in the salt water . It was noticeable that where the ocean had intrenched on the beach and washed away walks and buildings , work was being pushed , so that the damage might be speedily repaired . When the beach became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was inaugurated , there was a disposition mot to make any expenditures , unless absolutely necessary , until it was seen just what effect the new regime would have on the number of visitors . Since it has been demonstrated that Coney Island has suffered very little at the hands of its new rulers , the proprietors of hotels and bathing pavilions and other places for the use of the public have taken heart . Repairs and Improvements are being made all along the strip of beach . There was still some disposition on the part of the concert hall men and fakirs of all kinds to decry the business to-day ; but it was apparent that most of them laid the , 00r business to the general hard times rather than to the new rules , which , it . must - be said , are not so strictly enforced as to cause much dissatisfaction . The concerts , still called " sacred . " were tun-dress affairs , the performers usually wearing " swallow tails , " and the women plain gowns , of walking length , with occasionally a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' day , and that was for drunkenness . This iwas the more noticeable , because there was apparently no restriction on the sale - of liquors of . all kinds . . ' ale st. ? which ? have been necessary on the . preceding Sun- days this season , announcing that only weiss beer was for sale , still hung on the walls of saloons and concert halls . But if anybody drank weiss beer at Coney Island to-day , it was because he was a strict follower of temperance principles . Dancing was indulged in at several halls . The law is very strict on the question of dancing . But if a couple wanted to dance , all that was necessary was to join the " Lightning Young Men 's Yacht Club " or the " Belva Lockwood Juvenile Pleasure Club , " or some other similar organization , and securethe privileges of the hall leased by the perspicacious proprietor to some equally far-sighted young man who saw a chance to make a-little money and evade the law by setting up a club for one day only . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these clubs was 25 cents per couple , which was cheap enough , taking into consideration the additional pleasure obtained from the evasion of the law . Dancing was provocative of thirst and wilted linen to-day . It was cooler and pleasanter in the surf . There was more bathing to-day than on any Sunday this year . Several new pavilions have been erected at the extreme west end of the beach , and this section was very popular to-day . Ernst Ptsch , the proprietor of the St. Nicholas Hotel , was locked up to-day at the Coney Island Police Station to await an examination into his sanity . His brother swore out the complaint . Mr. Ptsch was a little too free in the use of his money , his brother thought . It is the general impression that the hotel man will be discharged when the examination is held .                     