@@674990

txt In his famous seventh of March speech in 1850 , DANIEL WEBSTER incidentally but weightily observed : " In truth , Sir , I must say that , in my opinion , the vernacular tongue of the country has been greatly vitiated , depraved , and corrupted by the style of our Congressional debates . And if it were possible for our debates in Congress to vitiate the principles of the people- as much as they have depraved their taste , I should cry out God save the Republic . ' " It will not be denied that in this respect things have been going from bad to worse since Mr. WEBSTER 'S day . When he was in the Senate it contained some masters of English , himself the foremost . But there is now not a single member in either house , excepting the venerable Senator MORRILL , whose speeches are read by any intelligent person for their style , or would be commended to his pupils by any teacher of English who knew his business as models of style . The best of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearness and no other . The most of them - we need not stop to characterize . The average of them is cornposed in a turgid , flabby , " half-baked " rhetoric which can not be regarded or remembered . We are very far behind England in this respect . There are half a dozen members of Parliament whose speeches are reported verbatim in the leading newspapers , because they are worth reading . There is not a single member of Congress whose speeches are reported in full in the " papers of either party , simply because there is not a single member of Congress whose speeches are worth reading . Mr. = is a graduate of that very bad oratorical school , the modern House of Representatives , and he has just been eying his countrymen more than a taste of his oratorical quality . Because of his position his speeches are reported in full , ' but it would be much better for his reputation if they were not . We are not now +speaking of the substance of them , but only of the style . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaker does not know what he wants to say and because he does not know how to say it . They wobble . They " do n't amount to anything . " Such a showing from the official guardian of ! the p'resident 's American " is not encouraging . But upon the whole the original prose of the President is preferable to his selected poetry . On Friday , for the first time , he garnished his own observations with quotations , and , like Silas Wegg , dropped into poetry in a friendly way . The President is not in other arts a connoisseur of severe taste . It has been made public that his , favorite opera is " The Bohemian Girl , " and his favorite ballad an effusion of the music halls known as " Loosiana Lou . " Very likely DANIEL WEBSTER 'S taste in music was not more elevated . But can anybody imagine DANIEL WZB ' - . STER garnishing his orations with such flowers of song as the President scat- tered on Friday in Indiana and Ohio : WEBSTER knew poetry when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either was or deserved to be classical . But where on earth ? did the President amass that collection of Verse which would neither parse nor scan which he bestowed upon his ? ellow-citizens ? It is possible that his " home organ " at Canton maintains a poet 's corner , and that he has found in it these rough diamonds upon which the lapidary , blue-pencil had failed to operate . But we do hope , for the sake of humanity , about which the President has had . a good deal to say , that he will not publicly quote any more of what pur.ports to be . English poetry until he has obtained the assurance of his Secretary of State that " it goes . "                     