@@672646

txt The confession of Mr. Schaaff of Brooklyn , printed in THE TIMES this morning , that the Hill Excise bill gives the liquor dealers all the latitude they sought to secure under the original Scheidt ' bill , has caused a , good deal of comment . The friends of the saloon denounce Sohaaff for tearing the mask from the measure . Democrats who cliim to be law-abiding citizens , and yet upheld the bill on the floor , are naturally embarrasied through the acknowledgment of one of its strongest supporters that it will have precisely the effect that they declared would be impossible . The opponents of the infamous measure feel grateful to Sehaaff for telling the truth before it was too late for the Senate to profit by it . Every day fresh defeats in the bill are coming to the light . Mr. I. Sam Johnson of Wyoming has been studying it ever since it was introduced . If Speaker Sheehan , who well knew that Mr. Johnson is an authority on excise legislation . had not refused to recognize him the day the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the proposed law Mr. Johnson was District Attorney of Wyoming County ten years , and prosecuted many offenders against the liquor law . It was he who framed the " five-gallon law " of 1857 . What he does n't know about the excise laws of this State is n't worth mentioning . He prepared several amendments to the bill previous to its passage , which he tried to have considered , but the Democrats would not permit them to be offered . Objector Blumenthal moved the previous question - as soon as George IL Bush of Ulster asked the Republicans to produce their amendments . Among the amendments I desired to submit in reply to that challenge , " Mr. Johnson said . to THE TIMES 'S correspondent to-day , " was one to Section 24. making the section apply to cities of over 150,000 inhabitants . This would leave the local option law as it now stands , with local option applicable to all parts of the State , except in such cities . If there is anything that the moderate temperance people demand it is that they shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question whether licenses shall be granted or not . These people will be interested in knowing that the Democratic majority in the House refused to adopt the amendment which would preserve that right ? ? I offered to show that with this section of the bill unamended the courts would be obliged to compel the Excise Commissioners to grant licenses on applications made by persons interested . Another proposed amendment was calculated to leave the ' Ave-gallon law ' its present effectiveness . Before this law was enacted the local option law was evaded by saloon keepers , who sold beer and liquor in cases or casks , delivering it by the drink or bottle . So just was the ' five-gallon law ' that it was left in the original Schaaf ( bill . It N not in the present UHL " Another change which I would have been glad to see made in the bill would retain the law for the summary conviction by magistrates of ? plain drunks . ' As the bill now stands it would be almost impossible to convict this class of offenders . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the consequent expense of this course and subsequent trials would render the law a dead letter . " Finally , the bill , if drawn in the interest of the people , should retain all provisions of the existing statutes imposing penalties and providing for their collection . The bill now does away with all penalties and leaves the law nugatory where officers and Grand Juries fail to do their duty . The police-spy clause and the virtual repeil of the civil-damage law are simply infamous . The first is intended to prevent the detection of crime . The Civil Damage act is unquestionably one of the best on the statute books . There are many other defects in the bill , and if it is considered carefully in the Senate these will be brought out "                     