@@675390

txt We believe it was Sir CHARLES BERESPORD who , since the present war began , found and proclaimed a similarity between Great Britain and the United States in that they were the only two great nations which did not resort to conscription , but relied upon volunteers for their defense . There is something in that , though perhaps not so much as the speaker supposed . It would be highly absurd if seventy millions of people could not provide a regular army of twenty-five thousand men , which is all that a prejudiced Congress would allow us to maintain before the Spanish war , or even the hundred thousand which we now have under arms , without resorting to conscription . When we have been hard pressed , as we were in 1863 , we have not scrupled to resort to conscription , and to incur " draft riots " in consequence . In each case the truth probably is that we are able to maintain our armies , such as they are , by volunteering , simply because they are not so numerous in relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations of Continental Europe . It seems that what the English expected to be a little war and what has turned out to be a great war may be fought through with volunteers , such as every soldier now serving under the British or the American colors is , whether he is called a volunteer or a regular . The response of the English people to the call for volunteers has been so general and so prompt as greatly and justly to encourage the English organs of opinion . The response seems to denote something like the same conception of patriotism in the United Kingdom as prevails in the United States . But still there are differences , and vital differences . Nobody can have helped noticing that it is the " upper classes " in England which have responded most readily to the call of their country . The prosperous and satisfied classes , men " with handles to their names , " beginning with the Duke of MARLBOROUGH , the Lord Mayor of London , prosperous Shipowners , and merchants , are offering to raise , equip , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These men know very well what the prosperity and power of the British Empire mean to them . It is true that the rank and file of the British public , who have nothing but their own lives to offer , are showing an unexpected and gratifying alacrity in offering those . But it is not yet true that every native Briton feels his own welfare to be bound up with that of his country , as every native American would in a like case feel about himself . Mr. RUDTARD KIPLING has noted the national difference in those youthful letters from this country which were so wonderfully misinterpreted , when they were first reprinted , as " anti-American . " In fact , and taken altogether , they form a remarkable tribute to the candor of the writer , as well as to the national character of the people he is writing about . " The men and women , " he says in one of them , " set us an example in patriotism . They believe in their land and its future and its honor and its glory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the largest to the least runs this same proud , passionate conviction , to which I take my hat off and for which I love them . " It is quite true . Mr. W. W. ASTOR , some time of New York , now of London , is the unique exception . The observer continues : " An average English householder seems to regard his country as an abstraction to supply him with policemen and fire brigades . The cockney cad can not understand what the word means . He would laugh in your face at the notion of any duty being owed by him to his land . " If the war with the Transvaal brings the general and promiscuous British subject Up to the level of the general and promiscuous American citizen in this matter , it will be worth all it may cost , whatever the cost may be .                     