@@780980

txt One big Thanksgiving dinner remained uneaten yesterday . Four hundred turkeys , 209 mince pies , two-score gallons of soup , and enough potatoes to plant a farm went untouched at the armory of the Eighth Regiment , although S57 hungry men , whose appetites had been whetted for months past on army hard-tack and salt pork , could have devoured every atom of the generous meal and more , too It was the dinner that had been prepared by the National Society of New England women for the boys of the First Volunteer Engineers , who arrived yesterday from Puerto Rico on the United States transport Minnewaska . Great preparations had been made for this feast of the heroes . It was intended to give them a meal on the night of their arrival  --  Thanksgiving night , when all America sits down to its great annual dinner  --  which would make them feel at home all at once , and proud of the fact that they helped to wipe the red and yellow banner from neighboring shores . So the fattest , corn-fed turkeys were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a manner that would defy the Incas of Peru . Mothers who knew how to make mince pies made them for this dinner thick and savory . and there were dozens of delicacies such as radishes and blame mange which the soldiers in their life in the field had almost forgotten . Mofe than this . the Old Guard Band was sent to the East Twenty-sixth Street Pier to stir with martial strains the hearts and appetites of the boys as they marched to the armory . The band waited and waited . The first snow of the year fell and chilled to the marrow the little cornetist and the big bass drummer . but ' lathing larger than an ordinary tug loomed out of the haze of East River in the neighborhood of Twenty-sixth Street . Darkness fell , and with it came a small messenger boy to inform the band that the dinner was off . Military discipline had proved more powerful than American tradition . The elinnewaska steamed slowly Into Quarantine , and after bring released was ordered to Yier Brooklyn . where Col. Eugene Griffin issued strict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until to-morrow morning . The Colonel said he was sorry . He knew what it was for an American soldier to arrive home front a foreign land on Thanksgiving Day , to breathe the odor of well-basted bird , and the alluring mince pie , and see the beautiful snow , but the laws of the military were adamant . So the men were forced to go below , where , sad and sullen , they dined on the roughly served fare of a United States transport . Their Thanksgiving dinner consisted of tomato satire , beef , potatoes , and Ice water . but the thoughts of the massive menu out at the armory , and with no one to eat it , made the ship 's meal unpalatable . The relatives of the men flocked around the ship , and it was not long before Col. Griffin had eeveral hundred requists to let certain men go ashore for dinner . Parents said that if their sons could not go to the armory , why not let them have - a good squat ' meal " some place else . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ship came thicker than the snowflakes , but to all Col. Griffin answered with a mighty " No . " He could not let the men leave . There were accounts to be settled up , reports to be made in the Commissary , medical , and engineering departments , and all the men would have to be accounted for . To-day the paymasters of the Government will settle with the men . and to-morrow they will be free . Col. Griffin is a kindhearted officer and is highly respected by all his men , and he regrets more than any one that his regiment could not eat that big dinner . Every company in the regiment lad a mascot in he form of some specie of Puerto Rican dog or goat , but the chief mascot of the entire regiment was a huge Peurto Rican mule named " Parkhurse " As the boys could not go ashore to their dinner , they gave e Parkhurst " an extra feed . and he gloried in his stall before a big box filled with oats , barley . and hay . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisted of Lore ' men and officer. - . Yesterday S : .7 men and 47 officers returned . One officer and 11 men died while in service , most of them of typhoid fever . Others were furloughed home at intervals , and dl men were left in hospitals in Puerto Rico . deleted paragraph C01 . Griffin and Lieut . Col. Hodges said that the regiment 's experiences in Puerto Rico had not been unpleasant , and that the supply department had furnished sufficient provisions , a/though in the first months of the campaign they were not always of the best quality- Col. Griffin paid a high compliment to Commissary Sergt. Ambrose . United States Army . Such officers , the Colonel said . had to - erve eight years in the army before attaining such rank . and whenever a regiment secured such an othcer it usually had better rations . Sergi . Ambrose had been secured by the engineer regiment . He taught the company cooks how to make the most of the rations issued , and battered with the Puerto Ricans for extra supplies , in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Puerto Rico , Col. Griffin said : " The regiment built Fort Capron , at GuaniCa , and a road a mile long leading to it . It rebuilt many bridges along the famous military road between Ponce and Afbonito. which had been destroyed by the Spanish . These bridges are fine masonry structures . An icemaking plant of 9,000 pounds ' capacity per day was constructed at Ponce to supply the hospital there , and a refrigerating plant was erected , also a high-level waterworks and a reservoir . The battalions under command of Majors Sewell , Shaler , and Ferguson were sent to different parts of the island to accomplish their work . Between Sept. 30 and Nov. lle during which time Ccd . Griffen was ill in New York , Lieut. col . Hodges was in command of the regiments . " On the Minnewaska were Major Josiah Pierce , Division Engineer ; Dr. Ames of the Medical Corps. arm Gen. C. G. Sawtelle , retired , who has been in Puerto Rico visiting his son , who is a Captain in the regiment . Dr. Ames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There were about ten discharged soldiers on board , and seven military prisoners . who are sentenced to serve terms in Castle Williams . Shortly after the transport had been docked Col. Griffin left for Governors Island to report to Gen. Shafter . Capt . Robinson and Capt . Littell of the Quartermaster 's Department here went to meet the Minnewaska on a tug . With them were Col. A. G. Mill and Gen. Shaler of Post Lafayette. the committee which arranged for the dinner for the regiment . The officers of the Quartermaster 's Department carried with them boxes of overcoats for the men , but most of them had been supplied with warm clothing . Col. Griffin when returning to Puerto Rico after his sick leave took with hits the regiment 's overcoats and heavy underclothing .                     