@@674190

txt There was yvry little to interest the spectators here to-day until the cavalry drill at 5 o'clock this evening . Altogether , It Is the dullest graduation season known for years . Instead of thousands of visitors , as hereto . fore , the number has dwindled down to a few hundred . Even the members of the Board of Visitors are tardy in putting in an appearance . In other years the members have reported promptly on the first day of June , effeCted their organization , and appointed customary committees . There are not now enough members here for a quorum . and only a temporary organization exists , With Senator Sewell of New-jersey as Chairman , and A. W. Gilchrist of Florida as Secretary . The examinations are progressing slowly . This morning the third and fourth classes were examined in mathematics , the first class in engineering and Spanish , and this afternoon the second class in chemistry . At 4:45 o'clock this afternoon there was a cavalry drill upon the plain , which was participated in by all the members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were excused on account of disability . They were under the command of Capt . James Parker of the Sixth Cavalry , an .. the chiefs of platoons were Cadets Lott , Hoffman , Summerlin. and Heiberg . The uidon was Cet King , and the right and lgett guides weread Cadets Ste wart ands ( *rungs , respectively . The graduation ride Is looked upon as the greatest of all military exercises . Three years of persistent training has devel mea the lads into accomplished horsemen , and the feats performed this afternoon were thrilling as well as interesting . There were four or five features in the drill not down in the programme . At the commencement of the exercises Cadet Hoffman 's horse ran away with him , dashed madly across the plain , and made straight for the stables . Cadet Grubbs was substituted for the position , and his horse also ran away . Young Grubbs was so overcome with exhaustion in his efforts to control the animal that he took no further part in the drill . During one of the exciting charges Cadet Morrison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight injuries . He courageously remounted his steed , however , and continued the drill . Cadet England 's horse also became uncontrollable and ran away , and Cadet Tune 's horse was injured in the charge and had to be retired . Notwithstanding these casualties , there was not a hitch in the drill , which is said to be the finest ever witnessed upon the plain . The military exercises to-morrow afternoon will be pontoon bridge construction .                     