@@672402

txt The " suicide of young Edward F. Crosby , formerly of New-York and nephew of John Schuyler Crosby , last night Was a- highly-sensational ? affair . Crosby came to Montana about six years ago , during the time his uncle , J. Schuyler Crosby , was , Governor of the Territory . Ho secured a clerkship in the First National Bank , where he remained for about a year : After leaving the service of the bank Mr. Crosby opened a law office and did work for Eastern magazines and newspapers . About this time he met Miss Jennie Brewer , daughter of Bishop Brewer , and a mutual attachment sprang up . Three years ago Helena people were much surprised at reading in a New-York paper a notice of the marriage of Jennie Brewer - and E. F. Crosby . Miss Brewer was at the time attending school in New-York , whither young Crosby had gone , it is supposed , to visit his relatives , The marriage was a love match , it was supposed , with the consent of the lady 's father , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youth of the bride . Returning to Montana with his - bride , Mr. Crosby continued his law practice and newspaper work , and in the latter scored brilliant success . Shortly after his wedding he went to Alaska , writing a series of newspaper letters for the Independent'on that country and its people , which were extensively copied throughout the United States . Not fidingthe law or newspaper business as profitable as he wished , Mr. Crosby began to deal in real estate and was most fortunate . He was genial , a good correspondent , and made friends wherever he went , and with an extensive acquaintance found but little difficulty in successfully conducting a number of large " deals . " Recently he went to New-York and Europe on a mission involving a large amount of-money . Mrs. Crosby is a very pretty young woman , fond of society and of a gay disposition . There had been a growing estrangement between the pair and last night Crosby failed to return to dinner . The servants testified at the inquest to-day that after they had retired , about 8:30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room . In a few minutes the two women heard a loud dispute going on in Mrs. Crosby 's apartments , though they could not distinguish the words . Both were satisfied that there was a family quarrel . The voices ceased suddenly and then came the slamming of a door . The next ' minute the women heard the sound of the violent opening of a drawer and then came the pistol shot . Bishop Brewer was an Wscopal rector at Watertown , N. Y. , before his appointment as Bishop of this diocese .                     