@@674692

txt The President writes of Hawaiian annexation in a curious , gingerly way , as one who is afraid to strike , yet not afraid to wound . The National honor is the thing struck at , but that , of course , the President does not see . There are such ' irreconcilable differences of view between his inaugural address and the message sent to Congress with the treaty last Tune and the present message as to force the ? eonolusion that the Executive mind has become confused . The larger criminal aspects of the Hawaiian job escape Mr. Mcliii.a.ny 's notice altogether . If he perceived them he would certainly withdraw from the thing or try to argue about them , and to convince the public that " paramount necessity " must override minor scruples . ? The men who are in the job always argue that way . They see the guilty features of the business . Leaving honor out of the question , the President touches lightly upon the practical legislative aspects of annexation . How shall we take these islands Into the Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population , their Taps , Chinese , and Europeans , their lepers , and their " governing class , " consisting of 3 per cent , of the population , holding the other 97 per cent . under the yoke ? The President makes no satisfactory answer . He makes no answer at all , but throws the whole dirty bundle of problems , with his inventory , into the Congressional basket and leaves the legislative branch to deal with them . He shows that he is aware what sort of American citizens this treaty will make by his reference to the avoidance of " abrupt assimilation of elements perhaps hardly yet fitted to share in the highest franchises of citizenship , " and to " the quality and degree " of the elective franchise of the inhabitants . Yet , with incredible heedlessness , he declares that the pending treaty " has for its purpose the incorporation of the Hawaiian Islands as an integral part of the United States . " With a qualified and imperfect citizenship the people of Hawaii will never become an integral part of this Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they will become a nondescript part of our population , having a status neither quite like that of the slaves before the war nor like that of Indians not taxed , for we shall undoubtedly tax them , while denying them representation . " Every consideration of dignity and honor requires " the ratification of the treaty , the President says . He attempts no justification of this very disputable statement , save by a word or two about annexation being " the natural result of the strengthening of the ties that bind us to those islands . " But when he declares that the result is to be " realized by the free will of the Hawaiian State , " he appears by the choice of the word " State " instead of " people " to exhibit a prudent desire to steer clear of the real fundamental question in regard to Hawaii . The " free will " of the Hawaiian people , if its utterances were not choked down by the usurping Dole Government , would declare overwhelmingly against annexation . But we can not believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wrong of the Hawaiian job . If he for one moment saw the criminal nature of our behavior toward the Hawaiians from the day when Minister Ram L. STEVENS called United States marines ashore to overthrow their Government down to the present time , and if he could picture forth the political consequences of taking to ourselves this remote and unassimilable population , above all , if he realized the disgrace and dishonor of it , he would recall the treaty from the Senate instead ' of urging its ratification .                     