@@672375

txt The forthcoming equipment of seven lines of street railway and ninety-two miles of track in St. Louis with electric power is an especially noteworthy indication of the superiority of the electric system on such roads , because of the extensive use of cable motors in that city . Horse power was supplanted on several important lines not long ago by cable power , and probably cables would be put in now for the use of some of the seven lines just mentioned if the owners of the property were not convinced that with electric power they could make more money and give better service . It is noticeable that they are not restrained by the large cost of making the change , which is estimated at $3,500,000 . " By Jan. 1 , 1891 , " says the Globe-Democrat , " there will not be a horse-car line in operation in St. Louis . " All the cars will then be moved by electric force or by cables , and we presume the cable companies would be very glad if they could substitute electric plants for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had waited a year or two for the development of electric methods . " An electric road can be operated at a cost of about 40 percent . less than a horse line , with the carrying capacity doubled . " This is the Globe-Democrat 's contribution to the small supply of information as to the actual saving to be made by the substitution of electric force for horse Power . Thus far the published calculations and comparisons with respect to this matter have left something to be desired . A committee of the American Street Railway Association has reported that the substitution of electric force " increases traffic and reduces expenses , " but we have seen no satisfactory statement as to the difference in cost of operation . If such statements should be given to the publics by competent authority the withdrawal of the horse car from our streets would be perceptibly hastened . The horse must go , it is true , but his going shouldnot be delayed by lack of information that ought to be available now . Moreover , the publication of complete statistics on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads . It is unfortunate that in the remarkable ? transformation a our street railway ayatems now going on the storage battery is almost ignored . The ideal electric car is one that marries its power with it , stowed away under the floor , and does not rely upon overhead wires6 and poles or subterranean conduits . In the course of time the storage battery motors will become available in open and successful competition with other systems that are more attractive now to the stockholder of the railway company .                     