@@673927

txt The likeness of the silver party to the old greenback organization is so strong as to attract the attention and provoke the comment of political observers . It was only about twenty-one years ago , and after the country had suffered from a protracted business depression , that , in 1874 , at Indianapolis , a throng of dissatisfied politicians , by no means prominent in either of the parties of that day , made a platform , vague and wild enough , to be sure , but full of assurance , that if the Government would keep printing greenbacks , so that there would be more money , it would be easier to get and everybody would have more of it . The 3.65 bond scheme , the issue of greenbacks directly to the people to pay for gigantic improvements , allured the ignorant , aid in 1876 there was enough of a party to seem to make it worth the while of Weaver , Donnelly , Durant , and other political adventurers to cultivate it and eventually to set up Peter Cooper as its Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some eighty thousand votes . Labor troubles in 1877 increased their numbers and made their demands more vehement . With Weaver as a standard bearer , the party went into the campaign of 1880 , out of which it came with a reduced representation in Congress , a reduced popular vote , and a perceptible loss of polder to interest and convince the people to whom its leaders had appealed more successfully while business was stagnant and thousands of men willing to work were idle and clamorous for a legislative panacea for their ills . The silver party , not yet organized , but invoking the co-operation of all old Greenbackers and all Republicans and Democrats who can be induced to accept the wild theories of the party of Solon Chase , has counted largely for its development upon business paralysis , disputes between employers and employils , falling wages , and increasing idleness among the workingmen . The platforms offered in 1876 and 1877 by the men who demanded unlimited issues of money based upon the general good faith of the Nation would answer the purposes of the new silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the old ones about greenbacks . The craziness is very much the same . The Sibley-Stewart party has not been so highly favored by National calamity as was that which began in Indiana twenty-one years ago . Prosperity threatens to be fatal to it . Its leaders would be encouraged if something could be done to check the rising tide of business , and they would be especially grateful for the suppression of information about increased wages and the employment of larger numbers of laborers . Arid in their misery the promoters of the silver party are able to obtain only scant and reluctant expressions of sympathy from the Populists , whose daily prayer should be for grasshoppers and poverty to save them from political death in 1896.                     