@@675231

txt The hearing of the charges against United States Senator Gallinger , accused of violating the civil service laws , was concluded to-day without apparent results , except a bitter colloquy and threat of a personal combat between Senator Chandler and Senator Gallinger and accusatlims by Mr. Chandler against Commissioner Brewer that he had prejudged the case in favor of the defendant , accompanied with the promise that the President will be asked to remove him . The trouble began when the taking of testimony had been practically ended . After an exchange of opinion as to the opening and closing of the case , and the admission of evidence after the close of the hearing , argument , and brief , Senator Chandler remarked : " The commission seems to have found out everything connected with this investigation , except who wrote the assessment penned to the , office holders , who fixed the sums to be assessed , who directed the envelopes , and who sent them out . The essential things have not been ascertained . The commission was called here to do this and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here he was interrupted by Mr. Brewer : " I object to these things being taken down . " Mr. Chandler  --  Very well ; I will say it without having it taken down . Mr. Brewer  --  Not in-this room ; this is my room , and I pay for it . Senator Chandler  --  I am not to be muzzled in this room ; I have my rights . Mr. Brewer  --  You have no rights except those of a gentleman . After a further colloquy , in which each by implication declared the other not to be a gentleman , Mr. Chandler proceeded to say that the man most wanted in connection with the investigation did not happen to be present . " Mr. Thayer is in this city to-day , and I believe he has been kept away by Senator Gallinger , " said Mr. Chandler . Senator Gallinger and his counsel , Attorney General Eastman , at once shouted : " That is absolutely false ; It is not true . " Mr. Eastman then called Mr. Chandler a par , and said : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Senator Chandler retorted : " And I do not care if you are Attorney General and are defending criminals when you should be prosecuting them . " Senator Gallinger appealed to the chair . Senator Chandler said : " Men who call other men liars do not need protection . I repeat , I believe Senator Gallinger has kept Mr. Thayer away . " Senator Gallinger shouted : " You do n't dare to come outside this room and say that . " " I will go outside and say it , " replied Senator Chandler , starting for the door . Friends restrained both men , and after a few minutes of confusion the hearing went on . S : ' nator Gallinger read a prepared state-meat alleging that the case against him had utterly collapsed and protesting against its further continuance . He then left the room and his counsel , Attorney General Eastman , spoke with a view to softening the harsh words he had used to Senator Chandler . The latter made a similar concession to Attorney General Eastman , and under such happy auspices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioners will not leave town until tomorrow , but there is little likelihood of any further action being taken . A DOCUMENT PRODUCED . Only two witnesses were heard at the morning session . They were Postmasters Henry Robinson of Concord and H. A .. Spalding of Nashua . Their testimony was to the effect that campaign circulars asking for assessments for campaign purposes had been sent out , as alleged in the charges . Before any witnesses were heard , Senator Gallinger asked permission to make a personal statement , in which he called attention to assertions printed in the editorial articles of a Concord paper and in dispatches from Concord to a New York paper , which he alleged were untruthful . The assertions referred to by Senator Gallinger were made in stories which alleged that the present charges are based upon the finding of a letter in Concord addressed to a man in Rye , N. II. , containing a check for $100 and instructions to use the sum " circumspectly " among the indifferent voters of Rye . It was also alleged that the check was signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident was not connected with the hearing , and Senator Gallinger 's statement was not made a part of the record . Postmaster Robinson said that he received one of the assessment circulars . He was asked if he had the circular in his possession , and replying that he had produced it and gave it to the Commissioners , who filed it away . This incident caused considerable surprise . Mr. Robinson said that he had mentioned the fact of receiving the circular to Senator Chandler , and upon the advice of that gentleman had sealed It up , and he had shown it to no one until this time . He was asked to contribute $100 , he said , and he wrote to the Civil Service Commission asking them as to his right to contribute under the law . He was informed that he could not contribute . Copies of the correspondence between Mr. Robinson and the Commission were introduced as part of the evidence , and Mr. Robinson closed by saying that he did not contribute . Postmaster Spalding was Chairman of the Republican State Committee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulars on which the charges in this case are based , but that he did not contribute . When Chairman of the State Committee , he said , he personally signed the assessment circulars which were sent out , but none were sent to Federal officeholders except to Senators , Congressmen , and Judges of the Federal cour.s . THAYER SHOULDERS THE BLAME . By direction of Mr. Brewer , Special Agent Wales read correspondence eetween the commissioners and William S. Thayer , Treasurer of the Republican State Committee in 1898 , whose name was signed to the assessment circulars . The commission , it appeared , had asked ' Mr. Thayer whether Senator Gallinger , as Chairman of the State Committee , had directed or requested the Treasurer to send out the assessment circular . Second , whether the committee had taken action , by vote or otherwise , requesting the Treasurer to send out the circular . Third , whether the Treasurer acted as a citizen in sending cut the letter , or only as the agent of the State Committee . Fourth , what knowledge Senator Gallinger had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it . Mr. Thayer had replied that he was elected Treasurer of the State Committee on Sept. 27. 1508 , and that in that capacity he had collected and disposed of the funds of the committee . " Being an officer of the committee , " said he , " I acted on my own responsibility and am answerable only to the committee for what I did . " In a letter later Mr. Thayer said that neither Senator Gallinger nor the State Committee made any suggestions about the circular , but knew about its being sent to Federal officials . A letter from Louis V. Hoyt , Secretary of the Republican State Committee , contained a statement of Mr. Thayer and a letter from Senator Gallinger in reply to the same , saying that the matter of assessing was never discussed and only acted upon by the committee . The Senator 's letter referred to informed the commission that the charges against him wet e concocted by evil-minded , malicious persons , and that the complaints were not made in good faith , but for the purpose of revenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be giving them . A further letter from Senator Gallinger stated that he , personally , " did not at any time discuss with Mr. Thayer or suggest to him the names of those to whom the assessment circular should be sent . " Senator Chandler makes a statement tonight declaring that Commissioner Brewer " prejudged the case and conducted it in a partial manner ; that he showed great discourtesy to the complainants , and made It impossible for the case to be fairly and fully presented . " It is understood that Senator Chandler will ask President for the removal of Commissioner Brewer on these charges . The Two New Hampshire Senators Started to Go Outside to Fight .                     