@@673335

txt We have been waiting for some indignant denial , or , if indignant denial be not possible . of some plausible explanation of the account published in last Sunday 's TIMES of the investigation into the condition of the cruiser Atlanta . Nobody who read that account can have failed to find in it the prima facie evidence of a most disgraceful state of things , affecting not only the condition of all American men-of-war , which is a very serious matter , but the personal and professional honor of the officers of the United States Navy , which is a mnish more serious matter still . For nobody can possibly suppose that the ease of the Atlanta is unique . If naval officers , either to save themselves trouble or to screen their predecessors , will make and sign certificates on honor about the condition of a ship which turn out to be entirely untrue , they prove that they have either neglected their duty or betrayed it . In either case their conduct amounts to a national scandal . It is now reported from Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the offenses in question . The report of the Board of Survey upon the Atlanta is one which imputes neglect or falsehood , or both , to the officers who have had charge of her " for many months . " To take one item only , the board reports that many of the watertight doors " are so corroded that they have not been closed for many months . " Many months means at least six . Yet this conclusion of the Board of Survey is confronted by a continuous series of reports , of which the last is dated the 23d of June of this year , that these water-tight doors are in good condition and fulfilling their functions . The reports are much more specific than that . We copy two of them to show how very specific they are : All compartments , water-tight doors , and double bottoms were examined and found in order . H. 0 . WARING , Lieutenant . Here is an official statement near the end of June which is flatly contradicted by another official report at the beginning of September that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of June were so corroded that it is evident they can not have teen closed for many months . What is the obvious and inescapable conclusion ? No other than that either the Board of Survey is grossly incompetent or else that the Lieutenants of the United , States Navy have been officially certifying to untruths . And yet , and here is the sting of the whole business , neither of these members of a body supposed to be eminently . men of honor has:any friend or Colleague to conle forward and . challenge the report of the survey , or even to intimate that there must be some mistake . The thing is monstrous and would be in- credible but for the overwhelming evidence . We are left to believe that the friends of the officers thus inculpated do not come forward to defend them because they know them to be indefensible , because it is the practice of naval officers to tell untruths in official reports and authenticate the untruths by their signatures . The Atlanta is a new ship , in the sense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we that any other ship in that navy is any better cared for or in any better condition V What is the use of building ships that the men in charge of them permit to go quietly to honeycomb and oxide of iron ? What is the use of a navy without naval offioers who know their duty and are prepared to perform it without reference to any other consideration 1 It was intimated in the dispatch in which these appalling facts were disclosed that the " honor of the navy " consists less in the doing of their duty by naval officers , without fear or favor , than in screening other naval officers whose neglect and inefficiency may have had disastrous consequences . It is even said that this false sense of honor is , and for many years has been , inculcated at the Naval Academy , where " honor " requires a cadet to betray his trust and to deceive the Government that feeds him rather than to give up to justice a delinquent follow-cadet . If this be true , then the sooner wo make an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this be untrue , where are the sensitive and spirited naval officers who ought to come forward and challenge it for the honor of their corps 7 These are questions that the people of the United States must ask themselves , with emphasis , in view of the disclosures made respecting the Atlanta .                     