@@674656

txt It- is quite possible that the press dispatch is correct which declares that the Spanish reply to the note of the United States delivered by Mr. WOODFORD " will contain a formal protest against filibustering . " Such a protest would be " bruturn fulmen " in the absence of any proof that the Government of the United States had encouraged filibustering or had failed to use due diligence to prevent the departure of filibusters . It could be use ful only as laying the foundation for a future claim for damages before an international tribunal in case the Spanish Government could collect any evidence in support of such a claim . No such evidence has heretofore been produced , nor is there any reason to suppose that it exists . On the other hand , the report is incredible which comes to us from Madrid by way of London that the Spanish Minister at - Washington has been instructed to notify our Government that " henceforth filibustering expeditions will be regarded as breaches of international law . " It is incredible because the Spanish Ministry is perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , and because there is no more probability that our Government will connive at filibustering expeditions " henceforth " than there is evidence that it has connived at them heretofore . What is commonly called a filibustering expedition is , in international law , an armed expedition composed of an organized body of men setting out to make war upon a nation with which we are at peace . The fitting out of such an expedition or the taking part in it is a crime against our laws , and our Government is bound to use due diligence to prevent the departure of such an expedition , and to punish those who take part in it . Unless it has been negligent in this duty , Spain has no ground for complaint . It is not credible that the Spanish Government has fallen into the error frequently made by individual and irresponsible Spaniards , and has confounded with the armed expeditions which we are bound to use due diligence to prevent the mere shipment for Cuba of arms and munitions of war . Every American citizen is at liberty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his goods will be seized by the Spanish cruisers when they are carried within Cuban waters . If we had acknowledged the belligerency of the Cuban insurgents , or if Spain had acknowledged that belligerency , then such goods might be seized by the Spanish cruisers on the high seas as contraband of war . But there can be no contraband of war except in time of war . Spain insists that there is no war in Cuba , and protests against our recognition of the state of things there as a state of war . Obviously she can not combine the advantages of peace with those of war . Because munitions of war are allowed to be sent out from the United States ignorant Spaniards may suppose that Spain has a grievance against our Government . But the Spanish Government can not possibly have taken such a ground . Without doubt our Government would refuse to consider or receive any protest based upon the assumption that it had not fulfilled to ' the utmost its international obligations toward Spain , including the obligation of using dtre diligence to prevent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The suggestion that we are at all in default is irritating . As a matter of fact , the failure of Spain to pacify Cuba , either by arms or by negotiation , has cost us almost the whole of our Cuban trade , and has destroyed the value of American property in Cuba . More than that , the fulfillment of our obligation to use due diligence to prevent filibustering has cost our Government an amount estimated at two millions . For we have kept a far more effective blockade of our own South Atlantic and Gulf coast than Spain has kept of the Cuban coast . In this work the Treasury Department has employed its revenue cutters . Four of them are now in the Floridian waters , and the others have been detailed to assist them . Besides these , the Navy Department has employed no fewer than fourteen men-of-war in patrolling the coast , and three . are regularly stationed off the coast of Florida . Meanwhile the whole Spanish Navy is trying , without success , to blockade Cuba so as to prevent the landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we done our full duty , but we have done it at a trouble and expense which we are not prepared much longer to in- ? cur . We are certainly not in a mood to be told that we have fallen short in the slightest degree . Any intimation of that sort would be apt to-be answered by an intimation that we were thoroughly weary of doing police duty to assist Spain in recovering a possession in which she is unable to make herself either feared or loved                     