@@674291

txt An inquiry into the collapse of the building 1,078 Madison Avenue , whereby Robert 3 . Crane , a bricklayer , was killed , and ten other workmen hurt , was made by the Building Department Yesterday . Mr. Rutherford , the Assistant Superintendent , and his assistants , made the investigation . Police Captain Dean , before it was completed , caused Patrolman Hickey to arrest Contractor Patrick Roche of Shannon ea Roche , the firm that has been doing the work . Mr. Roche was found near his home , 311 West One Hundred and Forty-third Street . He was - taken to the East Eightyefghth Street Station and then before Magistrate Simms in the Harlem Court . Roche waived examination . He was represented by Attorney David M. Neuberger . An arrangement was made with Coroner Fitzpatrick by which Roche was paroled in the custody of his attorney until noon to-day . At that time he will be required to appear and give a suitable bond to secure his pressnce at the inquest . Coroner Fitzpatrick said that the inquest would take place some time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bad Work , Rutherford Says . Mr. Rutherford , after his expert examination of the ruins , said to a reporter for THE NEW-YORK TIMES : " This is one of the worst pieces of work I have ever seen . I had supposed that New-York had experienced about all of this kind of construction we were to have , but it seems I was mistaken . This discounts Buddensiek . " It is undoubtedly a fact that the collapse was caused by a bad foundation , poor material , and cheap workmanship . I am informed by Mr. Galligan that all of this section through here is filled ground , and that a foundation , to be secure , ' must be at least thirty feet deep . I understand that the foundation under the walls which collapsed Is not more than six feet deep , but this can not be determined to a certainty until we get the walls down ' and examine the foundation . " At almost any portion of the building you can pull the bricks out by simply laying your hand on them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is no binding quality in the cement or mortar , and the walls are little better than if they were set up without filling . " This is generally true of all of the walls . None of the beams has been properly set in the walls . The ends should have been beveled , but I did not see a beam so treated . All had been set just as they came from the mill . Wood Where Brick Should Be . " I also notice that the supports and brick arches have been set on wooden foundations , instead of brick and stone , as is customary in a goodjob . " " Who do you believe is responsible for this sort of work ? " was asked . " I am unable to say at present . This can only be determined after our investigation is completed . It would seem that the foreman in charge of the work must be more responsible than any one else . Why , even the bricks were not ' watered when put into the work , and the cement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duty of the Building Inspectors to see that work of this kind is properly done ? " was asked of Mr. Rutherford . He thought for some little time , and then said : " To prevent work of this sort it would be necessary to keep an Inspector here all the time , and in the crippled condition of the Building Department this is impossible . " You must understand that at the present time , counting the number of Inspectors and the number of buildings in course of erection , each Inspector has an average of ninety-two buildings to look after . The Inspector of this district may have more or less than this number , but he can not do his duty and remain here all day . While the excavation for the foundation was in progress T. C. - Walsh was the Inspector . He warned the contractors , according to his reports , that the foundation should be deep . Before the excavation was finished he was moved to another district , and John Thain of White Plains was placed in charge . If contractors want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when an Inspector is busy . They can set a watch for him , and the moment he comes in sight the contractors are warned . I know nothing about the work or record of Mr. Thain . Purposes to Go to the Bottom . " George Mix was the Roundsman Inspector , but he could only visit the work infrequently . We are going to get at the bottom of this case , if it is possible . " Superintendent Constable was not ready to give an opinion . Inspector Thain was not in town . Inspector Walsh said he had nothing to do with the job ' this month . Mr. Roche , the contractor , will issue a statement ' to-day , he said , through ' his attorney . John V. Dahlgren , counsel  --  for the Building Department , wonders why no action has been taken by the District Attorney for months in the Ireland and Orchard Street cases . T. P. Galligan said yesterday that he understood that Foreman Patrick Hanlon , who was in charge of the Madison Avenue job , had been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a year ago , but this could not be confirmed . Hanlon and James F. Shannon , Jr. , were still at the Presbyterian Hospital yesterday . At the hospital last evening it was said that both had a good chance to recover . From remarks made by Thomas Graham , a builder , who lives in East Eighty-ninth Street , and who is working in ' the interest of Shannon and Roche , it appears that the excavation work was sublet ' by th &; contractors to an Italian named Tony Andreas . Graham said that the property at 1,078 Madison Avenue is owned by Mts . L. D. Rogers , and that Frank H. Hawkins of Fifteenth Street , between Second and Third Avenues , had charge of her interests . -                     