@@673957

txt The East River Bridge Commission was quite right in rejecting the offer of the franchise of the East River Bridge Company which was submitted , and in deciding to proceed with its work . The only authority it has to negotiate with the bridge company is to agree upon a price for the franchise , if it finds it desirable to acquire it . It has no right to accept conditions from the company in regard to the construction of the bridge or its approaches , or its future use by railroads . The attempt of the corporation to impose such conditions in the interest of an elevated railroad in which its officers and leading stockholders are interested was an act of supreme impudence . The construction of a new bridge over the East River has now become a public work , and the commission has been placed in charge of it as an agent of public authority . It is empowered to buy the charter ( of doubtful validity ) of the East River Bridge Company , and to agree upon a price for it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not be necessary to acquire it at all , but if it is found necessary or desirable , it can be condemned , like any other private property that is in the way . It would be unbecoming in the commission to enter into a bargain with reference to the future use of the bridge and conform its construction thereto , and to accept conditions compromising its power , in pursuance of such a bargain , would be scandalous . It is the duty of the commission to proceed with its work of planning and constructing a suspension bridge , " at or near " the site designated in the law , for the Cities of New-York and Brooklyn , acquiring property and removing obstacles in the manner provided for in the law , and dickering with no corporate interests . The bridge should be planned and constructed with reference to the public interests and the fullest accommodation of travel between the cities , Facilities Should be . afforded , undoubtedly , fog an interchange traffic between the local systems on both sides of the river , and the elevated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bridge end the benefit of the public is the main thing . The benefit of railroads will be an incident and a consequence , but no one concern can expect to secure a mortgage ' on the benefits of a public undertaking and dictate its prosecution for its own advantage . The Brooklyn Elevated Railroad should take its chances with the rest , and be content Vith the advantage of its position , and the East River Bridge Company had better abandon its high.wayman tactics .                     