@@673139

txt It is now only too plain that the Republican leaders of the Senate are not in earnest in their professed purpose to bring the bill for the suspension of silver purchases to a vote at this session , or even to bring to a vote the motion to take up the bill . The former attempt could , of course , be defeated by talk , if it were continued for a long enough time . The latter would not be open to debate . It is , therefore , a perfect means of securing a record . That is obviously the reason why the Republican leaders refuse to push it . They would much prefer not to have a list of yeas and nays , a statement in black and - white on the Journal of the Senate of the names of the Senators who would refuse even to take up the question . It is much pleasanter for them to scold at the Democrats , and to pose as the solo trustworthy guardians of an honest currency . They could not do that if there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their party in the Senate to pass sound legislation . It might even be found that the silver Senators with the Republicans who think it " good politics " to shove the responsibility upon the next Congress make a majority of the Republican Senators . The silver question in the House will hardly be pushed unless there is some assurance that action can bo had in the Senate ; but the evidence of the division of the House on that question indicates that whether in the present Congress or in the next the suspension of silver buying is quite practicable , and that without any compromise of real principle . The correrespondent of the Evening Post has for several weeks been collecting the views of members of the House on this matter . Some of the later ones have been extremely interesting . Among the Democrats who freely declare themselves ready to vote for the unconditional repeal of the purchasing clause of the act of 1800 are Messrs . HERBERT of Alabama , FITCH of New-York , GEISSENHAINER of New-Jersey , ANDREW of Massachusetts , SIPE of Pennsylvania , and HAYNES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from as many States , including four of the largest and . most important commercial States in the Union , who are not only ready for this action , but some of whom are confident that it could be had at this session . Mr. FITCH , for instance , says : " I am in favor of repealing the Sherman act unconditionally . I believe with a little more work we could get such a measure through the House . " Mr. ANDREW says : " I am for repeal pure and simple , if we can get it ; if not , let us do the best we can . What is more , I believe , if the matter could be put to a square out-and-out vote on its merits , we should find a majority of the House with us . " Mr. GEISSENHAINEB of NewJersey says : " I stand just where I have always stood . You may count on NewJersey to do her whole duty in Congres if we get a chance to vote to repeal the Sherman act . We are not hunting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the attention of the Republican leaders in the Senate is that , with this spirit in the Democratic Party , it is not in any sense good politics to try to leave the settlement of the silver question to that party under the next Administration . It must bo remembered that the new President will take office with ample provision under the law to protect the Treasury from the evil effects of the export of gold induced by the continuance of silver purchases . His Scoretart of the Treasury can , and he undoubtedly will , sell bonds to any amount necessary to preserve the gold reserve intact and to meet any extraordinary demand on its resources . His discretion in that regard is complete , and there is not the slightest reason to suppose that he will hesitate to use it . Mr. CLEVELAND was the President under whose Administration tho gold reserve was first sot apart as a distinct fund , with the avowed purpose , which was faithfully adhered to , to keep it sacred , in order that the duty of maintaining the integrity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or become unreasonably difficult . Mr. CLEvEr-raw 's views on this matter have certainly not changed , and the duty has become still more imperative with the added risks imposed by the issue of demand notes under the Sherman law . If the Republicans wore so minded it would be possible now to reach an adequate , prompt , and permanent settlement of this question , and that would go far toward taking it out of politics for a generation . But , if they refuse to do so , they may be sure that what political advantage there may be in honest treatment of it will be forever lost to them , and will be reaped by the Democrats .                     