@@673978

txt Mr. Dunn 's cheerful prediction that yesterday would be cooler than its torrid predecessor was verified . It was cooler . An impartial and incorruptible thermometer shows that it was . The mercury in the official instrument found its way Saturday - to the degree marked 97 . Its vaulting ambition yekterday carried it no higher than 96 . All of which goes to show how easily people can be deceived . NUmerous thousands doubtless obtained the impression that the day was a record-breaking one . Which it Was not , as Mr. Dunn 's thermometer has shown . The many who had no thermometers , and therefore no means of knowing that the day was not so hot as it seemed , talked themselves into the Lelief that it was the hottest day of the month , and said many unkind things about it . They may be sorry for that to-day . when they read how much worse the day might have been . The Weather Bureau assures all concerned that whatever discomfort there was , plain heat , and not humidity , was responsible lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 62 . After meridian it dropped to 49 , an abnormally low percentage . Thus it was a day of dry heat , and not a record day at that . But in spite of the sayings of the thermometer and hydrometer , each proving in Its own way that the weather of yesterday was not so intemperate as that of the day that flied out al-cad of it , a vast majority of people managed to extract much discomfort from it . The excursion season closes Sept. 15 , as the weather then is popularly supposed to be cool enough to divert the attention of urban humanity from seashores and such places as excursion craft are wont to convey the searchers for coolness and comfort to . Bu* the weather slipped a cog somehow , and this end of September is simmering along lines not marked out for it . The withdrawal of the excursion vessels and the unexpected resumption of the heat business on the part of the weather were a conjunction that was of benefit to some and a disadvantage to many . Thousands who went to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the season , reached the piers only to have that fact recalled to them . Staten Island suggested itself as the next best place to go to , and as a result the boats of the Staten Island Ferry Company never had a busier day . Every boat went out laden to its full carrying capacity , and when the returning tide began to flow the Broadway cars and elevated roads had all they could do to find room for the surging throngs . Just how long the warm wave will last-the Weather Bureau people say they can not accurately predict . It extended last night over the entire State and the New-England and Middle Atlantic States . It is expected that it will be cooler today , and the last . trace of such discomfort as has been experienced within the last two days is expected to disappear to-morrow . The exit of the warm wave is expected to be marked by thunderstorms . It is expected that to-day will be fair and warmer and that Tuesday will bring thunder showers and a cessation of overpowering heat . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prostration on the streets was reported by the police . James Horn , fifty-four years old . of ** Third Avenue , ? : as overcome at the foot of Ninety-first Street . He was taken to Furdham Hospital . He recovered in a short time and went home . The heat in Brooklyn yesterday was almost unbearable , and there was not even a breeze to help suffering humanity . Several cases of prostration were reported . Elizabeth Blake , seventy years old , of 179 Street was overcome . She was taken to St. Catharine 's Hospital . Patrick Hanlon , twenty-eight years old , of 7 Dikeman Street , was prostrated on Wolcott Street and was taken to the Long Island College Hospital .                     