@@673220

txt A case is to be speedily made up to test the constitutionality of the Chinese Exclusion act , which goes fully into effect on the 5th inst . The time for the registration of resident Chinese as a protection against deportation expires on Thursday , and some one who fails to comply with the law is to be arrested in this city and taken before a Commissioner , who will hold that lie is liable to be sent out of the country ander the Geary act . By a writ of habeas : orpus he will be brought before a Judge who , for the purposes of the test case , is expected to hold that the suspension of the writ in the case of a foreign subject defying our laws is not against the Constitution , and an appeal will be at once taken to the Supreme Court at Washington . The court is to sit expressly to hear the case , and a speedy decision will be reached as to the constitutionality of the new exclusion law . If it should be sustained , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of May and have no certificates will be liable to be sent out of the country , but a chance ought to De given them to comply with the law after it has been decided to ho valid . If the registration requirement is declared invalid it is to be presumed that the provisions excluding new-comers will still hold good . The General Term of the Superior Court seems to have regarded the suit brought by one gambler against aaother to test the constitutionality of the Ives pool law as collusive , and has practically thrown it wat of court by reversing the order granting an injunction against the " commission " pool business carried on by the defendant . It is evident that the poolroom gamblers were trying to make use of the courts against the race-track men . If they really desire to test the Ives law let them bring suit directly against the men who sell pools at the race tracks after the season opens . The " commission " business is dead anyhow under the operation of the new Saxton act , and if the discrimination still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racing associations on race days is not constitutional the fact will have to be ascertained by a direct attack upon and not by collusive snits between gam. blere in the city . Ono of the interesting side shows con neoted with the recent naval rendezvong ? pd review has been the release of homing pigeons from several a our American cruisers . These birds were furnished by lofts in various cities , notably Philadelphia , Washington , and Annapolis , and appear to have made their journeys with success . The use of such messengers in military operations dates far back , although their equipment with such modern appliances as microphotographie dispatches on a film of collodion may perhaps be traced to the siege of Paris , in 1870 . Nearly all the leading powers of Europe now recognize the possible value of pigeons , where telegraphic communication is interrupted , and accordingly some of them have established military lofts , whore the birds are trained , besides keeping account of the private cotesiwhoso resources might be called upon . The naval uses of homing pigeons are perhaps not as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in yacht races and from outgoing ocean steamers is common enough . One very obvious advantage would bo that of carrying back news from an outer line of naval defenses  --  such as picket or torpedo boats ? that an enemy 's ships were approaching . They might also be of use in the coastwise or lake merchant marine to convoy news , of a wreak or other calamity , and to ask for help . The troubles of the Navajo Indians with the neighboring settlers are probably by this time under the control of the four troops of cavalry which have gone to the scene from Fort Wingate . The value of . this intervention may be as marked in checking movements of armed ranchmen and others as in preventing further depredations and violence by the red meu . The ill fooling between  --  the Indians and some of the settlers has been visible for years . The former will not stay on their reservation , and have not hitherto been required by the Government to stay there . Tho Navajos are a people who have enormous flocks of sheep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reservation is so arid that fully half of them live near the springs and water courses.on the public lands outside . As these lands belong to the Government , it may properly permit them to stay there during the construction of a system of reservoirs and ditches which it is now engaged upon for their reservation . When that is completed they can be restricted to-I their proper limits , and the danger-of such . conflicts with settlers as the one which . caused the present trouble will be diminished . The-investigations made by officers and agents of the Sanitary Aid Society yield information which can be used by the health authoritiesfor the public good . The ? Health Department can frequently obtain ' valuable assistance from this organization . An example is afforded by the results of a recent inspection of certain houses in Mulberry , Hester , and Essex Streets , which were in a very deplorable and dangerous condition . The reports of the society 's agents were submitted to the Health Department , and thereupon the attention of the department 's Medical Inspectors-was directed to the houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is greatly to be desired by the health authorities , and we are glad to know that it is welcomed and that measures are taken to make it effective .                     