@@673105

txt President Harrison 's message to Congress continues to be closely scrutinized . The Hon. Mr. Foster , Dominion Minister of Finance , who recently returned from England , on being asked what he thought of the message , said : " I need not say that it causes surprise and regret  --  surprise at the nature of some of the statements made , and regret at the unfriendly tone adopted toward Canada . The statement that Canada was only prepared to offer to the United States the admission of natural products is not toll enough to convey an accurate idea of what took place . The Canadian representatives asked those of the United States if they were prepared to consider an arrangement on the basis of free admission of the natural products of both countries , as in the treaty of 1854 , with such enlargements and modifications as the changed conditions of the two countries made necessary . The reply was a negative . " With a view , then , to clear the ground for an arrangement wider than that , If such could 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain conditions of a possible wider arrangement , among others whether the United States would insist upon a uniform tariff and would demand preferential treatment in our markets as against British and foreign goods . The answer was that a uniform tariff would be necessary , and that , too , on the line of the present United States tariff , and that the United States could admit of no arrangement which did not give United States goods favored treatment as against foreign goods , especially those of Great Britain , who was its chief competitor . To these propositions the Canadian representatives declined to agree . The conference then broke off , so far as regarded the consideration of the commercial question . What the conference plainly developed was that the Canadian Government considered the practical surrender of its fiscal powers and absolute discrimination against tireat Britain , with all that this Involved , as too nigh a price to pay for any advantages which might accrue from a possible treaty . ? ? The statement that ? in many of the controversies , notably those as to the fisheries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the canal tolls , our negotiations with Great Britain have continuously been thwarted or retarded by unreasonable and unfair objections and protests from Canada , ' is not , I think , justifiable . It is to be remembered that each of these questions vitally and almost wholly affected Canadian interests . Mr , Foster then gave a sketch of the relations as to the fisheries between Canada and the United States , dating from 1818 until the present time , and referring to the Boring Sea mat- ? ter , said : ? ? A vast open sea . free to the world . free in fishing privilege , on the very protest and contention of the United States itself , made more than sixty years ago , was frequented by Canadian seamen in British vessels . While engaged in a lawful occupation in this high sea the United States authorities swept down upon them , seized and confiscated their ships , took possession of their Property , imprisoned the officers and men , and to this day the United States has paid not a single dollar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and made her protests through the British Government . It seems to me that it was not Canada that was unreasonable and unfriendly in the matter . " As to the canal tolls , the President says that ' their treaty rights wore flagrantly disregarded ' by Canada . In this matter everything turns on the interpretation ' of the ' treaty . Canada contended that she had not violated it , and respectfully gave her reasons . These were not considered satisfactory by the United States , and discrimination on the St. Marie Canal was threatened . To avoid all disputes and make the whole system of our canals free to the United States , a friendly proposition was made , which involved no great sacrifice on the part of the United States . This was refused , and the proclamation of the President was forthwith Issued , imposing a discriminating toll on Canadian products passing the fault Ste. Marie Canal . ? outside of the interpretation of the treaty , suppose we look as to where the balanoo of advantage lies in the St. Lawrence and lake system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canals and vastly improved the navigation . The capital outlay has gone with no return of money invested . The nominal tolls charged do not pay by a large yearly sum tho expenses of working and repairing the canals , and we give the United States all these advantages on the same terms as they are enjoyed by the Canadians , and one may say practically without charge , so insignificant are the tolls . Wo giro them the free navigation of the St Lawrence , which has cost and yearly Costs us large outlays to maintain safe and progressive navigation . We took from the United States lumber out in Maine and floated it sown the St. John River for export  --  an Impost of $150,000 per year  --  and provided for it out of the Dominion Treasury . We grant free transit privileges to their commerce , mutually provided for in the treaty of 1871 , although they since 1885 have withdrawn the equivalent privileges from us . We allow their barges and vessels free navigation up the Ottawa River and canals , although they refuse to allow us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of constructing and using navigation facilities on the Canadian side of the St. Clair . " In return what does Canada got I A limited privilege or navigating Lake Michigan , terminable on notice . The right to equal treatment in the Buffalo and Erie Canals , which geographically and commercially is not and can not be used to the extent of a single load of merchandise by us ; the right in the same way to the use of the Champlain Canals , but which , owing to the fact that our vessels are not allowed to enter the Hudson River and obtain a return cargo , is practically of no use to us , and we get the use of the St. Clair Flats Canal . Can there be any doubt as to the balance of advantages I " But the most surprising portion of the President 's utterances is that in which he recommends that if we do not see fit to alter our present political relations , measures be taken to cripple our railways , obstruct our trade with the United States , and abolish the bonding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway enterprise , steamship. development , and commercial energy , so praiseworthy in all ' other countries , is an offense in Canadians . when it comes in conipetition with railways and steamships of the United States , espeoially an offense in Canadians so long as they choose not to alter the political relations which can Mean nothing else than their allegiance to Great Britain , and that , showing such energy and enterprise In conjunction with a loyal attaehment to the motherland , they are to be ? cribbed , ? shined , and conilned ' ' po far rib and regulation can doit . W o it . hile I cati not believe that this correctly expresses the sentiment of the people of the United States , I suppose we must take it as indicating the views of the President and those whom he represents , . and it is sufficiently startling to cause Canadians to think . " There ought not to be  --  I do not think there is in Canada  --  any jingo spirit which prompts is any way any action looking in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaker and should be modest and prudent . and can not desire anything but the most pleasant intercourse with the United States . We must admire the energy , the development , and splendid progress of our great neighbor and are willing to sacrifice somewhat in order to meet her wishes , but we declaim the right to be fairly treated , to enjoy what Providence and the British law has given us , and to maintain our political relations with Great Britain if we wish to , and no action which may be taken on the line of the President 's advice will have any other effect than to make a united Canada loyal to the core and in the end wonderfully prosperous and happy . "                     