@@781076

txt Gen. Total , the Spanish commander , agreed to the general terms of the surrender at a personal interview with Gen. Shafter this afternoon , at which Gen. Miles was present . The victorious American army , after a campaign of three weeks of almost unprecedented hardships for both officers and men , accepts the news with heartfelt relief . Gen. Shafter bears his honors modestly . To a correspondent . of The Associated Press he said : " The enemy has surrendered all the territory and troops east of Santiago . The terms were dictated from Washington . It has been a hard campaign ; one of the hardest I ever saw . The difficulties to contend with were very great . Never during our civil war were more problems solved . The character of the country and the roads made it seem almost impossible to advance in the face of the enemy . The transportation problem was hard , but all the difficulties have been successfully surmounted . " Our troops have behaved gallantly . They fought like heroes , and I am proud to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered they have shown resolution and spirit . They deserve to conquer . " The resistance of the enemy has been exceedingly stubborn . Gen. Toral has proved himself a foeman worthy of any man 's steel . " The negotiations which culminated in the surrender of Gen. Toral have been dragging on for ten days , with the intermission of Sunday and Monday , when our batteries and fleet bombarded the enemy 's position . Throughout these periods of truce Gen. Toral has shrewdly played for time . always declining to surrender unconditionally and falling back when hard pressed upon the statement that he was simply subordinate and powerless to agree to the proposals without the sanction of his superiots , except under penalty of being court-martialed . At the same time he seemed to intimate that , personally , he thought it useless to hold out any longer . But he and his garrison were soldiers , he said , and could die if necessary , obeying orders . " It was at the personal interview held by Gen. Shatter with Gen. Toral yesterday that the American General made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that before noon to-day a categorical affirmation to his offer must be received or the bombardment of the city would begin in earnest . Preparations to Compel Surrender . In the meantime all our plans had been perfected . The delay had been utilized to good advantage . Our lines had been extended until Santiago was nearly surrounded , and our light batteries had been so posted as to be able to do more effective woat . In addition arrangements had been madO to land troops at Cabanas , west of the entrance to the Harbor of Santiago , The Spanish batteries opposite Morro Castle were to be bombarded and stormed , their guns were then to be turned upon the city , and Gen. Lawton 's division at the same time was to fall on the enemy 's left flank under the cover of our artillery fire . We could then have enfiladed their lines , and have driven them into the city . Gen. Toral must have realized that he was trapped , and that to hold out longer meant a useless sacrifice of his men , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NiThile nominally yielding to the terms Gen. Shatter proposed , before 8 o'clock he sent a communication to Gen. Shatter inclosing a copy of a telegram from Capt . Gen. Blanco , explaining that the surrender of such an important position as Santiago and- the- abandonment of Eastern Cuba would require the direct sanction of the Madrid Government , and requesting more time to hear from- Madrid : At the ? same time Capt . Gen : Blanco authorized Gen. Toral , if it was agreeable to the American General , ' to appoint Commissioners- ? on each side to arrange the terms of the capitulation of the forces under his command on the condition of their parole and transportation to Spain pending the sanction of Madrid . He also communicated the names of the Commissioners he had selected , namely , Mr. Robert Mason ; the British Vice Consul ; Gen. Toral 's Chief of Staff , Col. Fontaine , and Gen , Escarajao . ? Shatter 's Interview with ' Forel . This communication was so ambiguous that it might all be upset by the refusal of Madrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gen. Shatter resolved to have all the ambiguity removed before proceeding further . At 11 o'clock he mounted his horse , and , together with Gen. Miles and the staffs , he rode to the front . At Gen. Wheeler 's headquarters Gen. Shatter , Gen. Miles , Col. Maus , and an interpreter left their retinue and passed on over our trenches with a flag of truce to the mango tree under which the interview was held yesterday . They were soon Joined by Gen. Toral , his chief of staff , and the two other Commissioners appointed by him . Gen. Miles took no part in the negotiations . He has been careful since his arrival here not to assume the direction of affairs , or to detract in the least from the glory of Gen. Shafter 's achievement . Gen. Shatter insisted at the outset that the Commissioners to be appointed should have paramount authority to make and conclude the terms of surrender in accordance with the general conditions of our demands . After parleying Gen. Toral acceded to this , explaining that since his last communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so . This being the main point the interview was soon concluded . Before parting Gen. Shatter complimented Gen. Toral highly upon the skill and gallantry of his resistance .                     