@@673316

txt There is no such word as cynophobia , but there seems to be such a thing and the word is needed . Every Summer during the " heated term " we have tales of mad dogs and hydrophobia scares , where the dogs may be angry or in a tit but are not rabid and where no hydrophobia exists . Hydrophobia is a very rare malady , so rare that some skeptical people doubt if it ever occurs , though there are cases authenticated beyond question . There is no doubt that the canine species is subject to rabies , when the saliva becomes viruliferous and liable to inoculate other animals , including man , with an analogous disease . But there are many delusions about rabies and more about hydrophobia , and they have begotten a dread of dogs when they are excited or out of condition , especially in hot weather . Now , dogs are no more subject to rabies in hot weather than in cold , but they are much more liable to fits . The bite of a dog that is merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a dog in a fit is a suffering but harmless creature . But woe to the dog in Summer time that shows his angry passions or gets excited and bites , though it is his nature , and if he takes the liberty of having a tit , as the result of unbearable discomfort , instead of being treated as an unfortunate invalid he is apt to be slaughtered as an enemy of mankind . Now , it should be known that no dog goes off suddenly into rabies and begins an indiscriminate attack upon his fellowbeings . There are preliminary symptoms of considerable duration that are well marked and should be familiar to owners of dogs . It is perfectly easy to put them out of the way before they become dangerous , and dogs without owners , wandering about homeless and uncured for , should not be allowed to exist in civilized communities . They may become dangerous in more ways than one . If a dog that has a fit or gets unduly excited is killed , no great harm is done , provided he has bitten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should by no means be killed , for , though the chances are a thousand to one that the bite is harmless , the recipient may worry himself into hysterical convulsions through mere imagination of fatal harm . There have been more such cases than of genuine hydrophobia , and by allowing the dog to recover his equanimity or his health , or by having it proved that he was not rabid , the dreadful apprehension may be removed . For the most part mad-dog scares are merely ridiculous , and cynophobia is a cruel effect of popular delusion .                     