@@781035

txt lmost General Opinion that the Note of the FOrverts Was of Aolvan-tap-e to Spain . MADRID , April 9 . ? The opinions expressed by the newspapers are contradictory . some of them hold that war is inevitable , and others hope for peace . The Correspondencia de Espana says the intervention of the powers has produced at Washington an effect favorable to Spain . It adds : " Spain can accept the friendly counsel of the powers to solve the question , where she can not recede in front of the American demands . " The Globo ( Liberal ) rejoices at the " calmer judgment of yesterday 's press , " highly commending the utterances of the Correspondencia de Espana and the Epoca , and adding : . " Neither America nor Spain can Ignore the collective action without daring the European powers . England 's participation necessitates Spain 's watchful eye on the developments . We have not forgotten that The Times said : ' In order to treat with the insurgents the Spaniards must pocket their pride . ' Unless the powers tie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference will be of little benefit to America , Spain , or Europe . " The Pais is publishing a series of rabid war articles , the wording verging on delirium . On its front page to-day it has the representation of the Spanish lion guarding the Cuban flag , with a pig overlooking a partition formed by the American flag . Under the cartoon is printed the remark : " If the grunter wants the flag , come and fetch it . " This sensational paper again announces in. startling headlines that there has been an attack upon the Spanish Legation in Washington . As a matter of fact the Spanish Minister at Washington , Serior Polo y Earnab4 , has telegraphed denying that the affair had any importance , and adding that the facts were simply that a few roughs had hooted in front of the Legation . El Liberal ( moderate Republican ) says : " The powers ' preliminary proceedings at Washington do not bespeak intentions favorable to Spain . It is clear that the powers are indifferent to the opinion of the Spanish Government , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our legitimate and imprescriptible rietts . " The Epoca 's article of last night , suggesting the Government 's compliance with the powers ' intention to find a definite and permanent solution of the Cuban question , makes El Liberal suspect that the article was inspired by a portion of the Cabinet headed by Serior Moret , Minister of the Colonies , whose object is to upset the war party , and El Liberal demands an immediate explanation of the terms " definitive and permanent solution , " which will enable Spain to judge openly of the proposals .                     