@@674019

txt Secretary Olney issued instructions to Minister Terrell some time ago to take vigorous measures for the protection of American Christians in the Sultan 's possessions . Information of this fact was conveyed informally to the representatives of other powers in Washington , the British Ambassador included , and this fact , it is said . forms the sole foundation for rumored joint intervention by Great Britain and the United States . Mr. Terrell immediately proceeded to notify the Turkish Government that it would be held responsible for any injury to American life and property . No new war ships have been sent to the Syrian coast by this Government , and it is said at the Navy Department that no request to that effect has been received from the Secretary of State . The cruiser Marblehead is now stationed in the - Gulf of . Alexantizet- ta , and the only other United States vessel available in those waters is the flagship San Francisco , lying at Algiers and due at I'darseilles Nov. 9 . This Government will act independently in any measures it may take in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department , and the manner in which he has carried out his instructions leaves no doubt as to his earnestness . Robert S. Chilton of the State Department arrived in Trebizond on the day the riot occurred there . He was on his way to establish the new consulate at Erzeroum . It is presumed that he was accompanied by Dulany Hunter of the General Consular Service , who was directed to establish the new Consulate at Harpoot . If Mr. Chilton has gone to Erzeroum the department does not know it , but in view of the fact that it was desirable for him to reach his past to attends the trial of the alleged murderers of Frank Lenz , the bicyclist , it is supposed at the department that he has pushed ahead . The startling reports of massacre at Erzeroum contained in dispatches published to-day , serve as an additional reason for haste on his part . Neither Mr. Chilton nor Mr. Hunter has received an exequatur from the Turkish Government , but both are familiar with Consular procedure in such cases , and will undoubtedly secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . Richard Pope Shot in : William Walters 's Saloon in Mott ' Haven  --  The Money Drawer Robbed . Thre masked thieves entered the saloon of Thomas Walters , at Brown Place and Southern Boulevard , at 11:30 last night and shot and killed Richard Pope of 583 Southern Boulevard . They also attacked the proprietor and the bartender , emptied the money drawer of $42 , and made their escape . Before they entered the saloon the thieves opened the front door and looked in , but seeing a few men there they went around to the side door . Tying handkerchiefs over their eyes , they stole quietly into the barroom , and the leader sprang suddenly in front of Richard Pope and yelled " Hold up your hands ! " He refused to do this , and attempted . to seize the thief . Whereupon the latter shot Pope in the chest , killing him instantly . While Pope 's assailant was thus engaged , the other two thieves brandished pistols in front of Walters , the owner of the saloon . One of the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly at the proprietor 's head , as he walked behind the counter and helped himself to the money in the drawer . Immediately after the money drawer was robbed the thieves escaped in the darkness and made their way to the New-Haven Railroad yards near by . Walters and three other men in the place had been speechless with fear , but when the robbers disappeared they ran into the street and called for the police , but before assistance arrived the masked men had made safe their departure . Capt . Creedon , Detective Titus , and several patrolmen of the Morrisania . Police Station hastened to the scene of the robbery and promptly began a search for the daring culprits . The freight cars and secluded corners of the railroad yards were searched , but to no avail .                     