@@674200

txt Ex-Judge Isaac H : Maynard , senior member of the law firm of Maynard , Gilbert S Cone , and former Judge of the Court of Appeals , died suddenly in his room at the Kenmore Hotel , In this city , about 2:30 o'clock this afternoon , from heart trouble . - He was alone in his room and was sitting In a chair at the time of his death . He had just finshed his luncheon , and was apparently in the best of health , except that he had been undergoing treatment lately for indigestion . During the morning he had been at his office as usual . As soon as the ex-Judge 's death was discovered , which was after 3 o'clock , a physician was called . The Coroner ' also was summoned and took charge of the body . Judge Maynard leaves a wife and daughter , who have been living at the family home , at Delhi , Delaware County . They were telegraphed to immediately . The fact that Judge Maynard was troubled somewhat with his heart was known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack while in their company at Win no-cook Lodge , In the Catskills , a couple of years ago . Expressions of sorrow were universal on Capitol Hill at the announcement of his death . Judge F. R. Gilbert of Judge Maynard 's firm arrived here to-night and took charge of the remains , which will be taken tomorrow on the Delaware and Hudson Road to Delhi . The funeral willbe held at the latter place Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock . Isaac Horton Maynard was born at Bovine , Delaware County , April 0 , 1838 . He was of Scotch and English descent , and all his life his home was at Bovine or the neighboring town of Stamford . He was graduated from Amherst College , and in 1882 began the study of law , at Delhi , and in 1805 was admitted to the bar , and began the practice of law . His entrance into public life was as the Supervisor of his township , and subsequently he was elected President of the Board of Supervisors of Delaware County . He was a member of Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was elected County and Probate Judge for the term of eight years . Before his term had expired he was nominated , in 1883 , for Secretary of State on the Democratic ticket , but was defeated by Gen. Carr . At the expiration of his term as County Judge , in 1885 , he was appointed First Deputy Attorney General , and later in the same year Ile was called to Washington , and was appointed Second Controller of the United States Treasury by President Cleveland , under Daniel Manning , then Secretary of the Treasury . When . , Charies S. Fairchild was promoted to be Secretary of the Treasury , Judge Maynard was made Assistant Secretary , and held that position until the end of Mr. Cleveland 's first Administration . Then he was again appointed a Deputy Attorney General of this State . It was while Judge Maynard was in the service as Deputy Attorney General that the incident occurred which brought him Into unenviable prominence , and resulted in the defeat of the Democratic-Party in this State . and placed the State Government In the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so close in the Fall of 1891 that it was discovered that the control of the upper branch of the Legislature would probably hinge on the election in Dutchess County . The question of the reapportionment of the State was to come up before the Legislature of 1892 , and the complexion of future Legislatures might depend on the reapportionment . When the voters of Dutchess County were canvassed , Din ty-one Republican ballots were found in what came to Le subsequently known as the " Mylod " district , which had ink marks on their edges which could have been made by minters ' quads . The Democratic canvassers asserted that the marks rendered the ballots defective , and they rejected them . As upon the district the political complexion of the State Senate was believed to depend , the Republicans made a contest fof the thirty-one rejected ballots which was carried into the courts . Judge Maynard acted in the litigation as counsel for the Dutchess County Board of Canvassers . Justice Barnard granted a peremptory mandamus ordering the county canvassers to count the rejected ballots and transmit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from office the Republican County Clerk because he had refused to transmit the returns as the Democrats wanted them , and appointed a Democratic County Clerk , and the " Mylod " returns w ere made up . Emans , the Republican County Cleric , who had been removed during the litigation , was very complicated . mailed the corrected returns to Albany . He , however , had been enjoined by an order of the court from doing so , and he hurried to Albany and called on Maynard and requested that the returns be given back to him , but they had disappeared , and when the State Board of Canvassers met the " Mylod returns were canvassed , and Osborne was declared elected , thus givingakthe State Senate to the Democrats . The connection of Judge Maynard with the disappearance of the corrected returns mailed by County Cleric Emans did not become known until after Gov . Flower had appointed him to fill a vacancy on the Court of Appeals bench , caused by the advancement of Judge Earl to the Chief Justice 's chair on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of indignation throughout the State , and there was a general feeling that Judge Maynard ought to resign . He addressed a letter to Chief Justice Earl explaining his conduct . The Bar Association took the matter up , and filially the Legislature was compelled to order an investigation . The result was a majority and a minority report . The former was adop- ted , and Judge Maynard was practi- cally exonerated . When however , Gov . Flower announced his intention of reappointing-Judge Maynard as Associate Justice to succeed Judge Charles Andrews , the Bar Association made a strong protest , but he was appointed . Despite the vigorous prbtests of many prominent Democrats in the State Judge Maynard was nominated for the Court of Appeals on the Democratic ticket . The nomination raised a storm of indignation throughout the State . The Bar . Association took a prominent part In the canvass against him , and without regard to party advocated the election of Edward T. Bartlett , the Republican candidate . Mass meetings were held in this city to protest against the election of Maynard , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Maynard and Bartlett . Maynard proved too heavy a load for the , Democratic ticket and swamped R. The entire Republican ' Mate ticket was elected . The Republicans also obtained a majority of the delegates to the Constitutional Convention . Maynard was beaten by 101,001 votes . Since that time he had been in comparative obscurity . Judge Maynard 's widow is a daughter or Charles Marvin ' , President of the Delaware rational Bank of Delhi , N , Y.                     