@@673545

txt The eighteenth anniversary of the foundation of the Society for Ethical Culture was celebrated at the Music Hall , Fifty-seventh Street and Seventh Avenue , yesterday morning . There was an attendance of about 1,200 , including many interested in the ethical movement , 1n addition to the members of the society . Mr. J. E. Lange presided . On the platform were Prof. Felix Adler , the President of the society ; Mrs. S. H. 011esheimer , Treasurer of the Relief Committee of the Woman 's Conference ; Dr. M. P. E. Groszmann , Superintendent of the Sunday school , and Mr. W. Sanford Evans , one of the society 's propagandists . A quartet of singers and a children 's chorus selected from the pupils of the Workingman 's School , which is conducted under the auspices of the society , furnished the music . Mrs. 011esheimer read the report of the Women 's Committee for the Relief of the Unemployed . The principal feature of this work was the establishment of three workshops , in which , from Dec. 26 to April 30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afterward distributed to the poor . Over $17,150 was raised to carry on this work , of which sum nearly $11,000 was paid in wages . The report concluded with the suggestion that the auxiliary societies should establish employment bureaus for the benefit of the large number of women who are still In need of work . Dr. Groszmann delivered an address on " The Work of the Sunday School . " " This is the first time in the history of the society , " he said , " that an ethical Sunday school has been represented on an occasion of this kind . Nevertheless , our young peopl3 have not lacked instruction in the past . Ethical classes have been I conducted by our President and others for eighteen years . Now that we have rooms to accommodate the classes , we have a regularly-organized Sunday school , which was opened last December . In the Sunday school I proper , we have 144 children , to whom we strive to impart a thorough ethical training by holding up to them the indisputable authority of the moral law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a workingmen 's school , under the personal direction of our President . " The children are not given instruction concerning the distinctions between various religious sects , but such matters are discussed by the classes of young men and women , who should be , from the nature of their training , thoroughly capable of judging what system best conforms with their temperament , understanding , and conscience . " The ethical movement is , in reality , a protest against the demolition of old ideas and aspirations . We endeavor to supplement the intellectual advancement of the age by the dissemination of ethical truths , and our Sunday-school work acts as a check to the unfortunate tendency of the modern child to be irreverent and unidealistie . It is a subject for regret that some of our niernbers continue to send their children to sectarian Sunday schools , although they themselves have long since outgrown the old creeds . They do not seem to realize that by so doing they open a deep spiritual gulf between their children and themselves . I entreat you to demonstrate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ethical spirit , which is destined to be the true savior of the race . " After a short address by W. Sanfogt Evans , Prof. Adler said : " The eighteenth year of the society , despite the commercial depression through which the country is passinff , has been one of exceptional prosperity . Several hundred new members have joined our ranks . The charities of the society have been greatly extended , and young men ? graduates and postgraduates of universities , have shown their interest in the ethical movement to an extent hitherto unequaled . " The talk with which I would close my addresses for the present season relates to the value of association as a means of moral improvement . Twenty-four hundred years ago there existed an ethical society in the cities of Southern Italy . Its cardinal purpose was the purification of the soul by ethical means . Great stress was laid in this ethical society upon temperance in food and drink , and upon such virtues as selfcontrol in speech . The members were especially enjoined to take an active part in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of moralizing the politics of that age . " That ancient ethical society went down in blood . Its meeting houses were destroyed , its members put to the sword . But the influence of their teachings has not been obliterated . " Especially did they lay the greatest stress upon the value of friendship as a means of ethical culture . Some of the noblest examples of friendship handed down to us from antiquity , such as that of Damon and Pythias , Epaminondus , and others . are by persons who belonged to this society , or who came under the influence of its doctrines . " We , too , regard it as one of our highest aims to develop a nobler type of friendship among us . Friendship is based upon the pursuit of a common end . Even those who combine for the purposes of pleasure and recreation are apt to entertain friendly " oaw afirodwianng genial another . There is ial feeling at the feast . Still more cordial are the sentiments of those who unite in the pursuit of knowledge . College friendships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties that bind together companions in arms , who have fought for the defense of their country , or the enhancement of its glory . " The nobler the common end , the nobler the resulting type of friendship . The highest end of all is the attainment of moral excellence . Among those who unite for this end , therefore , the highest type of friendship should be developed . " Prof. Adler closed by reading the roll of deceased members , after which the " Litany " of Schubert was touchingly sung . Announcements were made of the formation of the nucleus of an ethical society in Brooklyn , and also of the School of Applied Ethics , which will hold its sessions at Plymouth , Mass. , this Summer . under the management of Prof. Adler , Prof. Henry C. Adams of Michigan University , and Prof. Toy of Harvard University .                     