@@673741

txt The Chamber of Commerce has had a " Committee on Municipal Reform " appointed , whose first duty is to inquire and report whether it is desirable to have the Lexow committee continued next year , with power to investigate " any or all departments of this city , to the end that men who have betrayed their official trusts and prostituted their offices for personal and private gain may be punished for their crimes , " &c.; One of the chief objects to be gained by continuing the investigation , according to the proposer of the resolution at the Chamber of Commerce meeting , is to keep alive the public interest in municipal reform as an aid to its practical accomplishment . This is unquestionably an important object , and every legitimate means should be used to ; hold attention to the subject , in order that the efforts to remedy existing evils may be sustained by public sentiment . There may also be an advantage in conducting such an investigation under an administration known to be in sympathy with its purpose , rather than one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the defensive . If the new Mayor should be enabled to put at the head of the municipal departments men who are in no way compromised by existing abuses , and who could have no motive in resisting their exposure , the work of an investigating ' committee might be made easier and more effective . The men w ' ho assumed responsibility for the character of the public service in the future would doubtless be glad to aid in purging it from corruption and wrongdoing for which they were not responsible , and which would be an obstacle to their efforts to improve the service . Under such conditions there might be a wholesome change of motives and methods in conducting investigations . If the aim is to be the establishment of a non-partisan management of municipal business , and the way is made clear for it , the purpose of inquiry might be made less destructive and more constructive  --  the disclosure of faults in the existing system with a view to applying remedies . We do not mean to imply that the investigation of the Police Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has necessarily been in a great degree an attack upon the Tammany power , which has been held responsible for the gross abuses that have been uncovered . It has been aggressive , persistent , and relentless , and it has , no doubt , been justified by its results . Mr. Goff has gained much credit as counsel for the committee , and he has deserved it all by his resourceful industry and his ingenuity and courage . But such an investigation is necessarily one-sided , and there is some danger of its having an appearance of unfairness . So long as police corruption and blackmail were the subject of inquiry there seemed to be but one side to the case . The facts were so damning , so fully supported , and so in accordance with common knowledge and belief , that there was no general feeling that injustice was likely to be done , because the case was practically all prosecution and no defense . But a long-continued investigation of the kind is in some danger of producing a reaction , unless it is conducted in a spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expose and tO overthrow , and If the collecting and arraying of evidence is wholly in the control of the committee 's counsel , with no opposing counsel , no cross-examination , and no rebutting testimony , aggressive and relentless methods may come to appear unfair and beget sympathy for those who seem to be perseCuted rather than exposed . An Intimation of this peril wag afforded in the examination of Commissioner Andrews the other day . He had been charged with accepting a bribe for granting an excise license some seven years ago , a charge which he strenuously denied under oath , and which Was supported only by very suspicious testimony . Several issues of veracity were raised , but no man clearly remembers the details of what he and others did seven years ago , and the chances of mistaken statement are many . For lack of conclusive evidence of bribery , Mr. Andrews was unexpectedly questioned about financial doings of his own , mostly private , in other matters , and did not make a favorable showing . He may be lax in his business methods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty as Commissioner of Street Cleaning , but these were not the subjects of the inquiry and had no bearing on the charge that had been made against him . Only certain incidents that had an unfavorable look were brought out , with no chance for clearing them up , and they were used to produce the impression that , if he did not accept a bribe , he was probably capable of it . There are plenty of indications that that method of inquiry is calculated to produce a reaction and damage the force of the investigation . The purpose should be , not to blacken character and destroy reputation , but to get at the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth , and let it have its full effect .                     