@@674352

txt The President has issued a proclamation which suspends the law relieving German vessels from tonnage dues and other charges in American ports . This is done upon evidence that American vessels are not given those privileges in German ports . It is retaliatory in its nature . The proClamation is as follows : BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES . A PROCLAMATION . Whereas , By a proclamation of the President of the United States , dated Jan. 26 , 1883 , upon , proof then appearing satisfactory that no tonnage or lighthouse dues or any equivalent tax or taxes whatever were imposed upon American vessels entering the ports of the empire of Germany , either by the imperial Government or by the Governments of the German Maritime States , and that vessels belonging to the United States of America and their cargoes were not required in German ports to pay any fee or due of any kind or nature , or any import due higher or other than was payable by German vessels or their cargoes in the United States , the President did thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his said proclamation . of Jan. 26 , 1888 , the suspension of the collection of the whole of the duty of 6 cents per ton , not to exceed 30 cents per ton per annum , imposed upon vessels entered in the ports of the United States from any of the ports of the empire of Germany by Section 11 of the Act of Congress , approved June 10 , 1886 , entitled , " An act to abolish certain fees for official services to American vessels , and to amend the laws relating to shipping commissioners , seamen , and owners of vessels and for other purposes . " And whereas , The President did further declare and proclaim , in his proclamation of Jan. 20 , 1888 , that the said suspension should continue so long as the reciprocal exemption of vessels belonging to citizens of the United States and their cargoes should be continued in the said ports of the Empire of Germany and no longer ; And whereas , It now appears upon satisfactory proof that tonnage or lighthouse dues , or a tax or taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their cargoes entered in German ports , higher and other than those imposed upon German vessels or their cargoes entered in ports of the United States , so that said proclamation of Jan. 26 , 1888 , in its operation and effect contravenes the meaning and intent of said Section 11 of the act of Congress approved June 19 , 1880 : Now , therefore , I , Grover Cleveland , President of the United States of America , by ? virtue of the aforesaid Section 11 of the act aforesaid , as well as in pursuance of the terms of said proclamation itself , do hereby revoke my said proclamation of Jan. 26 , 1888 , suspending the collection of the whole of the duty of 6 cents per ton , not to exceed 30 cents per ton per annum , ( which is imposed by the aforesaid section of said act , ) upon vessels entered in the ports of the United States from any of the ports of the German Empire ; this revocation of said proclamation to take effect on and after the 2d day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of December , in the year of our Lord 1896 , and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-first . Seal . GROVER CLEVELAND . By the President : RICHARD OLNEY , Secretary of State .                     