@@674978

txt The survivors without exception speak in the highest terms of the devotion , heroism , and coolness displayed by the officers and crew of the illfated steamer , and declare that all were instantly at their posts when it was known that she had struck . Members of the crew stood by and watched the boats launched and put off when it was apparent that these were the only means by - which - their own lives could be saved . It seems that one of the ship 's boats , containing several women , got away safely , but was capsized . A number of its occupants were rescued by lifeboats . Another boat with sixteen hands was picked up by a lifeboat and safely got ashore , and two or three other persons managed to reach land . One passenger cut away the falls of a lifeboat with a razor , and thus saved several lives . The best account of the disaster so far obtained was furnished by George Maule of New York . He said : " I am a shipper of horses , employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Thursday , and all went well until i o'clock yesterday evening , When most of the passengers were at dinner . The steamer was going at full speed , arid sud denly we heard a loud crash , which seemed to denote that we had collided with some other vessel , but when we rushed on deck we found that the Mohegan - Was on the rocks between the Manacles and the Lowlands , in the vicinity of the Lizard . " Orders were given immediately to lower the boats and the crew of the steamer behaved like heroes . Her Captain stood on the bridge and - the greatest order Prevailed among the officers and crew . " The steamer , however , immediately began to settle by the head . Two boats were launched . The women were sent away in the first boat . But whether these boats reached land or not I do not know . " I managed to secure a life belt and . jumped overboard in company with the Chief Officer of the Mohegan , Mr. Couch . He made me take off my coat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . " When I was leaving the vessel a little girl begged piteously that I try to save her , as she did not want to die yet , but I was powerless to help her . " Eventually I caught hold of a plank which was floating on the water and I clung to it for seven and a half hours . At the expiration of that time I was picked up by a tug . I could not have lasted much longer . " I can not explain how the accident occurred . The Whole matter is not very clear to me . " One of the passengers rescued by the Port Houstock lifeboat says that just previous to - the disaster he thought the steamer was nearer land than usual . All the passengers were dining when the catastrophe occurred , though some of the children , who were seasick , were in their bunks . Suddenly the Mohegan struck , with a grating noise . At first the engineers thought this was caused by coal falling down in the bunkers . But a second shock followed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EXPERIENCE . A. G. L. Smith , a passenger who says his home is in Oregon , and who was landed at Port Houstock , declared that he saw the Captain on the bridge giving orders , Which were carried out as far as possible . As the ship sank the Captain ran along the side and sprang overboard . The vessel lurched and the passengers ell seemed to be thrown - Into the water at the same moment . Mr. Smith , who is a strong swimmer , managed to get through the mass of people in the water and succeeded in evading several who tried to clutch4aira as-he , paged them . He says he Swam . fat Vireil4hOfirb and a half before he ( reached the shore . William Moore , a seaman of the Mohegan , who lives in London , was amoligAhe men who succeeded in reaching Port Houstock . He said the vessel struck forward , on the starboard side of her bow , and sank headfirst , her stern rising right up in the air . Moore sprang overboard , and after swimming for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steamer . He got into her and startedto row for the shore . Some time afterward he saw one of his shipmates , a man named Hilson , on a raft . Hilson was ex-. hausted , and Moore dragged him into the lifeboat , where he was so helpless that he could not move hand or foot , his shoulder being badly injured . The sea was then running heavily , and the lifeboat was nearly full of water , but she escaped two or - three rocks . Eventually , however , she was smashed to pieces . Moore and Hilson were afterward washed ashore . A member of the Port Houstock lifeboat crew named James , in his account of the wreck , said that as soon as the disaster was announced his crew was summoned to the boat , and proceeded to the Manacles . They could see no lights , the night was pitch dark , and no rocks were discernible , but they heard shouting and pulled toward the spot from which the shouting came . No steamer was visible , but the lifeboat came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were clinging with great difficulty . They were taken on board the lifeboat . The crew of the latter then heard shouting within the overturned boat , and the members of the lifeboat 's crew got out their grapnels and managed to right her . Inside of her they found a woman and two or three men alive . The woman was so tightly jammed in the wreckage that the lifeboat men had to cut away the thwarts of the small boat before they could extricate her . James said the lifeboat passed several bodies of men and women and picked up a couple of men who were floating on wreckage . MISS NOBLE 'S PLUCK . The lifeboat next met a ship 's boat having on board twenty-two passengers and screw , all of whom would have been speedily lost if not rescued at that time , as the boat was ? waterlogged and rapidly drifting on the rocks . The occupants , of this boat were taken into the lifeboat . While the latter was beating homeward it picked up Miss Noble of Baltimore . " She is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said James- " She shouted , ' Do n't shove me an oar . Give me a rope . ' The sea then swept her toward us and we caught her hands and got her safely on board in as good a state as could be expected . She was plucky to the last . " We then had forty-eight persons on board the lifeboat , Including the crew , and could hear shouting from the steamer . We approached her and saw Steward Graye clinging to the jiggermast . We then saw that all four masts were still standing , and that survivors were clinging to each . We backed in right over the wreck and succeeded in rescuing the boatswain , cook , and others : Next we rescued an engineer , who was clinging to the steamer 's funnel . All this occupied several hours . We then made for the shore . " Miss Roudebush , one of the survivors , is the American operatic singer , who is professionally known as Maude Roudez . With her mother , Mrs. Grandin , she entered a ship 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jammed between this boat and a lifeboat on one of the latter 's trips . One of the . lifeboat 's crew , at great personal danger , jumped on the steamer 's boat after the latter had righted , and pulled Mrs. Grandin from her dangerous position . But she was landed in a dying condition , and all the efforts , made to revive her were unsuccessful . Whgn Miss Roudebush landed later she anxiously inquired for her mother , whose body was identified by the vicar of St. Keverine from the description of a ring furnished to him by the daughter . One of Mrs. Grandin 's feet was torn from the leg . Among the incidents recited is the escape of the Pemberton family , Mr. Pemberton jumped into a lifeboat , his wife threw him their two children , then she leaped into the boat herself , and thus the whole family was saved .                     