@@673404

txt We recognize the voice of DOLGE of Dolgeville in the outcry the much-protected manufacturers are sending up against the Wilson bill . DOLGE is nominally a manufacturer of felt , but his real occupation is that of making stiff partisan arguments for the Republican Party and protection . In this business DOLGE brandishes his alleged felt works in the most reckless fashion , closing and opening them or threatening to do so early and often in every Congressional and Presidential campaign . DOLGE now declares that if the Wilson bill passes he will feel obliged to take his felt business to Europe . probably to establish it there on a freetrade basis ; but at any rate he will shut down indefinitely on December 15 . There is a close and striking likeness between the antics of Gov . WAITE of Colorado . who proposed last Summer to wade in blood up to the collar of his horse in the effort to prevent the repeal of the Sherman silver act . and the present performances of such persons as DOLGE and the proprietors of the Miller Cutlery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Wilson bill . If business depression results from prolonged tariff uncertainties , it will be largely due to the tactics these favored protectionists employ . The producers of iron in Alabama who are opposing the removal of the duty on iron ore will regard with some surprise the complaint of the Baltimore American that " iron ore is placed on the free list to enable a small district in Alabama to undersell the rest of the United States . " On the other hand , the Richmond Dispatch says : There is not a blast furnace in operation in all New-England . Southern enterprise has made their fires cold . Now with free Nova Scotia coal and ores obtained in foreign parts they propose to ' blow out ' their competitors in the South . " The ironmakers of Alabama and Tennessee are already exporting their iron , and it is admitted that the cost of production is lower there than in any other part of the world . Whatever may be the action of Congress with respect to the duty on iron ore , they will see very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be interested in the announcement that the " Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women , " popularly known as the " Harvard Annex , " is to give up its clumsy official title and get rid of its undignified sobriquet , and is to become Radcliffe College , just as soon as the Massachusetts Legislature shall sanction the change of title of the existing corporation . It is then to confer regular degrees instead of granting certificates of proficiency , and its diplomas are to be countersigned by the President of Harvard University and to bear the seal of that institution , which has all along set the standard of requirements and furnished the instruction and examinations for the " Annex . " This has just been authorized by the Corporation and Overseers of Harvard . and it is believed that this action will be followed by the actual absorption of Radcliffe College by the university when the necessary legislation has been obtained . This has been understood to depend - upon the raising of an endowment fund for the woman 's college , which is reported to be virtually accom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has re ? ceived the adherence of a valuable recruit to his new system of war on intemperance in the person of Judge THOMAS HUGEIES the " Tom " of Rugby fame . The genera ' idea of the Bishop is that the State shonlc guarantee pure liquors at high prices art take the profits , these to be applied , first to the buying out of the licensed dealers , and , second , to defraying the cost to the Government growing out of the evils of intemperance . The greatest obstacle to any legislation in restraint of the traffic in intoxicating liquors in England has been the Radical opposition to any reasonable compensation for the " vested rights " of the dealers in such wares . This the Bishop of Chester flanks by providing the funds for such compensation from the traffic itself . But , though this arrangement is reasonable enough , the chances are that it will seem to the average English voter a little too logical , and that it will fail . Your true Briton has a horror of logic . As WALTER BAGEHOT used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make more than three and less than five , but he will hesitate to say plumply that their sum is exactly four . 