@@673301

txt The court-martial that was appointed to inquire into the loss of the battle ship Victoria to-day rendered its decision in the case of the Hon. Maurice A. Bourke , Captain of the Victoria . The court found that no responsibility attached to Cipt . Bourke for the disaster , and he was therefore acquitted of all blame . The prosecution closed yesterday , and Capt . Bourke began at the opening of the court this morning to read his defense . He reviewed the evidence in detail , paying most particular attention to the testimony that had been given regarding the responsibility for the disaster . He said that the question was whether he , with Vice Admiral Tryon beside him on the charthouse of the Victoria , ought to have acted . independently . The court alone could answer this question . He could not say what he should have done if Vice Admiral Tryon had not been there , but his feeling was that he should have taken more strenuous action at an early period of the mancetivre without the sanction of the Vice Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he had done . Capt . Bourke paid a most elOu tient tribute to the behavior of everybody on board the Victoria , especially to the young officers who had been out on at the opening of their careers . Capt . Bourke further said that when ho was talking with Vice Admiral Tryon Just before the collision he told the Vice Admiral that eight cable lengths would be a better distance to be observed by the two columns than six cable lengths . The Vice Admiral did not consult him . He never consulted any one during the mancenvres . Capt . Bourke left the cabin not knowing what was going to happen . He was apprehensive of the result of the order , but his faith in Vice Admiral Tryon 's master mind reassured him . The signal was specific , and its meaning could not have been mistaken . Vice Admiral Tryon himself ordered it to be hoisted . Continuing , Capt Betake said ; I Urged the Vice Admiral repeatedly , when a collielon appeared imminent . to do something . " At this point Capt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some little time before he proceeded . When he continued the reading of his defense ho referred to the Victoria 's midshipmen in warm words of praise . He touchingly alluded to the Rev. Samuel Morris , the Chaplain of the Victoria , who was on deck to the end , exhorting the crew to be steady , and who perished white trying to save others . He concluded with a glowing eulogy of Vice Admiral Tryon , referring to him as " my beat and kindest friend . " Capt . Bonrke 's sword was returned to him by Vice Admiral Sir Michael Culme-Seymour , Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean squadron and President of the court-martial , amid general congratulations . The court expressed regret that Rear Admiral Markham . who on the day of the disaster was on the Camperdown in command of the port column , did not carry out his original intention and ignore the signal displayed by the Vlotoria , in attempting to obey which the Camperdown rammed and sank the Victoria . The verdict of the court-martial was that the accident was entirely due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bourke , but all the other survivors were acquitted of all blame . The court added , however , that it would be fatal to the best interests of the service to say that Admiral Markham was to blame for carrying out the directions of the Commander in Chief , who was present in person .                     