@@672308

txt This has been a busy day with aspirants for the Senatorship and their positive friends . The Cincinnati i.n ( parer force yesterday interviewed every Democratic member of the Legislature and placed him as an adherent of one or the other reepeotive candidates or in the non-committal column . " Brice had 21. adherents , 8 , Charley Baker of Cincinnati 7 , and Thomas 6 . These figures had a startling effect , particularly with the Thomas forces . Mr. Thomas could not understand the situation . There were twenty-six non-committal members . As Mr. Thomas scanned the list he found some consolation , claiming that a majority of them were his friends and would so proclaim themselves in the caucus . There were scattering votes for Honey , Geddes , , and PowelL Mr. Thomas found additional consolation In the assumption that after the first , or at furthest after the second , ballot ho would receive the support of not less than three of the scatterers. was also surprised , as several or the non-committal had given up pledges of support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preference fur Brice he expected to get . There is a great deal of political shuffling going on . and it Is not a matter of wonder that two of Mr. IdeManon'ts expeetants should get lost in the shuffle . The Brice party were also disappointed . They had extieuted their list of outspoken friends to press thirtyclosely . The result of the pubticalion was not assuring to any of the candidates , yet the Brice forces talked with confidence . Mr. Baker will not be able to hold his Cincinnati contingent for more than two ballots . When they leave him , with the exception of one , they will go to Brice . MoSweeny will not hold his support for more than one ballot , Brice is their second choice . Seney 's support comes from his own county and Senatorial District . They vote for him as a courtesy , but have no heart for any candidate but  --  Briee . Harter and Geddes are here to control the Richland County members . Harter is urging the support of Thomas , while Geddes is holding them ostensibly for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Huron district has heretofore been - a Brice man . To-day lie switched and is pronounced for . It is said that an influence other than politics or finance brought about this change . The lobby of the Neil House has been thronged all day . All the candidates quit their headquarters and came on to the floor . Each was surrounded by a coterie of friends and for a time the talk was fast and furious . It became evident to the aspirants that it were better to go to their zooms and they did so . Their friends kept up the clamor . but really uoertietive work has been accomplished during the day . The situation is more unsettled tonight than it was last night . Strenuous efforts are being Made to form a combination which will compass the defeat of Brice . To an unconcerned observant it seems too late for this move . Nor is it thought possible , if the opposition candidates were to come to an accommodation , either in the interest of one of themselves or In the interest of that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transfer their forces solid . It may be true , as is claimed , that Brice is not as strong to-night as he was yesterday , but it is equally true that ' if either of Ins principal opponents should withdraw lie ( Brice ) will be stronger than he ever was . Fur lustauce , if MeManon withdraws his support from Montgomery , Butler and Darke Counties and the Senatorial Districts which they cover will go to Brice . If Thomas withdraws . then all his support , with the exception of three , prefer Brice to will be in to the end . It is not improbable that Mr. Thomas will see the hopelessness of his race and withdraw before the caucus . There is a rumor afloat , without definite authority , that the minor candidates will not enter the caucus . Should this be true . there will be only two ballots . If they go into caucus , there will be three ballots . The great Cleveland opposition has petered out in the most contemptible manner . Not one of the lances has put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle was lost . The talk of the ineligibility of Mr. Brice has died out . The sensible opponents of Mr. Brice have settled to the conviction that he is au inhabitant and a citizen of Ohio and the ' United . States , and is over thirty years of age . At this writing the lobby is much heated . Al Thurman is as wild as he usually HI in making up an opinion . Ile is declaring that will be the nominee . Young Mr. Thurman has a fertile imagination , and is subject to visions , all of which are as unreal as the Miseless fabric of dreams . There is more excitement to-night than at any other time in the canvass , but the most careful examination of the situation leans to the conclusion that the relations are unchanged and that the fight still remains with Mr. Brioo.                     