@@675147

txt An ice gorge in the Yellowstone River at this point caused that stream to overflow last night , drowning four persons , and eight more are missing . Three spans of the steel bridge are washed out , entailing a loss of $25,000 : the Northern Pacific tracks are inundated and possibly washed away for some distance , and the loss to live st ock by drowning will involve a large sum . The dead are : Mrs. R. W. Snyder , wife of a rancher ; Miss Nellie Reagan , her niece ; Miss Rose Wybrecht , ' a visitor to the Snyder ranch , and Eugene F. O'Connor . The missing are James Sullivan , his wife , and six children . The ice began moving at 7:50 in the evening , and continued flowing until 11:30 , when it gorged . During this time the ice demolished two of the ice breaks in front of the piers of the steel wagon bridge over the river at Glendive . When the gorge broke it took a combination span over the slough on the west side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Snyder party , noticing the hack water , started for the Northern Pacific tracks , hoping thus to escape drowning , but before they covered half the distance the water was waist deep , and they climbed a tree . O'Connor was the first to be washed from the tree . Mrs. Snyder the second , and Miss Wybrecht third . A huge piece of ire struck the tree and broke it in two , carrying off Miss Reagan . The fifth member of the party , Joseph Myers , was rescued from a tree this morning at o'clock by several men . who risked their own lives to save his . When Myers found the tree was falling he jumped to a piece of lee and thinking he would have to swim , removed his shoes and outer clothing . Finding no opportunity to reach high land by swimming , he grasoed the first tree he came to and climbed into the branches . After seven hours ' exposure in his undergarments. he was taken from his perilous position , and Is now rapidly Im proving . Another neighbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he got into a canoe and paddled ashore . It is thought that Janes Sullivan and his wife and six children were swept away by the overflow , as no trace of them can he found . The low lands along the river for miles are un.lor water and ice . and the Northern Pacific track is flooded for half P. mile west of town . Hundreds of live stock were swept away by the overflow . Meagre reports from above and helon ' town are slow In coming in , and it is impossible to tell what damage will result . This has been the greatest misfortune that ever befell Dawson County . Grief-stricken : relatives of the drownoli persons have attemptel suicide , but were prevented .                     