@@672665

txt Blaine is evidently anxious to'get out of the unpleasant position in which he has been placed by playing into the hands of the North American Commercial Company by throwing the responsibility for the rejection of the British proposition for a close season upon the President . That he has been in communication with the President appears from a correspondent with the party of the President , who sends word that , on Thursday , there was " A Cabinet meeting " at San Francisco at which the subject was diseased , and a dispatch of fifty words sent by the President to Mr. Blaine in reference to the sealing question . The story about his work for the Mills-Elkins Company was then out , and Prof. Elliott , who had for months waited upon Mr. Blaine , under the impression that the Secretary of State was earnestly laboring to bring about a cessation of seal killing , had gone to his home in Ohio convinced , very much against a lifelling prejudice in favor of Blaine , that he had been elaborately , persistently , and deliberately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political ideal and he knew something about the - way in which it had been done . There is little doubt that Blaine has brought the President into his game , and that Harrison has been working to help the North American Company , perhaps without knowing all the circumstances . Now it is said that Secretary Foster , who , very evidently , does not know much about the sealing controversy , for the reason that he says he has not seen or spoken with a representative of the company since he came here , also declares that he has not received his suggestions from Mr. Blaine on the subject , leaving it to be surmised that he has had his orders from the President , who has had his information from Mr. Blaine. so that it comes to the same thing  --  it is Blaine after all . That Mr. Blaine counted upon the silence of some of the men with whom he . has been coquetting there can not be much doubt , for everybody with whom he has talked about the sealing question has been urged to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers from getting hold of it . ' Secretary Foster may not have been approached by any avowed representative of Mr. Elkins . Mr. Handley , who has been Mr. Foster 's private secretary , and who is now about to become an employe in the service of Mr. Elkins , would have found it an easy matter perhaps to have told him if he were beset by representatives of the seal people , for be has learned since he went into the service of Mr. Windom to know who are the men representing the sealing company in this city and to become familiar with the points in controversy . But Mr. Foster was easily persuaded to adopt the suggestion to discredit the reports of four agents of the Government , of good oharaeter , who had spent one or two seasons at the seal islands , at some expense , for the purpose of observing and reporting upon the situation , and who agreed that seal catching should stop for from three to seven years . Nothing except the determination of the North American Commercial Company to have a hunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seal crop hereafter , appears to have controlled in leading to the conclusion that the season shall be open to all while this inquiry is being made and pending the agreement for a prolonged close season , as suggested by the proposition of Salisbury , wilich Mr. Blaine has been as silent about as if it were a matter of concern alone to Mills , Elkins , and himself , instead of a question of dooided interest to the public that Mr. Blaine it erroneously supposed to serve . - Men who are believers in Secretary - 'dater , and who defend the President feebly on all occasions when he is assailed on public grounds , pay the new Secretary of the Treasury the questionable compliment of saying that he would not have been in this sealing business if he bad known about it or if he had not trusted implicitlY to the information given to him by the Secretary of State and the President . These same etiologists declare that they do not believe that the President is trying to discharge private obligations to Mills and Elkins incurred in the darker days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they declare that as soon as he finds that people are talking about him in this way the President will ind , ignantly deny it and see to it that Mr. Blaine and Mr. Mills and Mr. Elkins agree with him . Further , these anxious friends of the President endeavor to weaken the reports about the alleged connivance of the Administration with Elkins and Mills by the assertion that Elkins and Blaine are " out . " They may be " out " politically just now , but they are still " business partners , " and the people in the sealing trattle are in it for " business . ' It does not take long for Mr. Elkins to get in line for Mr. Blaine when a convention is 131 session . It is a pity that Mr. Foster does not know the interested persons in this matter , for he told a gentleman a day or two ago that since he came to Washington he has not had a moment 's rest on the seal question . He declared that he was asked about it the , last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hotel when he was at dinner , soon after breakfast in the morning , and a dozen times a day after he had gone to the Treasury to attend to other duties besides those relating to the seal catch in Bering Sea . It might have oocured to the Secretary that the opponents of a season of extermination would not be so persistent and that the men who say they have " a stake " in the fisheries were very anxious to be armed with the authority of the Treasury Department before any interfering order could issue as the result of an international agreement for a close season . There is just a chance that Secretary Foster may spoil the nicely-contrived schemes of the North American Coinpany , by coming to the conclusion that the proposition for a close season can be carried out , so far as the American interest is concerned , even if Mr. Blaine avoids making a manly and proper acceptance of it for the Government . The North American Company argues that the Treasury Department has no right to suspend the seal catching absolutely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may become entitled to damages from the Government . Since Mr. Blaine received the proposition fronl Lord Pauncefote , sent by Salisbury , it is understood that Secretary Foster , in order to find out what the power and responsibility of the Government may be , asked for an opinion from the Attorney General as to whether he can altogether forbid seal catching at the Pribilof Islands after lees than the prescribed number of seals has been killed , or if he can exercise his authority to forbid any killing whatever , if his agents report that the seals are very scarce . The concern of the North American Company has been shown , by the frequency with which it ? has inquired at the Attorney General 's ? aloe about that opinion , that it was only waiting to get the word before giving final instructions to its agents to " blaze away. , ' no matter whether the seals are exterminated or not .                     