@@780982

txt An attempt to hold a pro-Boer. anti-war demonstration in Trafalgar Square , London , this afternoon resulted In failure . Thousands of men assembled , but not to support the speakers . On the contrary , the crowd waved union jacks and Sang the national anthem and " Rule , Britannia " like mighty invocations . The speakers , who were quite inaudible , were received with groans , decayed apples and eggs and other missiles . There were cheers for Mr. Chamberlain , Secretary of State for the Colonies , and hisses for President Kriiger . Some soldiers who were present were carried shoulder high by the crowd . The list of speakers included none of special influence , most of them being labor leaders or Socialists . The members of the Peace Associations had no opportunity to address the crowd . They were saluted with execrations as soon as they mounted the platforms and were obliged to stand , smiling complacently , during the singing of the national airs and the wild cheering for Mr. Chamberlain . Their attempts to put their resolutions to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Socialist leader , was a particular object of animosity. lie was menaced with a forest of walking sticks when he tried to speak . Tnere were several ugly rushes for the platforms , which were surrounded by opponents of the demonstration , yelling fiercely Finally the mounted police were telephoned for to clear the square . Batons were freely used ; several persons were trodden upon by horses and thirty arrests were made . The opponents of the meeting proposed resolutions in support of the Government 's policy , which were carried amid wild enthusiasm . This evening the promoters of the demonstration held a meeting in private , and , atter a long discussion , carried the following resolution : " In consequence of the organized interruption of the anti-war demonstration in Traelgar Square to-day , fomented by a section of the yellow and stock-jobbing press , this committee resolves to hold a public meeting in one of the largest metropolitan halls at an early date . " The shouldering of a soldier and a marine , their hands clasped , in a procession around the square provoked frantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bursting into the song , " Soldiers of the Queen . " On many of the passing omnibuses , which carry small union jacks , the passengers lifted the flags from their sockets and waved them vigorously .                     