@@675149

txt " Our political standard has got to be raised by the action of just such organizations as the Hamilton Club , " said Gov . Roosevelt on the train before it came in to-day . " That is , by the action of men interested in politics , not for what they make out of it , but for the good of Americans and good citizens . " Gov . Roosevelt said that he was enthusiastic about the West . He had always been interested in it . and he felt that the Mississippi Valley States were bound to Play an important part in the campaign of 1900 . It was to them , he said , that the Republ'can Party must look for its majorities . Gov . Roosevelt arrived at 4 P. M and dined at 5 in the Union League Club as the guest of Stephen Demmon . There were about fifty present . He spoke briefly upon political reformers , saying that they seldom did any good for themselves or for others . He likewise touched upon municipal ownership , saying that large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipalities or their rights should revert to the people . The presence of Gov . Roosevelt at the Union League Club to-night has made considerable feeling between that club and the Hamilton Club , whose guest he really is , but the Union League had nothing to do with to-night 's dinner , it being given only by a member . Gov . Roosevelt , rather than cause any trouble , has gone to the Annex Hotel for the remainder of his stay . The train which brought the New York Governor to Chicago was met at the suburban station of Englewood by an enthusiastic crowd . The Governor was forced to come to the platform of his car and say a few words . From the moment Gov . Roosevelt left his car at the Lake Shore station , where he was met by an escort of eight Rough Riders . to the doors of his hotel , he was surrounded and followed by crowds who cheered him every time he moved . HUGH TO RETIRE ? His Wife Intimates that the Brooklyn Leader Is Done with Active Politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , returned last night from Indian River . Fla. , where he has been for three months . He was met at the railroad station by James Shevlin and Assistant Corporation Counsel William C. Courtney . Mr. 's son-in-law . Mr. reached his home , in Remsen Street , about 9 o'clock . When he was asked if he would go to the Willoughby Street Auction Room to-day and re . sume the political reins Mrs. made a remark which was taken to mean that her husband would retire from active political life . " No , " she said , " there will be no more of that . We have got him well now , and intend to keep him so . " Mr. was accompanied on the Florida trip by his wife , his daughter , Miss Laura , Mrs. P. H. , and Thomas Kerrigan . They all returned together .                     