@@674234

txt Our Republican neighbor , The New York Tribune , addressed a. few remarks yesterday to certain Honest-money Democrats Who , The Tribune asserts , are saying : " ' We expect to vote for MCKINLEY , but it 's a hard thing for us to do . Pray , do n't make it harder for us by bearing down upon the Democratic Party , opening old differences , and twitting us with what we have done in the past . And , above all , do n't talk about the tariff . We do n't believe in protection , and it galls us to be obliged to vote for a candidate who represents that economic heresy . ' " Our neighbor asks these Democrats to " consider for a moment the proposition that to avoid giving offense to Democrats We the Republicans must refrain from any discussion of the tariff , " and suggests that it is not reasonable to ask Republicans to " sink out of sight an issue upon which all of them religiously believe that the prosperity of the country and the Welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craze , " The Tribune admits , " threatens the credit and honor of the Nation , and it is the first duty of the patriot who holds his country 's credit and honor as the highest political consideration to merge minor differences in a united and determined effort to defeat it . " But , our neighbor goes on to say , the OovernMent 's revenue is inadequate and must be increased by new legislation , and We infer that in our teighbor 's opinion this must be protective tariff legislation . Therefore The Tribune asserts that the tariff is a live issue which must be discussed . /Very reference to the tariff in The Tribune 's editorial article serves to remind the intelligent reader that the silver issue completely overshadows and dominates the tariff issue and must be settled before the tariff can be touched . The Tribune knows that neither in this Congress nor in the next can the tariff be revised until concessions in the direction of the free coinage of silver shall , have been made to the Silver Republicans in the Senate . We may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused , at the recent session , to increase the revenue by measures not protective , declining to impose new taxes on beet ' , tea , or coffee , although everybody knew that additional protective taxes on imports could not be enacted . It Was practicable , we think , with their consent , to provide for the deficit by Mich levies as those which they would not support . They preferred new protective legislation , knowing that it could be obi tainted only by paying a. silver price for it . This leads us to the remark that The Tribune is in error as to the attitude of a majority Of the honest-money Democrats toward the ticket and the argutnents to be used by the Republicans in the campaign . Undoubtedly there are Democrats who have decided to vote for MCKINLEY or are inclined to do so and who Would like to have the Republican journals and leaders " refrain from discussing the tariff , " but the number of Honest-money Democrats is very much larger who hesitate about voting for , not because he is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tariff " and to call for higher duties  --  but for other reasons . These Honest-money Democrats do not expect that Republicans Will drop the tariff issue . They are not urging Republicans to renounce or ignore that issue ; although they think it could safely be laid aside for the present . They would not be prevented from voting for 1VIcKnsrLEY by the prospect of the passage of another bill , or even by indications that the enactment of such a tariff would be brought about by their Votes , if they could satisfy themselves that and his leading supporters would steadfastly refuse to concede anything to the silver men as the price eft such tariff legislation . They know that the price paid for the passage of the first tariff was the Silver Purchase act of 1890 . They know that those who demanded and obtained that price six years ago will demand a similar price or a larger one next year , if the Republicans shall then undertake to revise the tariff . They are familiar With MeICINLEY 's record in and out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read the report of the address which he made on the 11th inst. , but they ask for something more . They will submit to a large dose of protective tariff talk in the Republican journals if will only define to their satisfaction his attitude toward silver legislation , and especially toward any silver bill that may be brought forward and proposed as the.price of the enactment of a new tariff . It may be that is now convinced that his influence ought to be used against such bills , so far as he will be able to use it legitimately if he shall be elected . It this be his real attitude , is it not his duty to make it known ?                     