@@674393

txt Sherman for Secretary of State , Goff for Attorney General , Bliss for Secretary of the Navy , and Payne for Postmaster General , are the men talked about to-night as likely to fill some of the places in President 's Cabinet , But no one would be surprised to hear that Sherman would not take the first place in the Cabinet . Maryland Is not united in support of Goff , there are indications that Payne may decide that his health will not permit him to accept a public . office , and thus the only name left undisturbed is that of Mr. Bliss . A conversation between Senators Cullom and Allison , which took place yesterday in a committee room at the Capitol , accounts , in a measure , for the report circulated that Cullom now stands in the way of selection for the Treasury . The Appropriations Committee room had been newly furnished , and when Mr. Allison commented on that fact " Ir . Cullom told him , jestingly , that his colleagues had freshened up the furnishings in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member prior to his removal to the Treasury . " But I am not going to the Treasury , " responded Allison . Cullom is represented as having expresSed some doubt about Mr. Allison 's determination . " When I was at Canton , " said the Illinois Senator , " I told Major that if he wanted to put a man in the Treasury who would inspire confidence and prove absolutely safe , Allison was the man . " " Did you , " answered Allison , with a twinkle of his eye . " Now that 's rather odd . When I was at Canton I told that if he wanted to name a really safe , competent , and popular man from the West he would not go amiss if he should select Cullom . So perhaps all this new furniture is to commemorate your departure from ' the Senate . " The repetition of this story of a Western mutual admiration society does not prevent serious talk about Cullom , and among Illinois people it is considered highly probable ? that he will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Aldrich has declined to take the Treasury , although it is not certain that he has had a definite offer of it . Some Republicans are noting a reluctance on the part of prominent men to go into the Cabinet , and this indifference Is taken as an indication that the Cabinet will lack distinction , while the lack of inclination to go into it meets with no plausible explanation .                     