@@673560

txt The Corean Legation in Washington received a cablegram to-day from the King 's palace , at Seoul , saying that the rebels had gained possession of Chunlato , the southern and chief of the eight provinces of the kingdom , that the lives of all foreigners were in danger , and that the presence of a United States War ship at Chemulpo without delay to protect Americans was urgently requested . The officials of the Legation immediately presented the facts to Secretary Gresham and in a friendly manner impressed him with the importance of prompt action . They explained that there were between 300 and 400 Americans in the four principal cities of Corea , and that the revolution was really directed against them . The people are divided into two political parties , the East and the West , the latter representing the progressive element in favor of Western civilization as typified by the Americans . This party supports the King , Who is a warm admirer of the United States and who has frequently given proof of his friendship , as in the present instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this party has been rapidly strengthening in the inaccessible portions of the country , until , according to the cablegram just received , it has succeeded in seizing an important province not over 100 miles from Seoul , the capital , and within a few days ' march of the three free ports ' Where the foreigners reside . Unless checked by some stronger power than the Government seems able to exert , it is considered probable that many , if not all , the American residents will be murdered . A little more than a year ago there was a similar uprising in Corea against foreigners , though the movement was not so large , and it was quelled by the prompt appearance of the frigate Marion , and the firing of a. royal salute . The news quickly spread through the country that a man-ofwar had arrived to punish offenders against American citizens , and the anti-foreign movement was quickly terminated . A little later the Alert made three visits to Chemulpo , the port of Seoul , extending over a period from March to August , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The present outbreak is attributed to the fact that no American naval vessels have shown the flag in Corean waters since the visit of the Alert , anu that the natives have conceived the notion that the foreigners are unsupported . Secretary Gresham laid the matter before the President this afternoon , but up to a late hour to-night no action had been taken , the President deeming it advisable to await a report from Minister Sill on the subject . Acting Secretary of the Navy was called into the consultation , and said that there was one ship available for use in the emergency  --  the Baltimore , now at Nagasaki , Japan . She could reach Chemulpo within forty-eight hours after orders were issued to her . It is understood that orders directing the Baltimore to proceed to that port have already been prepared in cipher , and will be cabled as soon as , the President authorizes such action .                     