@@672930

txt Deeming was to-day found guilty of murdering his wife and sentenced to death . The jury also decided that he was not insane . After the evidence was all in Deeming 's counsel appealed to the jury to give the prisoner the benefit of any doubt that they might entertain as to his identity or insanity . The Crown Counsel contended that there was not a particle of evidence of the insanity of the prisoner , and he said that the jury ought to dismiss all such nonsense from their minds . At this point Deeming interrupted the Crown Counsel , It was not the law , he said , but the press that was trying him . If he could bring himself to believe that he committed murder he would plead guilty rather than submit to the gaze of the people in the court  --  the ugliest race he had ever seen . For weeks together he had suffered lapses of memory . In his own mind he knew he was not guilty . He had dealt with her as gently and as affectionately as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I remember no incident , " Deeming said , " which would lead to this awful crime with which I am charged . I know that the people of Melbourne are so infuriated against me that they would lynch me if they had a chance . That , however , would not settle the question of my guilt or innocence . The statement that the body found in this city was that of Emily Mathers is a lie . My one comfort is the knowledge that Emily Mathers is alive . The newspapers have ruined my life for evermore . If I were freed to-night I would drown myself . I have fought the blacks on the Zambesi and have enconnterd lions single handed . I do not fear death . I do not expect justice from either the judge , the jury , or the public . " After the verdict was announced Deeming asked the Judge to refrain from the usual exhortation . The Judge complied with the prisoner 's wish and simply announced the sentence . Deeming composedly responded " Thank you . " When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after his death the public would soon know his real history . In a strong voice be continued to ramble in a similar strain for a long time . Reaching the rails for support , he concluded by swearing that he was innocent . He spoke altogether an hoar , giving no sign of hesitation or nervousness . The Judge 's summing up was strongly against the prisoner . The verdict was given at nearly 9 o'clock .                     