@@673704

txt The Democratic majority in the present House of Representatives is 91 , and there is a nominal Democratic majority in the Senate . In the House that will meet in December of next year there will be a Republican majority of 50 and there will be a Republican majority in the Senate . This is a change that in magnitude is akin to that of 1890 , but not in its causes . The Republicans were turned out because they went beyond the pledges of the party in carrying out their avowed policy . The Democrats have been punished because the policy of the party has not been fairly carried out , but bias been dwarfed , bungled , and betrayed by a portion of the elected representatives of the people . That was not the only cause of the change ; it was the chief one , and without it the change would not have taken place . The " hard times - no doubt turned many votes against the party in power , but not enough to take the control from that party . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefly caused by the distribution of the spoils of office . Then there was the considerable vote of those who wished to he on the winning side and who felt that this was a " Republican year . " All these combined would not have sufficed to overthrow the Democratic Party in Congress had there not been a definite and determined desire among those who supported the party in 1892 to condemn and punish the betrayal of tariff reform and the outrageous and costly delay in the repeal of the Sherman act last year . So far as tariff reform is concerned , the verdict is illogical and far too sweeping . The innocent suffer With the guilty . So far as the repeal of the Sherman act is concerned , the verdict of condemnation is more reasonable , but here again Mr. Wilson in West Virginia and Mr. Tracey in New-York are rejected . As to both questions , the punishment of the Democratic Party for its incapacity involves the advantage of the Republicans , who were the authors of the Sherman law and the tariff . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesson is not to be mistaken . The party which took possession of the Government in March , 1893 , had a sincere popular sentiment to back it ; it allowed that sentiment to be baffled and betrayed , and it , is rebuked in the only NN ay open to the voters by the accession of the rival party . The real sentiment of the people has not changed . If the party shows itself capable of redeeming its blunders and purging its organization so as to become again a trustworthy instrument for its professed purpose it will be taken . If not , it will be wholly thrown aside .                     