@@675131

txt The third day of the fighting north of Manila brought little of a decisive character from which War Department officials could judge what the final outcome of this movement would be . In all official quarters the most intense interest prevailed , but there was no excitement , and none of that anxiety and tension shown during the memorable days of last Summer when the " decisive blows were being struck at Santiago . Early in the day Gen. Otis cabled the War Department a brief but comprehensive- dispatch , summing up the situation . It disclosed that severe fighting was going on to-day , with our forces advanced as far north as Mariloa , while the insurgents , under the command of Aguinaldo , were being - driven back with considerable slaughter . The following is ? the dispatch : MANILA , March 27 , 1899 . Adjutant General , Washington : holds Mariloa ; severe fighting to-day and our casualties about forty . The insurgents have destroyed bridges , which impeded progress of train and artillery . Our troops met the concentrated insurgent. forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove them with considerable slaughter . They left nearly 100 dead on the field , and many prisoners and - small.arms were captured . The column will press on , in the morning . OTIS . This and the press dispatches satisfied the officials that the strategic movement of entrapping the insurgents between our lines had not proved as successful as designed , and that the movement-had now shifted to a retreat.by Aguinaldo 's forces and a pursuit by our troops . . The insurgent retreat toward Malolos was slow and dogged , and advantage was taken of one after another of lines of intrenchments , the burning of bridges , and the interrupting of communications . Gen. Otis 's dispatch , although received early to-day , was sent Monday evening , Manila time , and summed up the work of the three days . That the fighting would proceed into the fourth day was shown . by his closing sentence : " The column will press on in the morning . " This refers to Tuesday . The engagement has now shaped itself so that it is looked upon as more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the American base advanced to Mariloa , and the insurgent base forced back to Malolo.s , the main bodies of the two opposing forces are about ten or twelve miles apart . This could be quickly covered in a forced march under fair conditions , but it is twelve miles of innumerable difficulties and obstacles , which our troops must cover before they reach the insurgent stronghold . It is expected that the engineers with are hastily repairing the burned bridges . This will permit the artillery to be taken forward as well as the infantry columns . It is expected that every mile of the distance to Malolos will be contested by the insurgents , for Gen. Otis reports that it is a stretch of country covered with the intrenchments thrown up during the last three months . Our men therefore must advance slowly , repairing the roads as they go , and at the same time they must fight their way through well-made rebel intrenchments . Serious as the work is , there is no lack of confidence among officials here as to the satisfactory outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly has been sitting , and the insurgent Government has been in operation . It represents more to the insurgents than any other place in the Philippines , and little doubt is entertained that they will make a desperate stand there . The tactics of Aguinaldo are taking him gradually beyond the range of Admiral Dewey 's guns . While the insurgents were at Malabon on Saturday they were within a mile of the water front , and easily within range of the fleet . But as they have moved northward they have gradually moved away from the bay . Malolos is about seven miles back from the bay , although there are shallow estuaries which would permit lightdraft boats to get within a mile or two . 