@@672810

txt The Philadelphia Press publishes an interview with Secretary NOBLE , whom it describes as " the leonine member of the Cabinet , surcharged , like a thunder cloud , with the details of his department . " We quote the following from it : " What gives you most trouble ? ' ' The Indian Bureau , assuredly , ' was the reply . ' But the public lands are the precious possessions of the Nation . They ought to be guarded with sacred care . The story of Oklahoma has been told , but , had you time to listen , I could narrate a thousand incidents about that wonderful , peaceful conquest that would discount romance , that would evoke tears or call forth praise and blame . Nothing like that invasion was over seen in any land . The story of Oklahoma would make a book . " It is a great pity that the correspondent of the Press did not have " time to listen , " for Mr. NOBLE might have told him the complete history of what our neighbor , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town site . " A part of the history of that job has been narrated in the official reports of the two special agents or inspectors of the Interior Department who were on the ground , and in the remarkable letters of rebuke and censure which were sent by Mr. NOBLE to the Register and the Receiver of the Guthrie Land Office after those reports had arrived in Washington . It will be recalled that in the last of these letters  --  which were drawn from the files of the department by a resolution of Congress ? Mr. NOBLE declined to have any further communication with the officers to whom they were addressed . He had expressed not only his opinion of their conduct , but also that of the President , and it could fairly bo inferred that he was disgusted because they would not resign . With that letter the official history of this disgraceful incident , so far as published correspondence reveals it , was closed . If the representative of the Press had had time to listen , Mr. NOBLE might have completed it by explaining why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's indignation , which had been expressed . in the letters , was so suddenly transformed into indifference . He might also have explained why the President persisted , after all these disclosures , in pressing the nomination of one of the persons accused in the agents ' reports to be United States District Attorney in Arkansas , an office which this person finally obtained after his confirmation had been delayed for a year by a Republican committee that was impressed by the history of the " wonderful and peaceful conquest " ' of the Guthrie town site . It may be that our contemporary would not have published the story if its correspondent had had time to . hear it and if Mr. NOBLE had narrated the whole of it , but it is a story that ought to be drawn out of the Interior Department by Congress , oven if the publication of it should prevent the selection of Harrison delegates in Arkansas for the Minneapolis Convention .                     