@@675211

txt Ex-Senator and ex-Gov . David B. Hill , who was at the head of the defeated Democratic State ticket the year that Judge Haight was elected , with the rest of the Republican State ticket , had this to say to-night as to the statement by L. M. Lockwood alleging corruption in Judge Haight 's election , before the Industrial Commission on Saturday : " Judge Haight was elected in the Fall of 1S.14 . At that election I headed the Democratic ticket for Governor , leading ' a forlorn hope , ' and presumably recollect the campaign very well . The Democrats had to contend against the hard times , the silver panic , the Wilson tariff fiasco , and disclosures of municipal corruption , as well as divisions among Democrats themselves , and , of course : the result was a Republican ' cyclone , ' as everybody knew it would be . The Republicans needed no ' immense corruption fund . ' either from the Standard Oil Company or anybody else , to elect their whole ticket . including Judge Haight . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a coterie of Populists , of a decision which Judge Haight had once made as a Supreme Court Justice in Buffalo . but it attracted no particular attention in the-campaign and was regarded by myself and by Democrats generally as unworthy of notice . At any rate , it cut no figure in the canvass , Judge Haight being elected by 123,924 plurality over a most able and popular opponent . Judge Haight received 671,259 votes , while Gov . Morton only received a few more , to wit , 073,818 . " It is absurd for a Pennsylvanian , at this late day , who can naturally have no personal knowledge of the matter of which he assumes to speak , to assert that Judge Haight was either nominated or elected in New York State through the contributions or efforts of the Standard Oil Company . It verifies the old saying that ' one must go away from home to get the news . ' He was elected because the tide of that year , in New York . no well as everywhere else , was with his party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character , his efficient judicial ability and unquestioned integrity , conceded by the whole bar and people of the State : and as a fair political opponent , it gives me pleasure to say this much . " A Congressional investigating committee seems to be the peculiar forum for the exploitation of all sorts of sensational matters where neither personal knowledge nor reliable facts are required , and where any one is permitted to air his views and put forth his hearsay statements with perfect freedom and utter recklessness . " Of course , Judge Haight can well afford to treat the ridiculous ' discovery ' or ' attack ' of this non-resident from Pennsylvania with the silent contempt which it deserves . The people of New York are satisfied that Judge Haight adorns the highest court of our State by his industry . his honesty , - 'is learning , and his entire judicial fitness . " - '                     