@@673264

txt Charges of a serious nature were made against the Aldermanic Railroad Committee of Brooklyn yesterday afternoon by Edward M. Grout . Secretary of the Union Street Railway Company , at a meeting in Mayor Boody 's office . There were present when the meeting was called to order Corporation Counsel Jenks , President David F. Lewis of the Brooklyn City Railroad , Mr. Whitehouse . counsel for the company ; P. H. Flynn , r . President of the Nassau Electric Railroad ; James C. Church and J. J. Allen , his consulting counsel , and Edward M. Grout of the Union Street Railway Company . Mayor Boody said the meeting had been called at the request of a number of citizens who desired to make a formal protest against the granting of the franchises for the extension of surface roads in Brooklyn , favorable action upon which had , been taken by the Common Council last Monday . He invited any one present who was interested to give reasons why the action of the Council should not be approved by him . Mr. Groat then read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hereby protests against the resolutions granting street railroad franchises and rejecting the offers and petitions of this company for streets it offered to pay for passed by the Common Council of the City of Brooklyn on June 19 , 1593 , for the reasons appearing in the records and proceedings of said Common Council and of its Railroad Committee and in the papers filed with such Common Council and committee , and for the additional reasons : " L That this company offered to pay the City of Brooklyn for such street rights or franchises , but their offer was ignored . " 2 . That . whereas this company asked the said Common Council and committee to announce the terms and conditions on which such franchises might be obtained , so that every one could bid therefor knowingly and openly and on even terms , they refased so to do , and purposely concealed their purposes , and left this company in the dark , so that the said Common Council and committee might hinder it from bidding iu the way in which other companies furnished with secret information by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collusion with the said committee and Common Council , could bid or make oilers. 3 . That , whereas this company openly requested the said committee and Common Council to inform this company if any offers other than its offers were made for the streets named in the said offers , so that it could make offers in conformity therewith , or raise or change the terms of its offers , the said committee and Common Council secretly and collusively received the offers of percentages on earnings for the said streets mentioned in the resolutions now before the Mayor , and fraudulently and corruptly concealed the same from this company . whereas this company was ready and anxious to make offers on any system or method of bidding which the said committee and Common Council should adopt or approve of ; all of which it had fully stated to the said committee and Common Council In its petitions and papers and orally at the hearing . " 4 . That the entire action of the said Common Council in keeping this company In the dark and preventing it from bidding was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violation of the duty of the said committee and Common Council , as Trustees of the city and its inhabitants , to act openly and in the highest degree of candor and good faith and get the best possible terms and advantages for the city . " 5 . That the resolutions before you are drawn and intended to deceive ; their phraseology is obscure ; the requirement that the company pay a percentage on ' its total annual gross receipts realized by it ' enables the company to lease its road and pay the percentage on the amount of the rental only , and this was and is the design of the Aldermen in using these carefuny-seieoted words . and the words of the resolutions limiting the percentage to be paid to 1 per cent . on the earnings for each mile up to 4 ; 20,000 a mile may be construed to mean miles of track , not of streets , so that on a doubletrack road the 1 per cent . applies to earnings up to $40,000 the street mile . 6 . That the percentages which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year to the city than would be the annual interest at even 3 per cent . on the SUM offered by this company , to say nothing or lawful inter est. " 7 . That this company always was and is ready to bid by percentages on earnings , and demands the opportunity to so bid . " 8 . That the portion of the report of the said committee expressing doubt of the power of a railroad company to extend its route before building on its original route is in bad faith , as in the recent ease of John Adamson against the said Common Council the Supreme Court de1 aided to the contrary . " 9 . That this company and the persons connected with it requested the said committee and Common Connell to make known any defect or informality , so that it could be remedied , and the incorporators and stockholders of this company stood ready and stand ready to incorporate a new company , if necessary . In a word . they are acting in open good faith , and want to be treated likewise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are they propose to seek redress in the courts . " After hearing the protest , Mayor Boody said : " Yon say the Common Council received bids in a fraudulent manner . Have you any proof to substantiate your assertion 1 " " The records of the Common Council ' will afford the necessary proof , " replied Mr. Grout . " Are you prepared to present that proof ? Have you witnesses of the alleged statement that grants were fraudulently made on the new basis as outlined in the action of the Council ? " " We have . " " Will you produce them I " " Pardon me , your Honor , if I ask you one question . Have you the authority to question witnesses ? ' " I have , and I 'd like to question them . " " They are not here at present , but they can be produced . " President Lewis then said that until within a few days he had been unaware that there was any competition in the field opposed to the Brooklyn City Railroad . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to evade the conditions under which the franchise could be granted , and even if we had , the Controller would prevent it , The proposed extension of twelve miles  --  street miles , I mean  --  if granted to the company I represent , will be taxed as heavily as the present road , based on a percentage of the gross earnings . " Mr. Allen referred to the allegations and expressed his surprise that they had been made . " The Kings County and the Nassau Electric Companies , which I represent , have long contemplated an extension of their lines into the densely-populated portions of the Twenty-sixth Ward . If we obtain the franchise we will extend our lines immediately . " The attitude of the Union Street Railway Company in this matter is surmising. to say the least . I do not think it is in a position to complete the extensions required even should it receive the franchise . 1 desire to say that the companies I represent are prepared to accept the conditions as stated in the resolution adopted by the Board of Aldermen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no matter before the board , and thus far there is no evidence of good faith that the Union Street Railway Company will renew its alleged offer , and as a consequence the city will remain in its present condition . I think it is proper , therefore , to drop the application of the Union Street Railway Company . " This ended the hearing . Subsequently Mayor Boody said that he would give the subject careful consideration , and : that it would be several days before he would give a decision .                     