@@674883

txt Supplied at last with the warships needed to convoy his transports and protect the landing of his troops , Gen. Miles telegraphed the War Department from Playa Del Este at noon today that he would sail at 3 o'clock for Puerto Rico . Gen. Miles 's message was a long one . It covered three pages of the large , white blanks used to receive official cablegrams on , but the only portion of it that the department made public was the bare announcement of his intended departure with an enumeration of the warships that had been assigned to go with him . There is a battleship of the first class , the Massachusetts ; an effective protected cruiser , the Cincinnati ; a speedy and well-armed gunboat , the Annapolis , and four vessels of the auxiliary navy which have already proved by their performance in Cuban waters that they are fully equal to the ordinary gunboat in offensive power . These are the Dixie , the Gloucester . which distinguished herself in the destruction of Cervera 's squadron ; the Wasp , which has attained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Leyden , which for a time was the sole representative of United States power in Havana Harbor . It is officially admitted for the first time that the powerful monitors Terror , Amphitrite , and Puritan , which have been at Key West , are under orders to proceed to Puerto Rico to assist in the reduction of the Spanish forces there . Watson Waits on Miles , It is known also to be not unlikely  --  indeed , it is probable -- that still other vessels of Admiral Sampson 's fleet will participate in the reduction of the fortifications of San Juan . This was indicated clearly by Secretary Long 's statement this afternoon concerning the sailing of Commodore Watson 's Eastern Squadron to Spain . In the course of that statement the Secretary said the Eastern Squadron would be " sent to Spain later , when the Puerto Rican campaign permits . " It seems clear that some , at least , of the vessels will be employed in the bombardment of the fortifications of Puerto Rico 's principal city . There is reason to believe that a portion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not made public was an answer to the request of the Secretary of War for a detailed statement of the number and personnel of the force accompanying the expedition from Santiago . This the department did not think proper to divulge at present . All that Adjt . Oen . Corbin would say was that Gen. Garretson 's brigade from Camp Alger , including the Eighth Ohio , Sixth Massachusetts , and Sixth Illinois , was with Gen. Miles . As there are ten transports in addition to the Yale and Columbia , which went down with the Sixth Massachusetts and a portion of the Sixth Illinois , it is calculated here that there must be between 6,000 and 7,000 men in Gen. Miles 's advance guard . Among the transports with the expedition are the Lampasas , Nueces , Mississippi , Iroquois , and Cherokee . The Mississippi has a capacity of a regiment of cavalry with horses and equipment . All those ships reached Santiago from Tampa after the surrender , so that whatever troops they have aboard can not have been exposed to infection . Information received at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the loading on transports there of the brigade of regulars , commanded by Brig . Gen. Schwann , and composed of the Fifth , Eleventh , and Nineteenth Infantry , was completed last night , and that the transports were ready to sail this morning . Whether or not they had actually left the port was not divulged . The siege train with Brig . Gen. Rogers 's artillerists has already been embarked . Troops Sent with Miles . So far the only troops embarked at Tampa for Puerto Rico have been regulars  --  the Fifth Cavalry . Fifth , Eleventh , and Nineteenth Infantry , and the heavy artillery . Some uncertainty exists as to whether any of the volunteers now at Tampa will be sent along . The regiments encamped there before the transfer to Tampa began were the Second and Sixty-ninth New York , First , Third and Fifth Ohio . First Florida , Second Georgia , Thirty-second Michigan , One Hundred and Fifty-seventh Indiana , Third Pennsylvania , and the Fifth Maryland  --  eleven in all . Gen. Coppinger , in a telegram to the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day over to the Fernandina Camp , and would continue to do so until all but the five regiments that were to be embarked had been removed . There are just five volunteer regiments of Snyder 's division remaining at Tampa , and it is under-. stood here that Gen. Coppinger refers to these as the regiments that are to be embarked for Puerto Rico . It is taken as evidence that these regiments are to be sent forward , that while four regiments of the Third Division of the Fourth Corps have been sent to Fernandina , none of Snyder 's Second Division hag been ordered there . Three of these five regiments are encamped at Port Tampa , close to the docks . Snyder 's division was ordered to the front long ago , and several times has been on the point of embarking . It is believed that they will not be disappointed this time , Haines 's Brigade , from Chickamauga , the Second of the First Division , First Corps , including the Fourth Pennsylvania , Fourth Ohio , and Third Illinois , is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be embarked on Saturday . together with four batteries of light artillery and signal and ambulance detachments . The force , amounting to some 4,500 men , with a large number of horses , mules , wagons , and equipment , will be transported on the St. Louis , Harvard , Massachusetts , Roumanian , and Breakwater . The transports from Santiago with Gen. Miles and some 6,000 men , those from Charleston , with Gens . Wilson and Ernst 's brigade , and those from Newport News , with Haines 's brigade , are expected to meet at a rendezvous , already decided upon , but for prudential reasons not made public , and united they will form the first section of the Puerto Rico invading army . The makeup of the second section , which Gen. Brooke is now organizing and which he will accompany , is not yet announced . The probability is that it will be taken almost entirely from the First Corps , which Gen. Brooke is anxious to preserve as nearly as possible intact . This section is expected to get away a week behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 18,000 Men . Estimates made by the War Department officials/in the absence of definite reports place the strength of the forces now on the move against Puerto Rico at about 18,000 or 19,000 men , 6,000 with Gen. Miles , 6,000 from Tampa , 3.500 from Charleston , and 4,500 from Chickamauga . The entire Spanish military strength in Puerto Rico , according to the most liberal estimates , does not exceed 20,000 regulars and volunteers . As most of these are massed in San Juan , it is seen that it will be no difficult task for Gen. Miles to seize Ponce on the sorth coast of the island and fortify a strong position there , preparatory to the landing of the entire 30,000 men and the advance on the capital from the rear . There are no fortifications to speak of at Ponce and very few effective troops , so that the landing is not likely to be resisted any more effectively than was Shafter 's at Santiago President was thoroughly aroused over the delay in the starting of Gen. Miles 's expedition . For several days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Playa del Este awaiting the naval convoy . The troops were sweltering in the crowded ships under the broiling heat of a tropical sun , while Gen. Miles chafed under what he believed to be inexcusable delay and bombarded the War Department with dispatches urging in the strongest terms that the navy be hurried in its preparations for the expedition . Instructions of the most positive nature were cabled to Admiral Sampson to supply the necessary convoys for Gen. Miles 's transports , but notwithstanding these instructions Sampson proceeded with his preparations for the expedition with a deliberation that exasperated officials here . President Issues Imperative Orders . The President , who has been giving the Puerto Ricar expedition his personal attention ? as he has given , indeed , all phases of the war  --  finally became deeply concerned lest the part of the Puerto Rican expedition that has already sailed should arrive at the point of rendezvous in advance of Gen. Miles and the navy . It was feared that if Gen. Wilson 's command , which sailed yesterday from Charleston , should arrive in advance of Gen. Miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might result , as Gen. Wilson 's ships are absolutely without protection . The distance from Charleston to Puerto Rico is a trifle over 1,300 miles , while from Playa del Este to Puerto Rico it is about 700 miles . The comparative distances which Gen. Wilson and Gen. Miles have to travel to reach the point of rendezvous are rendered the more nearly equal , however , by reason of the fact that the former has more than a full day 's start . Fully appreciating these facts , and realizing the necessity for prompt action in getting Gen. Miles and his Cuban expedition started , President this morning issued personal orders through the Secretary of the Navy to Admiral Sampson that he should proceed immediately to Puerto Rico with Gen. Miles . The President 's orders were susceptible of no misconstruction . They were imperative to a degree seldom employed except in cases of extreme emergency . Concerning the naval convoys of Gen. Miles 's expedition from Cuba to Puerto Rico , the Navy Department to-night made public the following statement : " Admiral Sampson telegraphs this afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no delay in furnishing ample convoy to Gen. Miles . A day or two ago the Cincinnati and New Orleans were both placed at his disposal . ' The Columbia and Yale , carrying troops , are both power ' fully armed , ' says the Admiral 's telegram , ' and this is an ample convoy for his expedition and to effect his landing . ' The Annapolis , Wasp , and Leyden had been ordered from Nipe , the Gloucester also added , and the three monitors ordered from Key West . Under these circumstances there certainly has been no lack of naval assistance . If Gen. Miles preferred to wait , the delay was his own . However , in further answer to his request , the Massachusetts and Dixie were also added this morning , and he probably has started . "                     