@@674998

txt The Paris correspOndent of . The Times says : " I understand that at to-morrow 's ( Friday 's ) sitting the Spanish Commissioners will reply textually as follows : ' It is impossible for us either to accept ' or refuse the conditions the United States impose . We do not desire to declare a formal rupture , because it would oblige Europe to run the risk of beholding the humiliating spectacle of an American fleet bombarding European shores . " We do not intend to furnish America with a pretext for the realization of such an act ; but we can not subscribe to dictates which are not in conformity with the stipulations adopted in common in the agreement that terminated the war . " ' We withdraw because we do not feel we have a right to sign the abdication sought to be imposed upon us . We withdraw , leaving public conscience and history to judge the act of violence of which we are the object , and , although we are unfortunately convinced that our attitude will have no effect upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , because , by accepting the conditions imposed , we should become accomplices in an injustice and a violation of international law , to which we may submit , but in which it is impossible to ask us to take any share of responsibility . ' " Tne correspondent of The Times , who repudiates as " calumy " charges of hostility toward the United States , contained in letters he has been receiving from Americans for some time , says further : " I have always been a sincere admirer of the grandeur , enterprise , activity , and fertility of the United States ; but I have expressed the regret shared by all friends of peace and liberty at seeing the United States enter the path of conquest which leads to militarism and , sooner or later in a republic , ends by the establishment of an armed oligarchy , dangerous to social equilibrium and individual liberty , as seen in France to-day . " The Times , commenting editorially upon the dispatch of its Paris correspondent , says : " The American demands may possibly be hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in violation of the protocol . Nor Is it altogether to be regretted , even from the Spanish viewpoint , that Spain should be relieved of the heavy burden of . restoring Spanish dominion in the Pnilippines. "                     