@@675168

txt It is announced on the authority of his partners , or his late partners , that Mr ANDREW CARNEGIE , in retiring from the business of an ironmaster , does so only in order to take up the business of a philanthropist . It was of course out of the question that Mr. CARNEGIE should " retire , " except with the assistance of an undertaker . Retirement is absolutely incompatible with his nature . Such an incessant and centrifugal mental activity could not possibly be devoted to cultivating its owner 's , or victim 's , private garden . It reminds one of what WALTER BAGEHOT said about Lord BROUGHAM , that if he had gone to Coventry in TENNYSON 'S place , instead of lounging with grooms and porters on the bridge , he would have been all over the place , and the startled population would have thought that twenty people had been there . But all the same the activity of Mr. CARNEGIE has been generally beneficent , and always benevolent . His career , from a Scottish brakeman with nothing in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination ; has been creditable to the organism and the environment . And the organism has rendered to the environment , in " Triumphant Democracy , " a tribute which may be and has been accused of extravagance , but which is very evidently sincere and well meant . It is true now , as it was when Mr. CARNEGIE began , that a Scotchman or other foreigner finds in the United States " the career opened to the talents " which NAPOLEON BONAPARTE tried to bring about in France . And now Mr. CARNEGIE is trying to repay , in the most practical way , the country in which he has found such an opportunity and made such a success . As a shrewd man , and a conscientious man , he will find difficulties in the philanthropic business not less than in the iron business . " Philanthropy , " said Sir GEORGE CORNEWALL LEWIS , " philanthropy is the basest passion of our nature . " And we may infer that what Sir GEORGE meant ' was the danger that the victim of this pa ? ssion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil than he would relieve . Mr. CARNEGIE has retired from business with a hundred millions , a hundred and fifty millions , two hundred millions , or whatever it may be . When we get beyond a few modest millions the amount does not matter . At any rate , he has got far more money than can be " blown in " upon his personal expenditure , though he should lay in haggis by the hundredweight and old Scotch whisky by the cask . And he has without doubt , as he has repeatedly already shown , an earnest desire to benefit his species . He is also perfectly aware that to be sure of benefiting his species requires as much circumspection in distributing his fortune as has been required to amass it . That is why , being shrewd and conscientious , be may be trusted to introduce some improvements in the philanthropic business . The American philanthropist , including Mr. CARNEGIE himself , has already introduced such improvements . One of them is to make sure that there is a real and effective demand for the particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain amount of money , conditioned upon the raising of an equal amount , or some amount , by the congregation , society , or municipality most directly concerned . This has been found to work very well . It gives a considerable number of persons an interest in seeing that the benefactor 's money , with which their own is involved , is not squandered . It makes absolutely sure the reality of the demand of which the supply is thus assured- And it gives to the individual benefactor the assurance that it is not necessary for him to control his charity with the clutch of " the dead hand " in order to make sure that it will go on fulfilling some public purpose . DICKENS has shown what happens to charities when the founder undertakes to foresee and provide for every contingency . They are devoured by intermediate and unmeritorious persons . But when the founder secures , as his partner in a beneficent operation , some continuing public-body , he reduces this risk to such a Minimum that it can almost be said that be annihilates it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have a right to expect from a man who ,  - -  in the prime of his powers , like Mr. CARNEGIE , retires from accumulating money in order to distribute it . We may expect some of the same economies of administration in the distribution that trusts supply in the accumulation . It does not at all follow , as unreflective and undeserving ' persons may rashly assume , that Mr. CARNEGIE 'S intention to devote his money to philanthropic uses implies the intention to throw it out of the window to the first comer . We shall watch Mr. CARNEGIE 'S application to philanthropy of business principles with great interest We have no doubt that he will introduce many improvements In it , and hit upon " wrinkles , " not to say " dodges , " that will be of great service to his fortunate and benevolent successors .                     