@@673765

txt Preparations for railway construction , now under way , indicate that the present year'will show a radically different record in that respect from the year just closed . Less than 2,000 miles of railroad were built in the United States in 18 ' 94 , which is the smallest aggregate of new mileage in any year since 1875 . For the past five years there has been a steady falling off in railway construction in this country , a fact which simply reflects a natural reaction from the reckless overbuilding within the few years prior to and including 1887 . In the year last mentioned about 13,000 miles of new road were constructed . While the record of last year falls below what might be regarded as a healthful growth of the railroad systems in so large a country as this , it certainly was in keeping with legitimates demands . There were no useless railroads built last year , and consequently no money wasted , and no additional worthless securities thrown on the market on account of illadvised extensions . According to the table compiled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed in the United States in 189-1 was 1,919 . In the preceding year 2,635 miles of new lines were built , in 1892 there were 4,178 miles , , but it is the freelyexpressed opinion of railroad men that a turning point has been reached , and that the next few years will witness a great deal of new railway construction . This new construction will probably to a large extent take the form of judicious extensions of old lines into such new territory as shows signs of a healthful development . Reports received almost daily from the Southwest and the Northwest indicate that scores of surveys are now under way for short connecting lines . A certain weekly publication devoted exclusively to railroad interests a few days ago printed two columns of short paragraphs recording new railway projects . The great number of suburban electric railways now under construction and in contemplation will of themselves form an important factor in the current year 's demand for new rails and for railroad equipment . One of the peculiar features of the work of railroad construction last year was the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new roads were built . Subsequent to the midsummer period of anarchy caused by the Debs strike , nearly 1,600 miles of new lines were constructed , presumably because they were believed to be an industrial necessity . There was no spurt of railway building in any particular section of the country . The spirit of progress , although it was necessarily a conservative spirit , extended'from Maine to Wyoming and from Michigan to Louisiana . Arizona led with 1931b miles of new railroads ; Illinois was next with 148 miles ; then in their order came Pennsylvania with 129 miles , Michigan with 112 miles , . Maine with 111 miles , Montana with 101 miles , Ohio with 93 , Louisiana with 91 , Texas with 87 , and Florida with S5 miles . In the State of New-York there were about 40 miles of new railroad built during the year . New-Jersey is credited with 33 miles and Massachusetts with ' 4 miles . Oregon is at the bottom of the list with a little less than 2 miles of new lines . Fourteen of the States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Connecticut , Rhode Island , Delaware , Vermont , Maryland , Kentucky , Iowa , Nebraska , North Dakota , South Dakota , Washington , Nevada , Idaho , and the Indian Country . Most of the new railway construction was in short lines , the average length of the new roads built during the year being 123/4 ' miles . Pennsylvania alone built twenty-eight new short lines . The recent consolidation of numerous railway lines in the South will make the construction of some short connecting lines inevitable , arid with the revival or the various industries throughout the country there is bound to be a steadily Increasing demand for greater railroad facilities . Each flourishing ? town of a few years ' growth in the South and West will demand to be put in connection with a railroad . Many of the new short lines already projected , have been organized ht the instance of the public-spirited residents of small but enterprising towns . In the crude region of Oklahoma alone there are half a dozen well-defined railway projects under consideration . Instead , therefore , of witnessing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1895 promises to surpass all preceding years in the number of short and needful lines added to the great railroad system of the country . Money invested in these short lines is likely to make speedy returns to the investors , consequently the prospective railway construction can not have other than a stimulating effect upon the general financial situation .                     