@@781114

txt Linnaeus Moyer Peterson , twenty-six years old , a drug clerk , employed at 437 Amsterdam Avenue , took cocaine yesterday afternoon , jumped into the pool in Central Park , near One Hundred and Third Street and Eighth Avenue , and fought desperately in 15 feet of water with Park Policeman Dooley , who rescued him . He is dying in the Presbyterian Hospital from the effects of the cocaine . Peterson was seen by the policeman as he was about to jump into the pool . Dooley ran toward him , but Peterson reached the pool first . Dooley plunged after him . Peterson seized the policeman by the throat , and the latter had a hard struggle to release himself . Then he seized - Peterson by the leg , and the fight began again . When Dooley dragged the young man on the bank he was almost exhausted . Peterson , however , was still vigorous , and would have vanquished the policeman but for several men who came to the policeman 's assistance . When . Peterson was taken to the hospital he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At 437 Amsterdam Avenue , where Peterson was night clerk , it was said that he had friends in Chicago . He had been despondent for several days . Work will soon commence at the Boston Navy Yard on the old ship Constitution , which is now at the Portsmouth , N. H. , yard . It is proposed to convert the Constitution into a training ship , and it is likely it will be used for the naval militia . About $6,000 worth of work must be done on this vessel before it is ready for service . There is already objection on the part of Portsmouth people to the removal of the Constitution . The yard at that place is practically closed , and during the present Administration it is unlikely that any work will be done at . that plant . The Wyoming Republican Convention to-day nominated the following candidates for State officers : Governor , W. A. Richards ; Congressman , F. W. Mondell ; Secretary of State , C. W. Burdick ; Auditor , W. 0 . Owens ; Treasurer , Henry C. Hay ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miss Estelle Reel . The platform declares in favor of free silver and protection . In response to Henry E. Fuller of Syracuse , Attorney . General Hancock has written an opinion holding that a Supervisor may become a candidate for County Treasurer , but can not hold the two offices . He also holds that a County Treasurer can not be elected to the office of Supervisor . There is a well-develdbed. boom in the molding business here , over 500 men being given employment . Perry &; Co. and Vanwormer &; McGarvey have started on full time , and Rathbone , Sard &; Co. on one-quarter time . Next week the Albany Stove Company will renew operations . Capt . T. C. Fullerton , Republican candidate for Congress in ' the new Eleventh District . was found dead in his room in the Thomas House , at Fairbury , Ill. , this evening .                     