@@674477

txt Once upon a time , and the time was within the current quarter of the current century , a semi-naturalized Briton took a Briton not in the least naturalized to a frontier town . The unnaturalized Briton was a man of large possessions and still larger influence , and was expected to make large investments and to direct still larger investments in the " boom town " in question . Accordingly the chief dignitary and local banker sent his carriage to the station to meet this so hopeful tourist . But , on the way from the station to the banker 's house , the vehicle encountered a " difficulty , " consisting of two leasing citizens emptying shotguns , more or less in the direction of each other , from opposite sidewalks across the route of the vehicle , which was also the principal thoroughfare of the town . Upon arriving at the house of the " local magnate , " the cicerone recounted this episode , which he was surprised to remark the local magnate did not receive genially . On the contrary , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the persons engaged in what , for the benefit of the foreign investor , he loudly described as " that disgraceful " affray , " and , upon having his curiosity assuaged , shouted through the telephone : " Close both their accounts . " The moral of this story , for the sake of which alone we have related the story , is I treat Veit Ii3=1 =Elt tka are more or less incongruous and incompatible . It may no doubt be the duty , as it evidently is the pleasure , of the aggrieved inhabitant of a boom town on the frontier to empty his shotgun in the direction of another inhabitant against whom he has a grievance . But he has to own that if the casual foreign investor were to happen along in the streets of the boom town when he was engaged in performing this pious office , the foreign investor would be apt to be deterred from investment . These Europeans are so queer ! It is upon this ground alone that we venture to remonstrate with Cherokee BILL 'S brother . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the station of Port Gibson , Indian Territory , for the informer who had delivered Cherokee BILL , into the meshes of a cold and heartless law . When the informer descended from the train , Cherokee BILL 'S brother fired " three shots from a six-shooter " into his head . Moreover , he took a Winchester from the remains and emptied it into " the crowd . " One . bullet " struck a colored man in the face . " The colored man was doubtless entirely unrelated to the difficulty . As his wound , though painful , is reported not to be fatal , he will undoubtedly be brought to see that it was a chance of war , and that he has no more grievance against Cherokee BILL 'S brother than if he had received it in the course of a convulsion of nature . It is not at all on behalf of the casual colored man that we venture to expostulate with Cherokee BILL 'S brother . It is on account of Port Gibson , Indian Territory . We do not remember ever to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest doubt that Cherokee BILL 'S brother was one of the loyal boomers of the same , and that when the voices of the leading citizens were raised in the leading barroom his voice was raised among them , saying that the manifest destiny of Port Gibson was to rival Chicago and utterly to eclipse New York . But in order to fulfill this high destiny it is necessary that Port Gibson should attract some effete capital , either Eastern or foreign , and for this purpose it must be known to be law-abiding . We put it to Cherokee BILL 'S brother whether his impulsive action is calculated to " help the town , " and whether there is not , in point of fact , an irrepressible conflict between the boom and the difficulty                     