@@674032

txt Opportunity is given to visit the exhibition of the New-York Water Color Club at the galleries of the Fine Arts Society for one week longer . It is gratifying to note the success of this year 's show and to chronicle a fair average of sales , among the latter being works by K. A. Hurlbut , A. T. Van Leer , R. Roebbelen , B. C. Wilcox , K. E. de Goiter , S. N. Bradley , Leon Moran , Emily P. Mann , M. A. Rand , R. M. L. Walsh , C. C. Curran , and Rosins E. Sherwood . ? The twenty-ninth annual exhibition of the American Water Color Society will open at the National Academy of Design Feb. 3 and close on the 26th of that month . Pictures will be received from the 9th to the 11th of January . One gallery , it is announced , will he reserved for flower pictures . The William T. Evans Prize of 8300 will be awarded by the jury of selection . ? Blanks for the Fall exhibition of the National Academy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pictures will be received on Dec. 10 , 11 , and 12 . The show opens on the 23d of December . ? Early Italian and Gothic art arranged by Henry T. Chapman , Jr. , will be the subject of an exhibition at the Lotos Club on Saturday night , Nov. 30 . Visitors ' days will be Dec. 2 and 3 . ? A grandson of Mrs. Siddons fell dead in the London streets the other day . He was an artist , and so poor that he peddled his oil paintings on the sidewalks . ? A collection of paintings by John Lewis Brown , well known in Paris , if not in this city , will be shown at the Durand-Ruel Galleries from Nov. 27 to Dec. 5 . ? Drawings by George du Maurier will be shown at the Wunderlich Galleries from Nov. 23 to Dec. 21 , from 9 until 6 o'clock . Complicated Sea-Going Mechanisms . W. Laird Clowes , in The Fortnightly Review . That newly and hastily commissioned fast craft of modern types are , under our present system , peculiarly liable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All recent manoeuvres have taught the same obvious lesson . Yet , instead of altering the system which is to blame , the authorities , year after year , have steadily pursued a policy which , as commonsense as well as experience demonstrates , must be both dangerous and awfully expensive . We have certain vessels  --  torpedo boat destroyers and torpedo boats  --  the machinery of which is complicated , and in parts almost as delicate as that of the most elaborate chronometer , and which is , moreover , quite different in character from the machinery with which in ordinary service naval officers and men have opportunities of making themselves acquainted . Prudence would suggest that such craft should never be intrusted to people who have not especial experience . To put strangers into them is alike unfair to the builders and designers , dangerous to the personnel , risky to the vessels , antagonistic to service efficiency , and costly to the public purse . But , with very few exceptions , strangers are always put into them , and that at short notice . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everything . The very natural result this year was that , out of twenty-five destroyers and boats ( including both Dasher and Contest ) engaged , thirteen came to grief of a more or less severe kind . It was not the fault of the builders ; it was not the fault of the officers or the men , for humanity is not born with the heaven-sent gift of ability to manage any strange craft that may be encountered ; it was chiefly and mainly the fault of the system . What ought to be done has been pointed out over and . over again by writers and speakers both in and out of the service . There should be always a considerable number of destroyers and boats in commission at home and abroad , and all officers and men who may be liable to be called upon to serve in similar vessels should be systematically passed through them . Experience gained in a 127-foot boat of the year 1886 is of little or no use toward the conduct of a 200-foot destroyer of 1895 . Boilers are different ; engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different ; sea-going qualities are different . Experience gained in a bath chair would be about equally useful toward the proper management of a racing bicycle . And thus , although a few officers and men , in the Mediterranean and elsewhere , do occasionally get some practice in boats of old type , it does not follow that they are much more competent than their fellows who have spent their time in slow gunboats in China or the Red Sea for taking charge of ? a . Bruizer or a Surly . The lesson , taught often enough before , ' has been this year so convincingly illustrated and accentuated , that I can not suppose that it will be any longer neglected .                     