@@673247

txt The shipments of gold . have been resumed . in considerable volume , two and threequarter millions going out on the French steamer yesterday . The gold reserve of the Treasury , which was considerably below the $100,000,000 at the opening of the week will , it is estimated , be as low as $92,000,000 by the close . Meanwhile we are treated to another batch of rumors from Washington , or from New-York dated from Washington , as to the intentions , opinions , and feelings of Mr. CLEVELAND and Mr. CARLISLE , and as to Cabinet discussions of the legality and the expediency of an issue of bonds . The Republican and anti-Administration Democrats are naturally most industrious in this work , and if we were to believe them . Mr. CLEVELAND is likely to throw himself overboard in sheer vexation and despair as to the financial situation , instead of enjoying himself in the mild excitement of skillful fishing . The interesting feature of the situation which these professional pessimists are trying to " exploit " is that no one is paying very mach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are much more conspicuous in their own words and actions than in official quarters . There is no more reason to make an issue of bonds now than there vas a month ago when the question was decided in the negative . Of the authority to issue bonds when necessary and of the lawful discretion of the President to decide when that shall be necessary , we have no doubt , and we believe that the President has no doubt . But the necessity certainly does not exist now , and we see no prospect of its arising . So long as the Treasury is able to meet any actual or probable immediate demand for gold , and . to maintain the obligations of the Government of all sorts in gold , bonds will not be needed . Its ability to do this depends in a marked degree upon the state of the public mind . So long as there is general confidence that the Treasury will use its utmost resources in the maintenance of gold payments the demand for gold will be limited to that arising from international exchanges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an indefinite period . In all human probability the Treasury can meet this demand with entire safety until the exports check the foreign gold . demand . If there should . be a demand for gold , not for immediate needs , but from fear that the time was near when it could . not be got , then the situation would . be very different , for that demand could not be measured . This is precisely what the prophets of ill are trying to bring about , some of them from sheer partisan zeal , some of them from hope to profit by the confusion that would . follow . The latter class are , perhaps , more directly wicked in their purpose than the former , becaluse the partisan prophets , as a rule , are tee stupid , to know the consequences Of what they are trying to do . Happily , there is no likelihood that either , or both combined , can accomplish their ends . The country has had a brief interval of intense apprehension , partly caused by uncertainty as to the currency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very extended and very risky speculations . It is a peculiarity of Americans that they do hot " Stay scared . " Even if the causes of fear continue , they get used . to them , and they get tired . of the feeling of apprehension , and lapse into a more or less cheerful indifference . In the present case the causes for immediate apprehension have vanished . The future is doubtful , but the people as a whole will not contemplate it . They will resolutely wait to cross the bridge until they get to it . That is the reason why the resumption of gold shipments and the scattering fire of gloomy predictions . all along the line do not produce any perceptible effect .                     