@@672909

txt A very interesting lawsuit is now in progress in Brooklyn touching the right of one ANTHONY BARRETT to vote upon 23,000 shares of stock of the Brooklyn Elevated Road . The plaintiff who seeks to have BARRETT enjoined from so voting maintains that those shares really belong to the road itself , and that no stockholder has the right to vote upon them . It is intimated that they were used to buy the right of way of the elevated road through certain streets of Brooklyn , and to buy it , not from the people of Brooklyn , not from the Aldermen who represented . the people of Brooklyn , and who are supposed to have misrepresented them to the loss arrd damage of the people , but to the profit and advantage of the Aldermen . The Brooklyn Eagle , which does not make this charge , nevertheless intimates that the " Aldermanic business " was particularly prosperous in Brooklyn for the season during which the permission to occupy these streets was granted , and that shortly afterward some local statesmen bought costly houses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local statesman delights to manifest , However this may be , the people of Brooklyn clearly have an interest in the litigation between two sets of stockholders in the Brooklyn Elevated Road , and it is to be hoped that they will take steps to have that interest defined and protected . There is a larger question , inasmuch as it affects all the people of the State , which is now under deliberation at Albany , upon which the story of Brooklyn that we have just rehearsed may shed . some light . The Bell Telephone Company has lately advanced the rent of its instruments to subscribers in New-York to $240 a year , and in Brooklyn to $120 a year . Such a price is entirely unrelated of course to the cost of the service , which would be compensated and leave a fair commercial profit by something like one-fifth of the lower of these rates . The rate imposed is not competitive , of course , since the telephone is in the hands of a monopoly , against which customers have no recourse except in the lawmaking power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and it is so excessive that very few people indeed to whom the telephone is merely a convenience will continuo to use it on these terms . It is only those who find it an absolute business necessity who will submit to this palpable and monstrous extortion . When the telephone was invented , it was expected that it would be so perfected and cheapened as to become a common mode of communication . In fact , so far as the chief cities are concerned , the longer it is in existence the more costly it becomes , though . of course , the operating expenses are diminished by experience , and the cost to the monopoly is very much less than it was , while the coat to the customer is very much more . There could not be a clearer case for legislative intervention than this . The oppression is gross and palpable and it can be practiced only by the connivance or acquiescence of the legislative body . If that body were to find out what the actual cost of telephonic service is and prevent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is not to be expected that the service would be discontinued . It seems , indeed . that the earnings of the company would be much increased by the very great increase in the number of its customers and that the extortionate rate is not the most profitable rate . That , however , is a commercial question for the company . The business of the Legislature is to see that the public is not plundered because a device which is absolutely necessary for the transaction of the business of a considerable number of persons happens not to be open to competition directly or indirectly , but in the hands of a curiously greedy and indecent monopoly . It seems out of the question that any sensible legislator should oppose or obstruct a measure to protect the users of the telephone and to set a limit to the exactions of its owners unless he have reasons of his own as good as those which induced the Aldermen of Brooklyn to give the elevated road its pick of the streets of that city . As a matter of fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obstructed the measure by an objection when it was sought to have it considered in the Senate . The committee of the Telephone Subscribers ' Association recommends that , " unless he redeems that action before the session ends , " Mr. ROESCH should " bo marked and remembered , " and this seems to be a just and useful suggestion . The committee also points out that Mr. DANIEL F. MARTIN is the Chairman of the committee of the Assembly which is now engaged in " holding the bill . " Mr. MARTIN 'S course with regard to the bill should also receive the careful attention not only of subscribers to the telephone , but of all persons who believe that a legislator should consider and promote the interest of his constituents and should not allow himself to have any private interest adverse to the public interest .                     