@@675118

txt In the public interest and for his own reputation Gen. H. V. BOYNTON must support by evidence and make good his allegation in a Washington interview that the " attacks " on Secretary ALGER are the result of a conspiracy between certain newspaper editors and a member of the Democratic National Committee . If Gen. BOYNTON 'S charge is founded in fact , the names of these editors and this Democratic committeeman must be revealed in order that the black-hearted scoundrels may be exposed to public odium . If Gen. BOYNTON has no facts to substantiate his charges , the public ought to know it in order that in future it may be able to put a more accurate esjimate upon the value of his newspaper statements . We find the interview in which these charges are made in The Cincinnati Commercial-Tribune of March 2 . It appears to have been given to the Washington correspondent of The St. Louis GlobeDemocrat and was telegraphed by him to his paper on the same day that it was sent to Cincinnati . On account of the standing and reputation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make very full extracts from the report of the interview , which was revised and authorized by the General himself : " The time seems opportune for the exposure of certain facts which have come to light regarding the origin of the attacks on the War Department . These facts relate to a deliberate agreement , early in the war , between certain newspaper proprietors for the purpose of destroying the prestige which , it was clearly foreseen . would be won by President ft the war was successful . But murder will out , and the main features of this plot have become known . According to a gentleman acquainted with the facts , these editors met in Washington about May 1 , four or five in number , to discuss the situation . A member of the National Democratic Committee was also in consultation . " The situation and the remedy were thus presented : If the war goes on successfully nothing can prevent the re-election of President MCKINLEY . Newspapers , at this stage of the war , or while war matters move smoothly . can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But since : t is certain that , as war appropriations have long been low , the difficulties in immediately officering , supplying , and equipping 250,000 men will he very great , It will be easy to hold the War Department up to view as inefficient , and thus speedily stir the country with stories of gross mismanagement and the cruel neglect of our soldiers . " It was therefore agreed that a direct and concerted attack should be opened upon Secretary ALGER and the whole War Department , and prosecuted uton the pretense of guarding the interests of the private soldiers . The President was to be generally supported , and only criticised for retaining an inefficient Secretary in case he failed to respond to their demands to crucify him . The parties to this political conspiracy are understood to have originally included two newspapers of New York City , not then classed as yellow , with the belief on the part of these two that at least two others in that city would follow , with One in Boston , two in Chicago , and one in St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two Republican newspapers with strong free trade proclivities could probably be depended upon  --  which subsequently proved to be true . Later recruits were secured for this conspiracy . " The work  --  unpatriotic , if not seditious and morally treasonable  --  began at once . Correspondents were sent to the camps , instructed to criticise at every point . This was especially true of Camp Thomas and later at Montauk . The grumblings of private soldiers who found themselves in war camps instead of Summer encampments were encouraged and paraded in most sensational forms . Baseless assertions from camps by correspondents and soldiers were emphasized by editorial attacks of bitterest character upon Secretary ALGER and the War Department . Surely and rapidly the country was worked into a frenzy . Many newspapers , accepting the reiterated falsehoods as truth , were swept into the current , and Secretary ALGER became the central figure of attack . " The Nation would have been less than human if , in proportion as it came to believe these falsehoods , it had not responded with a tornado of denunciation . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as honest as it was earnest ; but this great-hearted Nation , devoted to its soldiers , was deceived at every step by the grossest forms of exaggeration . At the bottom , directing this organized falsehood and using it to create National frenzy , was the infernal conspiracy here presented in outline . " From first to last the attack upon Secretary ALGE.R was only used as a means of indirect attack upon the President , because direct assault would not be discreet . Never were baser means used to achieve political ends . Never was this Nation so thoroughly deceived . Never before was such cruelty inflicted upon the families of nations ' soldiers or upon the Nation which holds them in reverence . Never before has such devilish conspiracy had such free run of success ? ' Gen. BOYNTON has been for thirty years s . Washhas " ton correspondent Ete is the dean of that corps , of alert and able writers , among whom are men of high personal character . None has stood higher than himself . He has enjoyed the confidence of many Administrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has labored . He is no irresponsible fledgeling of Newspaper Row who is privileged to put in print the loose gossip of hotel corridors or the partisan fabrications of committee rooms . He could not so trifle with his high reputation , even , as to send out , unauthenticated , statements invented in the War Department by the friends of Secretary ALGER for his exculpation . Gen. BOYNTON is himself a friend and defender of ALGER . Knowing that fact , the public will attribute to the generous impulse of his warm heart the fervor and emphasis of the language of the interview . But Gen. BorxToisr 's first and supreme obligation is not to ALGER , but to himself and to his public . His long experience excludes the plea that he may have been deceived about this remarkable story . It bears upon its front the indubitable evidence that it is either a great sensation or a great " fake . " Due diligence is demanded of , every newspaper man for the authentication of ordinary news stories . For stories which are both important and improbable a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience . Imperative as is Gen. BOYNTON 'S duty , to himself , that is really a minor matter compared with his duty to the public . The four or five newspaper editors and the Democratic Committeeman who hatched this diabolical conspiracy must be the most dangerous men now at large in this Republic . Think for a moment of the tremendous power of these men ! They have aroused the entire country and have made seventy millions of people their accomplices . They have raised an outcry that has forced the Administration to order two investigations , and they have blackened its good name . The calumnies they invented have filled the newspapers and the speech of people . The glory of a victorious war has been dimmed by their unscrupulous vilifications . These iniquitous monsters must be dragged forth into the light of day and the sight of the people , that they be castigated and driven from the country they have disgraced . Gen. BOYNTON 'S duty is one he can not neglect without the loss of his good name . As a gentleman and a soldier he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names of these devilish conspirators , or he must humbly confess that after a long and honorable career in the newspaper business he has published as true a statement that is a falsehood from beginning to end .                     