@@672666

txt The second of the series of concerts given to celebrate the opening of the new Music Hall took place last night and was devoted to a performance of Mendelssohn 's time-honored work , " Elijah . " It is too late in the history of musical progress to say anything interesting about this composition that Is new . It is now an accepted fact that the " Elijah " stands as the model of a particular kind of oratorio , best described by the epithet dramatic . That , other composers have chosen to call their works sacred operas only demonstrates that they feel the necessity of apologizing for approaching in their musical treatment the style of the contemporaneous lyric drama  --  a necessity which , it may be added , is fancied rather than actual . They are but following oat the line of advance indicated by Mendelssohn in his masterly combination of theatrical and ecclesiastical feeling 113 his noble work . That the " Elijah " is his masterpiece is now not often disputed ; for " St. Paul " has never made an equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 Elijah " Mendelssohn certainly laid aside the evening dress and kid gloves in which he is accused of attiring himself when he sat down to write orchestral compositions , and equally certainly he wholly freed himself from that consuming fondness for the style of his " Midsummer Night 's Dream " music which governed his thought in so many of his instrumental productions . The performance of the " Elijah " last night can not be considered as anything more important than an ordinary concert of the Oratorio Society . It was given with the customary forces of that honorable body and with the aid of some of the soloists who have been associated with its brightest achievements since the death of Dr. Danirosch . Among these soloists , the oldest friend - was Emil Fischer , the trustworthy bas so of the German opera , Mr. Fischer 's interpretation of the title role does not meet with the approval of those who are accustomed to have the prophet depleted to them as a person cantinaally on the verge of emotional explosion ; bat it will always be memorable for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the majestic breadth of its musical utterance . Fischer 's Elijah is the unshaken champion of God , calm and faithful in the Midst of barbaric taunt and challenge , confident of victory , and satisfied from the outset with the assurance of inevitable triumph . This is the conception of the role which this truly great basso has taught us to revere and comprehend , and which last night he presented once more in the full measure of its beauty . The other soloists wore Antonia Mielke and Anna L. Kelley , sopranos : Marie Ritter-Giitze and Miss MaePhersou , contraltos ; Andreas Dippel and Thomas Ebert , tenors , and Ericsson Bushnell , basso . Among those singers none was so satisfactory as Mrs. Ritter-Gatze , whose singing of " Woe Unto Them " was beautiful in tone , phrasing , and feeling . The chorus did its work tolerably , but the orchestra was . ragged and uneven all the time . Walter Damroseh conducted . FAMILY PIANO PLAYING . A small and thoughtful audience assembled in the Lyceum Theatre yesterday afternoon to listen to a piano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion of the lady 's first appearance in this city . She is slender , of light complexion , rather pretty , but expressionless . Her technique is also slender and of lightcomplexion , and her reading is also rather pretty , but expressionless . She is a pupil of her husband , and reproduces in miniature many of his qualities as a player without any of his nervous force . However , it was an amiable performance that the happy pair gave of Sohumann 's theme and variations in B fiat for two pianos ; and as they appeared to enjoy it in a calm , placid way , and it was all in the family , no one has any right to find fault . Mr. Friedheim 's own individual work was unquestionably of more even merit yesterday than it has been at any previous piano recital of his which we have had the honor to attend . His reading of the " Sonata Appassionata " Beethoven suffered from too rapid tempi , but it was thoughtful and well designed , especially in the slow movement , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suitor than is his wont . His performance of the Liszt fantasia and fugue ( the fugue is somewhat hazy ) on Each was excellent , and he played the Schumann " Etudes Symphoniques " with spirit and in the cantabile with smooth singing tone . POLITICAL NOTES . The Philadelphia Press is tremendously exercised about the legislation framed and put through the Michigan Legislature by the Democrats , establishing a new method of choosing la residential Electors . The effect of this legislation , it says , will be to reduce the Republican strength in the Electoral College as much as it would be reduced by the loss of Maine or Connecticut or Minnesota or both Vermont and New-Hampshire . " It is impossible , " says the Press , " to observe the course of the Democratic Party in a State like Michigan , where it has undertaken to reinforce the power the party has gained in the South by its colossal dimes , without concluding that it has undertaken to carry the next Presidential election , no matter what felonies may be necessary to accomplish the task . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these Democratic tricks , and to call upon the free and intelligent sentiment of the country to give them a crushing rebuke . " How like the old Bowery tragedians ' " R-r-r-revenge ! " with which they used to wind up their denunciations of red-handed villanies . There must be an Oliver Doud Byron in the Press office . Statesman Billy Chandler has written an editorial for his paper , the Concord ( N. H. ) Monitor , on " The Campaign of 1892 , " inspired by reading the story of the meeting of the Republican clubs in Cincinnati or hearing it from his dearlybeleved friend Gallinger . He says that now is the time for the Republicans to organize and do hard work , and he promises , whomever it may concern , that if each of the brethren will do his his duty a great Republican victory will be won next year . Mr. Chandler closes his editorial article with these words : " The old guard of the party must soon give place to younger leaders . Most of those grand men who grew to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mystery of the Infinite design , and in a few more years the last star.savor will have mounted to his pedestal of immortal fame- " It is not absolutely certain that the'New-HamPshire statesman means to class himself in with the other immortals , but there is a suggestion in his words that he rather expects to stand on a pedestal alongside of the rest . Just think of that ! " The nation that neglects the cultivation of a home market to capture the markets of the world will learn its mistake in ' time . " Thus solemnly saitb. the Indianapolis Journal , the President 's home orgau . To the average man this utterance will seem about as important and as relevant to any matter that is under public discussion as would be an asseveration that the man who aeoes out in a thunder shower without an umbrella will certainly get wet . It is possible that the Journal has heard of some suoh instance of neglect as it pictures . If it has , It is its duty to bring it to public notice in plain language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unintelligible hints . And now it is said that Vice President Morton has a Presidential bee in his bonnet , and that Clarkson is well disposed toward him , and that the whole Blaine crowd and many of the antiHarrison Senator 's are almost ready to acquiesce . This rumored disloyalty upon the part of the Vice President will , of course , be promptly attended to by Prince Russell Harrison as soon as the rumor comes to his attention . Undoubtedly the announcement will be made that Mr. Morton is loyal and absolutely to be depended upon . But all the same the story is likely to raise painful doubts in the mind Of a certain prominent Presbyterian Elder . Where was Mr. Depew when the tax eaters were at their banquet Why was not he one of them I Questions like these are trouping the Republican brethren in various ' tlas of the country . So far nothing has come directly from Mr. Depew , but at second hand it is learned that he staid away because he was mortally afraid of the Chicago sausages , the Connecticut cigars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , as a matter of fact , Mr. Depew is not a great admirer of the lion . " Napoleon " DlcKinley It is rumored that Senator Hoar proposes , in case his colleague Mr. Dawes resigns , to till his place with some good-looking Boston man of color . The Senator thinks , the story runs , that the force of his " Southern outrages " speeches is greatly discounted by his inability to point to any Northern State where colored men are better cared for in the matter of political preferment than they me in the South . It would be shades of Charles Sumner , with a vengeance , would it not ? The State Historical Society of Kansas hies received what is called a " political work of art . " His a photograph showing the faces of the menhers of the Kansas Legislature who voted for Yeller , and it is labeled ? " the Dauntless Ninetyeight " Upon the margin of the photograph some Kansas poet has written an inspiring verse . " Be farmers still , ? he says , ? ? 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never but by farmers ' votes will farmers ' wrongs be righted . " The ' Galesburg ( Ill . ) Spectator ( Dem. ) pays a handsome compliment to Mr. Cleveland , while at the same time it states in a very few words what will be the source of his strength as candidate for the Presidency next yttar . There would be no doubt of Cleveland 's elecUon. " says the Spectator , " it would mean that taxes must come down , that st economy must revail , that the administration of affairs must be clean , able . and absolutely fair . "                     