@@674176

txt Mr. EDWARD LAUTERBACH , who iS rather addicted to striking keynotes , has lately struck the keynote of present Republican politics in the State of New York . He observed at the housewarming of the Republican Club of the Twentyseventh Assembly District on Wei ! lesday evening : " Whatever a man may be , if he is a Republican he is as good as any of us . " Perhaps there was no representative present on this interesting occasion of the Better Element . If there was one such , his gorge doubtless tended to rise when he found himself lumped with LAUTERBACH as " us . " But LAUTERBACH knew by experience that the gorge of the Better Element does not rise to any dangerous extent , especially in Presidential years . 1-1e knew that the Better Element practically agrees , after it has endeavored in vain , as it is so often doing , to get hold of the machine and to oust 11 the machinists , that so long as a candidate is a Republican " he is as good as any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the cheerful LAUTERBACH and the astute PLATT . All that they require of the Better Element is its votes and its checks . They well know that by dint of superior experience and unscrupulousness they . can prevent the Better Element from getting possession of the organization . All that they need to be assured of is that factional differences will cease at the convention 's edge , and that after they have cheated the Better Element out of the nomination the Better Element will turn in and support its candidates , saying : " If he is a Republican he is as good as any of us . " So long as this is the case , the Repub-. lican machinists will continue to run their machine not only in disregard , but in open contempt , of the dissenters . The only thing of which they go in fear is a bolt after the nomination . Independence that subsides as soon as the nominations are made suits them perfectly . And Republican independence has in this State so habitually subsided . This is as much as to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This we believe to be the case . Excepting the open and avowed Mugwumps , there are no independent Republicans within the jurisdiction of Boss PLATT . If he can secure the nominations , by hook or by crook , he is fairly sure of the party vote . Now , obviously the only check upon the power of a Boss is the fear of a bolt . This is . not an effective check upon the Republican Boss of New-York . It is an effective cheek upon the Democratic Boss . It is so effective that at present there can not be said to be such a functionary . In 1893 there was a Democratic Boss , and he thought himself strong enough not only to force the nomination of MAYNARD upon the party , which he was , but to force the party to vote for MAYNARD . In this he was disappointed to the extent of 101,064 votes . He thought to retrieve this error in the next campaign , which he personally conducted , and he was again mistaken to the painful extent of 156,108 votes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an immense body of Democratic voters in the State whose opposition to machine-made nominations did not necessarily cease after tire ' nominations were made . In the Republican Party it is quite different . Since 1882 there has not been any revolt within the party against machine-made nominations , and the result of 1882 was not so much a revolt against the machine as a contest of two machines . Now , at all events , PLATT is confident that all he has to do is to get his man nominated and that his man thereupon becomes " as good as any of us " and commands the party vote . It must be said that the facts appear to favor this view .                     