@@674316

txt Garden and Forest recently had a needed and pertinent article on " The Artistic Element in Engineering. ? ! It takes as a text a paper read by Prof. MAIIVIN of the University of Kansas before the American Association for the Advancement of Science . In that paper the author deplored that engineering should be carried on without reference to how the results of it will look , and declared that there was but one text book on bridge building which takes aesthetics into account at all . It is indeed evident enough that art is as a rule completely left out of engineering arid that the saying of a German Commissioner who had the task of inspecting our railroads is strictly true . " In America , " said this observer , " public works are executed without reference to art . " This is especially a pity , because the scenery in which engineering works of great size , iponspieuousness , and daring are erected is apt to be itself sublime and in danger of being defaced by erections unconsidered with reference to their aspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such works . In New York we have been upon the whole very fortunate . The old High Bridge is a stately and seemly work which is really a. municipal ornament . So also is the more recent Washington Bridge across the Harlem River . The river span of the East River Bridge is immensely impresseve by reason of its great magnitude and partly in , spite of itself , for the design of the towers and approaches is very crude . But the most outrageous piece of municipal vandalism in connection with that structure , as Garden and Forest points out , is the recently completed rearrangement of the New-York terminal , including the widening of the roadways . Practically it is a great improvement , doubtless , upon the old arrangement , but nothing could be meaner and more undignified than its appearance . The carrying of the additional roadways upon riveted posts , instead of bracketing them out from the masonry , nullifies the effect of all the money that was originally spent to give the approach a look of monumental massiveness. , It is perfectly plain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the aesthetic effect of his work , That no pressure should have been put upon him by his employers to take counsel of people who did know and care about such things is a very bad sign . It indicates that , in some important respects , we are still little better than barbarians .                     