@@674790

txt Don Carlos , the Spanish pretender , in the course of a long interview to-day , said : " When I left Verice about the middle of April I had in contemplation a desperate and unquestionably hazardous enterprise , unlikely perhaps to further my own dynastic interests , but sure to force the hand of the cowardly officials who are shrinking from the responsibility of upholding vi et armis the integrity of the Spanish dominions . The declaration of war made me pause . I found myself imperatively constrained to await events . " Up to the present these have proved disastrous . The incidents in Cuba and Manila have revealed neglected defenses , venal administration , a prevalent substitution of personal for national interests , corruption fostered by party government , generously voted millions diverted from the fulfillment of their patriotic purpose to the pockets of 1. fraudulent contractors , and dishonest State employes and disorder , peculation , and mendacity in every department of the public service . The queen Regent a Puppet . " The Queen Regent has been a mere puppet in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  countenancingtheir puling solicitations to European powers , and even the Pope , for mediation between aggressor and aggressed . She has proved herself a fond mother , but a feeble Queen . ? This is what Spaniards , in the extremity of their peril , resent , and they justly blame her for appealing to the people to sustain the Alfonsist dynasty instead of the national honor . Being a foreigner , she failed to understand the Spanish character , and sounded the wrong note . She should have exhorted the Spaniards to rally round Spain and not round Alfonso . It was not her only son , but the country of her adoption which should have been , at least ostensibly , her first consideration . " As for intervention on our behalf by the powers , implored by her at the instance of her weak-kneed advisers , had it been provided for in previous treaties or confidential ententes , there is no true Spanish patriot who would not have welcomed it with fervent joy ; but to solicit it with humiliating entreaty at the eleventh hour was manifestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Navy . " Whatever popularity Dona Christina may have enjoyed by virtue of her domestic and constitutional merits was inevitably scattered to the winds when she lent herself to a proceeding whereby the nation felt itself degraded . I have the fullest confidence in the valor and patriotism of the Spanish Army and Navy . The people , too , will bear with stoical and dignified equanimity whatever sacrifices and privations are imposed upon them . They will never grudge supplies to their fighting brethren , even if they have to tighten their belts to the last hole . " It is their Ministers whom I distrust and condemn . Senor Sagasta is not so culpable as Senor Moret ; but he is an old man , of failing power . He is the apostle of expediency , and , as such , utterly unfit to sway the destinies of a proud , brave , and self-respecting nation . As for Weyler , he is a typical caballero Epafiol . He is purely a soldier , not in the least a politician . " It is my firm conviction that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and would have suppressed it effectually , perhaps ere now , had he not been prematurely withdrawn from command , the victim of political intrigue and official cowardice . He was the terror of the American emissaries , rebel spies , and of foreign sympathizers with treason and anarchy . "                     