@@672313

txt The Iowa Legislature will meet at noon to-morrow , with nearly every member in his seat . The absentees will be those who are confined to their rooms by sickness , and they Include Representative Paschall , Republican ; Senator McCoy , Republican , and Senator Barnett , independent . McCoy may possibly get out , but that is doubtful . Barnett telegraphs from Indianola that ne hopes to be on baud Tuesday , while Pasehall 's condition is such that he is not likely to leave his room for a week . The Republicans held a seeret caucus this afternoon , which was in session an hoar and a half . The committee appointed yesterday to examine the credentials of the Republican members of the House reported that they had peseed them all , finding them correct . Some legal opinions were solicited and given in regard to the powers of the opposing forces in the matter of the preliminary organization , but there was no consolation in them to the Republicans . With fifty Democrats on hand and forty-niue Republicans , the legal mind could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could seize the temporary organization . Some of the members suggested that the Democratic proposition of a conference for harmoniously effecting the preliminary work was the proper one and should be entertained . But the iinal conclusion reached was in favor of Ignoring it , going ahead and accomplishing it , if possible , in spite of the Democratic opposition sure to be met . The Democrats have never been so alert and aggressive in Iowa as they are to-day . They will yield nothing without a hard tight , and their determined position is causing the Republicans to weaken . Tho chances of a deadlock are hourly decreasing . Many Influential Republicans are openly advising the abandonment of the organization of the House and giving to the Democrats the rights they are contending for and are no doubt eutitied to . This talk comes largely from the friends of Senator Allison , who sees in a continued blockade of legislation a possible menace to his candidacy . The longer the Senatorial election is deferred , they claim , the more the danger of a union of the factions against him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They do not , however , admit that such a combination is possible . They simply concede its possibility . There has been talk of Lorraine as a Melon candidate , more to-day , perhaps , than at any previous time , and while a number of Republicans would vote for him , it is clear that a number of Democrats would just as certainly vote for Allison in preference to voting for him . Thus nothing would be gained toward the defeat of Allison by the substitution of Larrabee for a straight Democrat candidate . The Democrats are talking of giving their Senatorial caucus nomination to Governorelect Bolos. their reasons for this being that , should he be elected , he need not qualify before the Senate until about a month before the expiration of his term of ? line . and that his resignation at that late day would not cause any particular injury to the party or State . Another is that his nomination would leave no bitterness behind it , such as might follow the nomination of some one of the other candidates now in the field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The contest for Speaker among the Republicans is at a low ebb , probably because the idea that the Democrats will seize that plum is constantly growing . Representative Luke of Franklin seems to be in the lead . with Wilson of Cass ; Smith of Mitchell , Dobson of Buena Vista . and Walden of Appanoose the other candidates . On the other hand , the strife among the Democrats for the honor , while good natured , is growing . Holbrook of Iowa County is clearly In the lead , nut the friends of Hamilton and Dayton seem to be prepatng for a combination against him with uncertain prospects of success . Hamilton felt somewhat dejected over his prospects to-day and wired some of Ins friends to come to his help . The snow blockade may prevent them , however . Senator Allison is expected to arrive to-morrow and take personal charge of his campaign . Governor-elect Boles is also expected to arrive to-morrow . He will be accompanied by his daughter . Miss Jessie , and his two sons . The reception which will be tendered him by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliant and elaborate of any similar social event in the history of the State . Preparations for the inaueuration are advancing , although the date of that event is yet undetermined . One of the features of the occasion will he a delegation of pioneer Democrats from all parts of Iowa , who voted for Stephen Hempstead , the lust Democratic Governor eleoted in 1850.                     