@@674640

txt The Executive Committee of the United German-American Societies held a meeting yesterday afternoon in the Teutonia Assembly Rooms , at Third Avenue and Sixteenth Street , Chairman Adam Keller presiding at the meeting . The purpose of the meeting was to receive a report from the sub-committee appointed at a previous meeting held by delegates representing 105 different German-American societies to present to the Tammany Hall leaders resolutions favoring the romina.tion of William Sohmer for Mayor . It was claimed that the United Societies , representing the greatest number of German-American voters in Greater New York , was entitled to consideration , and the committee was instructed to urge upon the regular organization the necessity of placing a ticket in the field that would guarantee the advancement of the interests of the German element . The committee called on John C. Sheehan Monday afternoon and reported at dyesterday 's meeting that Mr. Sheehan at that time had assured them that a ticket would be put in the field that would be thoroughly satisfactory to the German-Americans . This they had taken to n-ean that Sohmer would head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the general opinion being that Sheehan had not kept his word and made his ticket favorable to the Germans . There was a division of sentiment among the committeemen . Many were in favor of bolting and joining forces with the Citizens ' Union , while Henry George was the choice of others . A motion to join with other independent political bodies in order to nominate a separate ticket was laid on the table . After long and excited debate , a compromise proposition to adjourn until Thursday evening and to issue a statement expressive of the sentiment of the meeting was adopted . The following statement was then prepared : To the Public . " Ever since the adjournment of the Legislature a strong sentiment has been aroused against the Republican Party on account of the Raines law and its amendments . All the liberal elements of the people determined to resent rural interference with the personal liberties of the citizens of Greater New York . For this purpose many organized bodies lecided to make ' personal liberty ' the leading issue of the campaign . To emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German-American nominated for Mayor , and with one accord their choice fell on William Sohmer . " Besides the demand of our 105 societies , the movement for Mr. Sohmer 's nomination was supported by large bodies of independent citizens from every borough of Greater New York . Among these were the German-American Democracy of New York County , organized in every Assembly district ; the Brooklyn German Citizens ' League , similarly organized ; the Industrial Alliance , the People 's League of New York , the Park and Ballroom Proprietors , and numerous other societies and delegations representing every race , creed , and nationality . " It is a moderate estimate to state that between 150,000 and 200,004 ) voters cf Greater New York stood behind the wish to make personal liberty ' the predominant issue at this election , and that William Sohmer should be the standard bearer . This overwhelming public sentiment and demand has been treated with indifference and contempt by Boss Croker and the Democratic organization of our city . We are not disposed to : offer this insulting treatment to go unpunished , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Richard Croker . " A meeting will be held in this hall Thursday evening , Oct. 7 , to take such action as the situation will then require . "                     