@@673798

txt The last Adtainistration bond bin was defeated this afternoon in the House , and by so decisive a vote as to convince everybody except Mr. Springer of the impossibility of getting a relief bill from the Fifty-third Congress . Immediately after the bill had been beaten by a strong majority , Mr. Springer moved a reconsideration , apparently in the hope that he could later turn the tide of opposition ; but the motion to reconsider was in its turn laid on the table , where it is so far out of the reach of its friends that the effort to secure a reconsideration of it is not at all likely to be made . Mr Reed 's proposed substitute received about lud votes . This was the utmost that any one expected it to receive . There was Some Republican support of the bill introduced for the Administration , but there was little Democratic support for the substitute of Mr. Reed . There was not much disappointment at the outcome . The vote was reached before the advocates of the Springer bill had made a close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without making canvasses declared a day or two ago , immediately after Mr. Carlisle sent to the Senate his report indicating that the Treasury soon would have a surplus , that after such a statement that it , would be unreasonable to hope for Democratic support of a measure asking for authority to make a nee. - bond issue and so Increase the public indebtedness . As nothing is to be expected of the Senate , the Administration is left no resort , except to issue bonds under existing laws . The verdict that was awaited has been received The Democratic House refuses to afford to its own Administration the support that that Administratioa requested it might receiva . If the President is convinced that the Treasury must be replenished , he now will direct the Secretary of the Treasury to issue a call for bins for bonds , at such rate of interest and for such period as may be deemed wise . The Secretary of the Treasury can not veto that direction by writing a letter to the Congress or either branch of it . The Secretary 's letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his opinion that bonds are unnecessary , and that the public credit can be strained until the receipts more than equal the expenditures The Treasury is making gains , but they are slow , and of gold the increase has not vet begun .                     