@@673982

txt David H King , Jr. , James A. Roosevelt , Augustus D. Juilliard , and George G. Haven , the four Commissioners of Public Parks , have handed in their resignations to Mayor Strong , to take effect Oct. 1 , according to a statement printed yesterday . It has been known for some time that David H. King , Jr. , the President of the board , was anxious to give up his office . He went to Europe several months ago on account of his wife 's health . While he was abroad Mrs. King died , and Mr. King 's own health has not been satisfactory . On the plea that the duties of his office were too arduous to be conducted by him , while his large private business required all the attention he could give it , he is said to have handed in his resignation . Mr. King 's appointment as President of the Park Board , which was made last February , was peculiar in two respects . The other three Commissioners were appointed oy Mayor Strong , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had confidence to perform the active work of President of the board . They chose Mr. King , and Mayor strong duly appointed him . President King had the offer of a place in the Park Board from Mayor Grant three years ago , and after some hesitation refused to accept it , on the ground that he could not afford the time . Thus he is one of the few men who now hold an office under the present Mayor which he might have held , had he so chosen , under one of his Democratic predecessors . Before the four Park Commissioners handed in their formal resignations they had a conference with Mayor Strong , in which they told him what their intention was . He was very much surprised , and is supposed to have asked them to reconsider the matter . This , partly on account of Mr. King 's settled determination , and partly , perhaps , for other reasons , the three other Commissioners were unable to do . In order to give the Mayor time to find suitable successors , they all'made their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Park Board were out of town yesterday , . Mr. King at Newport , Mr. Roosevelt in the White Mountains , Mr. Juilliard at Tuxedo , and Mr. Haven at Lenox . None of them could be found by telegraphic inquiry . Mayor Strong spent yesterday at his Summer home , at Elberon , N. J. When seen by a correspondent of THE Now-Yonic TIMES last night , he said : " You will have to get your information from some one else than me . The story printed never came from me . " . Otherwise , Mayor Strong refused to deny or confirm the correctness of tie statement : The President of the Park Board reteives a salary of $5,000 a year , and the other three Commissioners are unpaid . The Park Commissioners have usually been men of independent means , and , where practicable , men of leisure also . When it was known that Mayor Strong had selected three men who had large private business concerns of their own , in which they were actively engaged , and that they made the selection of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their acceptance of office , some criticism was made on the ground that the whole stood or fell with Mr. King 's continuance in office : Mr. Juilliard is a Republican in polities , a large dry goods commission merchant , a Trustee of the Mutual Life Insurance Company , and a Director in the Bank of America , the Central Trust Company , and the United States Guarantee and Indemnity Company . Mr. Roosevelt is a banker , with an office at 33 Wall Street . Mr. Haven is a broker , with an office at Su Broadway , is President of the Metropolitan Opera House Company , and has other large business interests . Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Haven are independent Democrats . Mr. is ri .4. is r n e cf the best-known builders in the city , having erected the Washing-On ? ric1ia , ssunce , welch ne owns , and other structures of nute in the city .                     