@@781693

txt Admiral LUcE has contributed to the Journal of the Proceedings in the United States Naval Institute a paper on " Navy Yards and Their Defense . " The paper is worth the attention of every member of Congress and of every intelligent citizen , as well as of the professional audience to which It is immediately addressed . It is explained that the paper is founded on notes taken in the preparation of the report of the Commission on Navy - Yards , made twelve years ago , but the Admiral 's conclusions are even more pertinent now than they were then . One of the most valuable lessons inculcated by Capt . MAILIAN 'S works is that , for purposes even and strictly of defqPse , forts and ships that are not fit to take and keep the sea are not alone to be Itrusted . That a marine defensive is and must be an " offensive-defense " has deleted 3 lines ceive a charge of cavalry . " For coast defense we need sea-going ships , and Admiral Limn includes them in his list of appliances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this point are especially interesting as being those of an accomplished naval officer , who , being upon the retired list , can not be stpposed to have any personal or actively professional interest in the recommendations he makes . He finds that in our preparations for coast defense , not only in those which Congress has authorized , but in those of which projects have been submitted to it , the item of " line-of-battle ships " is far too small . The term " lineof-battle ships " now sounds old-fashioned , but Admiral LUCE prefers it to the current term of " battleships " as being more exactly descriptive and less ambiguous , as there is no doubt it is . Everybody understands that a " line-of-battle ship " is a vessel to which frigates and corvettes and gunboats and so forth are only auxiliary , and which is , in general engagements , to take its place in the line of battle . A hundred years ago the Secretary of the Navy recommended that for the protection of what were then our forts and what was then our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventy-fours . " Admiral Lucie contends , with reason , that if that number was necessary then , our minimum now should be half as many again  --  that is to say , eighteen . The moderation of this estimate will be admitted by every reader of the Admiral 's paper , and it is very much to be hoped that advantage may be taken of the present interest in the subject to authorize the construction of at least this number of line-of-battle ships .                     