@@675105

txt The public would like to know what the real trouble is in the High CommisLion that has been trying to reach an adjustment of the questions in dispute between the United States and Canada . The meagre statement given out in Washington with the sanction of the two commissions is unsatisfactory . It is ever . a trifle absurd . The reason given for the adjournment of the commission until August was the inability of the two bodies to agree about the Alaskan boundary . A singular conditiOn of affairs is revealed by the statement . First , it is stated that the Canadians are anxious to obtain a seaport on the Lynn Canal , in order to escape the petty annoyances to which they are subjected by United States customs officials . Ten we are told that the British Commissioners proposed that , following the I Venezuelan precedent , the matter should be referred to an arbitration commission with an umpire ; the American Commissioners thought the reference should be made to six eminent jurists , three to be chosen by each side . They held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of jurists would be sure to agree , and they could not assent to a European um . pire . The British Commissioners would not accept this plan , and a dead-lock resulted . We can not understand why the Commissioners allowed the desire of Canada for a port on the Lynn Canal to become mixed up with the question of determining the true boundary line . The delimitation of the boundary is a question of fact and right . It is a matter of surveys , maps , treaties , written records , tradition , and other evidence ; and when the true line has been determined it must be run according to the evidence and proved facts without regard to the wishes of the Canadians for a Lynn Canal port . Their desire for a port not being a question of right , is no fit matter for arbitration , except to determine what would be a fair price . It is a trade which either party may make or decline to make without reproach . But to refuse to allow the true boundary to be run would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arbitration of the boundary question should not follow the usual practice of referring any disagreeznent of the arbitrators to an umpire . The port question , if an agreement can not be reached by the parties themselves , should be referred to'an entirely different tribunal . It would be easy to give Canada the coveted port by simply straightening the line , which would then cut across the head of the Lynn Canal . But this would cost her a pretty penny . Such an altera . : Ion would give her Chilcoot Pass , White Pass , and possibly the town of Dyea . As this would put into her hands the control of the only land route to the Klondike re- , religion it is extremely improbable that we should ever make the trade . Any other change of the boundary that would accomplish Canada 's purpose would involve an awkward and unnatural deviation from the present line . We are afraid this Alaska matter is not the real bone of contention and disagreement . Is it the of the . American Commissioners ? The lumber duties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are known to be subjects upon which the tViro commissions disagreed , and so far as the public is informed their differences have never been adjusted . The protectionist views of the late Mr. DINGLE 'S " control the American Commissioners . In their hostility to foreign trade will be found the true cause of the disagreement , we presume . We hope the truth will be made known . The pressure of public opinion upon our Commissioners might accomplish wonders before the sittings are resumed in August                     