@@674649

txt Charges of cruelty are made in connection with the management of the De Peyster Home for Orphan Girls , an institution conducted by a Methodist society at Tivoli , N. Y. , and it is likely that an investigation will be made either by the town authorities or the conference officials . The Orphan Home is managed by E. F. George , whose wife is Matron , and assists her husband in all the details of administration . There are thirty inmates , ranging In age from two to sixteen years . Although the institution is named after Gen. J. Watts De Peyster of Tivoli , he has nothing to do with its conduct . He purchased the property and presented it to the Methodist Episcopal Church Society , which now controls it , and his knowledge of it ended there . Several days ago it was noised around the village of Tivoli that two little girls at the home had been confined in a pig pen on a bread-and-water diet for forty-eight hours , as punishment for a trifling offense . It was stated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and are now seriously ill . The charge when repeated to the Matron was not denied , except that Mrs. George stated that the period of confinement was eight , and not forty-eight hours . There is considerable excitement in the village over the affair , and the matter will not be allowed to rest until it is probed to the bottom . The Tivoli Times , in commenting upon the outrage , says : " It has been asserted that cruelty of an unwarranted nature has been practiced upon the poor , unfortunate children who , out of charity 's sake , find the Orphan Home a temporary refuge . The little girls , for no refractory reason , but because of the assertion of nature in the midnight hours , have been locked for forty-eight hours in a pig pen and fed on bread and water . I. this right ? Does human love and charity sanction such methods , even for vice of any sort ? The degradation and humiliation of the girls after being confined in that manner must necessarily lower their own self-esteem to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too hard a hand to carry the teaching of Christ . " After reading this article , Matron George called on Editor Hartwell of The Times and attempted to justify the punishment as not excessive , and took him to task for his criticism of the home .                     