@@675222

txt electric cab that was in waiting and were whirled off . The man said to be Mr. Wormser , stout ' and florid faced , about thirty years old , and who walked with the aid of a cane , was making all sorts of threats just before he left the pier , directed to any one who would listen to him in general and to the reporters in particular . He threatened the latter with all sorts of vengeance if anything should appear in the newspapers . In reply to this one of the customs officials answered that the man would not talk quite so loudly if he knew of the information in the possession of the Custom House officers . When Mrs. Dodge was asked by one of the officers what Wormser 's interest was in the matter and why he was making such a fuss , she answered that he was a friend of hees , and that he had left Paris in advance of her on account of an injury to his leg . END OF THE CASE NOT YET . Deputy Surveyor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet , and that a clear ' case of conspiracy to defraud the Government would be made out against the parties interested . ne said that there would be some interesting developments when the examination came up to-morrow . Mrs. Dodge is a tall , handsome woman , dark and shapely . She was attired in a dark walking dress , and during all the de . velopments seemed the least excited of her party . She was at her home , 104 West Eightieth Street , last night , and with her was the man who met her at the dock , and who was known as Mr. Wormser . In spite of this the negro butler who answered the door said that his mistress was out , and repeated this in the most positive terms when he learned that the caller was a reporter . He was asked if Mr. Wormser was at home , and he said he was not . The house was formerly the residence of Rich ' arC Mansfield . While the search of Mrs. Dodge 's luggage was going on Customs Detectives Brown ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passenger named Jacob Hat , whom they suspected of making an improper declaration . W'hen they searched Mr. Hat they found in his possession a diamond chatelaine worth $1,100 , and a gold and onyx snuff box valued at $400 . After these things were seized Mr. Hat was allowed to go home . He carried a caged parrot , and was very angry at what he called the unwarranted action of the officers . He said that the articles were part of his jewelry , and that the chatelaine bore his initials . He refused to tell where in this country he had bought the articles . Both looked new , and the snuff box had never been used .                     