@@772278

txt //und expression in the words of a contemporary novelist , Matteo Bandello  --  himself of Lombard birth  --  when with his last breath he bade his companions live joyously , " Vivete lieti ! " We see this bride of sixteen summers flinging herself with passionate delight into every amusement , singing gay songs with her courtiers , dancing and hunting through the livelong day , outstripping all her companions in the chase , and laughing in the face of danger . We see her holding her court in the famous Castello of Porta Giovia or in the summer palaces of Vigevano and Cussago , in these golden days when Milan was called the new Athens , when Leonardo and Bramante decorated palaces or arranged masquerades at the duke 's bidding , when Gaspare Visconti wrote sonnets in illuminated books , and Lorenzo da Pavia constructed organs or viols as perfect and beautiful to see as to hear , for the pleasure of the youthful duchess . Scholars and poets , painters and writers , gallant soldiers and accomplished cavaliers , we see them all at Beatrice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fancies and win her smiles . Young and old , they were alike devoted to her service , from Galeazzo di Sanseverino , the valiant captain who became her willing slave and chosen companion , to Niccolo da Correggio , that all-accomplished gentleman who laid down his pen and sword to design elaborate devices for his mistress 's new gowns . We read her merry letters to her husband and sister , letters sparkling with wit and gaiety and overflowing with simple and natural affection . We see her rejoicing with all a young mother 's proud delight over her first-born son , repeating , as mothers will , marvellous tales of his size and growth , and framing tender phrases for his infant lips . And we catch glimpses of her , too , in sadder moods , mourning her mother 's loss or wounded by neglect and unkindness . We note how keenly her proud spirit resents wrong and injustice , and how in her turn she is not always careful of the rights and feelings of her rivals . But whatever her faults and mistakes may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lovable . A year or two passes , and we see her , royally arrayed in brocade and jewels , standing up in the great council hall of Venice , to plead her husband 's cause before the Doge and Senate . Later on we find her sharing her lord 's counsels in court and camp , receiving king and emperor at Pavia or Vigevano , fascinating the susceptible heart of Charles VIII . by her charms , and amazing Kaiser Maximilian by her wisdom and judgment in affairs of state . And then suddenly the music and dancing , the feasting and travelling , cease , and the richly coloured and animated pageant is brought to an abrupt close . Beatrice dies , without a moment 's warning , in the flower of youth and beauty , and the young duchess is borne to her grave in S. Maria delle Grazie amid the tears and lamentations of all Milan . And with her death , the whole Milanese state , that fabric which Lodovico Sforza had built up at such infinite cost and pains , crumbles into ruin . Fortune @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Moro and had raised him to giddy heights of prosperity , now turned her back upon him . In three short years he had lost everything  --  crown , home , and liberty  --  and was left to drag out a miserable existence in the dungeons of Berry and Touraine . " And when Duchess Beatrice died , " wrote the poet , Vincenzo Calmeta , " everything fell into ruin , and that court , which had been a joyous paradise , was changed into a black Inferno . " Then Milan and her people become a prey to the rude outrages of French soldiery . Leonardo 's great horse was broken in pieces by Gascon archers , and the Castello , " which had once held the finest flower of the whole world , became , " in Castiglione 's words , " a place of drinking-booths and dung-hills . " The treasures of art and beauty stored up within its walls were destroyed by barbarous hands , and all that brilliant company was dispersed and scattered abroad . Artists and poets , knights and scholars  --  Leonardo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and went their way each in a different direction , to seek new homes and other patrons . But the memory of the young duchess  --  the Donna beata of Pistoja and Visconti 's song  --  lived for many a year in the hearts of her loyal servants , Castiglione enshrined her name in his immortal pages , Ariosto celebrated her virtues in the cantos of his " Orlando Furioso , " and far on in the new century , grey-headed scholars spoke of her as " la piu zentil Donna d'Italia "  --  the sweetest lady in all Italy . And to-day , as we pace the dim aisles of the great Certosa , we may look on the marble effigy of Duchess Beatrice and see the lovely face with the curling locks and child-like features which the Lombard sculptor carved , and which still bears witness to the love of Lodovico Sforza for his young wife . * * * * * In conclusion , I must acknowledge how deeply I am indebted to Signor Luzio , keeper of the Gonzaga archives at Mantua , and to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have lent to my researches , as well as for the help afforded by their own publications , in which many of Isabella and Beatrice d'Este 's most interesting letters have already been given to the world . The State archives of Milan and Mantua are the principal sources from which the information contained in the present volume is drawn , and a list of the other authorities which have been consulted is given below . ITALIAN . Archivio di Stato di Milano , Beatrice d'Este , Potenze estere , etc . Archivio Gonzaga Mantova , Copia lettera d'Isabella d'Este , etc . A. Luzio and R. Renier , Delle Relazioni di Isabella d'Este Gonzaga con Ludovico and Beatrice Sforza . Archivio Storico lombardo , xvii . T. Chalcus , Residua . Milano , 1644 . Archivio Storico Italiano , serie i. vol. iii. ; Cronache Milanesi di G. A. Prato , G. P. Cagnola , G. M. Burigozzo , etc. ; Serie iii . vol. xii. , Serie v. vol. vi. , Serie vii . vol. i . L. A. Muratori , Italicarum Rerum Scriptores , vol. xxiv . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suoi Tempi . Marino Sanuto , Diarii , De Bello Gallico , etc . Bernardino Corio , Historie Milanese . Rosmini , Storia di Milano . Fr . Guicciardini , Storia a'Italia . Rendered into English by G. Fenton . 1618 . F. Frizzi , Storia di Ferrara , vols. iv . and v. P. Verri , Storia di Milano . Baldassare Castiglione , Lettere . Edizione Serassi . R. Renier , Sonetti di Pistoia . Giornale Storico di Letteratura Italiano , vols. v. and vi . Archivio Storico dell ' Arte , vols. i. and ii . Renier , Canzoniere di Niccolo da Correggio . A. Campo Ghisolfo , Storia delle Duchesse di Milano. 1542 . Rivista Storica Mantovana . Carlo Magenta , I Visconti e Sforza nel Castello di Pavia . F. Calvi , Bianca Maria Sforza Visconti , Regina dei Romani , Imperatrice di Germania . Marchese d'Adda , Indagini sulla Liberia Visconti Sforzesca del Castello di Pavia . Malipiero , Annali Veneti . Romanini , Storia di Venezia , vols. v. and vi . Imhoff , Historia Genealogica Italiae . G. Uzielli , Ricerche intorno a Leonardo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tre Gentil donne Milanesi . G. d'Adda , Lodovico Maria Sforza . L. Beltrami , Il Castello di Milano , sotto il dominio degli Sforza. 1450-1535 . L. Beltrami , Bramante poeta . Padre Pino , Storia genuina del Cenacolo. 1796 . B. Bellincioni , Le Rime annotate da P. Fanfani . Bologna . G. Tiraboschi , Storia della Letteratura Italiana , vols. vi . and vii . P. Molmenti , La Vita Privata di Venezia . A. Rusconi , Lodovico il Moro a Novara . F. Gabotto , Girolamo Tuttavilla . G. L. Calvi , Notizie dei principali Professori di Belle Arti che fiorivano in Milano . G. Mongeri , L'Arte in Milano . C. Amoretti , Memorie Storiche sulla vita gli studi e le opere di Leonardo da Vinci . Brigola , Annali della Fabbrica del Duomo di Milano . Carlo dell'Acqua , Lorenza Gusnasco di Pavia . P. Pasolini , Caterina Sforza . FRENCH . Manuscrits Italiens , Affaires d'etat . Bibliotheque Nationale . Pasquier le Moine , MS . La Conquete du Duche de Milan . Bibliotheque Nationale . Jean d'Auton , Chroniques de Louis XII . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ par R. de Maulde La Claviere. 4 vols . Philippe de Commines , Memoires . Nouvelle edition publiee par la Societe de l'Histoire de France . Vicomte Delaborde , L'Expedition de Charles VIII . en Italie . M. Eugene Muntz , La Renaissance en Italie et en France a l'epoque de Charles VIII . M. Eugene Muntz , Musee du Capitole . M. Eugene Muntz , Leonardo da Vinci . C. de Cherrier , Histoire de Charles VIII , Roi de France , d'apres des documents diplomatiques inedits . Louis Pelissier , Louis XII . et Lodovico Sforza . Recherches dans les Archives Italiennes . Louis Pelissier , Notes Italiennes . Louis Pelissier , Les amies de Lodovico Sforza . ( Revue historique . ) Edmond Gaultier , Etude historique sur Loches . Paravicini , Architecture de la Renaissance en Italie . Aldo Manuzio , Lettres et Documents . Armand Baschet . Gazette des Beaux Arts , vol. xvi . GERMAN . Dr. Ludwig Pastor , Geschichte der Papste , vols. v. and vi . Jacob Burckhardt , Die Cultur der Renaissance in Italien . Dr. W. Bode , Dr. Muller-Walde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , x. , and xviii . K. Kindt , Die Katastrophe Lodovico Moro in Novara . Dr. Muller-Walde , Leonardo da Vinci . ENGLISH . History of the Papacy , by Dr. Creighton , Bishop of London . Vols. iv . and v. The End of the Middle Ages , by Madame James Darmetester . The Renaissance in Italy . J. A. Symonds . Old Touraine . T. Cook CONTENTS PAGE CHAPTER I 1471-1480 The Castello of Ferrara  --  The House of Este  --  Accession of Duke Ercole I.  --  His marriage to Leonora of Aragon  --  Birth of Isabella and Beatrice d'Este  --  Plot of Niccolo d'Este  --  Visit of Leonora to Naples  --  The court of King Ferrante  --  Betrothal of Beatrice d'Este to Lodovico Sforza , Duke of Bari  --  And of Isabella d'Este to Francesco Gonzaga 1 CHAPTER II 1451-1582 Lodovico Sforza  --  Known as Il Moro  --  His birth and childhood  --  Murder of Duke Galeazzo Maria  --  Regency of Duchess Bona  --  Exile of the Sforza brothers  --  Lodovico at Pisa  --  His invasion of Lombardy and return to Milan  --  Death of Cecco Simonetta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 CHAPTER III 1482-1490 Wars of Venice and Ferrara  --  Invasion of Ferrara  --  Lodovico Sforza and Alfonso of Calabria come to the help of Ercole d'Este  --  Peace of Bagnolo  --  Prosperity of Ferrara , and cultivation of art and learning at Ercole 's court  --  Guarino and Aldo Manuzio  --  Strozzi and Boiardo  - -  Architecture and painting  --  The frescoes of the Schifanoia  --  Music and the drama  --  Education of Isabella and Beatrice d'Este 27 CHAPTER IV 1485-1490 Isabella d'Este  --  Lodovico Sforza delays his wedding  --  Plot against his life  --  Submission of Genoa  --  Duke Gian Galeazzo  --  The Sanseverini brothers  --  Messer Galeazzo made Captain-General of the Milanese armies  --  His marriage to Bianca Sforza  --  Marriage of Gian Galeazzo to Isabella of Aragon  --  Wedding festivities at Milan  --  Lodovico draws up his marriage contract with Beatrice d'Este 40 CHAPTER V 1490-1491 Marriage of Isabella d'Este  --  Lodovico puts off his wedding  --  Cecilia Gallerani  --  Her portrait by Leonardo da Vinci  --  Mission of Galeazzo Visconti to Ferrara  --  Preparations for Beatrice 's wedding  --  Cristoforo Romano 's bust  --  Duchess Leonora and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pavia by Lodovico 50 CHAPTER VI 1491 City and University of Pavia  --  Duomo and Castello  --  The library of the Castello  --  Wedding of Lodovico Sforza , Duke of Bari , and Beatrice d'Este , in the chapel of the Castello of Pavia  --  Galeazzo di San Severino and Orlando  --  Reception of the bride in Milan  --  Tournaments and festivities at the Castello  --  Visit of Duchess Leonora to the Certosa of Pavia 60 CHAPTER VII 1491 Beatrice Duchess of Bari  --  Her popularity at the court of Milan  - -  Giangaleazzo and Isabella of Aragon  --  Lodovico 's first impressions  - -  His growing affection for his wife  --  His letters to Isabella d'Este  --  Hunting and fishing parties  --  Cussago and Vigevano  --  Controversy on Orlando and Rinaldo  --  Bellincioni 's sonnets 75 CHAPTER VIII 1491 Relations between Lodovico and Beatrice  --  Cecilia Gallerani  --  Birth of her son Cesare  --  Her marriage to Count Bergamini  --  Beatrice at Villa Nova and Vigevano  --  The Sforzesca and Pecorara  --  Lodovico 's system of irrigation in the Lomellina  --  Leonardo at Vigevano  --  Hunting-parties and country life  --  Letters to Isabella d'Este @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Ambrogio Borgognone and Giovanni Antonio Amadeo  --  Cristoforo Romano and his works at Pavia and Cremona  --  The Certosa of Pavia  --  Illness of Beatrice  --  Her journey to Genoa  --  Correspondence between Isabella and Lodovico Sforza  --  Visit of the Marquis of Mantua to Milan 99 CHAPTER X 1491 Claims of Charles VIII . to Naples  --  Of the Duke of Orleans to Milan  --  Intrigues of the Venetian Senate , of Pope Innocent VIII. , and of Ferrante and Alfonso of Naples  --  Visit of the French ambassadors to Milan  --  Treasures of the Castello  --  Jewels of Lodovico Sforza  --  Isabella of Aragon and her father  --  An embassy to the French court proposed  - -  Secret instructions of the Count of Caiazzo  --  Fete at Vigevano  --  Tournament of Pavia 112 CHAPTER XI 1492 Intellectual and artistic revival in Lombardy  --  Lodovico and his secretaries  --  Building of the new University of Pavia  --  Reforms and extension of the University  --  The library of the Castello remodelled  --  Poliziano and Merula  --  Lodovico founds new schools at Milan  - -  Equestrian statue of Francesco Sforza  --  Leonardo 's paintings at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 125 CHAPTER XII 1492 Beatrice d'Este as a patron of learning and poetry  --  Vincenzo Calmeta , her secretary  --  Serafino d'Aquila  --  Rivalry of Lombard and Tuscan poets  --  Gaspare Visconti 's works  --  Poetic jousts with Bramante  --  Niccolo da Correggio and other poets  --  Dramatic art and music at the court of Milan  --  Gaffuri and Testagrossa  --  Lorenzo Gusnasco of Pavia 141 CHAPTER XIII 1492 Visit of Duke Ercole to Milan , and of Isabella d'Este  --  Election of Pope Alexander VI .  --  Bribery of the Cardinals  --  Influence of Ascanio Sforza over the new Pope , and satisfaction of Lodovico  --  Hunting-parties at Pavia and Vigevano  --  Fetes at Milan  --  Visit of Isabella to Genoa  --  Lodovico 's letters  --  Piero de Medici  --  King Ferrante 's jealousy of the alliance between Rome and Milan 155 CHAPTER XIV 1493 Birth of Beatrice 's first-born son  --  The Duchess of Ferrara at Milan  --  Fetes and rejoicings at court and in the Castello  --  The court moves to Vigevano  --  Beatrice 's wardrobe  --  Her son 's portrait  --  Letters to her mother and sister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venice 166 CHAPTER XV 1493 Lodovico 's ambitious designs  --  Isabella of Aragon appeals to her father  --  Breach between Naples and Milan  --  Alliance between the Pope , Venice , and Milan proclaimed  --  Mission of Erasmo Brasca to the king of the Romans  --  Journey of Lodovico and Beatrice to Ferrara  --  Fetes and tournaments  --  Visit to Belriguardo , and return of Lodovico to Milan  --  Arrival of Belgiojoso from France 176 CHAPTER XVI 1493 Visit of Beatrice and her mother to Venice  --  Letters of Lodovico to his wife  --  Reception of the duchesses by the doge at S. Clemente  - -  Their triumphal entry  --  Procession and fetes in the Grand Canal  - -  Letter of Beatrice to her husband  --  The palace of the Dukes of Ferrara in Venice 185 CHAPTER XVII 1493 Fetes at Venice in honour of the Duchess of Ferrara and Duchess of Bari  --  Beatrice d'Este has an audience with the doge and Signory  - -  Explains Lodovico 's position and his treaties with France and Germany  --  Visit to St. Mark 's and the Treasury  --  Fete in the ducal palace  --  The Duchess visits the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Ferrara 195 CHAPTER XVIII 1493 Return of Beatrice to Milan  --  Visit of Duke Ercole and Alfonso to Pavia  --  Death of Duchess Leonora  --  Beatrice 's camora and Niccolo da Correggio 's fantasia dei vinci  --  Marriage of Bianca Maria Sforza to Maximilian , King of the Romans , celebrated at Milan  --  Letter of Beatrice to Isabella d'Este  --  Wedding fetes and journey of the bride to Innsbruck  --  Maximilian 's relations with his wife  - -  Bianca 's future life 205 CHAPTER XIX 1493-1494 State of political affairs in Italy  --  Vacillating policy of Lodovico Sforza  --  Death of King Ferrante of Naples  --  Alliance between his successor Alfonso and Pope Alexander VI .  --  Lodovico urges Charles VIII . to invade Naples  --  Sends Galeazzo di Sanseverino to Lyons  - -  Cardinal della Rovere 's flight from Rome  --  Alfonso of Naples declares war  --  Beatrice of Vigevano  --  The Gonzagas and the Moro  --  Duchess Isabella and her husband at Pavia 221 CHAPTER XX 1494 Arrival of the Duke of Orleans at Asti  --  The Neapolitan fleet sent against Genoa  --  The forces of Naples repulsed at Rapallo  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Annona  --  The king 's illness  --  His visit to Vigevano and Pavia  --  His interview with the Duke and Duchess of Milan  --  Last illness and death of Giangaleazzo Sforza  --  Lodovico proclaimed Duke at Milan  --  Mission of Maffeo Pirovano to Maximilian 231 CHAPTER XXI 1494 Lodovico joins Charles VIII . at Sarzana  --  Suspicious rumours as to the late duke 's death  --  Piero de ' Medici surrenders the six fortresses of Tuscany to Charles VIII .  --  Lodovico retires in disgust from the camp  --  Congratulations of all the Italian States on his accession  --  Grief of Duchess Isabella  --  Her return to Milan  --  Mission of Maffeo Pirovano to Antwerp  --  His interviews with Maximilian and Bianca  --  Letter to Lodovico to the Bishop of Brixen  --  Charles VIII . enters Rome  --  His treaty with Alexander VI . and departure for Naples 246 CHAPTER XXII 1495 Visit of Isabella d'Este to Milan  --  Birth of Beatrice 's son , Francesco Sforza  --  Fetes and comedies at the Milanese Court  --  Works of Leonardo and of Lorenzo di Pavia  --  Mission of Caradosso to Florence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Entry of King Charles VIII . and flight of Ferrante II .  --  Consternation in Milan  --  Departure of Isabella d'Este 258 CHAPTER XXIII 1495 Proclamation of the new league against France at Venice  --  Charles VIII . at Naples  --  Demoralization of the victors  --  Charles leaves Naples and returns to Rome  --  The Duke of Orleans refuses to give up Asti  --  Arrival of the imperial ambassadors at Milan  --  Lodovico presented with the ducal insignia  --  Fetes in the Castello  - -  The Duke of Orleans seizes Novara  --  Terror of Lodovico  --  Battle of Fornovo  --  Victory claimed by both parties  --  The French reach Asti  - -  Isabella 's trophies restored by Beatrice 266 CHAPTER XXIV 1495 Ferrante II . recovers Naples  --  Siege of Novara by the army of the League  --  Review of the army by the Duke and Duchess of Milan  --  Charles VIII . visits Turin and comes to Vercelli  --  Negotiations for peace  - -  Lodovico and Beatrice at the camp  --  Treaty of Vercelli concluded between France and Milan  --  Jealousy of the other powers  --  Commines at Vigevano  --  Zenale 's altar-piece in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venice defends the liberties of Pisa against Florence  --  Lodovico invites Maximilian to enter Italy and succour the Pisans  --  The Duke and Duchess of Milan go to meet the emperor at Bormio  --  Maximilian crosses the Alps and comes to Vigevano  --  His interview with the Venetian envoys  --  His expedition to Pisa 287 CHAPTER XXVI 1496 Isabella d'Este joins her husband in Naples  --  Works of Bramante and Leonardo in the Castello of Milan  --  The Cenacolo  --  Lodovico sends for Perugino  --  His passion for Lucrezia Crivelli  --  Grief of Beatrice  - -  Death of Bianca Sforza  --  The Emperor Maximilian at Pisa  --  The Duke and Duchess return to Milan  --  Last days and sudden death of Beatrice d'Este 298 CHAPTER XXVII 1497 Grief of the Duke of Milan  --  His letters to Mantua and Pavia  - -  Interview with Costabili  --  Funeral of Duchess Beatrice  --  Mourning of her husband  --  Letters of the Emperor Maximilian and Chiara Gonzaga  - -  Tomb of Beatrice in Santa Maria delle Grazie  --  Leonardo 's Cenacolo , and portraits of the duke and duchess  --  Lucrezia Crivelli 307 CHAPTER XXVIII 1497-1498 The Marquis of Mantua @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displeasure by his intrigues  --  Isabella d'Este 's correspondence with the Duke of Milan  --  Leonardo in the Castello  - -  Death of Charles VIII .  --  Visit of Lodovico to Mantua  --  Francesco Gonzaga appointed captain of the imperial forces  --  Isabella of Aragon and Isabella d'Este  --  Chiara Gonzaga and Caterina Sforza  - -  Lodovico 's will 322 CHAPTER XXIX 1499 Treaty of Blois  --  Alliance between France , Venice , and the Borgias  - -  Lodovico appeals to Maximilian  --  His gift to Leonardo and letter to the Certosa  --  The French and the Venetians invade the Milanese  - -  Desertion of Gonzaga and treachery of Milanese captains  --  Loss of Alessandria  --  Panic and flight of Duke Lodovico  --  Surrender of Pavia and Milan to the French  --  Treachery of Bernardino da Corte and surrender of the Castello  --  Triumphal entry of Louis XII 337 CHAPTER XXX 1499-1500 Louis XII . in Milan  --  Hatred of the French rule  --  Return of Duke Lodovico  --  His march to Como and triumphal entry into Milan  --  Trivulzio and the French retire to Mortara  --  Surrender of the Castello of Milan , of Pavia and Novara , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Arrival of La Tremouille 's army  --  Lodovico besieged in Novara and betrayed to the French king by the Swiss  --  Rejoicings at Rome and Venice  --  Triumph of the Borgias  --  Sufferings of the Milanese  --  Leonardo 's letter 352 CHAPTER XXXI 1500-1508 Lodovico Sforza enters Lyons as a captive  --  His imprisonment at Pierre-Encise and Lys Saint-Georges  --  Laments over Il Moro in the popular poetry of France and Italy  --  Efforts of the Emperor Maximilian to obtain his release  --  Ascanio and Ermes Sforza released  --  Lodovico removed to Loches  --  Paolo Giovio 's account of his captivity  --  His attempt to escape  --  Dungeon at Loches  --  Death of Lodovico Sforza  --  His burial in S. Maria delle Grazie 367 CHAPTER XXXII 1500-1564 The Milanese exiles at Innsbruck  --  Galeazzo di Sanseverino becomes Grand Ecuyer of France  --  Is slain at Pavia  --  Maximilian Sforza made Duke of Milan in 1512  --  Forced to abdicate by Francis I. in 1515  - -  Reign of Francesco Sforza  --  Wars of France and Germany  --  Siege of Milan by the Imperialists  --  Duke Francesco restored by Charles V.  - -  His marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's effigies to the Certosa 375 INDEX 381 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS BIANCA SFORZA , BY AMBROGIO DE PREDIS Frontispiece From a photograph by SIGNOR D. ANDERSON , of Rome . SFORZA MS . ILLUMINATED To face p. 83 From a private photograph . ALTAR-PIECE , ASCRIBED TO ZENALE , WITH PORTRAITS OF LODOVICO SFORZA , BEATRICE D'ESTE AND THEIR SONS To face p. 284 From a photograph by SIGNOR D. ANDERSON , of Rome . GALEAZZO DI SANSEVERINO , BY AMBROGIO DE PREDIS To face p. 304 From a photograph by SIGNOR D. ANDERSON , of Rome . TOMB OF LODOVICO SFORZA AND BEATRICE D'ESTE IN THE CERTOSA OF PAVIA To face p. 389 From a photograph by FRATELLI ALINARI , of Florence . BEATRICE D'ESTE CHAPTER I The Castello of Ferrara  --  The House of Este  --  Accession of Duke Ercole I.  --  His marriage to Leonora of Aragon  --  Birth of Isabella and Beatrice d'Este  --  Plot of Niccolo d'Este  --  Visit of Leonora to Naples  --  The court of King Ferrante  --  Betrothal of Beatrice d'Este to Lodovico Sforza , Duke of Bari  --  And of Isabella d'Este @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands the Castello of the Este princes . All the great story of the past , all the romance of medieval chivalry , seems to live again in that picturesque , irregular pile with the crenellated towers and dusky red-brick walls , overhanging the sleepy waters of the ancient moat . The song of Boiardo and Ariosto still lingers in the air about the ruddy pinnacles ; the spacious courts and broad piazza recall the tournaments and pageants of olden time . Once more the sound of clanging trumpets or merry hunting-horn awakes the echoes , as the joyous train of lords and ladies sweep out through the castle gates in the summer morning ; once more , under vaulted loggias and high-arched balconies , we see the courtly scholar bending earnestly over some classic page , or catch the voice of high-born maiden singing Petrarch 's sonnets to her lute . St. George was the champion of Ferrara and the patron saint of the house of Este . There year by year his festival was celebrated with great rejoicings , and vast crowds thronged the piazza before the Castello to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. George who rides full tilt at the dragon in the rude sculptures on the portal of the Romanesque Cathedral hard by ; it is the same warrior-saint who , in his gleaming armour , looks down from the painted fresco above the portcullis of the castle drawbridge . And all the masters who worked for the Este dukes , whether they were men of native or foreign birth  --  Vittore Pisanello and Jacopo Bellini , Cosimo Tura and Dosso Dossi  --  took delight in the old story , and painted the legend of St. George and Princess Sabra in the frescoes or altar-pieces with which they adorned the churches and castle halls . The Estes , who took St. George for their patron , and fought and died under his banner , were themselves a chivalrous and splendour-loving race , ever ready to ride out in quest of fresh adventure in the chase or battle-field . Men and women alike were renowned , even among the princely houses of Italy in Renaissance time , for their rare culture and genuine love of art and letters . And they were justly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty which their subjects bore them . The Sforzas of Milan , the Medici of Florence , the Riarios or the Della Roveres , were but low-born upstarts by the side of this illustrious race which had reigned on the banks of the Po during the last two hundred years . In spite of wars and bloodshed , in spite of occasional conspiracies and tumults , chiefly stirred up by members of the reigning family , the people of Ferrara loved their rulers well , and never showed any wish to change the house of Este for another . The citizens took a personal interest in their own duke and duchess and in all that belonged to them , and chronicled their doings with minute attention . They shared their sorrows and rejoiced in their joys , they lamented their departure and hailed their return with acclamation , they followed the fortunes of their children with keen interest , and welcomed the return of the youthful bride with acclamations , or wept bitter tears over her untimely end . Of all the Estes who held sway at Ferrara , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father of Beatrice . During the thirty-four years that he reigned in Ferrara , the duchy enjoyed a degree of material prosperity which it had never attained before , and rose to the foremost rank among the states of North Italy . And in the troubled times of the next century , his people looked back on the days of Duke Ercole and his good duchess as the golden age of Ferrara . After the death of his father , the able and learned Niccolo III. , who first established his throne on sure and safe foundations , Ercole 's two elder half-brothers , Leonello and Borso , reigned in succession over Ferrara , and kept up the proud traditions of the house of Este , both in war and peace . Both were bastards , but in the Este family this was never held to be a bar to the succession . " In Italy , " as Commines wrote , " they make little difference between legitimate and illegitimate children . " But when the last of the two , Duke Borso , died on the 27th of May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Rome , to receive the investiture of his duchy from the Pope , Niccolo 's eldest legitimate son Ercole successfully asserted his claim to the throne , and entered peacefully upon his heritage . Two years later , the next duke , who was already thirty-eight years of age , obtained the hand of Leonora of Aragon , daughter of Ferrante , King of Naples , and sent his brother Sigismondo at the head of a splendid retinue to bring home his royal bride . After a visit to Rome , where Pope Sixtus IV . entertained her at a series of magnificent banquets and theatrical representations , the young duchess entered Ferrara in state . On a bright June morning she rode through the streets in a robe glittering with jewels , with a stately canopy over her head and a gold crown on her flowing hair . Latin orations , orchestral music , and theatrical displays , for which Ferrara was already famous , greeted the bridal procession at every point . The houses were hung with tapestries and cloth of gold , avenues of flowering shrubs were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greeted the coming of the fair princess who was to make her home in Ferrara . The happy event was commemorated by a noble medal , designed by the Mantuan Sperandio , the most illustrious of a school of medallists employed at Ferrara in Duke Borso 's time , while Leonora 's refined features and expressive face are preserved in a well-known bas-relief , now in Paris . Ercole and his bride took up their abode in the Este palace , a stately Renaissance structure opposite the old Lombard Duomo , a few steps from the Castello , with which it was connected by a covered passage . The charm and goodness of the young duchess soon won the heart of her subjects . From the first she entered eagerly into Ercole 's schemes for ordering his capital and encouraging art , and brought a new and gentler influence to bear on the society of her husband 's court . There , too , she found a congenial spirit in the duke 's accomplished sister , Bianca , that Virgin of Este , who was the subject of Tito Strozzi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the admiration of all her contemporaries . This cultivated princess had been originally betrothed to the eldest son of Federigo , Duke of Urbino , but his early death put an end to these hopes , and in 1468 she married Galeotto della Mirandola , a prince of the house of Carpi , who lived , at Ferrara some years , and afterwards entered the service of Lodovico Sforza and served as captain in his wars . On the 18th of May , 1474 , the duchess gave birth to a daughter , who received the name of Isabella , always a favourite in the house of Aragon , and was destined to become the most celebrated lady of the Renaissance . A year later , on the 29th of June , 1475 , a second daughter saw the light . Her appearance , however , proved no cause of rejoicing , as we learn from the contemporary chronicle published by Muratori  --  " A daughter was born this day to Duke Ercole , and received the name of Beatrice , being the child of Madonna Leonora his wife . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a boy . " No one in Ferrara then dreamt that the babe who received so cold a welcome would one day reign over the Milanese , as the wife of Lodovico Sforza , the most powerful of Italian princes , and would herself be remembered by posterity as " la piu zentil donna in Italia "  --  the sweetest lady in all Italy . At least the name bestowed upon her was a good omen . She was called Beatrice after two favourite relatives of her parents . One of these was Leonora 's only sister , Beatrice of Aragon , who in that same year passed through Ferrara on her way to join her husband , Matthias Corvinus , King of Hungary , and whose presence , we are told by the diarist , gave great pleasure to both duke and duchess . The other Beatrice was Ercole 's half-sister , the elder daughter of Niccolo III. , who had long been the ornament of her father 's court , when she had been known as the Queen of Feasts , and it had become a common proverb that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth . In 1448 , at the age of twenty-one , this brilliant lady had wedded Borso da Correggio , a brother of the reigning prince of that city , and , after her first husband 's early death , had become the wife of Tristan Sforza , an illegitimate son of the great Condottiere Francesco Sforza , Duke of Milan . Although her home was now in Lombardy , Beatrice d'Este remained on intimate terms with her own family , and her son Niccolo da Correggio was known as the handsomest and most accomplished cavalier at the court of Ferrara . He had accompanied his uncle Duke Borso on his journey to Rome , and had been one of the escort sent to conduct Duchess Leonora from Naples . In the summer of the year following Beatrice 's birth , the hopes of the loyal Ferrarese were at length fulfilled , and a son was born to the duke and duchess on the 21st of July , 1476 . This time the citizens abandoned themselves to demonstrations of enthusiastic delight . The bells were rung and the shops closed during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great pomp in the Chapel of the Vescovado , close to the Duomo . The infant received the name of Alfonso , after his grandfather , the great King of Naples , and a " beautiful fete , " to quote one chronicler 's words , " was held in honour of the auspicious event in the Sala Grande of the Schifanoia Villa . " On this occasion a concert was given by a hundred trumpeters , pipers , and tambourine-players in the frescoed hall of this favourite summer palace , and a sumptuous banquet was prepared after the fashion of the times , with an immense number of confetti , representing lords and ladies , animals , trees , and castles , all made of gilt and coloured sugar , which our friend the diarist tells us were carried off or eaten by the people as soon as the doors were opened . But a few days afterwards , while Duke Ercole was away from Ferrara , his wife was surprised by a sudden rising , the result of a deep-laid conspiracy , secretly planned by his nephew , Niccolo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first endeavour was to seize on the person of the duchess and her young children , an attempt which almost proved successful , but was fortunately defeated by Leonora 's own courage and presence of mind . The palace was already surrounded by armed men , when the alarm reached the ears of the duchess , and , springing out of bed with her infant son in her arms , followed by her two little daughters and a few faithful servants , she fled by the covered way to the Castello . Hardly had she left her room , when the conspirators rushed in and sacked the palace , killing all who tried to offer resistance . The people of Ferrara , however , were loyal to their beloved duke and duchess . After a few days of anxious suspense , Ercole returned , and soon quelled the tumult and restored order in the city . That evening he appeared on the balcony of the Castello , and publicly embraced his wife and children amid the shouts and applause of the whole city . The next day the whole ducal family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave public thanks for their marvellous deliverance . A terrible list of cruel reprisals followed upon this rebellion , and Niccolo d'Este himself , with two hundred of his partisans , were put to death after the bloody fashion of the times . A year later , when the danger was over and tranquillity had been completely restored , Leonora and her two little daughters set out for Naples , under the escort of Niccolo da Correggio , to be present at her father King Ferrante 's second marriage with the young Princess Joan of Aragon , a sister of Ferdinand the Catholic . The duchess and her children travelled by land to Pisa , where galleys were waiting to conduct them to Naples , and reached her father 's court on the 1st of June , 1477 . Here Leonora spent the next four months , and in September , gave birth to a second son , who was named Ferrante , after his royal grandfather . But soon news reached Naples that war had broken out in Northern Italy , and that Duke Ercole had been chosen Captain-general of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duchess was absolutely necessary at Ferrara , and early in November Leonora left Naples and hastened home to take up the reins of government and administer the state in her lord 's stead . She took her elder daughter Isabella with her , but left her new-born son at Naples , together with his little sister Beatrice , from whom the old King Ferrante refused to part . This bright-eyed child , who had won her grandfather 's affections at this early age , remained at Naples for the next eight years , and grew up in the royal palace on the terraced steps of that enchanted shore , where even then Sannazzaro was dreaming of Arcadia , and where Lorenzo de ' Medici loved to talk over books and poetry with his learned friend the Duchess Ippolita . Beatrice was too young to realize the rare degree of culture which had made Alfonso 's and Ferrante 's court the favourite abode of the Greek and Latin scholars of the age , too innocent to be aware of the dark deeds which threw a shadow over these sunny regions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refinement and cruelty , recalled the days of Imperial Rome . But the balmy breath of these Southern climes , the soft luxuriant spell of blue seas and groves of palm and cassia , sank deep into the child 's being , and something of the fire and passion , the mirth and gaiety , of the dwellers in this delicious land passed into her soul , and helped to mould her nature during these years that she spent far from mother and sister at King Ferrante 's court . In these early days many personages with whom she was to be closely associated in after-years were living at Naples . There were scholars and poets whom she was to meet again in Milan at her husband 's court , and who would be glad to remind her that they had known her as a child in her grandfather 's palace . There was Pontano , the founder of the Academy of Naples , who was busy writing his Latin eclogues on the myrtle bowers of Baiae and the orange groves of Sorrento . There was her aunt , the accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek of the great teacher Lascaris in her young days at Milan , and whose wedding had brought the magnificent Lorenzo to the court of the Sforzas . And for playmates the little Beatrice had Ippolita 's children : the boy Ferrante , whose chivalrous nature endeared him to his Este cousins , even when their husbands joined with the French invaders to drive him from his father 's throne ; and the girl Isabella , who was already affianced to the young Duke Giangaleazzo , who was in future years to become her companion and rival at the court of Milan . Here , too , in the summer of 1479 , came a new visitor in the shape of Duchess Ippolita 's brother , Lodovico Sforza , surnamed Il Moro , himself the younger son of the great Duke Francesco . On his elder brother Sforza 's death , the King of Naples had invested him with the duchy of Bari , and now he promised him men and money with which to assert his claims against his sister-in-law , the widowed Duchess Bona and the minions who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In June , 1477 , only a few days after Leonora and her children left Ferrara , the exiled prince had arrived there on his way to Pisa , and had been courteously entertained by Duke Ercole in the Schifanoia Palace . Since then he had spent two dreary years in exile at Pisa , fretting out his heart in his enforced idleness , and pining for the hour of release . That hour was now at hand . Before the end of the year , Lodovico Sforza had , by a succession of bold manoeuvres , driven out his rivals and was virtually supreme in Milan . The first step which the new regent took was to ally himself with the Duke of Ferrara . The houses of Sforza and Este had always been on friendly terms , and Ercole 's father Niccolo had presented Francesco Sforza with a famous diamond in acknowledgment of the services rendered him by the great Condottiere . When Francesco 's son and successor , Duke Galeazzo Maria , was murdered in 1476 , his widow , Duchess Bona , had renewed the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between her infant daughter Anna Sforza and Duke Ercole 's new-born son and heir Alfonso . In May , 1477 , this betrothal was proclaimed in Milan , and a fortnight later the nuptial contract was signed at Ferrara . The union of the two houses was celebrated by solemn processions and thanksgivings throughout the duchy , and the infant bridegroom was carried in the arms of his chamberlain to meet the Milanese ambassador , who appeared on behalf of the little three-year-old bride . Seven years afterwards , Duchess Leonora sent a magnificent doll with a trousseau of clothes designed by the best artists in Ferrara , as a gift to the little daughter-in-law whom she had not yet seen . In 1480 , Lodovico Sforza formally asked Ercole to give him the hand of his elder daughter Isabella , then a child of six . Lodovico himself was twenty-nine , and besides being a man of remarkable abilities and singularly handsome presence , had the reputation of being the richest prince in Italy . Duke Ercole further saw the great importance of strengthening the alliance with Milan at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Pope and Venice . Unfortunately , his youthful daughter had already been sought in marriage by Federico , Marquis of Mantua , on behalf of his elder son , Giovanni Francesco ; and Ercole , unwilling to offend so near a neighbour , and yet reluctant to lose the chance of a second desirable alliance , offered Lodovico Sforza the hand of his younger daughter , Beatrice . The Duke of Bari made no objection to this arrangement , and on St. George 's Day , Ercole addressed the following letter to his old ally , Marquis Federico :  --  " MOST ILLUSTRIOUS LORD AND DEAREST BROTHER , " This is to inform you that the most illustrious Madonna Duchess of Milan and His Illustrious Highness Lodovico Sforza have sent their ambassador , M. Gabriele Tassino , to ask for our daughter Madonna Isabella on behalf of Signor Lodovico . We have replied that to our regret this marriage was no longer possible , since we had already entered into negotiations on the subject with your Highness and your eldest son . But since we have another daughter at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and who has been adopted by his Majesty the King of Naples as his own child , we have written to acquaint His Serene Majesty with the wish of these illustrious Persons , and have asked him if he will consent to accept the said Signor Lodovico as his kinsman , since without his leave we were unable to dispose of our daughter Beatrice 's hand . The said Persons having expressed themselves as well content with the proceeding , out of respect for the King 's Majesty he has now declared his approval of this marriage , to which we have accordingly signified our consent . We are sure that you will rejoice with us , seeing the close union and alliance that has long existed between us , and beg your Illustrious Highness to keep the matter secret for the present . " HERCULES , DUX FERR. , ETC. 1 Ferrara , 23rd April , 1480 . " It is curious to reflect on the possible changes in the course of events in Italian history during the next thirty years , if Lodovico Sforza 's proposals had reached Ferrara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her sister Beatrice , had become his wife . Would the rare prudence and self-control of the elder princess have led her to play a different part in the difficult circumstances which surrounded her position at the court of Milan as the Moro 's wife ? Would Isabella 's calmer temperament and wise and far-seeing intellect have been able to restrain Lodovico 's ambitious dreams and avert his ruin ? The cordial relations that were afterwards to exist between Lodovico and his gifted sister-in-law , the Moro 's keen appreciation of Isabella 's character , incline us to believe that she would have acquired great influence over her lord ; and that so remarkable a woman would have played a very important part on this larger stage . But the Fates had willed otherwise , and Beatrice d'Este became the bride of Lodovico Sforza . Her royal grandfather , old King Ferrante , gave his sanction to the proposed marriage , although he refused to part from his little grandchild at present , and when , five years later , Beatrice returned to Ferrara , she assumed the title and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Lodovico 's promised wife . She had by this time reached the age of ten , and her espoused husband was exactly thirty-four . FOOTNOTES : 1 Luzio-Renier in Archivio Storico Lombardo , xvii. 77 . CHAPTER II Lodovico Sforza  --  Known as Il Moro  --  His birth and childhood  --  Murder of Duke Galeazzo Maria  --  Regency of Duchess Bona  --  Exile of the Sforza brothers  --  Lodovico at Pisa  --  His invasion of Lombardy and return to Milan  --  Death of Cecco Simonetta  --  Flight of Duchess Bona  --  Lodovico Regent of Milan . 1451-1582 Lodovico Sforza was certainly one of the most remarkable figures of the Italian Renaissance . He has generally been described as one of the blackest . " Born for the ruin of Italy , " was the verdict of his contemporary Paolo Giovio , a verdict which every chronicler of the sixteenth century has endorsed . These men who saw the disasters which overwhelmed their country under the foreign rule , could not forget that Charles VIII. , the first French king who invaded Italy , had crossed the Alps as the friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others were at least equally guilty , and did not realize the vast network of intrigues in which Pope Julius II. , the Venetian Signory , and the King of Naples all had a share . Later historians with one consent have accepted Paolo Giovio 's view , and have made Lodovico responsible for all the miseries which arose from the French invasion . The bitter hatred with which both French and Venetian writers regarded the prince who had foiled their countrymen and profited by their mistakes , has helped to deepen this sinister impression . The greatest crimes were imputed to him , the vilest calumnies concerning his personal character found ready acceptance . But the more impartial judgment of modern historians , together with the light thrown upon the subject by recently discovered documents , has done much to modify our opinion of Lodovico 's character . The worst charges formerly brought against him , above all , the alleged poisoning of his nephew , the reigning Duke of Milan , have been dismissed as groundless and wholly alien to his nature and character . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrator have been fully recognized , while it is admitted on all hands that his generous and enlightened encouragement of art and letters entitles him to a place among the most illustrious patrons of the Renaissance . To his keen intellect and discerning eye , to his fine taste and quick sympathy with all forms of beauty , we owe the production of some of the noblest works of art that human hands have ever fashioned . To his personal encouragement and magnificent liberality we owe the grandest monuments of Lombard architecture , and the finest development of Milanese painting , the facade of the Certosa and the cupola of Sta . Maria delle Grazie , the frescoes and altar-pieces of the Brera and the Ambrosiana . Above all , it was at the Milanese court , under the stimulating influence of the Moro , that Leonardo da Vinci 's finest work was done . As a man , Lodovico Sforza is profoundly interesting . Burckhardt has called him the most complete among the princely figures of the Italian Renaissance , and there can be no doubt that alike in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the age in which he lived . Guicciardini , who was certainly no friend to him , and regarded him as the inveterate foe of Florence , describes him as " a creature of very rare perfection , most excellent for his eloquence and industry and many gifts of nature and spirit , and not unworthy of the name of milde and mercifull ; " and the Milanese doctor Arluno , the author of an unpublished chronicle in the Biblioteca Marciana at Venice , says , " He had a sublime soul and universal capacity . Whatever he did , he surpassed expectation , in the fine arts and learning , in justice and benevolence . And he had no equal among Italian princes for wisdom and sagacity in public affairs . " Contemporary writers describe him as very pleasant in manner and gracious in speech , always gentle and courteous to others , ready to listen , and never losing his temper in argument . He shared in the laxity of morals common to his age ; but was a man of deep affections as well as strong passions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profound and lasting grief with which he lamented his dead wife amazed his more fickle contemporaries . Singularly refined and sensitive by nature , he shrank instinctively from bloodshed , and had a horror of all violent actions . In this he differed greatly from his elder brother Galeazzo Maria , who was a monster of lust and cruelty , intent only on gratifying his savage instincts , and as callous to human suffering as he was reckless of human life . Lodovico , as his most hostile critics agree , was emphatically not a cruel man , and rarely consented to condemn even criminals to death . But , like many other politicians who have great ends in view , he was often unscrupulous as to the means which he employed , and , as Burckhardt very truly remarked , would probably have been surprised at being held responsible for the means by which he attained his object . Trained from early youth in the most tortuous paths of Italian diplomacy , he acted on the principle laid down by the Venetian Marino Sanuto , that the first duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he means to do one thing and then do another . But in these tangled paths he often over-reached himself , and only succeeded in inspiring all parties with distrust ; and , as too often happens , this deceiver was deceived in his turn , and in the end betrayed by men in whom his whole trust had been placed . Another curious feature of Lodovico 's character was the strain of moral cowardice which , in spite of great personal bravery , marked his public actions at the most critical moments . This sudden failure of courage , or loss of nerve , that to his contemporaries seemed little short of madness , absolutely inexplicable in a man who had faced death without a thought on many a battle-field , ultimately wrought his own downfall as well as that of his State . And yet , in spite of all his faults and failings , in spite of the strange tissue of complex aims and motives which swayed his course , Lodovico Sforza was a man of great ideas and splendid capacities , a prince who was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise and beneficial schemes for the encouragement of agriculture and the good of his poorer subjects , his careful regulations for the administration of the University and advancement of all branches of learning , his extraordinary industry and minute attention to detail , can not fail to inspire our interest and command our admiration . In more peaceful times and under happier circumstances he would have been an excellent ruler , and his great dream of a united kingdom of North Italy might have been well and nobly realized . As it was , the history of Lodovico Moro belongs to the saddest tragedies of the Renaissance , and the splendour of his prosperity and the greatness of his fall became the common theme of poet and moralist . The story of Lodovico 's childhood is one of the pleasantest parts of his strangely chequered career . He was the fourth son of Francesco Sforza , the famous soldier of fortune who had married Madonna Bianca , daughter of the last Visconti , and reigned in right of his wife as Duke of Milan during twenty years . On the 19th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the great captain had boldly entered Milan and been proclaimed Duke , Duchess Bianca gave birth at her summer palace of Vigevano to a fine boy . This " bel puello , " as he is called in the despatch announcing the news to his proud father , received the name of Lodovico Mauro , which was afterwards altered to Lodovico Maria , when , after his recovery from a dangerous illness at five years old , his mother placed him under the special protection of the Blessed Virgin . On this occasion Bianca vowed rich offerings to the shrine of Il Santo at Padua , and in discharge of this vow , her faithful servant Giovanni Francesco Stanga of Cremona was sent to Padua in February , 1461 , to present a life-size image of the boy richly worked in silver , together with a complete set of vestments and of altar plate bearing the ducal arms , to the ark of the blessed Anthony . In documents still preserved in the Paduan archives the boy is twice over mentioned as Lodovicus Maurus filius quartus masculus , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filii . Lodovici Mariae , 1461. " 2 There can , however , be little doubt that Maurus was the second name first given to Lodovico , and that this was the true origin of the surname Il Moro by which Francesco Sforza 's son became famous in after-years . The most ingenious explanations of this name have been invented by Italian chroniclers . Prato and Lomazzo both say that Lodovico was called Il Moro because of the darkness of his complexion and long black hair . Guicciardini repeats the same , but Paolo Giovio , who had seen Lodovico at Como , asserts that his complexion was fair , and he owed this surname to the mulberry-tree which he adopted as his device , because it waits till the winter is well over to put forth its leaves , and is therefore called the most prudent of all trees . As a matter of fact , there is no doubt that the surname was given to Lodovico by his parents . " He was first called Moro by his father Francesco and his mother Bianca in his earliest years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the verse of a Milanese court poet : " Et Maurum laeto patris cognomine dictum . " The name naturally provoked puns . The dark-eyed boy with his long black hair and bushy eyebrows went by the nickname of Moro , and as he grew up , adopted both the Moor 's head and the mulberry-tree as his badge . These devices in their turn supplied the poets and painters of his court with themes on which they were never tired of exercising their wit and ingenuity . Moors and Moorish costumes were introduced in every masquerade and ballet , a Moorish page was represented brushing the robes of Italy in a fresco of the Castello of Milan , while mulberry colour became fashionable among the ladies of the Moro 's court , and was commonly worn by the servants and pages in the palace . Lodovico early gave signs of the love of literature and the great abilities which distinguished him in after-life . His quickness in learning by heart , his extraordinary memory , and the fluency with which he wrote and spoke Latin amazed his tutors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first Greek scholars of the day . Madonna Bianca , the only daughter of Filippo Maria , the last Visconti who had betrothed her before she was eight years old to Francesco Sforza , proved herself the best of wives and mothers . By her courage and wisdom she helped her husband to gain possession of her dead father 's duchy , and won the hearts of all her subjects by her goodness . While Francesco was engaged with affairs of state , she directed the studies of her children , and gave her six sons an admirable training in learning and knightly exercises . " Let us remember , " she said to her son 's tutor , the learned scholar Filelfo , " that we have princes to educate , not only scholars . " We find her setting the boys a theme on the manner in which princes should draw up treaties , and desiring them in her absence to write to her once a week in Latin . Several of these letters are still preserved in the archives of Milan . There is one , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tells his mother that he is sending her seventy quails , two partridges , and a pheasant , the result of a day 's sport in the forest , but takes care to assure her that the pleasures of the chase will never make him neglect his books . Many are the pleasant glimpses we catch of the family circle , whether in the Corte vecchia or old ducal palace of the Viscontis at Milan , in the beautiful park and gardens of the Castello at Pavia , or in their country homes of Vigevano and Binasco . We see Duke Francesco riding out with his young sons through the streets of Milan , visiting the churches and convents that were rising on all sides , the new hospital , which was the object of Madonna Bianca 's tender care , the oak avenues and gardens with which she loved to surround her favourite shrines . We find the boys at home , helping their mother to entertain her guests with music and dancing , and accompanying her on visits to the noble Milanese families . One day their grandmother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's sons with an old gentleman from Navarre , who went home declaring that he had never seen such wise and well-educated children ; another time we hear of a Madonna Giovanna coming to spend the day at the palace , and dancing all the evening with Lodovico Maria ; and when the duchess took her younger children to visit Don Tommaseo de ' Rieti , general laughter was excited by the little four-year-old Ascanio , the future cardinal , who walked straight up to a portrait of the duke , exclaiming , " There is my lord father ! " When the newly elected Pope Pius II. , who as Eneas Sylvius Piccolomini had often been in Milan , came to visit the duke in 1457 , he found Galeazzo reading Cicero , and his little brothers with their cherub faces sitting round their tutor , intent on his discourse ; while on one occasion their sister Ippolita , the pupil of the great Constantine Lascaris , pronounced a Latin oration in honour of His Holiness . On Christmas day , a festival which was always celebrated with much pomp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sons came forward and recited a Latin speech , and Lodovico delighted all who were present by the ease and grace of his bearing , and the eloquent periods in which he extolled his father 's great deeds in peace and war . The duke himself always singled out Lodovico for especial notice , and said the boy would do great things . It was , no doubt , his sense of the youthful Moro 's talents that made Francesco choose him , at the age of thirteen , to be the leader of the body of three thousand men which were to join in the Crusade preached by Pope Pius II . On the 2nd of June , 1464 , the ducal standard , bearing the golden lion of the house of Sforza and the adder of the Visconti , was solemnly committed to the charge of the young Crusader , before the eyes of the whole court , on the piazza in front of the old palace , which was gaily decorated for the occasion with garlands and tapestries . But the Pope died , and the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent by his father to Cremona , the city which had been Duchess Bianca 's dowry , and whose inhabitants were among the most loyal subjects of the Sforza princes . Here he lived during the next two years , enjoying his foretaste of power , and making himself very popular with the Cremonese . In 1465 , his accomplished sister was married to Alfonso , Duke of Calabria , and Lorenzo de Medici came to Milan for the nuptials . Then these two men , who in days to come were to be so often named together as the most illustrious patrons of art and letters in the Renaissance , met for the first time , and discovered the mutual tastes which in future years often brought them into close relation . The sudden death of Duke Francesco in 1466 brought a change in Lodovico 's position , and the ingratitude with which the new duke , Galeazzo , treated his widowed mother , naturally irritated his brothers . In October , 1468 , Bianca retired to Cremona , where she died a week after her arrival  --  " more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote her doctor . The good duchess was buried by her husband 's side in the Duomo of Milan , and was long and deeply lamented both by her children and subjects , and by none more than her son Lodovico , who always remembered his mother with the deepest affection . But he remained on good terms with Galeazzo , and was deputed by the new duke to receive his bride , Bona of Savoy , when the princess arrived at Genoa , from the French court , where her youth had been spent with her sister , the wife of King Louis XI . During the next ten years Lodovico lived in enforced idleness at the Milanese court , and , freed from the restraint of his parents ' authority , abandoned himself to idle pleasures . All we have from his pen at this period are two short letters . In one , written from Milan and dated April 19 , 1476 , he asks the Cardinal of Novara to stand godfather to the illegitimate son whom his mistress , Lucia Marliani , Countess of Melzi , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pavia . The other is an affectionate letter addressed from Vigevano a year later to Lucia herself , rejoicing to hear of her well-being , and looking forward to seeing her after the feast of St. George . Whether the son was Leone Sforza , afterwards apostolic protonotary , or whether he was the child whose death Lodovic lamented a few years later , does not appear , but all his life the Moro retained a sincere regard for the mother , Lucia Marliani , and left her certain lands by his will . Meanwhile , in the conduct of his elder brother Galeazzo he had the worst possible example . Once in possession of supreme power , the new duke gave himself up to the most unbridled course of vice and cruelty . The profligacy of his life , and the horrible tortures which he inflicted on the hapless victims of his jealousy and anger , caused Milanese chroniclers to describe him as another Nero . He was commonly believed to have poisoned both his mother and Dorotea Gonzaga , the betrothed bride of whom he wished to rid himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were probably groundless , but some of his actions went far to justify the suspicions of madness which he aroused in the minds of his contemporaries . When , for instance , he ordered his artists to decorate a hall at the Castello at Pavia with portraits of the ducal family in a single night , under pain of instant death , the Ferrarese Diarist had good reason to describe the new Duke of Milan as a prince guilty of great crimes and greater follies . At the same time , Galeazzo showed himself a liberal patron of art and learning . He founded a library at Milan , invited doctors and priests to the University of Pavia , and brought singers from all parts of the world to form the choir of the ducal chapel . During his reign a whole army of painters and sculptors were employed to decorate the interior of the Castello of the Porta Giovia at Milan , which his father had rebuilt when he gave up the ground in front of the old palace to the builders of the Duomo , and which now became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced , and the first book ever produced in Italy , the Grammar of Lascaris  --  a Greek professor who had taken refuge at the court of the Sforzas on the fall of Constantinople  --  appeared at Milan in 1476 . The splendour of his court surpassed anything that had been yet seen . Great rejoicings took place in 1469 , when Lorenzo de Medici came to Milan to stand godfather to the duke 's infant son , and Galeazzo was so delighted at the sight of the costly diamond necklace which the Magnificent Medici presented to Duchess Bona on this occasion , that he exclaimed , " You must be godfather to all my children ! " The wealth and luxury displayed by the duke and duchess when they visited Florence two years later with a suite of two thousand persons , scandalized the old-fashioned citizens , and , in Machiavelli 's opinion , proved the beginning of a marked degeneracy in public morals . For a time the Milanese were amused by the fetes provided for them , and dazzled by the sight of all this splendour ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Stephen in the winter of 1476 , Duke Galeazzo was assassinated at the doors of the church of S. Stefano by three courtiers whom he had wronged . The Milanese chronicler Bernardino Corio gives a dramatic account of the scene , which he himself witnessed , and relates how Bona , who was haunted by a presentiment of coming evil , implored her lord not to leave the Castello that morning , and how three ravens were seen hovering about Galeazzo 's head on that very morning , when , in his splendid suit of crimson brocade , the tall and handsome duke entered the church doors , while the choir sang the words , " Sic transit gloria mundi . " " The peace of Italy is dead ! " exclaimed Pope Sixtus IV . when the news of Galeazzo 's murder reached him . And the issue proved that he was not far wrong . In her distress , the widowed duchess , who seems to have been fondly attached to her husband , in spite of his crimes and follies , addressed a piteous letter to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asking him if he could issue a bull absolving him from his many and grievous sins . In her anxiety for Galeazzo 's soul , she promised to atone as far as possible for his crimes by making reparation to those whom he had wronged , and offered to build churches and monasteries , endow hospitals , and perform other works of mercy . The Pope does not seem to have returned a direct answer to this touching prayer , but he took advantage of Bona 's present mood to hurry on the marriage of Caterina Sforza , the duke 's natural daughter , with his own nephew , Girolamo Riario , which had been arranged by Galeazzo , and which took place in the following April . Lodovico was absent at the time of Galeazzo 's assassination , and with his brother Sforza , Duke of Bari , was spending Christmas at the court of Louis XI . at Tours . They had not been banished , as Corio asserts , but , tired of idleness and fired with a wish to see the world , they had gone on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Angers , were on their way home when the news of the duke 's murder reached them . But if any hope of obtaining a share in the government had been aroused in Lodovico 's heart , it was doomed to speedy disappointment . Cecco Simonetta , the able secretary and minister who had administered the state under Galeazzo , kept a firm hold on the reins of government , ruled the Milanese in the name of Duchess Bona and her young son Gian Galeazzo . The Sforza brothers soon found their position intolerable , and the intervention of a friendly neighbour , the Marquis of Mantua , was necessary before they could obtain any recognition of their right . At his request , Bona agreed to give each of her brothers-in-law a suitable residence in Milan , as well as a portion of 12,500 ducats from the revenues of their mother 's inheritance , the city of Cremona . Filippo Sforza , the second of the brothers , who is described as weak in intellect and a person of no account , was content to live peaceably in Milan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his family , and where the only mention of him that occurs again is that of his death in 1492 . The other brothers were sent to Genoa , where an insurrection had broken out , and succeeded in subduing the rebels and restoring peace . But when they returned to Milan at the head of a victorious army , with their kinsman the valiant Condottiere Roberto di Sanseverino , a movement was set on foot among the old Ghibelline followers of Duke Francesco to obtain the regency for Sforza , Duke of Bari . Cries of Moro ! Moro ! began to be heard in the streets of Milan . Simonetta , becoming alarmed , threw Donato del Conte , one of the Ghibelline leaders , into prison , upon which Sanseverino and the Sforzas loudly demanded his release . Simonetta gave them fair words in return , and induced the dissatisfied chiefs to meet in the park of the Castello , where they agreed to lay down their arms . But Sanseverino , suspecting treachery , set spurs to his horse , and , riding with drawn sword @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vercellina , crossed the Ticino , and did not pause until he was in safety . His companions soon followed his example . Ottaviano Sforza , the youngest of the family , a brave lad of eighteen , was drowned in crossing the swollen Adda , and his three remaining brothers were condemned to perpetual exile . Sforza was banished to his duchy of Bari , in the kingdom of Naples , Ascanio to Perugia , and Lodovico to the city of Pisa . During the next eighteen months Lodovico lived at Pisa , fretting his heart out in exile and wasting the best years of his life , as he complained to Lorenzo de Medici . His friend could only counsel patience , for , sympathize as he might with the banished prince , Lorenzo was closely allied with the rulers of Milan , and Lodovico soon saw that his only hope of seeing his native land again was to be found in the support of Ferrante , King of Naples , the sworn foe of the Medici . This monarch looked on Simonetta as a traitorous villain who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in Milan , and wrote to King Louis XI , begging him to come to his kinswoman 's help and assist in restoring the Duke of Bari and his brother to their rights . But the French king had no wish to be drawn into the quarrel , and when Ferrante endeavoured to obtain the restoration of his exiled kinsmen by fair means and had failed , Sforza and Lodovico resolved to try the fortunes of war once more . Roberto di Sanseverino , whose mother had been a niece of Duke Francesco , and who had large estates of his own in Lombardy , placed his sword at their disposal , and they knew they could reckon on the secret support of their Sforza and Visconti kinsmen in Milan . Among these , Lodovico had a devoted partisan in Beatrice d'Este , the sister of Duke Ercole of Ferrara , who had lately been left a widow for the second time by the death of her husband , the brave soldier Tristan Sforza , and who kept up a secret correspondence with the exiled princes . Early in February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landed in Genoa and boldly raised the standard of revolt . Simonetta retaliated by confiscating their revenues and proclaiming them rebels , while he hired Ercole D'Este and Federigo Gonzaga to join the Florentines in resisting the advance of the Neapolitan forces . In the midst of these warlike preparations , Sforza Duke of Bari died very suddenly at Genoa . His death was attributed , after the fashion of the day , to poison secretly sent him from Milan ; but , as Corio remarks , many persons thought that his excessive stoutness was the true cause of his decease . Lodovico , whom the King of Naples immediately invested with the dukedom of Bari in his brother 's stead , now crossed the Genoese Alps and boldly invaded the territory of Tortona . But the enterprise was a perilous one , and the allied forces of Milan were preparing to crush his little army , when an unexpected turn of fortune altered the whole condition of affairs . Duchess Bona , a very beautiful woman , but , as Commines remarks , " une dame de petit sens " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ferrarese youth of low extraction , whom Galeazzo had appointed carver at the royal table , and who , after the duke 's death , had made himself indispensable to his mistress . The liaison had created a coolness between the duchess and her prime minister , of which Beatrice d'Este and some of the Sforza party cleverly availed themselves to widen the breach . They deplored the growing arrogance of Simonetta , and lamented the success of his intrigues against Lodovico , who was his sister-in-law 's nearest relative and rightful protector . Acting on their suggestion , Bona took a sudden resolve . She sent a messenger to invite Lodovico to return to Milan in his nephew 's name , and late in the evening of the 7th of October , 1479 , the Moro , leaving the camp at Tortona , arrived in Milan , and was secretly admitted into the Castello by the garden door . The duchess and her son , Gian Galeazzo , a boy of ten , received him with open arms , and great was the joy among all the Ghibellines of Milan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's son was once more among them . Simonetta looked grave , as he well might , when he heard the news . " Most illustrious duchess , " he said to Bona the next day , " do you know what will happen ? My head will be cut off , and before long you will lose this state . " But he proceeded to congratulate Lodovico on his return , and was received by him in the most courteous manner . When the news of these events reached the rival camps outside Milan , a truce was proclaimed , and the leaders on either side disbanded their armies . The object of the expedition was attained , and Lodovico restored to his rightful place at Milan . But neither Roberto di Sanseverino nor the other Ghibelline leader could be content while their hated rival Simonetta was still at large . They sent messengers to Lodovico , imperiously demanding his summary punishment , and declaring that they would never lay down their arms until he and his confederates were imprisoned . After some delay , Lodovico yielded to their demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pavia with his brother , while the fickle populace sacked their houses . Congratulations poured in from all the kinsfolk of the Sforza family . Caterina Sforza , the illegitimate daughter of Duke Galeazzo , who had been brought up by Bona with her own children , wrote from Rome , where she was living with her husband , Girolamo Riario , Count of Imola and Forli at the papal court , to rejoice with her brother the young duke over the fall of the hated minister ; " quelo nefandissimo Cecho the murderer of our family and our flesh and blood . " Now at length , he adds , she will be able to visit Milan and see her beloved mother once more in peace and safety . And her husband 's uncle , Pope Sixtus IV. , himself wrote to congratulate both duke and duchess on the arrest of Simonetta and the restoration of peace and tranquillity . Lodovico was now formally associated with Duchess Bona in the regency , and his brother Ascanio was recalled and advanced to the dignity of Archbishop of Pavia . Before many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the full approval of King Ferrante , the Duke of Ferrara accepted Lodovico Sforza as his future son-in-law . Meanwhile party feeling still ran high in Milan , and the Ghibellines , with Sanseverino and Pusterla at their head , never ceased to clamour for Simonetta 's head . People began to complain that Lodovico , who had been brought back to power by the Ghibellines , was after all a Guelph at heart , and a traitor to his party . In vain the Moro advocated milder measures , and wrote a letter to Simonetta , offering to release him on payment of a ransom . The old secretary , who was upwards of seventy years of age , refused , saying that he was ill and weary of life , and had no fear of death . At length Lodovico , vexed by the continual recriminations of his Ghibelline followers , reluctantly gave way . Bona signed the death warrant of her old servant , and on the 30th of October , 1480 , Simonetta was beheaded in the Castello of Pavia . His brother Giovanni , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to write the famous Sforziada , or history of Duke Francesco 's great deeds , which he dedicated to his son Lodovico . Already one-half of the unfortunate minister 's prophecy had come true ; the other half was soon to be fulfilled . For a few months Bona rejoiced in her freedom from the cares of state , and left all to Lodovico , " who could do her no greater pleasure than not to speak of these things , " says Commines . She herself was treated with the utmost respect , and spent her time in feasting and dancing , and loaded her favourite with honours . Tassino lived in rooms next to her own , and rode out with the duchess on pillion behind him . But her favourite , encouraged by the folly of his mistress , became every day more indolent , until one day he kept Lodovico Sforza and the chief officers of state waiting at the door of his room while he finished his toilet . Yet nothing could cure Bona 's infatuation , and she went so far as to beg Lodovico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rocca of Porta Zobia ( Giovia ) , as the Castello of Milan was called . Fortunately Eustachio , who had been appointed to the post by Duke Galeazzo , and solemnly charged to hold it , in case of his own death , until his son was of age , refused to give up the keys ; and the young duke and his brother Ermes were conducted into the Rocca , while at the same moment Tassino received an order from the Council to leave Milan . This he did without delay , taking with him a large sum of money and many valuable pearls and jewels which he had received from the duchess . When Bona heard of her favourite 's flight she flew into a frantic rage , and , " forgetful alike of honour and maternal duty , " as Corio writes , she renounced her share of the regency , saying that she placed her son in his uncle 's care , and left Milan . " Like some demented woman , " continues Corio , she fled as far as Abbiategrasso , where she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to proceed to France as she had intended . In the end , however , she effected her purpose , and retired to her brother-in-law 's Louis XI . ' s court , where she remained during the next few years , vowing vengeance against Lodovico , and bitterly repenting her weakness in having consented to his return . So Lodovico Moro , " that hero of patience and cunning , " as Michelet calls him , at length attained his object , and found himself sole Regent of Milan . Merito e tempore was the motto which he had chosen for his own , and which he placed in golden letters on his shield , and illuminated on the vellum pages of his favourite books , in the firm belief that all things come to the man who can learn to bide his time . Henceforth his head appeared together with that of his younger nephew on all coins and medals , and the words Lodovico patrue gubernante inscribed below . Pandolfini , the Florentine ambassador , who had watched his course with profound interest , sent a minute report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend , the Magnificent Medici . A year before , when Lodovico had just returned to Milan , the envoy remarked , " Signor Lodovico is very popular here , both with the people and with Madonna . " Again , a little later , he wrote , " Madonna trusts much in Messer Lodovico 's good nature . " Now he added , " The whole government of the kingdom is placed in Lodovico 's hands . " He could not refrain from an expression of admiration at the peaceable manner in which this revolution had been accomplished . " With what ability and skill he has effected this sudden change ! " And he added , " I tell him , if he uses his opportunities well , he will become the arbiter of the whole of Italy . " FOOTNOTES : 2 Caffi in A. S. L. , xiii . CHAPTER III Wars of Venice and Ferrara  --  Invasion of Ferrara  --  Lodovico Sforza and Alfonso of Calabria come to the help of Ercole d'Este  --  Peace of Bagnolo  --  Prosperity of Ferrara , and cultivation of art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manuzio  --  Strozzi and Boiardo  --  Architecture and painting  --  The frescoes of the Schifanoia  --  Music and the drama  --  Education of Isabella and Beatrice d'Este. 1482-1490 Such was the prince to whom Duke Ercole had betrothed his younger daughter , and who had suddenly become one of the chief personages in North Italy . But more than ten years were to elapse before the child-bride even saw her affianced husband . During that time both Milan and Ferrara passed through many vicissitudes , and at one moment Beatrice 's father and his state were reduced to the utmost extremity . The Venetians availed themselves of the troubled state of Lombardy and the civil strife that divided the house of Sforza , to attack their old enemy the Duke of Ferrara . In 1482 Roberto di Sanseverino , the valiant captain who had been one of the chief instruments in restoring his kinsman Lodovico Sforza to his country , left Milan in a rage , because he did not consider his salary sufficient , and offered his services to the Republic of Venice . With his gallant sons to help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of an army of seventeen thousand men , and carried all before him . The Pope as usual took up the quarrel of the Venetians , in the hope of sharing the spoil , and while Ercole 's ally , King Ferrante of Naples , was engaged in resisting the papal forces , the Genoese , who had revolted against Duchess Bona in 1478 , and elected a doge of their own , occupied Lodovico Sforza 's attention . The Ferrarese troops were completely defeated in a battle under the citadel of Argenta , many of the Ferrarese leaders were slain , and the duke 's nephew , Niccolo da Correggio , and three hundred men were taken prisoners to Venice . Sanseverino made good use of his advantage , and his son Gaspare , better known by his nickname of Fracassa , marched to the very gates of Ferrara , and planted the Lion of St. Mark on the peacocks ' house in the ducal park . Meanwhile the plague had broken out in Ferrara , and so great was the scarcity of wheat in the beleaguered city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isabella , applied to her betrothed husband Francesco Gonzaga for a grant of corn to save him from starvation . Worse than all , Duke Ercole himself lay dangerously ill within the Castello , and a report of his death was circulated through the city . At this critical moment Duchess Leonora once more showed her courage and presence of mind . Seeing the greatness of the danger , she sent her children with a safe escort to Modena , and calling the magistrates together , she harangued them from the garden loggia , and bade them be true to their old lords of the house of Este . The citizens , moved to tears at the sight of Leonora 's majesty and courage , shouted with one voice , " Diamante ! "  --  the watchword of the house of Este , and vowed to die for their duke . In their enthusiasm , the people broke open the palace doors , and rushing into the chamber where Ercole lay on his sick-bed , covered his hands with kisses , and would not be satisfied until they had heard his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this outburst of loyalty , they rallied bravely to the defence of the city . Every man who could bear arms in Ferrara helped to man the walls , and the country-folk , rising in thousands , harassed the invading army and cut off their supplies . Fortunately , help was at hand . On the one hand , Lodovico Sforza 's troops checked the advance of the Venetians on the side of Modena ; on the other , Ercole 's brother-in-law , Alfonso , Duke of Calabria , himself rode at the head of fifty horsemen and a troop of infantry to the help of the beleaguered city . Throughout the long struggle that followed , Lodovico Sforza proved himself a wise and faithful friend of the house of Este , and it was chiefly owing to him that Ferrara preserved her independence . But the duke and his people had to make great sacrifices on their part , and at the peace of Bagnolo , which was finally concluded in 1484 , seven towns were ceded to Venice , and the fertile district of Rovigo in the Polesina , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commines , " tout environne d'eau et abondant a merveille en tous biens . " A period of renewed peace and prosperity followed upon these disastrous wars . Ercole , although in his early youth he had proved himself a valiant soldier , had in reality far greater taste for the arts of peace than for those of war , and now devoted himself to the more congenial task of adorning Ferrara and cultivating letters . His father Niccolo III . had been the first prince in Northern Italy to take part in the revival of Greek learning that had been set on foot in Naples and Florence . He it was who , in 1402 , revived the ancient University of Ferrara , and invited the best scholars of the day to give lectures to its students . At his prayer , the Sicilian Hellenist Aurispa , who had travelled to Greece and Constantinople in search of Greek manuscripts , fixed his residence at Ferrara ; while Battista Guarino of Verona became the tutor of Niccolo 's own son Leonello , and inspired the young prince with that ardour for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . It was Niccolo , again , who invited the celebrated Paduan doctor , Michele Savonarola , to fill the chair of medicine at the University of Ferrara . Michele 's son became court physician to Ercole , and his grandson , the famous Dominican friar , Fra Girolamo Savonarola , who had forsaken the study of medicine to take the vows of a preaching brother , delivered his first course of Lent sermons in Ferrara during that troubled year 1482 . The General Council held at Ferrara in 1438 brought some of the first Greek Oriental scholars together in that city , and Niccolo d'Este himself assisted at many of the discussions held by these learned professors . His son Leonello , besides encouraging students by his own example , devoted great pains and expense to the University library which he founded , while his successor , Duke Borso , pensioned poor students , who were clothed and fed at his cost . Ercole now followed in his father 's and brother 's steps with so much success that under his reign the University of Ferrara became the foremost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the number of students reached four hundred and seventy-four . In those days the most renowned scholars of the age flocked from all parts of Italy to hear Guarino lecture ; and Aldo Manuzio , the great printer , and his illustrious friend Pico della Mirandola , the phoenix of the Renaissance , came to Ferrara to sit at the feet of this revered teacher . Here Aldo acquired the passion for Greek literature which made him inscribe the word Philhellene after his name on his first printed books . Here , in his own turn , he lectured on Greek and Latin authors to the cultured youth of Ercole 's court , and here he would have set up his printing-press , under his friend Duchess Leonora 's patronage , if the Venetian war had not forced him to leave Ferrara . Both from the court of Alberto Pio at Carpi , where he found refuge with a kinsman of the Estes , and at Venice , where he founded his famous printing-press , he kept up frequent communications with the duke 's family , and dedicated books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editions of Petrarch and Virgil for his sister Isabella d'Este . But if Duke Ercole emulated the zeal of his predecessors in the encouragement of classical learning , he surpassed them all in his love of travel , of building , and of theatrical representations . During the next twenty years he indulged freely in all of these favourite pursuits . His opportunities of travel , indeed , were limited by the duties of his position ; but whenever he could find leisure , he gratified his roving taste by paying frequent visits to Milan or Venice , where the magnificent palace bestowed upon his ancestor Nicolas II . in the last century , but confiscated during the war with Ferrara , had been restored to him at the peace of Bagnolo . In 1484 , he took Duchess Leonora there with a suite of seven hundred persons . On this occasion the palace originally decorated by Duke Borso was sumptuously restored , and the Doge and Senate entertained their guests with princely hospitality . A more distant pilgrimage to the shrine of S. Jago of Compostella in Spain , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , owing to the opposition of Pope Innocent VIII. ; but eight years later the duke paid another visit to Florence , on the pretence of discharging a vow which he had made to Our Lady of the Annunziata . To the last the adventurous disposition of the Estes , the love of seeing and hearing new things , marked his character and governed his actions . Meanwhile his imagination found plenty of food for activity at home , and nothing interfered with his love of building or with the delight which he took in the stage . Under him , Ferrara became one of the finest cities in Italy . Her broad streets and spacious squares , her noble statues and imposing monuments , the stately symmetry of her well-kept ways , made a deep impression on Lodovico Sforza when he visited his wife 's home . At the beginning of his reign Ercole had sent to Florence to borrow Alberti 's Treatise on Architecture from Lorenzo de ' Medici , and had carried out his improvements on the principles advocated by the Renaissance architect . On every side new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was added to the ancient Lombard Cathedral , an equestrian statue of Niccolo III . and a bronze effigy of Duke Borso adorned the piazza in front of the Castello . Soon Ercole 's subjects caught their duke 's passion for building , and vied with him in erecting new and sumptuous houses . His brother , Cardinal Sigismondo , raised the Palazzo Diamante , that magnificent Renaissance structure in the Via degli Angeli . The Trotti and the Costabili , the Strozzi and Boschetti , all followed suit and built palatial residences in the neighbourhood . These fine buildings were surrounded with spacious gardens . One of Ercole 's first improvements had been to lay out the noble park outside the town , and to people it with stags and goats , with gazelles and antelopes and the spotted giraffes which Niccolo da Correggio describes in his poems ; and on the gates leading from the city were marble busts carved by the hand of Sperandio , the famous medallist who had worked so long for the ducal house , and who has left us portraits of all the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Este palace was adorned with wide marble staircases , the villa of Belfiore was enlarged and beautified , while that of Belriguardo , twelve miles from the city , on the banks of the Po , became celebrated as the most sumptuous of all the stately pleasure-houses in which Renaissance princes took delight . No pains or expense were spared in the decoration of these luxurious country houses . The terraced gardens and marble loggias were adorned with fountains and statues , the halls were hung with costly tapestries and gold and silver embroideries . Eastern carpets and carved ivories , cameos and intaglios , precious gems and rare majolica from Urbino and Casteldurante were brought together in the Camerini of the Castello and the halls of the Schifanoia palace , that favourite Sans-Souci of the Este princes close to the court-church of S. Maria in Vado and to the convent of Leonora 's friends , the nuns of S. Vito . In this charming retreat , where Borso and Ercole alike loved to escape from the cares of state , we may still see the remnants of these splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stucco frieze of children playing musical instruments , the barrel-vaulted ceilings , and marble doorways with their rows of cherub heads and dolphins . There the unicorn which Borso took for his device , figures side by side with the imperial eagle granted him by Frederic III when he came to visit Ferrara , and the fleur-de-lis of France , which the Estes were privileged to bear on their coat-of-arms . There we still see fragments of the frescoes on the months and seasons of the year which Cossa and his scholars painted at the bidding of successive dukes . Borso is there on his white horse as he rides out hunting , attended by falconers and pages leading his favourite greyhounds in the leash ; or looking on at the races of St. George 's Day , surrounded by scholars and courtiers , dwarfs and jesters , and fair ladies clad in glittering robes of cloth of silver and gold . All the pageant of court-life in old Ferrara , as it was in the days when Duke Ercole reigned and Isabella and Beatrice d'Este grew up under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes , as we linger in these low halls of the little red-brick palace among the fruit trees of this deserted quarter . Niccolo III . and his elder sons had all been liberal patrons of art , and had invited the best artists they could find from other parts of Italy . Vittore Pisanello and Jacopo Bellini had both of them visited Ferrara and painted portraits of the Este princes  --  that of Leonello , with his long hooked nose and low forehead , is still preserved at Bergamo , and Piero de ' Franceschi , the mighty Umbrian , is said to have supplied a design for Duke Borso 's tomb . But it was in later years , under Ercole 's reign , that this little group of native artists arose , and that Cosimo Tura and his followers founded the school which gradually spread to Bologna and Modena and boasted such masters as Lorenzo Costa and Francia , or helped to mould the genius of a Raphael and a Correggio . Tura himself remained at Ferrara all his life , painting altar-pieces for Duchess Leonora 's favourite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ villas and portraits of the different members of the ducal family in turn . In 1472 , before the Duke 's marriage , he painted the portrait of Ercole  --  strange to say  --  together with his illegitimate daughter Lucrezia d'Este , to be sent as a present to his bride , Leonora of Aragon , at her father 's court of Naples . Again , in the summer of 1485 , he was called upon in his capacity of court painter to paint the likeness of the youthful Isabella for her affianced husband , Francesco Gonzaga ; and before the year was out he had to perform the same task for the other little bride , who had just returned from Naples . The following paper in the Ferrarese archives fixes the exact date of the portrait , which was evidently sent as a Christmas gift to Lodovico Sforza at Milan . " On the 24th of December , 1485 , Cosimo Tura received four gold florins from the duke , for painting from life the face and bust of the Illustrissima Madonna Beatrice , to be sent to Messer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the said Beatrice  --  Carlo Continga taking it to him . " Unfortunately , both of these portraits have perished , and the only representation of Beatrice as a girl that we have is the sculptor Cristoforo Romano 's well-known bust in the Louvre . While the native schools of painting became active and prosperous under Ercole 's auspices , a flourishing school of arts and crafts arose in Ferrara under the immediate patronage of the duchess . From the day of her marriage , Leonora not only showed that intelligent love of art and learning which might have been expected in a princess of the house of Aragon , but a warm interest in the well-being of her subjects , together with excellent sense and a strong practical bent . At her invitation , tapestry-workers from Milan and Florence came to settle at Ferrara , and skilled embroiderers were brought over from Spain . The duchess herself superintended these workers , selected the colours and patterns , and became an authority in the choice of hangings and decoration of rooms . While Ercole had an insatiable passion for gems and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especial taste for gold and silver metal-work . Silver boxes and girdles curiously chased and engraved were constantly sent to the duchess by Milanese goldsmiths , and among the workers in this line whom she frequently employed was Francesco Francia , the goldsmith painter of Bologna . In 1488 , this artist sent her an exquisite chain of gold hearts linked together , which excited general admiration , and may perhaps have been intended as a bridal gift for Elizabeth Gonzaga , the sister of Isabella 's betrothed husband , who visited Ferrara that spring , on her way to Urbino . Leonora 's own jewels were said to be the finest and most artistic owned by any princess of her day , and , as in the case of other Renaissance ladies , formed no inconsiderable portion of her fortune ; and , in consequence , they were frequently pawned to raise money for her husband 's wars . The duchess 's famous necklace of pearls , we learn , was repeatedly lent by the duke to bankers or goldsmiths in Rome and Florence as pledges for the repayment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another of Ercole 's favourite pastimes , and the choir of his court chapel at one time rivalled that of Milan , which was held to be the best in Italy . Violinists and lute-players were brought from Naples to Ferrara , French and Spanish tenors were included among the singers who accompanied the duke on his journeys . A still more distinctive feature of his court were the theatrical representations , which became a prominent part of all the palace festivities , and which undoubtedly owed much to the duke 's taste for dramatic art . Under his directions , a spacious theatre was fitted up in the old Gothic Palazzo della Ragione on the cathedral square . Here Latin comedies were performed before an audience which included the most learned classical scholars of the day , and Italian dramas were seen for the first time upon the stage . In 1486 , an Italian version of the Menaechimi , translated by Ercole himself , was acted here , with interludes of masques and morris dances , violin music , and recitations . This was followed , a year later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oldest of Italian dramas , a pastoral play composed by Niccolo da Correggio , chiefly taken from Ovid 's " Metamorphoses , " and which is said to have suggested the subjects of Correggio 's famous frescoes in the Abbess of San Paolo 's parlour at Parma . Each Christmas and carnival these theatrical representations were repeated , and many were the distinguished visitors who came to Ferrara to witness these celebrated performances . The Amphitryon and Cassina of Plautus were frequently given . On one occasion , a play adapted from a dialogue of Lucian 's by Matteo Boiardo was acted . Another time , at the wedding of a Marchese Strozzi , a Latin comedy written by the bridegroom 's brother , Ercole Strozzi , was performed before the whole court . Sometimes , by way of variety , sacred subjects were placed upon the stages . Tableaux of the Annunciation and the history of Joseph were introduced , accompanied with recitations and music . While the duke was known to have a strong preference for classical plays , the duchess and her daughters took pleasure in lighter forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtly poets wrote for their benefit in the lingua vulgare . A new school of Italian poets sprang up at Ferrara in the last years of the century . Antonio Tebaldeo , the friend of Castiglione and Raphael  --  " our Tebaldeo , " whom Pietro Bembo declared Raphael had painted in so lifelike a manner that he was not so exactly himself in actual life as in this portrait  --  had his home at Ferrara in these early days , and enjoyed the favour of the Marchioness Isabella in his later years . While the elder Strozzi , Tito , had the reputation of being the best Latin poet of the day , his son Ercole belonged to the circle of younger scholars , and , like his friends Bembo and Ariosto , wrote elegant Italian verses as well as Latin epistles and orations . Then there was the blind poet Francesco Bello , the author of the " Mambriano , " that heroic poem on the favourite Carlovingian legend ; Andrea Cossa of Naples , who sang his own rime and strambotti to the music of the lute ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ da Castiglione " the most accomplished gentleman of the age , the foremost man in all Italy , in the art of poetry and in courtesy , " who devoted his muse to the service of gentle ladies , and composed canzoni and capitoli or set Petrarch 's sonnets to music for Isabella and Beatrice 's pleasure . And among Ercole 's courtiers at Ferrara there was one still greater , Matteo Boiardo , Count of Scandiano , who was intimate with both duke and duchess , and held many high posts at court . He was a member of the splendid suite sent in 1473 to escort Leonora from Naples to Ferrara , and afterwards held the important post of Governor of Modena during many years . But in the midst of official labours and court duties , Matteo was all the while engaged in writing his great work of the " Orlando Innamorato , " that wonderful epic in which classic and romantic ideas are mingled together as strangely as in Piero di Cosimo or Sandro Botticelli 's paintings . The first cantos of his poem , begun in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dedication to Duke Ercole , and the work was continued at intervals throughout his life , and was only interrupted by the death of the poet . This took place in 1494 , when the first French armies were first seen descending upon Italy , and the sweet singer of high romance broke off abruptly with a prophetic note of warning in his last accents  --  " While I am singing , I see all Italy set on fire by these Gauls , coming to ravage I know not how many fresh lands , alas ! " In this city which was at once the home of Italian epic and Italian drama , at this court where the boy Ariosto was to take up the song that dropped from the lips of Boiardo , and to wear the laurel in his turn , the young princesses of Este grew up . There were three of them , for Lucrezia , the duke 's illegitimate daughter , had found a kind mother in the duchess , and was brought up with her young step-sisters Isabella and Beatrice , until in 1487 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to live in Bologna . Under Leonora 's careful and vigilant eyes , these maidens were trained in all the culture of the day . Their classical studies were directed by Battista Guarino , the son of the learned Verona humanist , the same who begged the Marquis of Mantua for a grant of wheat that he might the better be able to teach his betrothed bride Madonna Isabella during the famine at Ferrara . With him they learnt sufficient Latin to read Cicero and Virgil , as well as Greek and Roman history . Music and dancing were taught them almost from infancy . They learnt to play the viol and lute , and sang canzoni and sonnets to the accompaniment of these instruments . Beatrice , we know , was passionately fond of music . She employed the great Pavian Lorenzo Gusnasco to make her clavichords and viols of the finest order , and like her father , she never travelled without her favourite singers . Isabella herself had a beautiful voice , and sang with a sweetness and grace which charmed all hearers . The most accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Correggio , Girolamo Casio and Antonio Tebaldeo , were proud to hear her sing their verses , and the Vicenza scholar Trissino , forestalling Waller in this , wrote a canzone addressed to " My Lady Isabella playing the lute . " Messer Ambrogio da Urbino began to give Isabella dancing lessons almost as soon as she could walk . Later on a certain Messer Lorenzo Lavagnolo , who had taught Elizabeth and Maddalena Gonzaga , the young sisters of the Marquis of Mantua , and had afterwards been sent to the court of Milan to teach Duchess Bona 's daughters , came to Ferrara . This master , who was commended to the Duchess of Milan by the Marchioness Barbara of Mantua as superior to all other professors of the art of dancing , gave lessons to Isabella and her sisters , as we learn from a letter which she wrote to her affianced husband , thanking him in her sister 's name and her own for having sent so excellent a teacher to undertake the task , and recommending this faithful and devoted servant to His Excellency 's notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed in a " festa " composed by Messer Lorenzo for the duke 's daughters is preserved in the Gonzaga archives , and at Lucrezia 's wedding , in 1487 , this renowned master travelled to Bologna to direct the fetes given in honour of her marriage . Some knowledge of French seems to have formed part of an Italian lady 's education at this period , but even Isabella , with all her quickness and talent , was never able to speak French fluently , and Beatrice had recourse to interpreters when she received the visit of King Charles VIII . at Asti , and was required to make civil speeches in reply to his compliments . But they read Provencal poetry and translations of Spanish romances from the rare volumes , sumptuously bound in crimson velvet with enamelled and jewelled clasps and corners , that were among the most precious treasures of Duchess Leonora 's cabinet . Above all , they took delight in French romances , such as " I reali di Francia "  --  that book which was so popular with Italian ladies , and became familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's court . As they bent over their embroidery-frames at their lady mother 's side , in the painted camerini of the Castello , or under the acacias and lemon-trees of the Schifanoia villa , they listened to the wonderful fairy tales which Matteo Boiardo recited , and heard him tell how Rinaldo of Montalbano was pelted with roses and lilies and made captive by Cupid 's dames . Now and then , on summer evenings , they were allowed to join in the water-parties at Belriguardo , and float down the stream in the ducal bucentaur to the sound of the court violins , or else take part in those hunting expeditions for which Beatrice developed a passionate taste in after-years . As the frescoes of Schifanoia show , hunting was always a favourite pastime at the court of Ferrara . The duke kept many hundred horses in his stables , and the greatest care was bestowed upon his breed of dogs and falcons . When Borso went to Rome in 1471 , he took in his retinue eighty pages , each leading four greyhounds in a leash ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he presented him with fifty of his best horses . Ercole often received gifts of Barbary horses from the Sultan of Tunis or the famous Gonzaga stables that were reckoned the best in Italy , and bought Spanish jennets and steeds of Irish race to improve his own breed . And Duchess Leonora owned a special breed of greyhounds which were held in high esteem , and a pair of which she sent to Caterina Sforza , Madonna of Forli , at the humble request of this adventurous lady . But it was only on very rare occasions that the young princesses of Este were allowed to leave their studies , which occupied their whole days , and , as we learn from their different preceptors ' letters , absorbed their whole attention . Nor , we may be quite sure , was their religious education neglected under the eye of their mother , a sincerely devout and pious woman , who took pleasure in the converse of learned Dominicans and Carmelites , and paid frequent visits to S. Vito , close to the Schifanoia villa , and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buried . Her many charitable works , the liberality with which she helped her poorer subjects , relieved their wants , and gave dowries to virtuous maidens , as well as her munificence in adorning altars and churches with rich ornaments , are recorded by every Ferrarese historian . Sabadino degli Arienti places her high among the illustrious women of the age , and says her deeds can not fail to have opened the adamant doors of Paradise , while Castiglione speaks of her excellent virtues as known to the whole world , and pronounces her worthy to have reigned over a far larger state . With the pattern of this admirable mother before their eyes , with all that was choicest in art and fairest in nature around them , Leonora 's daughters grew up to womanhood , and insensibly acquired that enthusiasm for beauty in all its varied forms , that fine taste and perception which distinguished them above their contemporaries , which made Isabella at the end of her long life still the most attractive woman of her day , and which caused the bravest soldiers and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Duchess Beatrice . In all the difficult and tangled ways which they were separately called upon to tread , the breath of scandal , the slander of idle tongues , never sullied their fair names . Both princesses held fast to the ideal of their girlhood , and , leading the same pure and spotless life , left the same gracious memory behind them , alike in the old Mantuan city on the banks of the classic Mincio , where Isabella 's presence lingers like some delicate perfume about the Camerini of the ancient Castello , and in that grander and more splendid court where Beatrice reigned for a few brief years by the Moro 's side at Milan . CHAPTER IV Isabella d'Este  --  Lodovico Sforza delays his wedding  --  Plot against his life  --  Submission of Genoa  --  Duke Gian Galeazzo  --  The Sanseverini brothers  --  Messer Galeazzo made Captain-General of the Milanese armies  --  His marriage to Bianca Sforza  --  Marriage of Gian Galeazzo to Isabella of Aragon  --  Wedding festivities at Milan  --  Lodovico draws up his marriage contract with Beatrice d'Este. 1485-1490 Isabella d'Este , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early displayed the striking beauty and great qualities that distinguished her in after-years . Her regular features and delicate colouring , her ready wit and gracious manners , charmed all the visitors to Ferrara . The letters of princes and ambassadors were full of her praises . The Mantuan envoy who was sent to Ferrara in 1480 , to arrange the terms of the marriage contract , was amazed at the little bride 's precocity . The six-year-old child not only danced charmingly before him , but conversed with a grace and intelligence which seemed to him little short of miraculous . All her teachers told the same story . Whatever Madonna Isabella did was well done . Her quickness in learning , her marvellous memory , and application to her studies were the theme of every one at court . She was the apple of her father 's eye , her mother 's most sweet and cherished companion  --  " la mia carissima e dolce figliuola sopra altre . " When she married and left home for Mantua , her poor old tutor shed tears at the loss of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every word and movement ; while for weeks the good duchess could not bear to enter the room or open the windows of the room which her darling child had occupied , and which was now left empty and desolate . By the side of this brilliant creature , her younger sister , the little Beatrice , passed comparatively unnoticed . Her name is scarcely ever mentioned in the records of the period . Yet she was only a year younger than Isabella , and if all had gone well , the double wedding of the two sisters was to have been celebrated at the same time in February , 1490 . But Lodovico Sforza had shown no inclination to press the matter . He professed the most cordial friendship for the Duke of Ferrara , who had every reason to be grateful for his help in the Venetian wars , and entertained Ercole magnificently when , in 1487 , he paid a visit to Milan . But when the question of her marriage was mooted , he made excuses and suggested further delay . The extreme youth of the bride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought forward as excellent reasons for putting off the marriage until a more convenient season . During the ten years after his return to Milan , Lodovico 's time and thoughts had been fully occupied . The internal as well as the external affairs of his state , the attacks of public enemies and private foes , alike demanded his whole energies . But so far Fortune had favoured him in a wonderful way . An attempt was made by Duchess Bona 's confessor to assassinate him on the steps of Saint Ambrogio at Christmas , 1485 , but fortunately failed , because that day Lodovico entered the church by a side door to avoid the crowd . The sympathy excited by this cowardly attempt on his life , and by his recovery from a dangerous illness which brought him to the point of death , helped to strengthen his position at home , while complete success attended his arms and diplomacy . On the one hand , Venice was forced to accept his terms of peace ; on the other , Genoa , sorely pressed by her old rival Florence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and once more recognized the supremacy of Gian Galeazzo Sforza . A cardinal 's hat was obtained for Ascanio Sforza , in whom Lodovico found an able and loyal supporter both in Rome and Milan . And when , in 1488 , Lodovico 's niece , Caterina Sforza , turned to him for help against the conspirators who had murdered her husband and seized the Rocca of Forli , a Milanese army under young Galeazzo di Sanseverino was promptly sent to her assistance . The citadel was besieged and captured , and the rights of Caterina and her son Ottaviano were triumphantly vindicated . Thus on every side the house of Sforza was restored to its former dignity , and the great Condottiere 's name was respected and honoured . The Milanese once more enjoyed a period of peace and prosperity , and Lodovico was able to devote himself to his favourite pursuits , the encouragement of learning and of the fine arts . Even at the most anxious and busiest times , in the midst of the war with Venice and the negotiations for the league against her , Lodovico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the decoration of the Castello of Milan , and to help forward the works of the Duomo and the Certosa of Pavia . He had begun to rebuild the palace of Vigevano on a splendid scale , and had set on foot a vast system of irrigation for the improvement of the ducal estates . Besides encouraging the rising school of native artists , he had invited the best foreign architects and painters , sculptors and poets , to his court . Already Bramante of Urbino was the chief architect at the ducal court , and now Lorenzo de ' Medici sent a young Florentine master to Milan who played the lute divinely , and whose varied talents might prove serviceable to his friend Lodovico . So Leonardo da Vinci came to the court of the Moro , and found in him so genial and understanding a patron , so generous and kindly a friend , that he settled at Milan , and remained in the duke 's service for the next sixteen years . Thus Lodovico Sforza had shown himself a wise and excellent regent , and had earned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young duke in whose name he governed was growing up to man 's estate . From his birth Gian Galeazzo had been a frail and sickly child , subject to constant feverish attacks , and in the year 1483 was so dangerously ill that at one moment his doctors despaired of his recovery . As he grew older , it became plain that his mind was as feeble as his body . He was utterly incapable of applying himself to serious business , far less of administering state affairs . His whole days were spent in idleness and pleasure , in hunting and drinking . Horses and dogs were the only objects in which he took any interest . Under these circumstances , it became plain that Lodovico would remain the actual ruler of Milan even though his nephew bore the title of duke . All outward respect was paid to Gian Galeazzo ; he lived in great state , with a household and officers of his own , and was surrounded by regal pomp on public occasions . Clad in ducal robes , he appeared seated on a throne erected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Milan , and received their homage as duke of the principality of Genoa . His brother Ermes , his sisters Bianca and Anna , shared his state , and when Bianca 's betrothed husband the young prince of Savoy died , she was formally affianced in the Duomo to the eldest son of Matthias Corvinus , King of Hungary . But the real sovereign of Milan was Lodovico Duke of Bari . Here and there a jealous or discontented Milanese nobleman might grumble , but the majority of the duke 's subjects felt that in these troublous days a strong hand was needed at the helm , and knew that they had this strong man in the Moro . By degrees Lodovico removed those governors of cities and fortresses whose loyalty he had reason to suspect , and replaced them by confidential servants . Filippo Eustachio , captain of the Castello of Milan , a brave and honest man , Corio tells us , who had refused to yield up the keys of the Rocca to Bona 's minion , but whose brothers had been implicated in the plot against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duke 's orders , and imprisoned at Abbiategrasso ; he was afterwards released , no evidence of his guilt being produced , but his post was filled by one of the Moro 's servants . Chief among the trusted captains in whom Lodovico placed his confidence were the Sanseverini brothers , " i gran Sanseverini , " as they were called in the court poet 's verses , as much on account of their great strength and stature as of the exalted position which they held at the Milanese court . Their father , that turbulent soldier Roberto , after making three desperate attempts to unseat the prince whose return to power he had effected , and being three times proclaimed a rebel and outlaw at Milan , had taken service under Pope Innocent VIII . and led the campaign against Alfonso of Calabria , as Captain-general of the Church . But before long he quarrelled with the Pope and returned to the service of the Venetian Republic , until in August , 1486 , at the age of seventy , he fell fighting with heroic valour against the Imperialists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four entered the service of their kinsman , Lodovico Sforza , and rose to high honour and dignity . All of them were mighty men of valour like their father before them , while a fifth , Cardinal Federigo , was to prove a staunch adherent of the Sforzas in days to come . He inherited the giant stature as well as the martial tastes of his family , and at the consecration of Pope Alexander VI . is said to have lifted Borgia in his arms and placed him on the high altar . The eldest of the brothers , Giovanni Francesco , Count of Caiazzo , succeeded to his father 's estates in Calabria , but lived at Milan , and became one of Lodovico 's chief captains . Both Gaspare  --  the gallant soldier known by his surname of Captain Fracassa  --  and Antonio Maria , the husband of the fair and learned Margherita Pia of Carpi , a beloved friend and cousin of the Este princesses , were prominent figures at the Milanese court . But the most famous and popular of all the brothers was Galeazzo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play so great a part at the Milanese court , early attracted the notice of Lodovico by his personal charm and rare skill in knightly exercises . As a rider and jouster , he was without a rival . Wherever he entered the lists , at Milan or Venice , at Ferrara or Urbino , he invariably carried off the prize , and was proclaimed victor in the games . And to this prowess in courtly exercises he joined a love of art and learning which especially commended him to the Moro . Unlike his brother Captain Fracassa , who refused Caterina Sforza 's invitation to join in dance and song , saying that war was his trade and he sought no other , Galeazzo was a model of courtesy and grace . All fair ladies had a smile for him . Isabella d'Este and Elisabetta Gonzaga honoured him with their friendship , and Beatrice d'Este found in him the truest of friends and best of servants . Three kings of France , Charles VIII. , Louis XII. , and Francis I. , singled him out for special distinction , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he lived to become Grand Ecuyer of France in the next century . French Italian chroniclers alike own the fascination of his handsome presence and extol the gentilezza of this very perfect knight . Leonardo da Vinci and Luca Pacioli the mathematician had in him a noble , generous patron , and Baldassare Castiglione , who knew him in his youth at Milan , has enshrined his memory in the pages of his " Cortigiano . " It was this rare union of qualities which endeared the young Sanseverino to the Moro , who chose him for his intimate friend and companion . On his return from his successful campaign against the Forli rebels , Lodovico appointed him Captain-general of the Milanese armies , a step which naturally excited great jealousy among his rivals , and mortally wounded the pride of Messer Gian Giacomo Trivulzio , an older captain in the same service . Short of stature and rude of speech , with the big nose and rugged features that are familiar to us in Caradosso 's medal , this able soldier presented a curious contrast to the brilliant and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of his life . Yet he knew how to appreciate genius , and after his triumphant return to Milan in 1499 , employed Leonardo to paint his portrait and design his tomb . Although a Guelph by birth , Trivulzio , up to this time , had been one of Lodovico 's most active supporters . But when he saw a younger rival preferred to him , he left Milan in disgust and retired to Naples , where he entered King Ferrante 's service , and became from that time a bitter enemy of the Sforza 's . Meanwhile the Moro loaded his favourite Galeazzo with honours and rewards . He gave him the fine estate of Castelnuovo in the Tortonese , which had once belonged to his father , the great Condottiere Roberto , as well as a house in Pavia near the church of San Francesco and a palace in Milan , near the Porta Vercellina , and allowed him to build a villa and extensive stables in the park of the Castello . As a last and crowning honour , he bestowed upon this fortunate youth the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive child to whom he was fondly attached . Of her mother we have no certain knowledge , but she is generally supposed to have been some mistress of low origin , and Bianca herself is described by a contemporary writer as " figlia ex pellice nata . " The wedding was solemnized with great splendour in the chapel of the Castello di Pavia , on the last day of the year 1489 , but the young princess was still a child , and Galeazzo had to wait five years before he took home his bride . After his marriage he adopted the name of Sforza Visconti , and was treated by Lodovico as a member of his family . Another wedding which took place about this time was that of the young duke , Gian Galeazzo . He had already entered his twentieth year , and the Princess Isabella of Aragon , to whom he had been betrothed in his father 's lifetime , was turned eighteen , so that the marriage could no longer be delayed . In November , 1488 , his brother Ermes was sent to Naples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King Ferrante 's capital sumptuously arrayed in silk brocade , and amazed even his luxurious courtiers by the splendour of their gold chains and jewelled plumes . At least Isabella 's father , Alfonso , who had little love for his brother-in-law , and had already found Lodovico more than a match for his own cunning , could not complain that his daughter had not been honourably treated . After a rough passage in the depth of winter , which sorely tried the patience of the court poet Bellincioni , who was a member of the Milanese suite , the bride landed on the 7th of February , and travelled by land to Genoa and Tortona . There her bridegroom , the young Duke of Milan , was awaiting her , with his uncle Lodovico , and a banquet as memorable for ingenuity as for splendour was given in her honour . Each course was introduced by some mythological personage . Jason appeared with the golden fleece , Phoebus Apollo brought in a calf stolen from the herds of Admetus , Diana led Actaeon in the form of a stag , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came with a peacock from the car of Juno , and Orpheus carried in the birds whom he had charmed with his lute . Hebe poured out the wines , Vertumnus and Pomona handed round apples and grapes , Thetis and her sea-nymphs brought every variety of fish , and shepherds crowned with chaplets of ivy arrived from the hills of Arcady , bearing jars of milk and honey to the festive board . At Milan fresh wonders were awaiting the bridal pair . The court of the Castello was hung with blue drapery and wreaths of laurel and ivy , above which the ducal arms , designed in antique style , were seen , supported by figures of Centaurs . Under a seven-columned portico adorned with crimson-and-gold hangings , the duke 's sister , Bianca Maria Sforza , received the bride , and led her to a richly decorated chamber in the Camera della Torre . On the following day the wedding was solemnized with great pomp in the Duomo . The duke and duchess , clad in white , walked hand-in-hand up the great aisles of the church , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the Rocca , and after the Milanese fashion , hung with pure white satin . But the most memorable part of the wedding festivities , and that to which Lodovico himself devoted especial attention , was the performance of an operetta composed by the court poet Bellincioni for the occasion . " It was called Il Paradiso " adds the chronicler to whom we owe these details , " because Maestro Leonardo Vinci , the Florentine , had with great art and ingenuity fabricated a paradise or celestial sphere , in which the seven planets were represented by actors in costumes similar to those described by those poets of old , who each in turn spoke the praise of Duchess Isabella . " The festivities were interrupted by the illness of the young duke , who was so much exhausted by the fatigues of these successive entertainments , that he was unable to leave his bed for some weeks . But in the following summer two splendid tournaments were held at Pavia , at which Messer Galeazzo , as Sanseverino is always styled in Milanese annals , appeared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold trappings and harness , and , having unhorsed no less than nineteen of his opponents , bore off the first prize , a length of costly silver brocade . The duke and duchess were present with their whole court , but the Ferrarese ambassador remarked that the crowd all shouted , " Moro ! Moro ! " and that Signor Lodovico was by far the most popular personage with the citizens of Pavia . " He is a great man , and intends to be what he is in fact already  --  everything ! " he wrote in his despatches to Ferrara . " And yet who knows ? In a short time he may be nobody . " Gian Galeazzo , however , showed no signs of interfering with his uncle in the management of public affairs . On the contrary , he gave full rein to his pleasure-loving tastes , seldom came to Milan , and spent his days at Pavia or Vigevano in the company of his young wife and a few favourites . Duchess Isabella , as time showed , was a woman of strong character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired any influence over her feeble husband , and found herself powerless to arouse him to any sense of his position , " La dicte fille " says Commines , " etoit fort courageuse et eut volontier donne credit a son mary , si elle eut pu , mais il n'etoit guere saige et revelait ce qu'elle lui disait . " Lodovico treated both his nephew and niece with the utmost respect , and discussed the situation freely with the Florentine ambassador Pandolfini , saying that King Ferrante 's envoy had lately gone so far as to suggest that , since this young man could never rule for himself , his uncle might as well assume the title , as well as the cares , of the head of the state . But this , Lodovico declared , was a crime of which he would never be guilty . " If I were to attempt such a thing , " he exclaimed , " I should be infamous in the eyes of the whole world ! " For the present the sense of power , the knowledge that he was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King of Naples himself recognized , no one could have governed Milan more wisely or well than Lodovico did in his nephew 's name . The birth of Duchess Isabella 's son , in December , 1490 , may have been a blow to his hopes . But the happy event was celebrated with due rejoicings , the costly presents from the city of Milan and court officials were displayed in the Castello , and the infant heir of the house of Sforza received the name of his renowned great-grandfather , Francesco , together with the title of Count of Pavia . Meanwhile Lodovico felt that it was time to think of his own marriage , and to keep the troth which he had pledged to the child-princess of Este . His actions , as he well knew , were narrowly watched at the court of Ferrara . Duchess Leonora was beginning to feel anxious about her daughter 's future , and the marriage of Anna Sforza with young Alfonso d'Este had also to be arranged . Accordingly in May , 1489 , when the Duke of Milan 's wedding was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to his master duly acquainted with Signor Lodovico 's wishes and intentions respecting these important matters . On the 10th of May , the articles of the marriage contract were finally drawn up and signed at the Castello of Ferrara . They were on the same basis as the marriage treaties which had lately been drawn up between the Marquis Mantua and Isabella d'Este and the Duke and Duchess of Milan . Lodovico was to receive 40,000 gold crowns and 2000 more in jewels as Beatrice 's portion . A sum equal to three-parts of the bride 's dower was to be chargeable on the goods and lands of Signor Lodovico . If the most illustrious Madonna were to die without children , this dowry was to be returned , as was stipulated in the case of the Duchess of Milan . With regard to the choice and arrangement of the bride 's household , and the number of her women , Lodovico was content to leave all particulars to the Duke and Duchess of Ferrara , trusting to their goodness and prudence to settle all these matters on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this illustrious house . But he especially begged Duke Ercole to see that Madonna Beatrice was well supplied with clothes and other necessary articles of toilet fitting the position which she would occupy at Milan as wife of the Duke of Bari and Regent of the State . Last of all , the date of the marriage was positively fixed for the month of May , 1490 , Lodovico promising to defray all the expenses of the wedding festivities . At the same time it was also decided that Madonna Anna 's marriage should take place in July , 1490 , by which time Signor Alfonso would have completed his fourteenth year , and the sum due to Messer Lodovico for Beatrice 's dowry was to be deducted from that of his niece , who , as a princess of Milan , was to receive a portion of 100,000 crowns . So Beatrice d'Este 's wedding-day was at length fixed , and Duchess Leonora rejoiced in the happy prospect of seeing both her daughters married in the course of the following year . CHAPTER V Marriage of Isabella d'Este  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portrait by Leonardo da Vinci  --  Mission of Galeazzo Visconti to Ferrara  --  Preparations for Beatrice 's wedding  --  Cristoforo Romano 's bust  --  Duchess Leonora and her daughters travel to Piacenza and Pavia  --  Their reception at Pavia by Lodovico. 1490-1491 The young Marquis of Mantua , Gian Francesco Gonzaga , had proved himself a more ardent lover than Lodovico Sforza . He frequently exchanged letters and compliments with his youthful bride , or sent Isabella presents and verses written in her honour by Mantuan poets . After his father 's death in 1484 , he visited Mantua , and brought Duchess Leonora a Madonna painted by the hand of the great Paduan master , Andrea Mantegna , the court painter of the Gonzagas . In the autumn of the same year , Leonora took her daughter to Mantua for a short visit , where she first met Gian Francesco 's sister , Elizabeth Duchess of Urbino , who was to become her dearest friend and constant companion in the early days of her married life . Four years afterwards , the same Elizabeth , the peerless Duchess of Castiglione @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wedding journey to her new home of Urbino , and received an affectionate welcome from Leonora and her daughters . The duchess , she wrote , treated her as a mother , while in the Marchesana she had already found a loving sister and friend . On the 11th of February , 1490 , Isabella 's own wedding was celebrated at Ferrara , and the following morning the bride rode through the streets of the city , with the Duke of Urbino on her right and the Ambassador of Naples on her left hand . On the 12th , the bride set out for Mantua , travelling by water up the river Po in a stately bucentaur presented to Isabella by Duke Ercole , adorned with rich carving and gilding . Her parents and three brothers , Alfonso , Ferrante , and the boy Ippolito , afterwards well known as Ariosto 's patron , Cardinal d'Este , with a large suite , accompanied her to the gates of Mantua , where a magnificent reception awaited her . The young marquis had made great preparations to welcome his bride , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and silver plate , carpets , and hangings from all his friends and relations , including the famous tapestries of the Trojan war , which were the chief ornaments of the palace of Urbino . The fetes passed off brilliantly , the crowds which assembled in the streets of Mantua were enormous , and the utmost enthusiasm was excited by the youth and loveliness of the bride . The only drawback was the absence of Mantegna , whom Pope Innocent had detained in Rome , in spite of his master 's urgent request that the painter might return in time to arrange the wedding festivities . The void which Isabella left in her old home was keenly felt alike by her mother and sister . The duchess could not console herself for her daughter 's absence , and after spending a delightful week with her sister-in-law Elizabeth on the lake of Garda , among the lemon-groves and gardens of those sunny shores , Isabella and her husband returned to Ferrara in April . Here she found that Beatrice 's marriage had been again put off by Signor Lodovico 's wish until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early in July , and accompany her mother and sister to Milan . But when July came and the young marchioness reached Ferrara , she found to her surprise that all these plans had been suddenly changed . Lodovico had once more found it impossible to keep his engagement , and pleaded urgent public affairs and unavoidable pressure of business to excuse his apparent apathy . This time the duke and duchess were seriously annoyed , and began to doubt if Lodovico ever intended to wed their daughter . The question was gravely discussed during Isabella 's visit , and a messenger from Milan suddenly reached Ferrara late one evening . It was no other than Messer Galeazzo Visconti , one of Lodovico 's most trusted envoys , who had ridden from Milan in great haste , with letters from his lord . The contents of these letters remained unknown . One thing only was clear : they gave the duke great dissatisfaction . And Messer Galeazzo departed the next day , as quickly as he came . " I have tried in vain , " wrote Benedetto Capilupi , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discover the reason of all these disturbances . Every one is out of temper , and the duke seems to be very much displeased . M. Galeazzo has left suddenly . " Isabella returned to join her husband at Mantua , leaving affairs in this unsatisfactory state . Beatrice 's wedding seemed further off than ever , and doubts as to her union with Signor Lodovico began to be openly expressed . It was well known at Ferrara , where everything that happened at the court of Milan was minutely reported to Duke Ercole by his faithful envoy , Giacomo Trotti , that Lodovico Sforza had a mistress to whom he was fondly attached , and whom he had for many years past treated with the respect and honour due to a wife . This was Cecilia Gallerani , afterwards the wife of Count Lodovico Bergamini , a young Milanese lady of noble birth , as distinguished for her learning as for her beauty . She spoke and wrote Latin fluently , composed sonnets in Italian , and delivered Latin orations to the theologians and philosophers who met at her house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and learning of " la bella Gallerani , " the Sappho of modern times . Scaligero wrote epigrams in her honour , Ortensio Lando classes her with Isabella d'Este and Vittoria Colonna among the most cultured women of the age . The novelist Matteo Bandello , himself a friar of the Dominican convent of S. Maria delle Grazie at Milan , is never tired of singing Cecilia 's praises , and of describing the pleasant company who met at the countess 's palace in Milan or at her villa near Cremona . There , he tells us , all the finest wits , all the most distinguished strangers in Milan assemble , and you may hear valiant captains reasoning with doctors and philosophers , or look at paintings and designs by living artists and architects , and listen to the playing and singing of the best musicians . As a young girl , Cecilia 's charms captured the heart of the Moro , who , as early as 1481 , bestowed the estate of Saronno , which he had inherited from his brother Sforza , upon her by a deed of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and at the same time recalled the merits and services of her ancestors . Soon after Leonardo da Vinci 's arrival in Milan , Lodovico employed him to paint the portrait of his fair young mistress , and we have more than one proof of the admiration which the Florentine master 's work excited among his contemporaries . In the Rime of the court-poet , Bellincioni , we find the following sonnet evidently inspired by this picture and bearing the inscription : " On the portrait of Madonna Cecilia , painted by Maestro Leonardo . " The poet seeks to appease Dame Nature 's wrath at the sight of this portrait , in which the painter has represented the lovely maiden " listening , not speaking , " but so full of life and radiance , that the sun 's beams grow dim before the brightness of her eyes . And instead of envying art , he bids her rejoice that this living image of so beautiful a form will be handed down to future ages , and give thanks to Lodovico 's wisdom and Leonardo 's genius for having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of posterity . " Thine , O Nature , " he cries , " is the honour ! the more living and beautiful Cecilia shall appear in the eyes of generations to come , the greater will be thy glory ! For long as the world endures , all who see her face will recognize in Leonardo 's work the close union of Art and Nature . " " Che lei vedra , cosi ben che sia tardo , Vederla viva , dira : basti ad noi Comprender or quel che e natura et arte . " On the 26th of April , 1498 , a year after Beatrice d'Este 's death , her sister the Marchioness Isabella herself wrote to the Countess Bergamini from Mantua , begging her for the loan of the portrait which Leonardo had painted of her and which she had formerly seen in Milan . " Having to-day seen some fine portraits by the hand of Giovanni Bellini , we began to discuss the works of Leonardo , and wished we could compare them with these paintings . And since we remember that he painted your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to send us your portrait by this messenger whom we have despatched on horseback , so that we may not only be able to compare the works of the two masters , but may also have the pleasure of seeing your face again . The picture shall be returned to you afterwards , with our most grateful thanks for your kindness , and assuring you of our own readiness to oblige you to the utmost of our power , etc . " ISABELLA D'ESTE . From Mantua . " Cecilia sent the precious picture by the courier to Mantua , with the following note in reply :  --  " MOST ILLUSTRIOUS AND EXCELLENT MADONNA AND VERY DEAR LADY , " I have read your Highness 's letter , and since you wish to see my portrait I send it without delay , and would send it with even greater pleasure if it were more like me . But your Highness must not think this proceeds from any defect in the Maestro himself , for indeed I do not believe there is another painter equal to him in the world , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at so young and imperfect an age . Since then I have changed altogether , so much so that if you saw the picture and myself together , you would never dream it could be meant for me ! All the same , your Highness will , I hope , accept this proof of my good-will , and believe that I am ready and anxious to gratify your wishes , not only in respect to the portrait , but in any other way that I can , since I am ever Your Highness 's most devoted slave and commend myself to you a thousand times . " Your Highness 's servant , CECILIA VISCONTA BERGAMINA , 3 From Milan , the 29th of April , 1498 . " Since that day when the great Florentine first painted her , Cecilia Gallerani had developed into a handsome matron , and as Lodovico Sforza 's recognized mistress she enjoyed a position of great honour at court . For some years she occupied a suite of rooms in the Castello of Milan , where her lover constantly visited her and took the greatest delight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual woman only seemed to increase 108 with years . She had already borne him one son , the Leone , whom he was known to love so well that his courtiers did not dare tell him the sad news when the child died suddenly in 1487 . The Duke of Bari , it was even said , intended ere long to make her his lawful wife , and thus to render her future issue legitimate . Under these circumstances , it can hardly be wondered if Lodovico Sforza showed some reluctance in keeping the troth which he had plighted to the young princess of Este , while Duke Ercole 's vexation was the more pardonable . For a time it seemed as if a rupture between the two houses was inevitable , and all thought of a union between them must be abandoned . But soon a change came over Il Moro 's dream . The difficulties in the way of a closer union with Cecilia Gallerani were great , and must invariably lead to jealousies and quarrels of a serious order . His own position in Milan would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his future designs . At the same time , the alliances with Ferrara and Mantua were both of great importance to the state , and could not be lightly thrown away . So he determined to sacrifice his inclinations to political exigencies , and make Beatrice d'Este his wife . Accordingly , at the end of August he sent another ambassador , Francesco da Casate , to Ferrara with a magnificent gift for his bride , in the shape of a necklace of large pearls set in gold flowers , with a very fine pear-shaped pendant of rubies , pearls , and emeralds . This costly jewel was duly presented to Beatrice in the name of her affianced husband , and Duchess Leonora wrote forthwith to give her daughter Isabella the good news , informing her that Signor Lodovico hoped she would accompany her mother and sister to Milan that autumn for the wedding . The young marchioness was delighted to accept this invitation , and in the course of a few days she paid another visit to Ferrara , to assist in the preparations for her sister 's marriage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duke and duchess 's pleasure as to their daughter 's journey , and , after making the final arrangements , left Ferrara on the 26th of November . The bride 's departure was fixed for the last day of the year , and the wedding , it was decided , should take place in the chapel of the Castello of Pavia on the 16th of January . Isabella hurried to Mantua to buy horses and clothes , jewels and plate for her journey , and announced her intention of taking upwards of one hundred persons in her suite , with ninety horses and trumpeters . Afterwards , however , she reduced the number to fifty persons and thirty horses at the request of Lodovico , who begged her to bring as few attendants as possible , owing to the large number of guests who were expected at Milan . Her husband , the Marquis Gianfrancesco , had naturally been included in the invitation , but as a close ally of the Venetians he did not think it politic to appear at the wedding of Lodovico Sforza . The Signory of Venice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Milan , and entertained the deepest distrust of Lodovico 's policy . So Isabella decided to join her mother and sister on their journey up the river , and proceed with them to Pavia and ultimately to Milan . Meanwhile another emissary from Milan had arrived at Ferrara . This was the young sculptor , Cristoforo Romano , who was sent to Signor Lodovico to carve a bust-portrait of his bride before she left her father 's home . The son of a Pisan sculptor who had settled in Rome , Cristoforo 's genius had attracted attention when he was quite a boy , and he had been sent to Milan by Cardinal Ascanio Sforza . The young Roman master was one of those brilliant and versatile artists who especially commended themselves to Lodovico . He sang and played the lute admirably , while his literary tastes made him the intimate friend of Bembo and Castiglione , and a great favourite with the cultured princesses of Mantua and Urbino . He takes a leading part in the dialogues of the Cortigiano , and is frequently mentioned as worthy to rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had he not suffered from continual ill health . As it is , the few works which he left behind him are marked with singular grace and refinement . His bust of Beatrice , now in the Louvre , where for many years it passed as the work of Leonardo , is at once remarkable for its truth and charm . The somewhat irregular features of the maiden of fifteen years are admirably given , the roundness of her cheeks , the pouting lips and slightly retrousse nose , and the curling locks are faithfully represented ; yet we realize the force of character that lies under this soft , child-like face , and the frank joyousness which made her so attractive . Each stray lock of hair is rendered with delicate accuracy , the brocaded bodice of her gown and the scarf lightly thrown over her shoulders are elaborately adorned with the triangular diamond and other favourite devices of the house of Este . The quaint figure of the two hands holding a veil , from which fertilizing dust falls on the open flower , is supposed to be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beatrice was already an affianced bride . But since the words " Herculis filiae " are cut in the marble , it is plain that Cristoforo carved the bust while the young duchess was still in her father 's home , and probably took it home with him that autumn to Milan . That year the winter set in with unusual severity . The bitter frost and cold which man and beast endured that January were long remembered , both in Mantua and Ferrara . On Christmas night it began to snow , and so heavy and continuous was the fall , that by noon on the next day the snow lay three feet deep in front of the Vescovado , or Bishop 's house , opposite the Este palace . The Po was frozen over , and the ice on the river never thawed until the first week in February , while the snow lasted till the 12th of March , and some patches might still be seen in the streets of Ferrara on the 20th of that month . In the midst of these unwonted rigours , the wedding-party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these days seem to have been singularly unlucky in the matter of weather . For one thing , they always travelled in the depths of winter . Elizabeth Gonzaga almost died of exhaustion after the sufferings of her journey from Mantua to Urbino in a violent tempest , which kept her ship tossing on the waves of the Po for several days and nights . The fleet which conveyed Isabella and her escort from Naples to Leghorn , narrowly escaped shipwreck off the coast of Tuscany . Bianca Sforza had to ride in December over the roughest roads across the Alps of the Valtellina , to join her Imperial lord at Innsbruck . And now Leonora and her daughters were called upon to brave the terrors of an Arctic winter on their way to Milan . " On the 29th of December , 1490 , " writes the diarist of Ferrara , " Madonna Beatrice , daughter of Duke Ercole , went to Milan to marry Signor Lodovico Sforza , accompanied by her mother , Leonora Duchess of Ferrara ; and also by Messer Sigismondo , her uncle "  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and her brother , Don Alfonso , who went to bring home his bride , Madonna Anna , sister of the Duke of Milan and daughter of Galeazzo , and he rode in a sledge because the Po was frozen . " 4 The ladies of the party travelled in rude country carts  --  " carrette "  --  as far as Brescello , where the Po was navigable , and they were able to continue their journey by water to Pavia . Here Messer Galeazzo Visconti was awaiting them with a fleet of boats and three bucentaurs , by which pompous name the rude barges in which these high-born personages travelled were glorified . The many discomforts and the actual cold and hunger which the Este ladies endured during the five days which they spent on board these vessels are graphically described in a letter addressed to Isabella 's husband by her Ferrarese lady-in-waiting , Beatrice de ' Contrari , after the travellers had reached Pavia . The boat which bore the provisions for the party was delayed by stress of weather , so that the travellers were left with but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anchored near the shore of Toresella at three o'clock at night , the Marchesana and her ladies were in a starving condition . " If it had not been for the timely help of Madonna Camilla , who sent us part of her supper from her barge , I for one , " writes the lively lady-in-waiting , " should have certainly been by this time a saint in Paradise . " As for going to bed , all wish for sleep was put out of their heads by the rocking of the ship and the uncomfortable berths , and the poor Marchesana was so cold and wretched without a fire that she wished herself dead , and her lady-in-waiting could not keep back her tears . However , at length these miseries were ended , Piacenza was safely reached , on the 12th of January , and the royal ladies and their companions were hospitably entertained by Count Bartolommeo Scotti , and enjoyed the luxury of warm fires and comfortable beds ! " And now that we have arrived , " wrote Beatrice de ' Contrari to her lord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weddings for the sake of which we have suffered so many discomforts , I am thinking seriously of making my last will and testament . " 5 After a day 's rest at Piacenza , the bridal party continued their journey up the river , and reached Pavia at half-past four on Sunday afternoon . Here Signor Lodovico was awaiting them on the banks of the river Ticino , which joins the Po a few hundred yards below the city , with a gallant company of Milanese lords and gentlemen , and himself conducted first Beatrice and then her mother and sister to the shore . Together they rode on horseback over the covered bridge which spans the river , and passed through the long streets until they reached the goal of their journey , and entered the gates of the far-famed Castello of Pavia . FOOTNOTES : 3 G. Uzielli , Leonardo da Vinci e Tre Gentil donne Milanesi , p. 23. 4 A Muratori , R. I. S. , xxiv. 282. 5 Luzio-Renier in A. S. L. , xvii. 85 . CHAPTER VI City and University of Pavia  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wedding of Lodovico Sforza , Duke of Bari , and Beatrice d'Este , in the chapel of the Castello of Pavia  --  Galeazzo di San Severino and Orlando  --  Reception of the bride in Milan  --  Tournaments and festivities at the Castello  --  Visit of Duchess Leonora to the Certosa of Pavia. 1491 The ancient city of Pavia , the capital of the Lombard kings before the conquest of Charlemagne , still presents a picturesque and imposing appearance to the traveller , who sees the red-brick walls and gates of the old fortifications and the slender bell-towers of its Romanesque churches rising out of the green plains on the banks of the broad and swift Ticino . But it was a far grander and more beautiful sight in the days when Lodovico Sforza 's bride landed near the chapel on the bridge , and in the fading light of the short winter afternoon rode at his side through the chief streets of the old Lombard capital , or , as it was proudly called , the city of a hundred towers . On the princely cavalcade wound , amid a dense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " up the long Strada Nova , with its marble palaces , and newly painted loggias adorned with busts and frescoes , in front of the stately Ateneo with its halls and porticoes for the different schools , which had the reputation of being the finest university in all Italy , and past the rising walls of the new Duomo which Lodovico was building on the site of the ruined basilica of Charlemagne 's time . A few months before , the renowned Sienese architect , Francesco Martini , had arrived at Pavia on horseback to give his advice as to the cupola of the new cathedral , accompanied by His Excellency 's servant , Magistro Leonardo , the Florentine , and a vast train of servants , and had been entertained at the public expense . Martini had soon left again for Milan , after giving the architect of the Duomo , Bramante 's pupil Cristoforo Rocchi , the benefit of his advice , and promising to send him a model of the cupola ; but Leonardo had remained at Pavia all the summer and autumn , turning over old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anatomical problems with the professors and surgeons of the university , until a peremptory summons had reached him from the governor of the Castello at Milan , desiring him to return immediately and assist in decorating the ball-room for the wedding fetes . Another visitor , a citizen of Beatrice 's own city of Ferrara , had also been at Pavia a few months before  --  the Dominican friar , Girolamo Savonarola , who had visited the Certosa and Castello of Pavia on his way from Brescia to preach at Genoa , before he was summoned at Pico della Mirandola 's request to begin his famous course of Lent sermons in St. Mark 's of Florence . But now the duke 's painter and the humble friar had both gone their separate ways , Fra Girolamo to startle the scholars of the Medici circle with his thunders , and Leonardo to paint cupids in the halls of the Castello at Milan , and to resume his labours at the great equestrian statue of Francesco Sforza , which Signor Lodovico was longing to see finished . All unconscious of their existence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lord 's side and entered the wide courtyard through the great gateway , under the lofty towers of the famous Castello which for over a hundred and fifty years had been the home of Viscontis and Sforzas . After the cold and fatigue of the long journey in this snowy winter season , the bridal party were thankful to reach the end of their journey and to enjoy a day 's rest before the wedding ceremony , which , after consultation with Messer Ambrogio da Rosate , the chief court physician and astrologer , had been fixed for Tuesday , the 17th of January , this being the day of Mars , and therefore especially propitious for the marriage of a lord , who above all things desired the birth of a son . Throughout his life Il Moro , like many of his contemporaries , had a blind belief in the stars , and placed the most implicit confidence in Messer Ambrogio , who was said to have saved his life during his dangerous illness at Vigevano three years before , and who had been lately called upon to cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entreaty of His Holiness . " Maestro Ambrogio has been suddenly called to fly to Vigevano , " wrote Giacomo Trotti to Ferrara one day in 1489 , " because he is a professor of astrology , by which this excellent Signor orders all his actions . " The date of Lodovico 's journeys , the hour of all important court ceremonies , and even the movements of his armies in time of war , were regulated by the course of the stars . Messer Ambrogio , consequently , became a most important personage at the court of Milan . " Without him , " wrote Beatrice 's maid of honour to the Marchioness Isabella , " nothing can be done here . " The beautiful park and gardens at Pavia lay deep in snow , their lakes and fountains were all frozen over , but there was plenty to interest and amuse the visitors within the walls of this great Castello , of which they had heard so much , and which was said to be the grandest of royal houses in the whole of Europe . Three or four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rear this glorious fabric , which in its palmy days must have been a noble monument of Lombard architecture . The long colonnades of low round arches went back to Romanesque days and the times of the first Visconti lords of Pavia ; the Gothic windows of the banqueting-hall and upper stories had been finished in the reign of the great Giangaleazzo , and were enriched with slender marble shafts and exquisite terra-cotta mouldings similar to those that we admire to-day in the cloisters of the Certosa . The vaulted halls were painted with the finest ultramarine and gold , and the arms of Sforzas and Viscontis , the lilies of France and the red cross of Savoy , appeared on the groined roof between planets and stars of raised gold . The vast Sala della Palla , where the dukes and their courtiers indulged in their favourite pastime of " pall-mall , " which Burckhardt calls the classic game of the Renaissance , was decorated with frescoes by the best artists of Pavia or Cremona , representing fishing and hunting scenes . Portraits of the dukes and duchesses were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stags flying before the hounds , in the forest shades or on the open moor . The ball-room was adorned with historic subjects from the lives of the earlier Viscontis . The poet Petrarch , who had once filled a chair in the university , was seen delivering an oration before the duke ; and Giangaleazzo , the founder of the Duomo of Milan and of the Certosa , was represented seated at a festive board laden with gold and silver plate , entertaining foreign ambassadors , with his armour-bearer standing at his side , and his cupbearer pouring out the wine , while huntsmen and falconers with horses and dogs awaited his pleasure . Of later date were the frescoes in the duchess 's rooms , representing the marriage of Galeazzo Sforza at the French court and the reception of Bona of Savoy at Genoa , while the paintings which adorned the chapel had only lately been completed by Vincenzo Foppa and Bonifazio da Cremona . Signor Lodovico was very proud , as he might well be , of this his ancestral home , and of the famous library @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led his guests from room to room , and showed them all the rare and curious objects  --  the armoury with its store of ancient coats of mail and hauberks , of swords and helmets of ancient design , and its choice specimens of the engraved and damascened work ; the breastplates and greaves that were a specialite of Milanese armourers at this period ; the wonderful clock of copper and brass worked by wheels and weights , upon which Giovanni Dondi had spent sixteen years of ceaseless thought and toil , and which not only had a peal of bells , but a complete solar system , showing the movement of sun , moon , and planets as set forth by Ptolemy . After Dondi 's death , Duke Galeazzo had to send to Paris for a clockmaker who could regulate the works of this elaborate machine , which was so much admired by Charles V. when he visited Pavia in 1530 , that he commissioned a mechanician of Cremona to make a similar one for him to take back to Spain . And Messer Lodovico showed them also what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precious books adorned by exquisite miniatures from the hand of Fra Antonio da Monza and other living artists , the Sforziada and the Chant de Roland , and the rare Greek and Latin manuscripts which he had been at such infinite pains to collect ; the codici brought from Bobbio by Giorgio Merula , and the manuscripts which Erasmo Brasca had discovered when Il Moro sent him to search for missing texts in the convents of the South of France . For Lodovico himself spared no expense and grudged no time or trouble in order to enrich what he felt to be a great national institution . Two years before he had addressed a letter to the son of Matthias Corvinus , King of Hungary  --  the prince who was to have wedded Bianca Sforza  --  begging him to have a rare manuscript by Festus Pompeius copied for him , and deploring the " decay of the knowledge of the Latin tongue in Italy , and the loss of so many priceless classical works which the barbarians have carried away . " The sight of these precious and varied treasures were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown up among the scholars of her royal father 's academy at Naples , and by her daughter , the accomplished Marchesana Isabella , ever eager , as she says in one of her letters , to see and learn some new thing , " desiderosa di cosa nova . " And Signor Lodovico proved himself the most courteous and pleasant of hosts , conversing with graceful ease on a thousand subjects , and gratifying his new sister-in-law by the marked attention and courtesy with which he treated her . " I find myself highly honoured and caressed by Signor Lodovico , " she wrote to her husband from Pavia ; and the discerning eyes of the Ferrarese ambassador , Giacomo Trotti , noticed how much pleasure His Excellency already took in the company of Madonna Beatrice and the Marchesana . On that first day which they spent together at the Castello , Trotti wrote to Duke Ercole , " Signor Lodovico is always at his wife 's side , speaking to her and watching her most attentively . And he tells me that it would be impossible for her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and never ceases to praise her . " The first impression which the youthful bride made on her husband was evidently favourable . By all accounts , Beatrice was a singularly lovely and fascinating child . Without the regular features and distinguished air of her sister Isabella , there was a distinct charm in her sparkling dark eyes and jet-black hair , her bright colouring and gay smile . The contemporary chronicler Muralti describes her in his Annals as " of youthful age , beautiful in face , and dark in colouring , fond of inventing new costumes , and of spending day and night in song and dancing and all manner of delights . " In these early days at Pavia and Milan there was , indeed , Trotti tells us , a certain shyness and reserve about her that was only natural and might well be ascribed to maiden shyness and timidity , but in the freedom and gaiety of her new life this soon gave way to the irrepressible mirth and joyousness of youthful vivacity . From the first she seems to have become sincerely attached to Lodovico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already thirty-nine years of age , was a very handsome and splendid-looking man , of imposing stature and striking countenance , with courteous manners and gentle ways . And however often he may have excited her jealousy or wounded her feelings , his young wife never wavered in her love for him , but proved , as he himself confessed , the best and most devoted of companions . On Tuesday , the 17th of January , the long-delayed wedding finally took place , in the Castello of Pavia . A small but very brilliant company was assembled that day in the ancient chapel of the Visconti . The official festivities were to be celebrated at Milan , where the duke and duchess and their court were awaiting the bride 's arrival , and the Ferrarese ambassador was the only foreign envoy present at the wedding . But Lodovico 's personal friends and retainers mustered in force , as well as those captains and courtiers who could claim kinship with the house of Este . Niccolo da Correggio was there , as one nearly related to both bride and bridegroom , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed of all the cavaliers who were present that day . There , too , was Galeotto Prince of Mirandola , the husband of the gifted Bianca d'Este , and Rodolfo Gonzaga , the Marquis of Mantua 's uncle , and , conspicuous by their lofty stature and martial air , the four Sanseverino brothers . The bride , arrayed in a white robe sown with pearls and glittering with jewels , was led to the altar by the Duchess of Ferrara and Marchioness of Mantua , supported by the young Don Alfonso , his uncle Sigismondo , and a select retinue of Ferrarese courtiers and ladies . It was rumoured that the Marquis Gianfrancesco Gonzaga had himself been seen in the crowd assembled in the courtyard of the Castello , and , much to Isabella 's surprise , Lodovico asked the marchioness , at the banquet which followed , if this report were true . But Isabella could only reply that if her husband were at Pavia , she was unaware of the fact , and it was not until the last day of the tournament at Milan that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pronounced , and the act of espousals confirmed by the ring which Signor Lodovico placed on the bride 's finger , and that night the marriage was consummated , " were the words of the official proclamation that was made in Milan the next day , and duly notified to the magistrates of the different cities in the duchy as well as to the duke 's ambassadors at foreign courts . On the following morning Lodovico left for Milan , to complete the arrangements for the bride 's reception early in the following week . Nothing , he was determined , should be left undone to do honour to his nuptials or to make the occasion memorable both in the eyes of the people of Milan and throughout Italy . During the summer and autumn preparations had been actively going on , and a whole army of painters , goldsmiths , and embroiderers were at work , decorating the suite of rooms in the Rocca , or inner citadel of the Castello of the Porta Giovia , adjoining the Corte Ducale , where the Moro and his bride were to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " wrote the Ferrarese envoy to his master , " and Lodovico takes care that for the duchess nothing is done by halves . " When the date of the wedding had been finally determined , every nerve was strained to complete the works within the Castello , and an imperative summons was issued by Messer Ambrogio Ferrari , the chief ducal commissioner , to the governors of Cremona , Piacenza , and Pavia , commanding the immediate return of the painters who were absent in these cities . Among the masters especially mentioned in these letters , we find the names of Bernardino da Rossi , Zenale and Buttinone di Treviglio , Treso di Monza , and Magistro Leonardo . This was none other than the great Florentine , then absent at Pavia , who was required to give his advice , if not to assist , in the actual decoration of the Sala della palla on the first floor of the Castello . The vaulted roof of this spacious hall , which was to serve as ball-room on this occasion , was painted in azure and gold to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with canvases representing the heroic deeds of the great Condottiere , Francesco Sforza , whose glorious memory his son Lodovico was always eager to celebrate . At the entrance of the hall , an effigy of the hero on horseback was placed under a triumphal arch , with an inscription recalling his greatness , and saying that by virtue of these mighty exploits his children now triumph and hold festival in his honour . At the same time , orders were sent in the duke 's name to the seneschals of the castles and towns between Pavia and Milan to see that the roads and bridges were repaired and widened , in order that the bridal party might be able to travel without hindrance or inconvenience . On the 18th of January , invitations were issued to the chief lords in the state , as well as to those foreign princes who were connected by marriage with the Sforza and Este families , the Marquis of Montferrat , the Marquis of Mantua , Giovanni Bentivoglio of Bologna , and others , requesting them to honour with their presence a three-days ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Castello , during the last week in January . While Lodovico was personally superintending the final arrangements , seeing that the last touches were given to the frescoes in the duchess 's Camerino , or discussing to the masques and comedies that were to be performed , with Bramante and Leonardo , his bride remained at Pavia with her family and friends . The princesses of Este were well content , for not only were all the treasures of the Castello and library at their disposal , but they had the best of company in the person of Messer Galeazzo di Sanseverino , who had been charged by his father-in-law , Signor Lodovico , to supply his place during the interval of his enforced absence . And certainly no better squire of dames could have been found than this courteous and brilliant cavalier . He took Isabella and Beatrice out riding in the park , and showed them some of the beauties of that wide domain , which in the French chronicler 's eyes seemed more like the garden of Eden than any earthly spot . They could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by crystal streams , and groves of plane and cypress and myrtle , which charmed the travellers from the north , and made Commines exclaim there was no other region in the world as divinely beautiful as the Milanese land . But they could visit the pleasure-houses and pavilions in the gardens , and hunt the stags and red deer that ran wild in the park . For their amusement Messer Galeazzo let fly some of those good falcons of his , with their jewelled hoods and silver bells , and chased the herons and water-fowl along the lake , while the ducal huntsmen followed in their suits of green velvet embroidered with gold , and blew their golden bugles . Indoors they laughed and sang together , and turned over the leaves of the illuminated missals or the rare folios of the library . And as they talked of Messer Matteo Boiardo 's famous new poem and of the old French romances , a lively discussion over the respective merits of the paladins , Roland and Rinaldo di Montalbano arose between the two princesses on the one hand , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all in favour of the knight of Montalbano as the type of Italian chivalry , while Sanseverino , who had kinsmen at the court of France and took delight in French costumes and French literature , was as much at home in France as he was at Milan , and defended the matchless glory of his hero , Orlando . The quarrel waxed warm between them in those idle days , and in the fulness of their youth and high spirits they amused themselves , crying out , " Rolando ! Rolando ! " on the one side , and a " Rinaldo ! " on the other , until one afternoon Messer Galeazzo was acknowledged victor , and even Isabella took up his cry of Roland , but soon returned to her old allegiance , and declared boldly that she would allow no rival to the wronged knight of Montalbano . The controversy was to be prolonged for many a day , and was to become the theme of more than one merry letter and gay challenge between the Marchesana Isabella and the handsome Sanseverino , who soon won over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by until the week was almost over , and the time came to start for Milan . Every hour fresh news reached Pavia of the new wonders and marvellous entertainments that were awaiting them at the Milanese capital , and Isabella 's spirits rose high with eager expectation and delight . " You ought to be here , " this lively princess wrote to her youngest brother-in-law , Giovanni Gonzaga , who had stayed behind at Mantua , and was absent from the wedding fetes . And she told him of all the jousts and banquets and balls that were to succeed each other at Milan , this wonderful city which she was longing to see for herself . " And among other fetes , " she added , " there will be three of the finest theatrical representations that have ever been seen . But one thing which will make you still more envious is that from Milan we mean to go and visit that glorious city of Genoa , where you have never been ! Only think how many new places and lands we shall have seen by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , but fear our wishes will profit you little , and are sure my letter will make your mouth water . " On Saturday the 21st the bridal party set out from Pavia , and , leaving the Certosa on the right , travelled across the Lombard plain to Binasco , where they spent the night at the feudal castle of the Visconti , the ruins of which may still be seen on the heights above the little town . On Sunday morning the procession entered Milan , and the bride was received by her cousin , Isabella of Aragon , wife of the reigning duke , who had ridden out to meet her at the suburban church of S. Eustorgio , where the bones of the martyred friar , S. Pietro Martire , repose in their shrine of sculptured marble . At the gates Duke Gian Galeazzo and his uncle met them , followed by a brilliant company of Milanese nobles , and Lodovico , clad in a gorgeous mantle of gold brocade , rode through the streets at the side of his youthful bride . A hundred trumpeters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ martial music , and the crowds , who had assembled from all parts of Lombardy , thronged around to gaze on the duchess and her daughters , and more especially on the Moro 's bride . The street decorations that day were on the grandest scale . Lodovico had given orders that no expense should be spared , and the magnificence of the pageant amazed the foreign ambassadors and visitors from Mantua and Ferrara . Not only were the walls and balconies hung with red and blue satin or brocades , while wreaths of ivy were twined round the columns and doorways , but one whole street where the armourers had their shops was lined with effigies of armed warriors on horseback , entirely clad with chain-armour and plates of damascened steel . " Every one took these mailed figures to be alive , " says Tristan Calco , the admiring chronicler to whom we owe these details . The procession halted on the piazza in front of the Castello , and the heralds gave a loud blast of music as the bride was lifted from her horse , and received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Savoy , and her two daughters , Bianca Maria and Anna Sforza . Bona herself had returned to Milan at the French king 's request soon after her son 's marriage , and had consented to an outward reconciliation with her brother-in-law , Lodovico . Her daughter Anna 's marriage with the heir of the house of Este had always been one of the objects of her fondest wishes , and now she gave Duchess Leonora and her daughters a cordial welcome to her son 's court . On the following day the marriage of Alfonso d'Este and the princess Anna was privately solemnized in the ducal chapel , but the final nuptial benediction was deferred until their return to Ferrara , a month later . Meanwhile the bride 's sumptuous trousseau and jewels , as well as the splendid presents received by her , were displayed during the next week in the Castello , before the courtiers who came to pay their homage to the newly wedded Duke and Duchess of Bari . Of Anna Sforza herself we hear little , but her beauty and gentleness are praised by more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her uncle Lodovico , who was sincerely grieved by her early death . She and her husband paid frequent visits to Milan after her marriage , and were very happy in the society of Beatrice , whom she only survived a few months , dying at the birth of her first babe , to the great sorrow of her father-in-law , Duke Ercole . " She was very beautiful and very charming , " writes the Ferrarese diarist , " and there is little to tell about her , because she lived so short a time . " The most splendid fetes were yet to come . On the 24th of January , the day after Alfonso and Anna 's wedding , three tribunals were erected on the piazza , the one occupied by a group of heralds and trumpeters , the other loaded with precious bowls and dishes of gold and silver plate , the gifts of the magistrates of Milan and other cities to Signor Lodovico and his bride . The new duchess , accompanied by the other princes and princesses , arrayed in their richest robes and literally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the third tribunal erected in the centre , and received the homage of the deputies of the city ; after which two cavaliers , a Visconti and a Suardi , bending on one knee before the bride , took from her hand two lengths of cloth of gold , which were hung in the courtyard , as prizes to be given to the victor in the tournament . That evening two hundred Milanese ladies of high rank were invited to the great ball , or festa per le donne , given in the Sala della palla . On this occasion peasant girls from all parts of Italy , clad in the red , white , and blue of the Sforza colours , danced before the court , and " the palm of Terpsichore , " we are told , was awarded to a Tuscan maiden . On the 26th , the Giostra , which was to be the crowning event of the week 's festivities , began . At the tournament held in Pavia in honour of Giangaleazzo 's wedding , the knights had for the most part appeared in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendour to the occasion , they entered the lists in companies , clad in fancy costumes and bearing symbolical devices after the fashion of the day . First of all came the Mantuan troop of twenty horsemen clad in green velvet and gold lace , bearing golden lances and olive boughs in their hand , with Isabella 's kinsman , Alfonso Gonzaga , at their head . Then came Annibale Bentivoglio , the young husband of Lucrezia d'Este , with the Bologna knights , riding on a triumphal car drawn by stags and unicorns , the badge of the House of Este . These were followed by Gaspare di Sanseverino , with a band of twelve riders in black and gold Moorish dress , bearing Lodovico 's device of the Moor 's head on their helmets and white doves on their black armour . Last of all came a troop of wild Scythians , mounted on Barbary steeds , who galloped across the piazza , and then , halting in front of the ducal party , suddenly threw off their disguise and appeared in magnificent array , with the captain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head . He planted his golden lance in the ground , and at this sign a giant Moor , advancing to the front , recited a poem in honour of Duchess Beatrice. 6 These pageants and masques formed an important feature of Renaissance fetes , and were evidently regarded as such by the chroniclers of these wedding festivities , but to us the chief interest of this tournament lies in the knowledge that the Scythian disguise assumed by Galeazzo di Sanseverino and his companions was designed by no less a personage than Leonardo da Vinci . Some of the drawings of savages and masks which we see to-day on the stray leaves of his sketch-books may relate to these figures , but we know for certain that he was actually employed by Messer Galeazzo to arrange this masquerade . In a note in his own handwriting , on the margin of the " Codex Atlanticus , " we read , " Item , 26 of January , being in the house of Messer Galeazzo di San Sevo , ordering the festa of his Giostra , certain men-at-arms took off their vests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Giacomo " ( the apprentice whom he had already caught thieving at Pavia ) " took up a purse which lay on the bed with their other clothes , and took the money that was inside it . " The actual share which the great Florentine took in the preparation of the wedding festivities has often been discussed , and we are never likely to know how much of the duchess 's cabinet he painted , or what part he took in the decoration of the city , but at least this characteristic note on the lad whose honesty he had reason to suspect , proves that he was present in Milan at the time , and was the authority to whom Lodovico 's son-in-law naturally turned for advice in planning this masquerade . Incidents of this kind help us to realize how many and varied were the offices Leonardo was called upon to discharge in his master 's service , and how frequent were the interruptions which interfered with the painting of his pictures or the modelling of his great horse . After this pageant , the serious business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole days . Among the foremost knights who distinguished themselves on this occasion , the chronicler and court poet mention the Marquis of Mantua , who entered the lists in disguise ; young Annibale Bentivoglio , who wounded his hand badly , but refused to leave the ground ; the Marchesino Girolamo Stanga , one of Isabella d'Este 's especial friends and of Beatrice 's most devoted servants ; and Niccolo da Correggio , who was universally admired in his suit of gold brocade . All four Sanseverini brothers fought in the lists with their wonted skill and valour , but once more Messer Galeazzo , Gentis columen , came off the victor and proved himself unrivalled in courtly exercises , both as jouster and swordsman . On the last day of the tournament the prizes were given away , and Messer Galeazzo was conducted triumphantly to the Rocca , and there received the pallium of gold brocade from the bride 's own hand. 7 As soon as Lodovico recognized the Marquis of Mantua , he sent him a pressing invitation to take his place with the ducal party ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined his wife and sat down with the rest of his kinsfolk to the family banquet , which was held that night in the Castello . A curious letter , addressed by the Duke of Milan to his uncle Cardinal Ascanio Sforza in Rome , gives a full and minute account of this tournament , which Giangaleazzo describes as one of the most important events of his reign , and which he begs may be fully reported to His Holiness Pope Innocent . He dwells on the extraordinary magnificence of the sight , on the number and size of the lances used , which were more numerous and larger than ever before seen on these occasions , and ends with a splendid tribute to Messer Galeazzo , who both in valour and fortune surpassed all others . On the other hand , we recognize the cunning of Lodovico in the despatch addressed on this occasion by the ducal secretary to the Milanese envoy at Bologna . Here the incidents of the Giostra are briefly recounted , and great stress is laid on the valour displayed by Messer Annibale Bentivoglio , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , in spite of his great youth , proved himself as skilled a jouster as any , and won no less glory than if he had borne off the prize , which he would certainly have done if fortune had served him as well as he deserved . The wedding festivities were now brought to a close , and were unanimously pronounced to have passed off with brilliant success . Nothing now remained for the bride 's mother but to take leave of her daughter and return home . Accordingly , on the 1st of February , Duchess Leonora set out on her homeward journey , with her son and his newly-made bride and the Marchioness Isabella , accompanied by an escort of two hundred Milanese gentlemen , with Anna 's brother , Ermes Sforza , and the Count of Caiazzo  --  Gianfrancesco , the eldest of the Sanseverino brothers  --  at their head . Both Leonora and Isabella were anxious to see the Certosa , of which they had heard so much , on their way back to Pavia , and Lodovico , glad to do the honours of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride , sent a courier with the following letter to inform the prior and brothers of the Duchess of Ferrara 's visit :  --  " Since , besides the other honours which we have paid to the illustrious Duchess of Ferrara , we are above all anxious to show her the most remarkable things in our domain , and since we count this our church and monastery to be among the chief of these , we write this to inform you that the said duchess will visit the Certosa on Wednesday next , on her return home . And we desire you to give her a fitting reception , and to prepare an honourable banquet for the duchess and her company , which will number about four hundred persons and horses . No excuse on your part can be allowed , since this is our will and pleasure . And above all you will see that an abundant supply of lampreys is prepared . But we are quite sure that you will do your best to pay honour to the duchess , since otherwise we should feel obliged to do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our chamberlain to provide for her honourable entertainment . " 8 The prior and brothers of the Certosa knew their own interest too well not to comply with this somewhat imperious missive , and left nothing undone which could gratify their illustrious guests . Isabella 's curiosity for the beautiful and marvellous was amply gratified , and in Lodovico 's future letters to his sister-in-law we find more than one allusion to " our church and convent of the Certosa , which you saw when you were at Pavia . " After spending the following night at the Castello di Pavia , the duchess and her large party embarked on the bucentaurs that were awaiting them at the junction of the Ticino and the Po , and reached Ferrara on the 11th of February , there to begin a new series of splendid entertainments in honour of Don Alfonso 's marriage with this Sforza princess . FOOTNOTES : 6 Porro in A. S. L. , ix . 501 , etc. 7 T. Chalcus , Residua , 90. 8 C. Magenta , I Visconti e Sforza nel Castello di Pavia , i @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the court of Milan  --  Giangaleazzo and Isabella of Aragon  --  Lodovico 's first impressions  --  His growing affection for his wife  --  His letters to Isabella d'Este  --  Hunting and fishing parties  --  Cuzzago and Vigevano  --  Controversy on Orlando and Rinaldo  --  Bellincioni 's sonnets . 1491 We have seen how the childhood and early youth of Beatrice d'Este had been spent , first at her grandfather the King Ferrante 's court at Naples , afterwards in her own home at Ferrara . Under the watchful eye of a wise and careful mother , she had been trained in all the learning and accomplishments of the day , but had been allowed little liberty or opportunity of revealing her strong individuality . Her charms and talents had been thrown into the shade by the superior beauty and intellect of the Marchioness Isabella , and until the day she landed at Pavia she had been regarded in the comparatively insignificant light of the younger and less gifted sister . Now all this suddenly changed . At the age of fifteen , Beatrice d'Este found herself the wife of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the restraints hitherto imposed upon her and placed in a position of absolute freedom and independence . From the quiet regularity of the sheltered life which she had led at Ferrara by her mother 's side , she suddenly found herself transplanted to the gayest and most splendid court in Italy , surrounded by every luxury that wealth could give and every beautiful object that taste could devise . The bravest captains and the most accomplished artists of the day were at her feet , ready to obey her orders and gratify her smallest fancy . Leonardo and Bramante were at hand to arrange pageants and masquerades , to paint amorini on her mantelpiece or mythological fables along the frieze of her rooms , to build elegant pavilions , or lay out labyrinths and lakes in her garden . Bellincioni and a dozen other poets celebrated her name and recorded her words and actions in verse ; learned scholars and commentators read Dante to her when she cared to listen . Niccolo da Correggio not only wrote sonnets and canzoni for her to sing but invented new patterns for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chisel to play the lyre or viol for her pleasure . For her the wise man of Pavia , Lorenzo Gusnasco , fashioned cunningly wrought instruments , lutes and viols inlaid with ebony and ivory , and organs inscribed with Latin mottoes ; and the wonderful tenor , Cordier , the priest of Louvain , sang his sweetest and most entrancing strains in the ducal chapel . For her amusement the court jesters laughed and chattered and played their foolish tricks  --  Diodato , who had followed her from Ferrara , and the witty clown Barone , the petted favourite of Isabella d'Este and Veronica Gambara and a dozen other great ladies . And Messer Galeazzo was ready to risk his life and ruin his best clothes , all for the sake of his duchess . From the moment of Beatrice 's arrival at the Milanese court she won all hearts , less by her beauty than by her vivacity and high spirits , her bright eyes and ringing laugh , her frank gladness and keen enjoyment of life . How favourable was the first impression which the young duchess made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Ferrarese envoy and ladies-in-waiting addressed almost daily to her anxious parents , during the first few weeks after her marriage . Every little incident , each word or act that is likely to please Duchess Leonora , is faithfully reported by these good servants , in their eagerness to allay the natural fears of the loving mother for the absent child in her brilliant but difficult position . The demeanour of Signor Lodovico towards his wife , all he said and thought of her , was narrowly watched by Giacomo Trotti , and duly repeated in his letters to Ferrara . For the present this was eminently satisfactory . " Signor Lodovico , " writes the ambassador during the wedding festivities at Milan , " has nothing but the highest praise both for his wife and the Marchesana . He is never tired of saying how much pleasure he takes in their company . " Here jousting and tilting , feasting and dancing , are the order of the day . Signor Lodovico is delighted with his wife 's appearance , and to-day , when she gave away the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the people . " And again a few days later , when the festivities were ended and the ducal family were enjoying a little rest before the party broke up , he writes  --  " Whenever Lodovico Sforza is wanted , he is always to be found in the company of his wife , of the Marchesana , of Don Alfonso and Madonna Anna , with whom he is never tired of talking and laughing , exactly as if he were a youth of their own age . " On the 6th of February , after the departure of the duchess and her children , Trotti wrote again , remarking , " Signor Lodovico seems to think of nothing but how best to please and amuse his wife , and every day he tells me how dear she is to him . " 9 Among the Ferrarese ladies who had remained at Milan , in attendance on the young duchess , was her cousin , Polisenna d'Este , who , being considerably older and more sedate , and no longer either young or beautiful , had for these very reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and desired to keep her informed of all that happened . Early in February this lady-in-waiting wrote the following letter to Isabella d'Este , in terms that were well calculated to reassure both the anxious sister and mother as to Beatrice 's happiness and her husband 's behaviour :  --  " MOST ILLUSTRIOUS MADONNA AND DEAR MARCHESANA , " Since I have remained here after your Highness 's departure from Milan , continually in the company of your sister , the illustrious Duchess of Bari , and of her husband , Signor Lodovico , I will no longer delay to discharge my duty in sending you some comforting words as to the well-being and happiness of the said duchess . I can not express how happy she is to see herself every day more affectionately caressed and petted by her husband , who seems to find his sole delight in giving her every possible pleasure and amusement . It is indeed a rare joy to see them together and to realize what cordial love and good-will he bears her . God grant it may last long ! And I felt that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowing that it would give you especial satisfaction . I will only add that the air here seems to suit her particularly well , and that she is certainly very much improved and stronger in appearance , and seems every day to grow more beautiful . I beg of your Highness to commend me to Madonna Beatrice and Collona . " Your Highness 's servant , POLISSENA D'ESTE . From Milan , 12th of February , 1491 . " And Beatrice herself wrote to Isabella in answer to her letter from her sister , describing the festivities at Ferrara , where her presence had been sadly missed by her affectionate relatives . " I leave you to imagine how much content and delight your letter of the 17th has given me . For in it you give me so full and vivid a description of the successful fetes in honour of the wedding of Madonna Anna , our brother 's wife and dearest sister , that I seem to have been present there myself . And since you know well how much I love and respect you , I am sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you . Your letter , indeed , gave me greater pleasure than any which I have received since you left here , and I am quite sure that all of these pageants and spectacles were distinguished by the utmost beauty and gallantry , as you say , since they were all planned and arranged by our dear father , who orders these things with consummate wisdom and perfection . I can well believe that my absence has been a real grief to you , and that these fetes have given you but little pleasure , since I was not there . For my own part , I can not deny that , now I am without your company , I feel not only that I am deprived of a very dear sister , but that I have lost half of myself . And if it were not for the new and continual amusements which my illustrious husband provides every day for my pleasure , I should have been inconsolable until I could be once more with you . But since our hearts and thoughts are still one , and we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take comfort as I do , and rest content in feeling that , now these ceremonies are all over , we can at least speak to each other by means of letters , written with our own hands , as you have promised me. " 10 This simple , warm-hearted letter , which breathes all the frankness and affection of Beatrice 's nature , is written , like most of her early letters , in her own hand . The words are often badly spelt , and her handwriting is larger and less formed than that of Isabella , which it otherwise resembles . But owing to the multiplicity of interests and occupations that claimed her time after the first years of her married life , the young duchess generally employed a secretary , and has left comparatively few letters . Lodovico himself addressed several letters to his sister-in-law , to whom he was sincerely attached , and in order to facilitate the intercourse between the two sisters , and as he said , to leave Isabella no excuse for not answering his communications , he sent a courier regularly every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pleasure and bring back her letters . " Loving you cordially as I do , " he writes , a fortnight after her departure , " and , knowing that I have in you a very dear sister , nothing can give me greater pleasure than letters from your hand . I thank your Highness most sincerely for all that you tell me , and most of all for your warm expressions of affection and for saying how sorry you were to leave us , and how not even the splendid fetes in Ferrara could console you for being deprived of our presence . All I beg of you is to write often , and I will see that your letters are brought here . " Besides her sister and brother-in-law and Madonna Polisenna , Isabella had another correspondent at the court of Milan , in the person of Messer Galeazzo di Sanseverino , with whom she had formed a warm friendship at Pavia , and who had promised to give her frequent news of her sister , while at the same time he still carried on the battle over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Castello at Pavia . He too , writing on the 11th of February and Signor Lodovico left nothing to be desired . " My Duchess , " as he always calls the mistress to whose service he had pledged his sword and life , " perseveres in showing Signor Lodovico an affection which is truly beyond all praise , and , to put it briefly , I am satisfied that there is such real attachment between them , that I do not believe two persons could love each other better . " The presence of this young and joyous princess gave a touch of romance to court life , and inspired men like Galeazzo and Niccolo da Correggio with a chivalrous devotion to her person . Every one was ready to obey her wishes , and eager to win her smiles and to earn her thanks . Even Giangaleazzo , the feeble duke who seldom took pleasure in anything but horses and dogs , and often treated his own wife in a brutal way , felt the charm of this bright young creature , and was stirred out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter which he addressed to the Duke of Ferrara after the wedding festivities , he went out of his way to express the affection with which this charming princess , his wife 's cousin and his uncle 's wife , has inspired him . " I can not , " he writes , " sufficiently express how much joy this marriage has given me , and how glad I am to see the singular virtues and talents of Madonna la sposa . " And after formally congratulating the duke on his daughter 's marriage , and on the renewed alliance between the two houses , he goes on to say how much he rejoices in his uncle 's happiness , which will , he feels sure , only increase his own . " For by means of this marriage , besides the two sisters which God had already given us , we have now gained a third , whom by God 's grace we shall not love less than the two who are ours by nature . " Giangaleazzo 's own wife , Duchess Isabella , a virtuous and high-minded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's weakness and folly , was much beloved by her own servants , but inherited the proud reserve of the Aragonese race , and led a secluded existence with her lord , who hated town life and seldom showed his face in Milan . But this young wife of Lodovico , it was easy to see , would soon throw her into the shade . Beatrice 's presence lent a charm to the most tedious court functions . Her high spirits and overflowing mirth threw new zest into every pursuit . Grave senators and wise statesmen listened to her words with interest , and grey-headed prelates tolerated her merry jokes and smiled at her irrepressible laughter . She sang and danced , and played at ball and rode races , and took long hunting and fishing expeditions to the royal villas in the neighbourhood of Milan . " My wife , " wrote Lodovico to his sister-in-law three months after his marriage , " has developed a perfect passion for horsemanship , and is always either riding or hunting . " The regent himself was too deeply engaged in state affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details of administration , to be able to accompany his wife as a rule . But she had a devoted comrade in her husband 's son-in-law , whom he deputed to escort the duchess on her more distant expeditions . Since his betrothal to Lodovico 's daughter , Galeazzo had enjoyed all the privileges of a son , and was already , what the Moro had promised to make him , the first man in the state . He assisted at all state audiences , and was the only person present when Lodovico received foreign ambassadors . He shared the Moro 's private life , and always dined alone with the duke and duchess when there were no other guests at their table . His letters to Isabella d'Este give lively accounts of the expeditions which he took in Beatrice 's company during the first few months of her married life . " This morning , being Friday , " he writes on the 11th of February , 1491 , " I started at ten o'clock with the duchess and all of her ladies on horseback to go to Cussago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our pleasures , I must tell you that first of all I had to ride in a chariot with the duchess and Dioda , and as we drove we sang more than twenty-five songs , arranged for three voices . That is to say , Dioda took the tenor part , and the duchess the soprano , whilst I sang sometimes bass and sometimes soprano , and played so many foolish tricks that I really think I may claim to be more of a fool than Dioda ! And now farewell for to-night , and I will try to improve still further , so as to afford your Highness the more pleasure when you come here in the summer . " But Messer Galeazzo 's story does not end here . A day or two later he takes up the thread of his discourse again , and describes the pleasant day which the duchess spent at Cussago , one of Lodovico Sforza 's favourite villas on the sunny slopes of the Brianza , six miles from Milan , on the way to Como . " Having reached Cussago , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the river , and caught an immense quantity of large pike , trout , lampreys , crabs , and several other good sorts of smaller fish , and proceeded to dine off them until we could eat no more . Then , to make our meal digest the better , directly after dinner we began to play at ball with great vigour and energy , and after we had played for some time we went over the palace , which is really very beautiful , and , among other things , contains a doorway of carved marble , as fine as the new works at the Certosa . Next we examined the result of our sport , which had been laid out in front of the place , and took back as many of the lampreys and crabs as we could eat with us , and sent some of the lampreys to his Highness the duke . When this was done , we went to another palace and caught more than a thousand large trout , and after choosing out the best for presents and for our own holy throats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And then we mounted our horses again , and began to let fly some of those good falcons of mine which you saw at Pavia , along the river-side , and they killed several birds . By this time it was already four o'clock . We rode out to hunt stags and fawns , and after giving chase to twenty-two and killing two stags and two fawns , we returned home and reached Milan an hour after dark , and presented the result of our day 's sport to my lord the Duke of Bari . My illustrious lord took the greatest possible pleasure in hearing all we had done , far more , indeed , than if he had been there in person , and I believe that my duchess will in the end reap the greatest benefit , and that Signor Lodovico will give her Cussago , which is a place of rare beauty and worth . But I have cut my boots to pieces and torn my clothes , and played the fool into the bargain , and these are the rewards one gains in the service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since it is all for the sake of my duchess , whom I never mean to fail in life or death . " Illustration : SFORZA MS . ILLUMINATED From a private photograph . Galeazzo was a true prophet , and in the British Museum we may still admire the beautifully illuminated deed of gift , adorned with friezes of exquisite cherubs and medallion-portraits of Lodovico and Beatrice , by which the fair palace and lands of Cussago became the property of the young duchess . This favourite villa of the Visconti had been left by Francesco Sforza to his son Lodovico , who had employed a host of architects and painters to adorn its walls . Bramante is said to have reared the noble bell-tower and portico that are still standing , while Milanese or Pavian sculptors carved the medallions bearing the Sforza arms , and the portrait of Lodovico that may still be seen on the arcades of the loggia . To-day the once beautiful country-house is a ruin ; the marble doorway which Galeazzo and Beatrice admired , carved it may be by that same Cristoforo Romano to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that of Isabella d'Este 's studio at Mantua , has disappeared . Only the fragments of frescoes and the rich terra-cotta mouldings and slender columns of the elegant cortile recall the joyous day which Beatrice d'Este and her ladies spent at the villa . But their memory sheds a glamour on the scene , and in the story of those Renaissance days , among so much that is dark and sinister , it is pleasant to recall this picture of the young duchess and her gallant cavalier singing songs for pure gladness of heart as they rode out together in the fair spring morning . " One thing only , " wrote Messer Galeazzo , " was wanting to our pleasure , and that was the sweet company of yourself , fair Madonna Marchesana . " And with a sigh he tells her how much she is missed in the Castello of Milan , and how often he wishes he could find her in Madonna the Duchess of Ferrara 's rooms , having her long hair combed and curled by her favourite maidens Teodora and Beatrice and Violante , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returns to the old controversy over Orlando , and replies to a gay challenge which Isabella has sent him in a letter to Signor Lodovico , only wishing she were here to defend Rinaldo in person , or rather to be made to own the error of her ways , and to confess that the knight of Montalbano is not to be compared to Roland ! But he warns her that if she perseveres in this heresy , he will draw up such an indictment of Rinaldo 's faults as will fill her with confusion , and make her recognize with shame his inferiority to Roland , that baron of immortal fame , of whom nothing but good can be said . Isabella , however , stuck to her colours , and , a whole month later , Messer Galeazzo sent her a long letter from Vigevano , in which he drew up an elaborate parallel between the conduct of the two paladins , as recorded in Boiardo 's poem , and ended with a splendid eulogy of Roland . " Roland the most Christian ! Roland the pure and strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the true defender of widows and orphans ! Of his valour I will say nothing , this being known to all the world ; but this I say , that when I think of my worship for Roland , however sad and ill disposed I may be feeling , my heart rejoices , and I become glad of heart and joyous again . " So he begs her , for the love that he bears her Highness , to try and amend her ways and recant her errors , and do penitence in this Lenten season for her fault , after the example of the great apostle St. Paul , who was converted to the Christian faith , and became an elect son and mighty preacher of the gospel , bringing many to righteousness and enjoying the high favour of our Lord God . For Roland , the Marchesa may know for certain , has his place in Paradise with the saints , " and in serving him you will be serving God ; but if , on the other hand , you persevere in your false opinions , you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanied Rinaldo both in his life here and afterwards in his death . And remember , " he adds in conclusion , " when the blind lead the blind , both fall into the ditch ! " Nothing daunted by this long harangue , Isabella retorted in an equally lengthy epistle , flatly denying the charges brought against Rinaldo as false and unsupported by a tittle of evidence . Galeazzo replied in another bantering letter , assuming the part of a priest , and exhorting the fair sinner to confess her faults in these holy days of Passiontide , lest she should incur greater damnation , and drive her soul into the devil 's jaws . " And since this is the hour of penitence and contrition , " he concludes , " I would once more beg and pray your Highness to return to the true faith and devotion of Roland , having before your eyes the good example of our most illustrious duchess , your sister , who has acknowledged her errors , and become a sincere follower of Roland , as a good Christian , and is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humble and devoted servant , GALEAZ SFORTIA VICECOMES , Armorum Capitaneus. 11 Vigevano , 30th of March , 1491 . " Isabella , however , still remained obdurate , declaring that on no account would she follow Beatrice 's changeable conduct , and was ready to defend her hero against a hundred thousand opponents . Upon which Galeazzo reminded her that , for all her boastings , she had been constrained to yield to his single-handed efforts in the park at Pavia , and had ended by taking up his cry of " Roland . " The more pity that she should turn her back upon the good cause now , and prove the inconstancy of woman 's nature ! But he consoled himself by reflecting that the Marchesana would soon be back at Milan , when he would easily be able to make her give up Rinaldo , and once more cry " Roland " as she had done before . This letter was written by Galeazzo on the 13th of April , after which the subject dropped for a while , until it was revived by a visit which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summer with his wife , Margherita Pia , a great friend of the Marchesana and Duchess of Urbino . Isabella could not resist the opportunity of returning the charge , and sent Messer Galeazzo , by his brother 's hands , a challenge to battle , couched in approved terms , and indicating her choice of arms and of the scene of action . Galeazzo replied in the most courteous language , declaring himself absolutely at the service of his fair challenger , and assuring her that her coming is awaited with the utmost impatience by Signor Lodovico , the Duchess of Bari , and her humble servant . Meanwhile Isabella prepared herself for the fray by collecting all the information on the subject that she could possibly obtain . In that same month of August , when Galeazzo sent her the last-named letter from his villa at Castelnuovo , near Tortona , the Marchesana wrote to the Mantuan ambassador at Venice , desiring him to send her all the poems and romances concerning French paladins at the court of Charlemagne which he could discover . At the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Matteo Boiardo , at Ferrara , requesting him to send her the concluding cantos of his poem , the " Orlando Innamorato , " which had not as yet been given to the world . The poet replied that , to his great regret , he was unable to comply with her wish , since the cantos in question were not yet written ; and Isabella could only beg him to let her have a copy of the two earlier books , in order that she might refresh her memory by reading them once more . But the Marchesana 's intended visit to Milan was , after all , put off , and Messer Galeazzo was called away to more arduous duties in camp and field . The debate , which had been prolonged with so much wit and ingenuity on both sides , came to an abrupt ending . It was left to the Florentine poet , Bellincioni , in whose verses the smallest incidents that took place at court were faithfully reflected , to celebrate this " praiseworthy and memorable duel of intellect between these two august personages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arguments brought forward on either side . In the first , he adopts Isabella 's standpoint , and is all in favour of Rinaldo . In the second , he sees a vision of Roland with the saints in Paradise , and declares almost in the same language as Galeazzo , that whereas Rinaldo was only a brave soldier , Roland was able and virtuous as well as valiant . Finally , in the third , he exhorts the illustrious marchioness to recant her errors , since the Scriptures tell us that it is human to err , and not to follow the bad example of Pharaoh who hardened his heart , but to see how immeasurably inferior Rinaldo was to his rival , and to become , with Messer Galeazzo and others of his merit , a true Christian and follower of Roland . The whole controversy is a curious instance of the deep interest which these great ladies of the Italian Renaissance and their courtiers took in literary subjects , and especially in the romances of the Carlovingian cycle . This interest was not confined to the upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was no doubt largely increased by the songs and the improvisations of strolling minstrels and Provencal story-tellers . First of all the Florentine Pulci , and after him Boiardo and Bello of Ferrara , sought inspiration in the same source , and later on their example was followed by Ariosto and Tasso . And Poggio , writing in the fifteenth century , tells us how in his day a worthy citizen of Milan , after hearing one of these wandering cantatores chanting the story of Roland 's death with dramatic action and effect , went home weeping so bitterly that his wife and friends could hardly console him or induce him to dry his tears . " And yet , " remarks the grave historian , " this Roland they tell of has been dead well-nigh seven hundred years . " Unfortunately , Isabella 's share in this singular and interesting correspondence has perished , and only Messer Galeazzo 's letters survive . These may still be seen in the Gonzaga Archives , where they were first discovered by Signor Alessandro Luzio and Signor Rodolfo Renier . These learned writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer , since the letters are signed Galeaz Sfortia Vicecomes , and internal evidence will not allow them to have been written by any Galeazzo Sforza or Visconti then living . But there can hardly be a doubt as to who the writer actually was . Galeazzo di Sanseverino had been adopted by Lodovico Sforza when he married his daughter Bianca , and from that time used the surname of the ducal house , Sfortia Vicecomes , and very frequently added his title of Armorum Capitaneus , captain of the armies of Milan . His well-known patronage of artists and love of letters , as well as his intimate connection with the duke and duchess , all point in the same direction ; and if any further proof were needed , the mention of his brother Gaspare , and the allusion to Galeazzo by name in one of Bellincioni 's sonnets on the subject , and the fact that one of the letters is dated from his own villa of Castelnuovo , near Tortona , would be sufficient to settle the question . The champion of Orlando and the faithful servant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than the friend of Leonardo and Castiglione  --  that ideal knight , Galeazzo di Sanseverino . FOOTNOTES : 9 G. Uzielli , Leonardo da Vinci , etc. , p. 26. 10 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 98. 11 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 104 . CHAPTER VIII Relations between Lodovico and Beatrice  --  Cecilia Gallerani  --  Birth of her son Cesare  --  Her marriage to Count Bergamini  --  Beatrice at Villa Nova and Vigevano  --  The Sforzesca and Pecorara  --  Lodovico 's system of irrigation in the Lomellina  --  Leonardo at Vigevano  --  Hunting-parties and country life  --  Letters to Isabella d'Este. 1491 All these caresses and adulation , all the expeditions and hunting-parties and fetes in her honour , were naturally very delightful to this young princess of fifteen summers , who had till now hardly left home , and who flung herself with such boundless enjoyment into every new form of amusement . Life for her was full of mirth and rapture ; a long prospect of endless pleasures seemed to open before her as the first breath of spring passed over the green Lombard plains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the long avenues on the sunny terraces of Vigevano burst into leaf . The world seemed waking into new bliss , and Duchess Beatrice was the gayest and gladdest of its creatures . So at least she appeared to those who saw her in the full enjoyment of chase or dance . But there was a darker side to the picture . Lodovico looked on his young wife as a joyous and fascinating child , as he told Giacomo Trotti , " lieta di natura et molto piacevolina , " and thought that as long as he treated her with consideration and respect , and at the same time allowed her every possible indulgence , he might continue to go on his own way and take his pleasure in whatever form he chose . But he soon found out his mistake . This young wife of his , full of mirth and high spirits as she was , had a deeper nature and a stronger will than he suspected . If a constant round of amusements could have satisfied her , she might have accepted the playful caresses of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection which he bestowed upon her . But Beatrice asked for more than this . She was bent on having sole possession of her lord 's heart  --  of reigning there at least without a rival . And when she discovered that Lodovico had a mistress actually living in the Castello , whom he visited constantly and loved passionately , her whole being rose up in arms . Her proud spirit would not brook a rival , and she vowed the duke must choose between his mistress and his wife . When the Ferrarese envoy saw the newly wedded duke on his way to Cecilia Gallerani 's rooms within a month after his marriage , he was full of gloomy forebodings . But Lodovico was perfectly frank with him , and did not attempt to conceal his actions or the motives of his conduct . For a while Beatrice spent her time riding or hunting about the country with Messer Galeazzo and her ladies , and remained in happy ignorance of the true state of affairs . But this could not last long . Soon a rumour of Cecilia 's presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often the duke was seen in her company , and was told that before many weeks were over his mistress was likely to bear him a child . The first intimation which we have of this rude awakening which had come to the young duchess is in a letter addressed by Trotti to Duke Ercole , which he sends in the strictest confidence , begging his master to allow no one but our illustrious Madonna to read it , and then to burn it without delay. 12 In this letter he says that Beatrice has absolutely refused to wear a certain vest of woven gold which her husband had given her , if Madonna Cecilia ever appeared in a similar one , which it seems was also Lodovico 's present . The duke himself , he adds , had been to see him that day , and had promised faithfully that he would put an end to his liaison with Cecilia , and would either marry her to one of his courtiers or desire her to become a nun . Lodovico , it is plain , had realized that the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up his relations with his old mistress without causing open scandal . He was true to his promise , and that carnival he broke off the connection which gave Beatrice so much pain , and wrote to Giacomo Trotti from Vigevano on the 27th of March , informing him that he had decided not to see Madonna Cecilia again , and that after her child 's birth she had agreed to become the wife of Count Lodovico Bergamini . This strange compact was duly carried out . On the 3rd of May , the duke 's discarded mistress gave birth to a son , who received the name of Cesare ; and in the following July , Cecilia Gallerani was married to Count Lodovico Bergamini of Cremona , one of the Moro 's most loyal servants and subjects . Her trousseau on this occasion was of the most sumptuous description , and it was noticed that the corbeille which held her gowns bore the ducal arms . At the same time the Duke of Bari presented her with the stately Palazzo del Verme , originally built by his ancestor , Filippo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the piazza of the Duomo , as a token of his regard and a heritage for her infant son . Court painters and sculptors were employed to decorate the halls and porticoes with frescoes and medallions of the finest marble , and at the time of the French invasion , eight years later , Countess Bergamini 's palace was described as the finest private house in Milan . Cecilia devoted herself to the classical studies in which she had taken delight from her earliest youth , and entertained her learned friends in her town house or at her villa near Cremona until she died in advanced old age , some years after the last of Lodovico 's sons had ceased to reign over Milan . Lodovico seems to have kept his promise loyally , but always treated Cecilia and her husband with marked favour , and acknowledged the boy Cesare as his own son . A curious letter addressed to him by the poet Bellincioni , in February , 1492 , when the duke was absent from Milan for a few days , begins by informing Lodovico that he has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband , and goes on to say that he was dining yesterday with Madonna Cecilia . He tells Lodovico how he had seen her son Cesare , who had grown into a very fine child  --  " quale e grasso , dico grasso ! "  --  and how he had made the little fellow laugh . In the same letter he complains of all that he has to suffer at the hands of envious detractors , and by way of ingratiating himself with the duke , reminds his Highness that he had always prophesied Madonna Cecilia 's child would prove to be a boy . Bellincioni himself composed several sonnets in honour of Cesare 's birth and of his accomplished mother . And among the exquisite miniatures of the little Maximilian Sforza 's Libro del Gesu in the Trivulzian library , we find a picture of Lodovico and Beatrice 's child sitting at dinner with his mother and a lady bearing the name of Cecilia , in whom tradition sees the duke 's old mistress , Countess Bergamini . But although Cecilia remained at court , and even maintained friendly relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given Beatrice cause for jealousy again , and her name is never again mentioned in Giacomo Trotti 's confidential despatches to his master . Only the singular fact that Beatrice d'Este 's portrait was never , so far as we know , painted by Leonardo , the supreme master at her husband 's court , may well be owing to the remembrance that he had formerly painted Cecilia Gallerani . The proud young duchess who would not wear a robe similar to that bestowed upon his mistress by her husband , may naturally enough have declined to have her portrait painted by the same artist , however excellent a master he might be . But whether or no this was the true reason of this strange omission , there was certainly no portrait of Beatrice d'Este by Leonardo 's hand in Milan a year after her death , or her own sister Isabella would not have applied to Cecilia Gallerani for the loan of her picture as an example of Leonardo 's art . From this time , however , the young duchess succeeded in winning her husband 's heart , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his roving affections . On the 20th of April , Trotti wrote to Ferrara that Signor Lodovico had been to see him on the second or third day in Easter week , and had spoken with the greatest warmth and affection of his wife , with whom he spent his whole time , and whose charming ways and manners gave him the greatest pleasure . Madonna Beatrice is , as he says , not only of a joyous nature , but of noble and elevated mind , and at the same time very pleasing and no less modest . And in May , when Cecilia 's son was born , the duke himself told his wife the news , repeating his determination never again to renew the old connection . His letters to Isabella d'Este abound in the same expressions of genuine love and admiration for his young wife . He is never tired of dwelling on her perfections , on her courage and fine horsemanship , and looks on with an indulgent smile at her wildest freaks and escapades . Early in March he and Beatrice went to Vigevano , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ladies . All his life Lodovico retained especial affection for this old Lombard town , where he had been born , and which he had greatly improved and beautified during the last few years . By his care the streets were paved , and new houses erected ; the buildings of the ancient Forum , which dated back to Roman times , were restored ; and the church repaired and adorned with pictures , and decorated by the hand of the sculptor Cristoforo Romano . " At Vigevano , " writes the contemporary Milanese chronicler Cagnola , " a place very dear to the house of Sforza , Lodovico made a fair and large piazza , and adorned it with many noble buildings and a fine park , which he filled with beasts of prey for the pleasure of the ducal family . He also laid out some most beautiful gardens , and since all this country was very dry and arid , he constructed aqueducts with great artifice and ingenuity , and brought water into the place in such abundance that these lands , which had hitherto been sterile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so entirely did he improve and alter the whole place that , instead of Vigevano , it might well be called Citta nova . " At the same time Lodovico rebuilt on a magnificent scale the old castle which crowns the heights above the valley of the Ticino , and employed Bramante to design the lofty tower and the arcaded courts with delicate traceries and terra-cotta mouldings in the finest Lombard style . This favourite palace of the Moro 's has been turned into a barrack , and little remains of its former splendour ; but Bramante 's tower is still standing , and on the north gate of the keep we may read a significant inscription placed there by the citizens of Vigevano , recording the many benefactions of this most illustrious duke , who loved his native city so well , and was never tired of heaping benefactions on her people . " By his care not only was this splendid house raised from the ground , and the square of the old Forum restored to its pristine shape , but the course of rivers was turned , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barren land . The desert waste became a green and fertile meadow , " the wilderness rejoiced and blossomed as the rose . " The same sentiments inspired the verses in which Galeotto del Carretto , one of the most accomplished poets of Beatrice 's court , celebrated Lodovico 's improvements in this his favourite country house : " Vigevano , che gia fu gleba vile , Ha fatto adorno , e gli agri a quel contigui Ha coltivati con saper utile , E i steril campi , e al far fructo ambigui Fertili ha facto et abondanti prati , E d'acqua ticinese tutti irigui . " Both Cagnola and Galeotto refer , no doubt , to the vast system of irrigation which Lodovico constructed at immense pains and expense to fertilize this district of Lomellina , and which may well have earned the gratitude of its inhabitants . The great Naviglio Sforzesca , which has resisted the ravages of time , formed part of this admirable system , and was probably constructed under the supervision of Leonardo , who was often at Vigevano with Lodovico , and who in later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the immediate neighbourhood of Vigevano , that Lodovico established his model farm for the encouragement of agriculture . Like all the Moro 's other undertakings , this was planned on a splendid scale . The villa itself was an imposing quadrangular building , with four lofty towers , and a noble gateway adorned with a Latin inscription cut in gold letters on a tablet of massive marble , and bearing the date 1486 . These lines , composed at the duke 's request by Ermolao Barbaro , the learned Venetian scholar , who was a personal friend of his , and represented the republic at his court , record how Lodovico , the son of one Sforza Duke of Milan , and uncle and guardian of another , brought water to fertilize this barren province , and was the builder of this fair house , " villaque amenissima a fundamentis erecta . " In order to carry out his schemes , the duke acquired a large extent of land in the neighbourhood , partly by purchase , and partly by the confiscation of territory , which , as Corio remarks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not help to increase Lodovico 's popularity , although in the end it largely benefited both the state and posterity . He proceeded to dig canals , and bring water on the one side by the Naviglio Sforzesca from the Ticino , and on the other by the Mora Canal from the Val Seria . Then , with the help of exports from Vicenza and Verona , he introduced the culture of the mulberry with excellent results , and planted large vineyards . Here he tried various experiments in the culture of the vine , such , for instance , as that of burying vines in winter , which Leonardo noted down when he visited Vigevano in March , 1492 . At the same time Lodovico brought vast flocks of sheep from Languedoc , and built the large farm known as La Pecorara , close to the new villa . La Grange , as they called this farm , aroused the admiration of the French chroniclers who followed Louis XII . in his invasion of Lombardy , more than any other of the beautiful and marvellous houses and enchanted gardens which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaguin can not find words in which to express his amazement at the marvellous number of beasts that he saw there  --  horses , mares , oxen , cows , bulls , rams , ewes , goats , and other beasts with their young , such as fawns , calves , foals , lambs , and kids  --  or the massive pillars and lofty vaulting of the stables , which are described as being larger than the whole of the Carthusian convent in Paris . " The farm itself , " he writes , " is finely situated in a wide meadow about four leagues in circumference , with no less than thirty-three streams of fair running water flowing through the pastures , and well adapted for the practical uses of agriculture , since they serve for the bathing and cleansing of the animals as well as for the watering of the grass . The plan of the farm-buildings is a large square , like some noble cloister , and in the park outside are barns and ricks of hay and other produce . In the central courtyard are the houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the farm . In the outhouses , which are built in the shape of a great cross , the labourers have their homes , together with their wives and families . Some of these clean and tend the cattle or groom the horses . Others milk the herds of cows at the proper time . Others , again , receive the milk and bear it into the dairies , where it is made into the great cheeses which they call here Milan cheeses , under the superintendence of the master cheese-maker . The exact weight of everything , that is to say , of the hay , milk , butter , and cheese , is carefully recorded , and there is an extraordinary wealth and abundance of all these things . " These Milan cheeses were so highly esteemed by the French invaders in 1499 , that Louis XII . took back a large quantity with him to Blois , and kept them for several years in a room especially devoted to that purpose . They were preserved in oil , and are mentioned in one of his wife Anne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the manifold industries which this far-seeing prince established on his royal domain , less , as he said , for actual profit than for the encouragement of better methods in agriculture and the promotion of his poorer subjects ' prosperity . And over all he kept the same keen and vigilant eye , paying attention to every detail and providing for every contingency . The management of this model farm and the progress of the extensive works that were being executed in the new palace of Vigevano filled every moment that he could spare from affairs of state at Milan . But on this occasion his especial object in visiting his native city was , as he tells Isabella d'Este , to stock the park with game of all kinds  --  deer , chamois , hare , and pheasants  --  as well as the wild boars and wolves for the more serious sport known as la grande caccia . " I am hoping to go to Vigevano on Monday , " he writes from Milan on the 26th of February , " with my wife , and intend to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are here we may be able to give you the more pleasure . As for my wife , I really believe that since your departure she has not let a single day pass without mounting her horse ! " And later in the summer he says , " My wife has become so clever at hawking that she quite outdoes me at this her favourite sport . " Beatrice herself gives a lively account of her country life during the spring of 1491 , in a charming letter which she addressed to her sister from Villa Nova , another of Lodovico 's delightful pleasure-houses in the valley of the Ticino between Milan and Pavia . " I am now here at Villa Nova , where the loveliness of the country and the balmy sweetness of the air make me think we are already in the month of May , so warm and splendid is the weather we are enjoying ! Every day we go out riding with the dogs and falcons , and my husband and I never come home without having enjoyed ourselves exceedingly in hunting herons and other water-fowl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chase , since game is so plentiful here that hares are to be seen jumping out at every corner  --  so much so , that often we hardly know which way to turn to find the best sport . Indeed , the eye can not take in all one desires to see , and it is scarcely possible to count up the number of animals that are to be found in this neighbourhood . Nor must I forget to tell you how every day Messer Galeazzo and I , with one or two other courtiers , amuse ourselves playing at ball after dinner , and we often talk of your Highness , and wish that you were here . I say all this , not to diminish the pleasure that I hope you will have when you do come by telling you what you may expect to find here , but in order that you may know how well and happy I am , and how kind and affectionate my husband is , since I can not thoroughly enjoy any pleasure or happiness unless I share it with you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole field of garlic planted for your benefit , so that when you come , we may be able to have plenty of your favourite dishes ! 13 " Ex Villa Nova , 18 Martiji , 1491 . " It is plain from this letter that harmony had been restored between the wedded pair , and that the rock on which Beatrice 's happiness had seemed likely to founder had been fortunately avoided . The passing cloud that cast a shadow on her bright young life had rolled away , and this letter breathes the serene happiness of the spring airs about her . But her affection for her sister was warmer and stronger than ever , and hardly a day passed without some fresh expression of her impatience for Isabella 's return  --  an impatience which both Lodovico and Galeazzo seem to have shared . On the 21st of April , after describing a successful wolf-hunt from Vigevano , in which the Duke and Duchess of Milan and their courtiers had all taken part , Lodovico writes  --  " The whole distance must have been at least thirty miles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of us , to make their horses race one against the other ; and if your Highness had been here , I think you would have entered the lists and tried your luck against them . And since you must come soon , and are expected by us impatiently , I will remind your Highness to bring some of those fine Barbary steeds which your illustrious lord the marquis keeps in his stables , and then you will easily be able to beat all the others . " Again , on the 16th of May , Lodovico writes in the same strain  --  " I am as sorry as you are that you could not be here for these wolf-hunts , because , as you said in the letter written with your own hand on the 5th instant , I am quite sure you would have given us proofs of your spirit and courage . I must , however , tell you that your sister 's boldness is such that I think even you would hardly come off victor in this contest , especially as , since you were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts of horsemanship and of hunting . All the same , I am so impatient to see you together and to match your courage one against the other , that it seems to me a thousand years until your arrival ! " Beatrice , it appears , was absolutely fearless in the presence of danger , and faced an angry boar or wounded stag with the same lightness of heart . The greater the risks she ran , the higher her spirits rose . This feature of his young wife 's character aroused the Moro 's highest admiration . In a letter of the 8th of July , after recounting the various incidents of a long day 's hunting , he tells the Marchesa what a narrow escape Beatrice has had from an infuriated stag which gored her horse . " All at once we heard that the wounded stag had been seen , and had attacked the horse which my wife was riding , and the next moment we saw her lifted up in the air a good lance 's height from the ground ; but she kept her seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and duchess and I all rushed to her help , and asked if she were hurt ; but she only laughed , and was not in the least frightened . " 14 Isabella herself was burning with eager desire to join Lodovico and Beatrice in these hunting-parties , and have a share in the thrilling adventures which they narrated in their letters , But her husband the marquis was away all the spring and early summer ; first at Bologna , where he attended his brother Giovanni Gonzaga 's wedding , and afterwards with his sister the Duchess Elizabeth at Urbino . After his return to Mantua he fell ill , and when he recovered it was already late in August , and Isabella was compelled very reluctantly to decline Lodovico Sforza 's pressing invitations . Money was scarce at the court of Mantua , and the expenses of a journey to Milan were heavy . So she contented herself with going to see her mother that autumn at Ferrara , and put off her visit to Milan until the following spring , much to the disappointment of Beatrice and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranging a tournament at Pavia in honour of the christening of Gian Galeazzo 's son , the little Count of Pavia , but that since she would not come , he had made up his mind to put it off and have no jousting . FOOTNOTES : 12 G. Uzielli , op. cit. , p. 27. 13 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 112. 14 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 113 . CHAPTER IX Isabella of Aragon and Beatrice d'Este  --  Ambrogio Borgognone and Giovanni Antonio Amadeo  --  Cristoforo Romano and his works at Pavia and Cremona  --  The Certosa of Pavia  --  Illness of Beatrice  --  Her journey to Genoa  --  Correspondence between Isabella and Lodovico Sforza  --  Visit of the Marquis of Mantua to Milan . 1491-1492 In the frequent letters which Lodovico and Beatrice both of them addressed to the Marchioness of Mantua , as well as in those of Giacomo Trotti to the Duke of Ferrara , we find many allusions to the Duke of Milan 's wife , Isabella of Aragon . This princess , who was Beatrice 's first cousin and only five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as present with her husband at all court festivities and hunting-parties , but as her constant companion in all her occupations and amusements , both at Vigevano and Pavia . In after-days , when Lodovico had a son of his own and was suspected of designs on the ducal crown , Duchess Isabella bitterly resented his conduct and that of his wife . But there is absolutely no foundation for Corio 's statement that this rivalry between the two duchesses began at the time of Beatrice 's wedding , and that from the moment of her arrival at Milan , Lodovico 's wife objected to yield precedence to the Duchess of Milan . The Milanese chronicler wrote after Lodovico 's fall , and always assumed the truth of the worst charges brought against the Moro and his wife . Unfortunately , his hasty and inaccurate statements have been repeated by Guicciardini and other contemporaries , and accepted as literally true by later writers . In this case Corio probably looked back on the past through the medium of the present , and judged the actors in the drama by the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is absolutely no trace of any jealousy or rivalry between the two young duchesses in the private letters and court records of the period . On the contrary , Isabella seems to have welcomed her cousin 's presence joyfully , and to have found that the dull life which she led by the side of her feeble husband was sensibly brightened by Beatrice 's company . Bellincioni , whose verses certainly mirror the court life of the day , if they also breathe the incense of flattery , wrote several sonnets in which he descants on the close friendship and companionship of the two duchesses , and the love that bound them together in the tender bonds of sisterly affection . He is never tired of praising the concord that reigned in the ducal family , and the pleasure that Beatrice took in Isabella 's little son , who was constantly seen in her arms . " And when the ladies ask if she does not wish for a son of her own , she replies in sweet accents , ' This one child is enough for me ; ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But more trustworthy than the rhymes of court poets is the evidence to be found in the letters describing the daily round of life at Milan or Pavia and Vigevano . Here Isabella and Beatrice are mentioned as joining in the same games and sports , whether playing at ball , sometimes even trying their strength in wrestling matches . " The two duchesses , " writes the Ferrarese ambassador , on the 28th of April , " have been having a sparring match , and the Duke of Bari 's wife has knocked down her of Milan . " Sometimes their escapades were of a decidedly undignified order . But practical jokes were much in vogue among these exalted lords and ladies of the Renaissance . For instance , we find Beatrice 's brother Alfonso and Messer Galeazzo , disguised as robbers , breaking into the house of Girolamo Tuttavilla , one of Lodovico 's favourite ministers , at midnight , and leading him blindfold on a donkey through the streets of Milan and into the Castello , where he was released amid peals of laughter . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they spent at Milan , by the wildest freaks . " There is literally no end to the pleasures and amusements which we have here , " writes Lodovico , on the 12th of April , to his sister-in-law at Mantua . " I could not tell you one-thousandth part of the tricks and games in which the Duchess of Milan and my wife indulge . In the country they spent their time in riding races and galloping up behind their ladies at full speed , so as to make them fall off their horses . And now that we are back here in Milan , they are always inventing some new forms of amusement . They started yesterday in the rain on foot , with five or six of their ladies , wearing cloths or towels over their heads , and walked through the streets of the city to buy provisions . But since it is not the custom for women to wear cloths on their heads here , some of the women in the street began to laugh at them and make rude remarks , upon which my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much so that they almost came to blows . In the end they came home all muddy and bedraggled , and were a fine sight ! I believe , when your Highness is here , they will go out with all the more courage , since they will have in you so bold and spirited a comrade , and if any one dares to be rude to you , they will get back as good as they give ! From your affectionate brother , " Lodovico. " 15 Isabella , for all her wisdom and prudence , does not seem to have been in the least scandalized by her sister 's behaviour , and replied that she would have done worse if any one had ventured to insult her ; upon which Lodovico remarked  --  " Your letter in answer to my description of my wife and the duchess walking about Milan with cloths on their heads , delighted me . I am sure you have far too much spirit to allow rude things to be said to you , and when I read your letter , I could see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indignant answer that you would have had in readiness for any one who dared insult you . " The next letter we give was written on the 12th of June , from the Castello di Pavia , where the ducal family spent that summer , and is of special interest on account of the allusions which it contains to the famous sanctuary of the Certosa . " I have spent several days lately at the Certosa , which your Highness , I know , visited when you were last here . And since I did not think the choir-stalls in the church were in any way suitable or equal in beauty to the rest of the building , I went back there the day before yesterday and had them taken down , and have ordered new stalls to be designed in their place . And as I was returning , the duke and duchess and my wife came to meet me , and attacked me suddenly , and in order to defend myself , I divided my retainers , who were most of them riding mules , into three squadrons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a fine scuffle ! Then we came home to see some youths run races , with lances in their hands , and after that we went to supper . And since those illustrious duchesses took it into their heads to return again to the Certosa , they went back there yesterday morning , and when it was time for them to return , I went out to meet them , and found that both duchesses and all their ladies were dressed in Turkish costumes . These disguises were invented by my wife , who had all the dresses made in one night ! It seems that when they began to set to work about noon yesterday , the Duchess of Milan could not contain her amazement at seeing my wife sewing with as much vigour and energy as any old woman . And my wife told her that , whatever she did , whether it were jest or earnest , she liked to throw her whole heart into it and try and do it as well as possible . Certainly in this case she succeeded perfectly , and the skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me indescribable pleasure and satisfaction . " 16 The passage is eminently characteristic both of the Moro and his wife . We see on the one hand the spirit and resolution which made Beatrice , in the words of the Emperor Maximilian , not merely a sweet and loving wife to her lord , but a partner who shared actively in all his schemes and lightened every burden ; and on the other , we understand the admiration which this force of character and tenacity of purpose excited in Lodovico 's weaker and more easily swayed nature . Beatrice 's masquerade recalls another curious feature of the day  --  that taste for Turkish costumes and interest in Oriental habits which had sprung up in Italy during the forty years which had elapsed since the fall of Constantinople . In Venice , Gentile Bellini and Carpaccio were already showing signs of this familiarity with Eastern habits by the Turkish costumes and personages who figure in their pictures ; and a troop of Turks were introduced into a masque written by the Milanese poet , Gaspare Visconti , and acted before the Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fame of the great city of Milan , were supposed to arrive in a boat on the Lombard shores , singing the following chorus :  --  " Bel paese e Lombardia Degno assai , ricca e galante . Ma di gioie la Soria E di fructi e piu abbondante Tanta fama e per il mondo Del gran vostro alto Milano , Che solcando il mar profondo ; Siam venuti da lontano , Gran paese soriano , Per veder se cosi sia , Bel paese di Lombardia . " Still greater interest attaches to Lodovico 's description of his own visit to the Certosa and of the alterations which he effected in the choir . This famous church and monastery had been the pride of successive Dukes of Milan , since the day when Galeazzo Visconti laid the first stone in his park of Pavia a hundred years before . Viscontis and Sforzas had alike helped to enrich their ancestor 's mighty foundation , and to carry on the work . But the Certosa owes more to Lodovico Sforza than to any other member of the dynasty . From the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government in his nephew 's name , to the last sad moments when his state was crumbling to pieces , this great shrine was the special object of his solicitude . In his eyes , as he said in the letter informing the Prior and brothers of Duchess Leonora 's visit , the Certosa was the jewel of the crown , the noblest monument in the whole realm . The completion of the facade and the internal decoration of the great church and chapels was one of the objects that lay nearest to his heart . A whole army of architects and sculptors , painters and builders were employed under his orders ; and so great was the store of precious marbles , brought there from Carrara and other parts of Italy , that the place was said to resemble a vast stone quarry . During the twenty years that the Moro reigned as Regent and Duke in Milan , the new apse built in Bramante 's classical style , the central cupola , and the beautiful cloisters with their slender marble shafts and dark red terra-cotta friezes of angel-heads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roof of nave and apse , and designed the elaborate intarsiatura of these very choir-stalls to which Lodovico alludes in his letter to Isabella d'Este . And then the same Lombard master painted these frescoes and altar-pieces of grave saints and gentle Madonnas , which still adorn the side chapels with their solemn forms and rich golden harmonies . Many of these are ruined , others we know are gone . The fragments of the noble banners with portraits of kneeling figures , which the artist painted for processional use on solemn occasions are now in our National Gallery . There , too , is that loveliest of all Perugino 's Madonnas , with the warrior Archangels at her side , and the perfect landscape beyond , which the Umbrian master painted in the last years of the century , by the Moro 's express command , for his favourite sanctuary . But the crowning work of Lodovico 's days was the facade of the great church which , after many different attempts , was finally begun in 1491 , and mostly executed during the next seven years . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed by a native architect , Giovanni Antonio Amadeo , or Di Madeo , as he signs himself , a peasant lad who had grown up in his father 's farm close by , and whose earliest independent work is said to have been a group of angels on the marble doorway leading from the church into the cloisters . He had afterwards been employed at Bergamo , where the Colleoni Chapel and the effigy of the great Condottiere 's young daughter , the sleeping virgin Medea , still bear witness to his poetic invention and rare decorative skill . One of Lodovico 's first acts after his return to Milan had been to recall Amadeo to Pavia , and in 1490 , this gifted artist was appointed Capo maestro of the Certosa works . To his delicate fancy and exquisite refinement we owe much of the lovely detail in the church and cloisters , the singing angels of the portals , the reliefs on Gian Galeazzo 's monument , and in the monks ' lavatory , and the medallions of the Sforzas over the doorways of the choir . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great Moro , between his brother and his nephew , while above the opposite portal are the four Duchesses of Milan , Bianca Maria Visconti , Bona of Savoy , Isabella of Aragon , and Beatrice d'Este with the same soft , beautiful face , the same long coil of hair and jewelled net that we see in her portrait in the Brera or in Cristoforo Romano 's bust in the Louvre . But the wonderful marble facade , with its great central portal and round-headed windows , its historical reliefs and marvellous wealth of decorative sculpture , is Amadeo 's grandest creation . We know not how far it was completed before 1499 , when his labours as chief architect of the cathedrals of Milan and Pavia compelled him to give up his post at the Certosa ; but in much of the ornamental detail  --  in the angels that adorn its branches of the candelabra between the windows , in the profusion of carved trophies , armorial bearings , burning censers , cherub-heads , leaf-mouldings , flowers and fruit that has been lavished on every portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facade of the Certosa , more than any other architectural work of the age , bears the stamp of Lodovico Sforza 's peculiar genius . Alike in the abundance of classical motives and in the amazing wealth of invention and infinite grace that inspired the whole conception , we recognize Lodovico 's passionate love of the antique and minute attention to detail . We know that he was constantly on the spot , as the letter to his sister-in-law proves , and that when absent from Pavia the works of the Certosa were constantly in his mind . He was always writing orders to Amadeo to buy marbles and hurry on the work , always urging the prior to hasten the completion of the church , or inquiring in Florence and Rome for new masters to paint altar-pieces for the Certosa . And to-day , when so many of his noblest creations have perished , when the glorious pile of the Castello of Milan , with its stately towers and frescoed halls , rich decorations and vast gardens , has been defaced and battered by the hands of barbarian invaders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Beatrice broken to pieces , when Vigevano and Cussago are in ruins , and the matchless library of Pavia has been scattered to the winds , we rejoice to think that the Certosa remains to show us how splendid were the dreams and how rare the skill of artists in the days when Lodovico Sforza reigned over Milan . One of the finest artists who was working at the Certosa under Lodovico 's eye in the summer of 1491 , was the accomplished Roman sculptor , Giovanni Cristoforo Romano . We remember how he had been sent to Ferrara in the autumn of the previous year to execute a bust of Beatrice for his master . Since then he had gone back to his work at the Certosa , where he was employed upon the monument which Lodovico was raising to his ancestor Gian Galeazzo Visconti , the founder of the great Carthusian Abbey . His exact share in this noble work , which was begun in 1490 , remains uncertain , but both the effigy of this duke and the figure of the Madonna and Child in the upper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time Cristoforo had promised to design the chief portal of the ancient Stanga palace in Cremona , which was being restored by Lodovico 's Superintendent of Finances , the Marchese Stanga , known in court circles as the Marchesino , to distinguish him from his father , Duchess Bianca Maria 's faithful servant . That June the Marchesino was married at Milan to a daughter of Count Giovanni Borromeo , and on this occasion , doubtless , he employed the gifted Roman sculptor to design the magnificent doorway which now adorns the Louvre and is a masterpiece of classic elegance . But now a fresh invitation reached Cristoforo from another quarter . The Marchioness of Mantua had seen the Roman master 's bust of her sister Beatrice when she came to Milan in the winter for the wedding festivities , and was seized with an ardent wish to have her features carved in marble by the same unrivalled artist . On the 22nd of June she wrote to Beatrice from her favourite villa at Porto , near Mantua , begging her to ask Lodovico if he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who carved your Highness 's portrait in marble , " to come to Mantua for a few days , that he might render her the same service . Beatrice , who was always ready and anxious to gratify Isabella 's wishes , replied that she had shown the letter at once to her husband , and that Lodovico would gladly comply with her sister 's request , and had written to beg the Marchesino  --  for whom Johan Cristoforo was working at that moment  --  to send this master to Mantua . " No doubt by this time , " he adds , writing from Pavia on the 15th of July , " Messer Cristoforo is already on his way to Mantua . " But the sculptor , like most great artists , took his time about his work , and would not be interrupted or hurried , even to please so charming and illustrious a lady as Isabella d'Este . He wrote a courteous note to the Marchesa from Pavia , saying how gladly he would have obeyed her summons on the spot , and how deeply he regretted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work upon which he was engaged for the Marchesino unfinished . But he hoped to have the pleasure of seeing her some day . Meanwhile he suggested that she should order two pieces of fine marble from Venice , and see that they were very white and without stain or vein of colour . Isabella , however , was not easily discouraged , especially where excellent masters and works of art were in question , and , as she wrote on another occasion to Niccolo da Correggio , liked to have her wishes gratified on the spot . This time she wrote to the Marchesino himself , begging him to send Messer Johan Cristoforo to Mantua as soon as possible . Now Giovanni Stanga , besides being a finished courtier , was on intimate terms with the fair Marchesana herself and with all her family . Only a few weeks before , Isabella had written him a charming letter of congratulation on his marriage , and he often sent presents of silver boxes and ornaments both to her and Duchess Leonora . So , when his own doorway was finished , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marchioness . But Cristoforo had evidently no intention of leaving Pavia at present . The summer months slipped away , and still Isabella waited in vain . At length , in October , she heard from the Marchesino that Messer Cristoforo feared it was impossible for him to come to Mantua at all this year , since his whole time was spent in working at the Certosa , besides which he was one of the Duchess of Bari 's singers , and must obey her wishes and travel with her , now in one direction , now in another . " At present , " adds the writer , " he is with her in Genoa . " It was not , in fact , until after Beatrice 's death that Isabella obtained Lodovico 's leave for his favourite sculptor to visit Mantua . By that time the duke 's affairs were in dire confusion , and seeing there was little hope of further employment and none of certain pay , Messer Cristoforo left the Milanese court sorrowfully and went to Mantua , where he carved the lovely doorway still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the top of the grim old Castello , and designed the beautiful medal of the marchioness herself , which was praised as a divine thing at the Court of Naples , and which the old scholar Jacopo d'Atri kissed a thousand times over , for the sake of its beauty and of the likeness which it bore to the beloved mistress whom he had not seen for so many years . Afterwards we know Cristoforo moved on to Urbino , where Bembo and Emilia Pia and the good duchess all gave him a glad welcome , and Castiglione enshrined his memory in the pages of the Cortigiano . Then , again , we find him in his native city , Rome , searching for antiques in the ruins of the Eternal City , and examining the newly discovered Laocoon with Michelo Angelo , until at last the incurable malady which had long undermined his strength put an end to his life , and he died in the prime of manhood at the Santa Casa of Loreto . But his best work was done , and his happiest years were spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court of Milan . If Lodovico did not always care to part from his best artists at Isabella 's request , he rarely failed to oblige his charming sister-in-law in other matters . Presents of game and venison , choice vegetables and fruit , artichokes and truffles , apples and pears or peaches , were constantly borne to Mantua by his couriers ; and in return Isabella would send him the famous salmon-trout of the Lake of Garda , that were accounted such rare delicacies , and which Lodovico was fond of seeing at table , especially , as he often remarked , in Lent . The correspondence between the two courts was briskly kept up that year , although Isabella was unable to visit Milan . Lodovico himself rarely missed a post , and complained repeatedly that Isabella was not so regular a correspondent as himself . " Certainly , my affection for your Highness is greater than yours for me , " he says , writing in September , 1491 . " It is plain that I think of you much oftener than you think of me , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to you than you ever write to me . " But Isabella was unwearied in the applications which she made constantly to her brother-in-law on behalf of persons who , rightly or wrongly , had been accused of offences against the laws of Milan . Often , it must be owned , these suppliants whom she recommended to mercy proved to be criminals of the worst type ; and quite as often the proteges whom she sent to Milan turned out to be utterly worthless characters . This made her a little ashamed of the perpetual recommendations with which she troubled Lodovico , and explains the apologetic tone of a note which she addressed to him in June , 1491 , on behalf of some suppliant for money . " The letters of recommendation which I have received in this case are so urgent that I feel it would be brutal to refuse the petition I send you , especially since they are addressed to me by private friends . But if your Highness complains , as you may justly do , of the frequency of my appeals , I must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to my innate compassion , which induces me to intercede for all who ask in good faith . But the truth is , your Highness has given me so many tokens of affection that many persons who seek your favour apply to me , trusting to my powers of intercession . And since I should be well content to let the whole world know the love and kindness which your Highness shows me , I grant these requests the more easily , because I remember what good fruit my recommendations have hitherto borne . " Sometimes , when the Marquis Gianfrancesco was away from Mantua , we find his wife consulting Lodovico on affairs of state , asking him to prevent her neighbour Galeotto della Mirandola from constructing a canal which may injure her subjects , or appealing to the Sanseverino brothers in the case of a faithless servant of hers who had sought shelter under the Count of Caiazzo 's banners . Beatrice , in her turn , occasionally sent her servants and subjects with recommendations to Mantua . For instance , that July a Milanese soldier named Messer Giacomello @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Duchess of Bari and Messer Galeazzo di Sanseverino , asking for leave to fight a duel with a man of Ascoli who had insulted him ; and the marchioness , ignorant of the customary method of treating these challenges , referred the case to her husband in a long and elaborate statement . Towards the end of September Beatrice fell ill , and for some days her husband was seriously uneasy about her . The anxiety which he showed , and the attentions with which he surrounded her , were duly reported by Giacomo Trotti in a letter to Ferrara . " Signor Lodovico , " he wrote on the 18th of September , " does not leave his wife 's bedside by day or night . He is always with her , and thinks of nothing but how he can best please and amuse her . The only cause of regret he has is that as yet there are not any signs of the birth of a son and heir . " Lodovico 's concern for his young wife was genuine . He wrote daily reports of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4th of October rejoiced to be able to tell the Marchesana that her sister had once more been able to assist at a boar-hunt , which had taken place six miles from Pavia . " Yesterday your sister came to look on at a boar-hunt , six or seven miles from here . She drove to the spot in a chariot with a raised seat at the back , very much like the pulpits from which friars preach ! Here she stood up , to be out of danger , and enjoyed herself immensely , as being placed at such a height , she could see the whole hunt better than any one else . " A few days later he wrote again to say he had decided to send his wife to Genoa , since the air of Pavia was not healthy , he felt convinced , at this season of the year , and in the hope that change would help to complete her cure . " To-morrow my wife starts for Genoa incognita . I am sending her , first of all , to give her pleasure and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepare the way for your Highness when you come here next . " Unfortunately , we have no further particulars of this visit to Genova la Superba , that city which both the sisters were so anxious to see , and the letters in which Beatrice described this journey to her husband have either perished or still lie buried in some private archives . All we know is that Cristoforo Romano was among the singers who accompanied the duchess on this occasion , although she travelled incognita and took only a few persons in her suite . By December Lodovico and his wife were again settled in Milan , where they received an unexpected visit from the Marquis of Mantua in the first week of that month . Gianfrancesco 's own wife was absent with her mother at Ferrara , and without even informing Isabella of his intention , he suddenly arrived at Milan , and spent a week at the Castello with the Duke and Duchess of Bari . As a rule , the company of the marquis , a brave soldier , but not apparently a very attractive person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his dark complexion and rough manners , was not particularly agreeable to his polished brother-in-law ; but he received a kindly welcome from both his hosts on this occasion , and was highly gratified with the honours and attention that were paid him . Isabella , on her part , was overjoyed to hear of the kindness with which her husband had been treated at the court of Milan , and declared that his letters gave her as much pleasure as if she had been with him herself . Lodovico did his guest the honours of his palace and city , showed him the treasures and jewels of the Castello , and sent him home loaded with gifts . Among other presents which Gianfrancesco received from his brother-in-law were a pair of lions which the Moro , who was constantly sending to Africa for wild beasts , showed him in his menagerie , and promised to send him as soon as they were sufficiently tame . Some weeks , however , passed before they were pronounced fit to travel safely , and it was not till February of the following year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Lodovico , explaining that the keeper who accompanied them was accustomed to wild beasts , and would teach Gianfrancesco 's servants how to treat them . FOOTNOTES : 15 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 111. 16 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 114 . CHAPTER X Claims of Charles VIII . to Naples  --  Of the Duke of Orleans to Milan  - -  Intrigues of the Venetian Senate , of Pope Innocent VIII. , and of Ferrante and Alfonso of Naples  --  Visit of the French ambassadors to Milan  --  Treasures of the Castello  --  Jewels of Lodovico Sforza  --  Isabella of Aragon and her father  --  An embassy to the French court proposed  --  Secret instructions of the Count of Caiazzo  --  Fete at Vigevano  --  Tournament of Pavia. 1491 The most important event at the court of Milan that winter was the visit of the French ambassadors . The young King of France , Charles VIII. , now that he had emancipated himself from his sister 's tutelage and felt himself his own master , was beginning to cherish secret dreams of conquest , and already turned envious eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Anjou . His own ardour for military glory was fanned by the presence at the French court of several exiled noblemen , who had fled from Naples to escape the harsh rule of King Ferrante and his hated son Alfonso , and were burning to avenge their wrongs . Chief among these were Antonio , Prince of Salerno , the head of the great Sanseverino family , and his cousin , the Prince of Bisignano , both of whom were in constant communication with their kinsmen at the Milanese court . At the same time , Charles VIII . ' s brother-in-law and cousin , Louis , Duke of Orleans , a valiant and ambitious prince just thirty years of age , who had inherited the Lombard town of Asti from his grandmother , Valentina Visconti , and claimed the Duchy of Milan in right of his descent from the Visconti dukes , rejoiced at the prospect of advancing his pretensions against the rival House of Sforza . Already more than one invitation to cross the Alps had reached the young French king from Italy . In January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Milan and Naples , Antonio Loredano was sent to the French court with secret instructions to remind Charles VIII. , who had just succeeded his father , Louis XI. , that the kingdom of Naples had formerly belonged to his family , and that , besides occupying a throne to which he had no right , Ferrante of Aragon had instigated Lodovico Sforza to usurp the crown of Milan . The Venetian envoy was further desired to inform the Duke of Orleans that Lodovico evidently intended to make himself Duke of Milan in his nephew 's stead , and to point out that Louis could not find a better moment than this , to assert his own claim to the duchy of his Visconti ancestors . " Say all you can to instigate the Duke of Orleans to undertake this enterprise , " were the secret instructions of the Ten , " and tell the French that if they wish to dethrone the tyrant Ferrante and seize Naples , they will never have a better opportunity . " 17 A month later the Venetian Government sent another message to Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offering him the help of their forces . The duke was by no means averse to the suggestion , but Anne de Beaujeu , who governed France during her brother 's minority , wisely declined to meddle in the quarrels of Italian States , and by August peace had been concluded between Venice and Milan . Five years afterwards Pope Innocent VIII. , having quarrelled with King Ferrante , invited Charles VIII . to invade Naples , and offered him the investiture of this important fief of the Church . But at that time the French monarch had no leisure to think of a foreign expedition . He was already engaged in war with Maximilian , King of the Romans , and in a fierce quarrel with the States of Brittany over the regency of that province during the minority of young Duchess Anne , the betrothed bride of the future Emperor , whose first wife , Mary of Burgundy , had died in 1482 . Finding that there was no prospect of help from this quarter , the Pope had been forced to come to terms with Ferrante , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January , 1492 . Meanwhile Charles VIII . had mortally offended the King of the Romans by sending back his daughter Margaret , to whom while yet Dauphin he had been formally betrothed by his father , Louis XI. , and who had been educated in Touraine for the last six years , and taking Maximilian 's affianced bride , Anne of Brittany , for his wife . The marriage was solemnized in the Castle of Langeais in December , 1491 , and two months afterwards the new queen was crowned at Saint Denis . Maximilian now sought to form a coalition against Charles , to avenge his injured honour ; and his ally , Henry VII . of England , sent a letter to Lodovico Sforza , asking him to join the league and invade France from the south . Under these circumstances Charles VIII . was naturally anxious to strengthen the old alliance which had existed between his father and the House of Sforza . Even before his own marriage , in the summer of 1490 , Lodovico had sent Erasmo Brasca on a private mission to the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Duchy of Genoa , originally granted to Francesco Sforza by Louis XI . Since those days , Genoa had been lost during the regency of Duchess Bona , and only recovered in 1888 , by Lodovico 's successful negotiations . Now Charles VIII . gladly granted the regent 's request , and proposed to send an embassy to Milan in the course of the next year . Lodovico , on his part , prepared to give the French ambassadors a splendid reception , and in March , 1491 , wrote to his chief secretary , Bartolommeo Calco , from Vigevano , giving minute instructions for the preparation of a suite of rooms in the Castello , where the Most Christian King 's envoys were to be lodged . Since , at that time , extensive improvements were being made in other parts of the palace , Lodovico gave up his own rooms on the ground floor for the use of these distinguished strangers . The chief ambassador , the Scottish noble , Bernard Stuart d'Aubigny , Chamberlain to King Charles , he wrote word , would occupy the Duchess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asse , from the raised platform at one end of the room , and would use the duchess 's boudoir , with the painted Amorini over the mantelpiece , and the adjoining chambers for his dining and robing room . The second ambassador , Jean Roux de Visque , was to occupy Lodovico 's apartments ; and the third , King Charles 's doctor , the Italian Teodoro Guainiero of Pavia , would be lodged in the rooms of Madonna Beatrice , Niccolo da Correggio 's mother , and of the duke 's secretary , Jacopo Antiquario . All of these rooms had been decorated and hung with rich tapestries and curtains of velvet and brocade for Lodovico 's wedding a year before , but on this occasion he desired that canopies adorned with the fleur-de-lys should be placed over the beds , and that other changes should be made in the hangings and furniture . And since there was not room in the Castello , where the court officials and servants who were daily lodged and fed within its precincts already numbered some two hundred , for the whole of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the duke 's expense at the different inns of the city , at the sign of the Stella , the Fontana and Campana . A few weeks later the ambassadors arrived at Milan , and were magnificently received by Lodovico and his nephew , both of whom wore sumptuous vests of white Lyons brocade , presented to them in the French king 's name , at the ceremony of investiture which followed . Giangaleazzo was formally invested with the Duchy of Genoa , and did homage to the representative of his suzerain , the French king , in the presence of the whole court . Among the members of the ducal family present on this occasion was the duke 's elder sister , Bianca Maria , who still remained unmarried since her affianced husband , the son of Matthias Corvinus , had been driven from the throne of Hungary , after his father 's death in 1490 . The splendour of the ceremony , and the dazzling white velvet suits worn by her brother and uncle , were long remembered by this princess of seventeen , who spent most of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More than seven years afterwards , when poor Giangaleazzo was dead , and the Sforzas ' throne was already tottering to its fall , Bianca Maria , then the wife of the Emperor Maximilian , wrote from Fribourg , begging her uncle to try and procure her a robe of the white velvet woven at Lyons , " like the vests worn by yourself and my brother , of blessed memory , on the day when he was invested with the Duchy of Genoa . " 18 The young empress , whose mind , as her husband complained , never rose above childish things , and who , in the lonely splendour of her grim castles in the Tyrol , pined for the brightness of her fair Milanese home , had set her heart on a gown of this material , and begged her kind uncle to excuse her if she asked too much , assuring him that nothing else could give her so much pleasure . The beauty of Milan , with its stately Castello and white marble Duomo , its spacious streets and long rows of armourers ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , made a deep impression upon these strangers from the North . Never had they seen so fair a city or so rich a land . Marvellous were the tales they had to tell their countrymen of the splendid court where they had lived like princes , and of this wealthy and magnificent Signor Lodovico , who had entertained them in so royal a manner . But although the investiture of Genoa had been provisionally granted , and a treaty of alliance agreed upon , several articles of the league still remained to be discussed . Negotiations dragged on all through the year , chiefly with regard to certain castles belonging to Charles 's ally , the Marquis of Montferrat , which had been seized by the Milanese . Niccolo da Correggio was sent to France in the summer to endeavour to bring matters to a satisfactory conclusion , but nothing was finally settled until the winter , when Charles decided to send a second embassy to Milan . This time one of the former envoys , Jean Roux de Visque , was selected for the office , and , together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in December , and arrived at Milan in January , 1492 . Lodovico himself received the ambassadors in the Castello , and entertained them with his wonted magnificence . A treaty was drawn up , by which Charles agreed to recognize all the claims advanced by the Duke of Milan , and admitted the Duke of Bari by name as governor of his nephew into the defensive and offensive league concluded on the 13th of January , and on the 19th the French ambassadors left Milan . Before their departure , however , Lodovico , anxious to do his guests honour and at the same time impress them with his wealth and the vast resources at his command , himself conducted them over the Treasury of the Castello , which was deservedly regarded as one of the principal sights of Milan . There , in the heart of the Rocchetta , close to his own apartments , was the vaulted room , decorated with frescoes by Leonardo and Bramante , and known as the Sala del Tesoro . Here , piled up in enormous chests , were the vast store of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State , and the priceless jewels that were his own private property . Here , too , in oak presses , secured by ingenious contrivances devised expressly for the purpose by Leonardo , were the treasures of gold and silver plate , the salvers and goblets , the dishes and vases of antique shape , in which the Moro took especial pride , and which were only exhibited on festive occasions . Milan was at this time one of the richest states in Italy . The revenue of the duchy , under Lodovico 's wise and careful rule , exceeded the sum of 600,000 ducats  --  that is to say , double the revenue of Naples , and more than six times as much as that of Mantua , and was only surpassed by that of Venice , which amounted to 800,000 ducats ; while , according to the same table , the revenue of England in the fifteenth century was calculated at 700,000 ducats , and that of France at 1,000,000 ducats . And here , too , in the Sala del Tesoro , were the jewels belonging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most famous gems in the world . A few of these which he pawned to a Venetian merchant in 1495 , were valued at 150,000 ducats , and a list , which is still preserved in the Trivulzio library , gives a description of the different jewels which in the troubled times at the close of his reign were pledged to bankers in Rome and Milan. 19 There was the balass ruby , called El Spigo or " the ear of corn , " which was valued at the enormous sum of 250,000 ducats ; and the jewel of Il Lupo , " the wolf , " consisting of one large diamond and three choice pearls , which the goldsmiths priced at 120,000 ducats . There was the famous Puncta , or diamond arrow , given by Duchess Beatrice 's grandfather , Niccolo d'Este , to Francesco Sforza ; and the Caduceus , a favourite device of the Moro 's , wrought in large pearls , each of which was said to be worth 25,000 ducats ; while the balass ruby , known as the Marone , often worn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ducats . Another balass bore the effigy of Lodovico , and the insignia of the Moraglia , or Mulberry , was composed of emeralds , diamonds , and pearls . This jewel was frequently worn by the Moro himself , at state banquets , as well as the famous Sancy diamond , which had been found on the body of Charles the Bold after the battle of Nancy , and afterwards acquired by Lodovico , whose agents were always in search of precious stones of fine water and rare workmanship . Such were a few of the treasures which the regent displayed before the dazzled eyes of the French ambassadors . Unfortunately the presents which he gave them on their departure seemed to them poor and insignificant , after the marvels which they had seen in the Castello , and their cupidity was but ill-satisfied . " The French envoys , " wrote the Florentine ambassador , Pandolfini , to his master , Lorenzo de Medici , " are gone away disappointed with Signor Lodovico 's gifts , expecting to receive a handsomer present after seeing all the splendours of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embassy to the French court to return the king 's civilities and congratulate him on his marriage . He was the more anxious to strengthen his alliance with France on account of the growing estrangement between himself and the royal family of Naples . Hitherto , indeed , King Ferrante had maintained cordial relations with the Regent of Milan , whose claims to this position he had been the first to support , and whose marriage with his granddaughter Beatrice formed a new link between the Houses of Aragon and Sforza . But his son Alfonso , Duke of Calabria , who had frequently visited Milan during the long war with Venice , had never forgiven Lodovico for treating with the Venetians independently , and made no secret of his hatred for his brother-in-law . The quarrel between the two princes was naturally embittered by the complaints which Alfonso received from his daughter Isabella , Duchess of Milan . Her miserable husband , Giangaleazzo , showed less inclination than ever to take his proper place at the head of affairs , and abandoned himself to low debauchery . In his drunken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as to strike his wife . " There is no news here , " wrote the widowed Marchioness of Montferrat from Milan to her envoy at Mantua , on the 2nd of May , 1492 , " saving that the Duke of Milan has beaten his wife . " 21 But the proud and high-spirited duchess began to resent the subordinate position in which she and her husband were placed at their own court , and she tried to instil her keen sense of this injustice into Giangaleazzo 's feeble mind . When Lodovico came to Pavia that spring , his nephew began by refusing to see him , but before long he forgot his wrongs , and after behaving for a few days like a sulky child , was on the most affectionate terms with his uncle when they met again . Isabella soon found that no dependence could be placed upon this foolish youth , who cared for nothing but his dogs and horses , and repeated everything that she said to Lodovico . So she devoured her griefs in silence , and only gave utterance to her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did his utmost to stir up enemies against Lodovico , while , with habitual duplicity , he sent flattering messages to his brother-in-law , and begged for the continuance of his friendship . That February envoys were sent from Naples to France , under pretence of buying horses and dogs for hunting , but with secret instructions to persuade Charles VIII. , if possible , to break with Lodovico Sforza , and refuse to acknowledge him as Regent of Milan . Charles , however , was too much intent on his own plans for the conquest of Naples to pay any heed to these proposals , and the only result of Alfonso 's intrigues was to strengthen the alliance between France and Milan . Gianfrancesco , Count of Caiazzo , the eldest of the Sanseverino brothers , was chosen by Lodovico as chief ambassador to the French king , and received secret instructions to show Charles VIII . the proposals which had been made to the Regent of Milan by the King of England and Maximilian , King of the Romans . " Let him know by this means , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " how unwilling we are to act in any way against his interests , and let him see that we have preferred his alliance to that of the mightiest monarchs in Europe . Take care also to insist on the importance of the Duchy of Milan and on the exalted position that we occupy in the eyes of other Italian States . And assure him that we are his firm and loyal friends , whose constancy neither threats nor promises can ever shake . " 22 Count Carlo Belgiojoso , Galeazzo Visconti and Girolamo Tuttavilla , Count of Sarno , who was himself one of King Ferrante 's exiled subjects , were selected to accompany Caiazzo on his mission . On the 23rd of February they left Milan , and reached Paris towards the end of March . Not only had Lodovico given his envoys minute instructions as to the language they were to hold in treating with the French king , but the clothes they were to wear , the presents which they bore to Charles VIII . and his queen , the very day and hour of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His astrologer , Ambrogio di Rosate , had fixed upon the 28th of March as the most propitious moment for Caiazzo to enter Paris , and on that day , accordingly , the Milanese ambassadors , splendidly arrayed in rich brocades and cloth of gold , rode through the streets of the capital , and under the walls of the old Louvre , where the king and queen had their abode . On the following day , Charles himself received the envoys , and Galeazzo Visconti delivered a long Latin discourse prepared by Lodovico . On the 30th they were presented to the queen , and a few days afterwards they accompanied the royal party on a hunting expedition in the forest of Saint-Germain , but found the sport of a rude and fatiguing description , and complained that both men and animals were very savage in their habits . Every detail of the proceedings was faithfully reported to Lodovico by Antonio Calco , the secretary of the mission . For his benefit and that of Beatrice , he not only describes the costumes of the royal pair  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yellow satin , and the queen 's gold brocade robe and cape of lion skin lined with crimson  --  but gives a minute account of Anne of Brittany 's coiffure , a black velvet cap with a gold fringe hanging about a finger 's length over her forehead , and a hood studded with big diamonds drawn over her head and ears . So curious were Beatrice and her ladies on these matters , that Lodovico wrote on the 8th of April from Vigevano , desiring Calco to send him a drawing of the French queen 's costume , " in order that the same fashion may be adopted here in Milan . " At the same time Lodovico desired Caiazzo to show especial civility to the Duke of Orleans , assuring him that the Dukes of Bari and Milan both regarded him as their own kinsman , and hoped that the love and friendship between them would be that of brothers . The ambassador was further empowered to offer the hand of Bianca Sforza , the duke 's unmarried sister , to James IV. , the young King of Scotland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VIII . had sent as his envoy to Milan . Meanwhile , King Ferrante 's emissaries were doing their best to stir up the Duke of Orleans against his Sforza rivals , and had secretly offered his granddaughter Charlotte in marriage to the youthful Scottish monarch . But for the moment Lodovico 's star was in the ascendant , and his influence reigned supreme at the French court . Charles VIII . formally ratified all the conditions of the treaty which had been signed at Milan in January , and wrote to inform Pope Innocent that he had entered into close alliance with the house of Sforza , and would regard any injury done to the Dukes of Milan and Bari as a personal wrong . The object of the embassy being accomplished , Count Caiazzo , Galeazzo Visconti and Tuttavilla took leave of the French king and returned to Milan on the 5th of May , leaving Count Belgiojoso as permanent envoy at Paris . The triumph of Lodovico 's diplomacy was complete , and without shedding a drop of blood , or making any warlike demonstration , he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most powerful neighbour . The good news gave fresh zest to the pleasures of Beatrice 's court that summer , and to all the memorable enterprises upon which Lodovico was engaged at home . Early in March the Duke and Duchess of Bari left Milan to take up their abode at Vigevano , and held a series of brilliant fetes and hunting parties in this newly-finished palace . The works upon which Bramante and his companions had been employed for years past were finished , the great hall with its richly-wrought marble capitals , the noble tower and imposing porticoes , were all complete . The last stone was in its place , and on the great archway that formed the entrance to the stately pile , Lodovico placed this proud Latin inscription , bearing the date , 1492 . " LUDOVICUS MARIA SFORTIA VICECOMES PRINCIPATU JOANNI GALEACIO NEPOTI AB EXTERIS ET INTESTINIS MOTIBUS STABILITO POSTEAQUAM SQUALLENTES AGROS VIGEVANENSES IMMISSIS FLUMINIBUS FERTILES FECIT AD VOLUPTARIOS SECESSUS IN HAC ARCE VETERES PRINCIPUM EDES REFORMAVIT ET NOVIS CIRCUMEDIFICATIS SPECIOSA , ETIAM TURRI MUNIVIT POPULI QUOQUE HABITATIONIS SITU ET SQUALORE OCCUPATAS STRATIS UT EXPEDITIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FORUM VETERIBUS EDIFICIIS ARCAM AMPLIANT AC PORTICIBUS CIRCUMDUCTIS IN HANC SPECIEM EXORNAVIT . ANNO A SALUTE CHRISTIANA NONAGESIMOSECUNDO SUPRA MILLESIMUM ET QUADRIGENTESIMUM . " He had given back peace to his nephew 's realm and had vanquished external foes and quelled internal dissensions , he had brought rivers of water to make the barren fields of Vigevano fertile , and had rebuilt the ancient Forum and raised fair porticoes and fine houses round the wide square . And now , as a crowning gift to this his native city , he had restored and beautified the ancestral castle of the illustrious house of Sforza and had reared stately halls and a fair tower to make Vigevano a home of perpetual delight . During the continual round of amusements in which these festive weeks were spent , Beatrice had little time for writing , and the only letter we have from her hand during this visit to Vigevano is one addressed to her sister Isabella , in which she begs for information respecting Father Bernardino da Feltre , a famous revivalist preacher of the Franciscan order , who had travelled through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charitable institutions known as Monte di Pieta for the relief of the poor . " A report has reached us here , " wrote the young duchess , " that the venerable Father Bernardino da Feltre , who has been preaching in Verona this Lent , was heard to declare from the pulpit that he had received a message from heaven , warning him that he would die in Holy Week , after miraculously opening the eyes of a blind man . Now I am very anxious to know if this report is true , and since at Mantua you are sufficiently near Verona to learn the truth of these tales , I beg you to make inquiries and let me know the result . " A fortnight later , Isabella , who had been absent from Mantua , was able to satisfy her sister 's curiosity and at the same time answer a previous note in which Beatrice had given her a bad character of one of the Marchesana 's proteges , an archer in Fracassa 's service . She writes :  --  " MOST ILLUSTRIOUS AND HONOURED SISTER , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me on the 16th and 17th of April : the one in answer to my recommendation of Malacarno , Signor Fracassa 's archer , the other regarding a report which had reached you as to certain words which Fra Bernardino da Feltre is said to have spoken at Verona . In reply to your first letter , I assure your Highness that if I had ever dreamt Malacarno could be guilty of such detestable crimes , I would never have pleaded his cause , since naturally I hate such conduct . But as I had been told his faults were trifling , I consented to intercede with you on his behalf ; and now I hear the bad character he bears , am well satisfied to hear the punishment which he has received , and praise your illustrious consort 's prudence , while at the same time I thank you for the very kind expressions in your letter . As to Fra Bernardino 's supposed prophecy that he would die this Holy Week after miraculously opening the eyes of a blind man , I find that there is absolutely no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor yet at Padua , where he has also been preaching , did he ever use such language , which indeed his humility would forbid , and as I have learnt from a monk who attended his sermons . All the same , in order to satisfy you and make sure of the truth , I have made further inquiries , the result of which I now lay before you , begging you to commend me warmly to your illustrious lord. 23 " Mantua , May 2nd , 1492 . " From Vigevano , Lodovico and his wife moved to Pavia , where the summer months were spent in entertaining a succession of guests , and , as before , Beatrice and Isabella joined together in hunting parties and amusements of every description . Giangaleazzo had totally forgotten his passing vexation , the clouds which darkened Isabella 's sad life seemed to lift for the moment , and once more harmony reigned in the ducal family . The fetes in honour of her son 's christening , which had been postponed in the previous summer , were now celebrated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dramatic performances , and a grand tournament was held in the park of the Castello , in which Messer Galeazzo and his brother and all the most skilled jousters at court took part . And the Moro 's accomplished friend , Ermolao Barbaro , the young Venetian patriarch , who had been once more sent as envoy to Milan , composed a wonderful Latin epigram in honour of the occasion , praying Pallas not to avert her face in sorrow at the sound and tumult of war , which is after all but a mimic display , and calling upon her , the goddess whose wisdom Lodovico honours above all the thunders of Jove , to bless the great house of Sforza , illustrious alike in the arts of war and peace . FOOTNOTES : 17 Secret Archives of the Venetian Senate , Reg. 31 , fol. 123 , 131 , etc. , and Reg. 32 , fol. 87. 18 F. Calvi , Bianca Maria Sforza. 19 C. Trivulzio in A. S. L. , iii . 530. 20 V. Delaborde , L'Expedition de Charles VIII . en Italie , p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 Archivio di Milano , Potenze esterne Francia. 23 Luzio Renier , op. cit. , p. 348 . CHAPTER XI Intellectual and artistic revival in Lombardy  --  Lodovico and his secretaries  --  Building of the new University of Pavia  --  Reforms and extension of the University  --  The library of the Castello remodelled  --  Poliziano and Merula  --  Lodovico founds new schools at Milan  --  Equestrian statue of Francesco Sforza  --  Leonardo 's paintings at Milan  --  Lodovico as a patron of art and learning . 1492 The year 1492 was one of great enterprises . The intellectual and artistic movement which Lodovico Sforza had inaugurated was now in full vigour , and the fruits of his wise and enlightened rule began to appear in every direction . " Now that the wars were ended , " writes Corio , " an era of peace and prosperity began , and everything seemed on a firmer and more stable foundation than it had ever been in times past . The court of our princes was most splendid , full of new fashions , rich clothes , and endless delights . Here Minerva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and maidens came to learn in the school of Cupid , Minerva held her gentle academy in Milan , and that illustrious prince , Lodovico Sforza , brought men of rare excellence from the furthest ends of Europe at his expense . Here the learning of Greece shone , together with the prose and verse of the Latin race . Here the muses of poetry , and the masters of sculpture reigned supreme ; here came the most distinguished painters from distant regions ; here night and day were heard sounds of such sweet singing , and such delicious harmonies of music , that they seemed to descend from heaven itself . " Foremost among the " men of singular merit " whom Lodovico attracted to his court and retained in his service , were his two secretaries , Bartolommeo Calco and Jacopo Antiquario of Perugia . Both were men of great learning and discernment , fired with the same passion for arts and letters as their master , and as liberal as he was in assisting poorer scholars . Calco was Lodovico 's right hand and chief adviser in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his orders to the countless artists in his employment , arranged court festivities and generally conducted the duke 's correspondence . Jacopo Antiquario was more purely a scholar , who protected other men of letters , and helped them generously in time of need . His honest nature and kindly actions made him singularly beloved , and a contemporary describes him as the most learned of good men , and the best of learned men ; while his intimate friend , the great printer , Aldo Manuzio , has immortalized his memory in the beautiful epistle in which he dedicates the Moralia of Plutarch to this man , whose name , he prays , may go down to future ages linked with his own . Both of these secretaries proved able assistants in the great revival of art and learning which is Lodovico 's lasting title to fame . Chief among these was the reform and extension of the University of Pavia . During the troubled times that followed Galeazzo Sforza 's death , this ancient University had sunk to a very low ebb . The professors remained unpaid , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small and inconvenient and the students lawless and riotous . Lodovico set himself with a stern hand to repress abuses on the one side , while on the other he grudged neither time nor money in promoting the cause of learning . A letter which he addressed to the students from Vigevano in August , 1488 , only a few weeks before the dangerous illness which almost ended his life , deserves to be quoted , if only as an example of the attention which he gave to every detail of administration . " Not a day passes , " he writes , " but I hear of some fresh misconduct on your part , some crime committed or some uproar excited in the city , by you who are scholars of the University . Even last Holy Week your behaviour towards certain gentlemen and citizens of Pavia was justly the cause of scandal and complaint . Such things are not to be borne , nor do I intend to bear them any longer . Schools are intended for learning , and the object of all study and learning is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by our good conduct and fair lives , gain honour and praise both in the eyes of God and man . We do not see that the human and divine laws , in which you are daily instructed , produce any good effect if you can behave as you have done in this case towards peaceable citizens , especially in these holy days when the fear of God should , above all , control your ways and actions . If you thus neglect the laws of good living , nothing but confusion can be the result . And know that , unless you speedily return to better ways , and show more respect for our holy religion , and more honourable treatment of our honest citizens , no love of learning will induce me to countenance such misconduct . For to repress crime , keep Italy in peace , and maintain the honour of our illustrious lord duke , is the first and chief object of our endeavours . " Meanwhile , Lodovico neglected no means of improving the condition of both professors and scholars of the University . In 1489 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed , and the different schools of medicine , jurisprudence , fine arts and letters , were brought together under the same roof . The most distinguished foreign scholars were invited to occupy the different professional chairs , their salaries were raised and their numbers increased . Giasone del Maino , who was professor of law at Pavia for fifty-two years , and whose reputation as jurist attracted students from all parts of the world , received the large salary of 2250 florins at this time , while Giorgio Merula of Alessandria , the historian , who for many years was professor of rhetoric at the University , and received only 375 florins in 1486 , had his salary raised in 1492 to 1000 florins . Next to the law schools , that of medicine was the most noted for its excellence at Pavia , and among its distinguished professors were Alvise Marliani , who was said to rival Aristotle in philosophy , Hippocrates in medicine , and Ptolemy in astronomy , and who was court-physician in turn to Lodovico Sforza , to his son Maximilian , and to the Emperor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chair of astrology , and taught the science of Almansor , as it was termed . This favourite servant of the Moro received the title of Count and the castle and lands of Rosate from Gian Galeazzo in 1493 , " for his services , " so ran the patent , " in saving my illustrious uncle the Duke of Bari 's life . " Oriental study was another branch of learning that Lodovico especially encouraged . Count Teseo de'Albonesi of Pavia became noted as the first Chaldaic scholar of his age , and in 1490 , the Moro established a chair of Hebrew , and appointed the Jew Benedetto Ispano to be the first professor , with express injunctions to study the text of the Bible . This experiment , however , proved a failure , and so few scholars attended his lectures that at the end of a year the chair was abolished . At the same time , new colleges were opened , and scholarships founded for poor students ; and in 1496 , Lodovico being then reigning Duke of Milan , granted the professors of law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all taxation . Under his fostering care the University flourished as it had never flourished before . Scholars from all parts of Europe came to attend Giasone di Maino 's lectures , the number of professors reached ninety : that of students was said to be three thousand . As the Milanese poet Lancinus Curtius sang in his Latin rhymes , " The fair-skinned Germans with their long hair flowing on their necks , the English and the knights from Gaul , the Iberian from the golden sands of Tagus , all hasten thither from the far North . The rude Pannonian lays aside his military cloak to join the eager throng who crowd into the virgin temple and seek the Helicon of Phoebus under the carved dome of wisdom , which bears Lodovico 's name above the stars . " But the Moro patronage of learning was by no means limited to Pavia . He did his utmost to revive the ancient University of Milan , which had long fallen into decay , and founded new and flourishing schools in this city . The best Pavian professors Merula and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lecture to the Milanese students . Fra Luca Pacioli of Borgo San Sepolcro , the famous mathematician , came to teach them geometry and arithmetic , and Ferrari occupied the first chair of history ever founded in Italy , while the priest Gaffuri became the first public instructor in the new school of music . In short , as a contemporary writes , there was not a science of any description that could not be learnt at Milan in the days of Lodovico Sforza . The endowment of research was another point in which Lodovico showed himself to be in advance of his age . He granted liberal pensions to Bernardino Corio and Tristano Calco , " the Milanese Livy , " who continued the history of the Visconti begun by the Alessandria professor and addressed letters in his own hand to the private owners of valuable manuscripts , requesting the loan of works that would assist these writers of Lombard history , " in order that a perpetual memory of the great deeds done by our ancestors may be preserved for future generations . " From his earliest years history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an illuminated volume of extracts from Greek and Roman history which he compiled under his tutor Filelfo 's direction at the age of fifteen may still be seen in the library of Turin . And in riper years , amid all the pressure of State affairs and political anxieties , he never let a day pass without having some passages from ancient and modern history read aloud to him by his secretaries . So wise and enlightened a prince well deserved the high praise bestowed upon him by the Bolognese scholar , Filippo Beroaldo , and the great Florentine , Angelo Poliziano , with whom Lodovico frequently exchanged letters , and who in one of his effusions thus addresses his princely friend : " All the world knows you to be a prince of brilliant genius and singular wisdom , while above all others you cherish the noble arts and show your love for these intellectual studies which we profess . " The jealousy of his own subjects was often roused by the favour with which Lodovico regarded scholars of other nationalities , and on one occasion a fierce quarrel arose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stooped to the vilest personalities . Another Pavian professor with whom he had a controversy over certain commentaries of Martial , had , it appears , ventured to hint that Merula did not really know Greek , an insinuation which provoked the most violent display of anger on his part , and when Poliziano endeavoured to appease both parties , the affronted Lombard flew at him like a small terrier attacking some big mastiff . All Lodovico 's tact and courtesy were needed to allay the storm , and when at length Merula died in 1494 , the duke ordered the immediate destruction of all the papers relating to this deplorable controversy , of which all parties , he felt , had good reason to be ashamed . The remodelling of the library of the Castello di Pavia was another important work which was carried out in the year 1492 , by Tristano Calco the historian and kinsman of the chief secretary , under the eye of Lodovico himself , while he and Beatrice spent the summer at Pavia . All the rare and precious manuscripts which he had been at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the ancient books contained in the library were catalogued and arranged for the use of students . For Lodovico was not only bent on enriching the ducal library , but was determined to make its treasures accessible to scholars of all nationalities . He allowed contemporary historians , Corio , Merula , and Tristan Calco himself , to borrow manuscripts freely , and , what was even more admirable in those days of persecution , gave permission under his own hand and seal to a Jewish scholar , named Salomone Ebreo , to live in the Castello with his family , in order that he might translate Hebrew manuscripts into Latin for the promotion of theological studies , and also be enabled to study the text of the Hebrew Bible belonging to the library . It is melancholy to reflect on the sad fate of this priceless collection , upon which Lodovico and his ancestors had expended so much care and thought . In 1499 , the bulk of the library of the Castello was carried off to Blois by Louis XII . and its precious contents were dispersed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afterwards by Henry Quatre to Paris , where they are still the glory of the Bibliotheque Nationale . Others again found their way into different public and private collections , and may be seen at Madrid and St. Petersburg , in London and Vienna , still bearing the inscription " De Pavye au roi Louis XII. , " which tells us that they once formed part of the Sforza Library . An illuminated manuscript of Aulus Gellius , and another of the " Triumphs " of Petrarch , encircled with miniatures and bearing Lodovico 's name , which originally belonged to the same collection , are among the treasures of the Bibliotheque Nationale . Many more no doubt have disappeared , lost in the general anarchy and confusion which prevailed in the Milanese during the century after the Moro 's fall . The newly discovered art of printing was also liberally encouraged by Lodovico , one of whose proteges , Alessandro Minuziano , set up a printing press in Milan before Aldo Manuzio had settled in Venice , and in the course of the year 1494 , published twenty-two books , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cicero and Tacitus , Pliny and Suetonius , as well as the works of Filelfo and the Sonnets and Triumphs of Petrarch . In 1496 , a treatise on music by Franchino Gaffuri was published , with a dedication to the duke , and was followed by the appearance of several works on harmony . The munificence of Lodovico stirred up others to follow his example . His secretary Bartolommeo Calco founded free schools , where Greek and Latin professors lectured free of charge to poor Milanese students ; and two other noblemen , Tommaso Grassi and Tommaso Piatti , endowed similar institutions . The new passion for learning spread from Milan and Pavia to other cities , and even Lombard villages had their public schools and lecturers . Everywhere the same thirst for knowledge was felt and the same respect for scholars was shown . For as Signor Lodovico wrote to his friend Poliziano , at Florence , " Both natural inclination and the example of our ancestors have inspired us with ardent love for learned men and an eager desire to honour and reward them to the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took place during the twenty years of Lodovico Moro 's rule in Milan commanded general admiration ; if learning flourished there as it had never done before , the widespread revival of art in Lombardy was a still more remarkable feature of the period . This indeed was the province in which Lodovico 's true genius was most apparent , and in which his own fine taste , vast power of organization and minute attention to detail , all made themselves felt and bore rich fruit . " This , " wrote Isabella d'Este  --  herself no mean judge of these matters  --  from Lodovico 's court , " is the school of the Master and of those who know , the home of art and understanding . " Throughout the Milanese , architects and engineers , painters and sculptors , with a host of minor craftsmen , were carrying out the vast projects that emanated from this one man . The decoration of the capital was naturally among the chief objects of his ambition . " In the year 1492 , " writes the chronicler Cagnola , " this glorious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many fair and marvellous buildings , enlarged the Piazza in front of the Castello , and removed obstructions in the streets of the city , and caused them to be painted and beautified with frescoes . And he did the same in the city of Pavia , so that both these towns , that were formerly ugly and dirty , are now most beautiful , which things are very laudable and excellent , especially in the eyes of those who remember these cities as they were of old , and who see them as they are to-day . " Chief among Lodovico 's most honoured and trusted servants was Bramante of Urbino , whose genius excited so marked an influence on the development of Lombard architecture , and who was to the builders what Leonardo became to the painters of Milan . " Signor Lodovico loved Bramante greatly , and rewarded him richly , " writes Fra Gaspare Bugati , a Dominican friar of S. Maria delle Grazie , the Moro 's favourite church , which this great architect did so much to beautify . During this year , Bramante , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings at the royal villas of Abbiategrasso , Cuzzago and other places , upon which he had been long engaged , began several important works in Milan itself . The new cloister or Canonica attached to the ancient basilica of S. Ambrogio , with its graceful columns and dark-green marble capitals , and the apse of S. Maria delle Grazie , soon to be crowned with that matchless cupola that remains among Bramante 's most perfect works , were both begun in 1492 . A few years before , between 1485 and 1490 , he had built the Baptistery of San Satiro , which another of Lodovico 's chosen artists , the great Como sculptor , Caradosso , was now engaged in modelling the lovely terra-cotta frieze of children and the medallions bearing , it is said , his own portrait and that of Bramante . The noble church of S. Maria presso San Celso , which in Burckhardt 's opinion combines magnificence and simplicity better than any building of the Renaissance , was the work of Bramante 's assistant , Dolcebuono , and owed its erection to the munificence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor were churches and palaces the only buildings upon which Lodovico lavished his gold and employed his most distinguished masters . In those days , the hospitals of Rome , Florence , Venice and Siena were the finest in Europe , and when Luther visited Rome , he is said to have been more impressed by the size and splendour of the hospitals , than by anything else in Italy . The great Moro , determined not to allow Milan to remain behind his age in this respect , employed Bramante to adorn the Gothic buildings of the Ospedale Maggiore with the arched windows and stately porticoes that we still admire , while he encircled the cloisters with marble shafts and terra-cotta mouldings after his own heart . And in 1488 , after his own recovery from illness , and that terrible visitation of the plague which had carried off fifty thousand inhabitants of Milan in six months , Lodovico founded the vast Lazzaretto , which still deserves its proud title , and may well be called a " glorious refuge for Christ 's poor . " Meanwhile the works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Visconti dukes , were being vigorously carried on . In 1481 , Lodovico had nominated his favourite Pavian master , Amadeo , the architect of the Certosa , as Capomaestro in succession to Guiniforte Solari ; but the Councillors of the Fabric declined to accept his suggestion , and sent to Strasburg for a German architect , John Nexemperger of Graz , who held the office for some years , but effected little , and was finally dismissed in 1486 . After his departure , the ruinous state of the central cupola requiring immediate attention , Lodovico invited Luca Fancelli , the chief architect of the Gonzagas at Mantua , to visit Milan , and by his advice Leonardo , Bramante , and other leading masters were invited in 1487 to design models for a new cupola . On this occasion Leonardo executed a model , which , however , does not seem to have satisfied the Fabbricieri , and after applying in vain to his ambassador in Rome and Florence for a master able and willing to undertake the task , Lodovico returned to his first choice , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with powers to alter and perfect the models of the cupola submitted to them for inspection . In order to strengthen their hands and satisfy himself , Lodovico invited Luca Fancelli of Mantua and Francesco Martini of Siena to decide on the respective merits of the models already prepared . Caradosso was sent to conduct Martini from Siena , while Gaffuri , Professor of Music , escorted Fancelli from Mantua by the duke 's orders , and both masters were richly rewarded for the pains and presented with silken vests and clothes for their servants over and above the pay to which they were entitled . On the 27th of June , 1490 , a meeting was held in the Castello , at which Lodovico presided , and after much deliberation the final execution of the cupola was entrusted to Amadeo and Dolcebuono . Bramante himself was not present on this occasion , but he approved highly of the model selected , and praised its lightness and elegance . As for Leonardo , he was absorbed in other studies , and had apparently ceased to take any interest in the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and receiving payment for a second which he never began , he had , as already mentioned , accompanied the Sienese architect , Martini , to Pavia , to give his opinion on the new Duomo in course of erection . There he lingered , studying anatomy or discussing scientific and philosophical questions with the University professors , until he was recalled to Milan , to assist in the preparations for Beatrice 's wedding fetes . Many and varied were the tasks on which Leonardo had been employed since the day , some eight years before , when the Magnificent Medici first sent him to his friend at Milan . In the letter which the young master , proudly conscious of his powers , himself addressed to Lodovico Sforza , offering him his services , he had , first of all , retailed at length his different inventions " for the construction of bridges , cannons , engines , and catapults of fair and useful shape hitherto unknown , but of admirable efficiency in time of war , " after which he proceeded to give the following account of his artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can equal any man in constructing public buildings and conducting water from one place to another . I can execute sculpture , whether in marble , bronze , or terra-cotta , and in painting I am the equal of any master , be he who he may . Again , I will undertake to execute the bronze horse to the immortal glory and eternal honour of the duke , your father , of blessed memory , and of the illustrious House of Sforza . And if any of the things I have mentioned above should seem to you impossible and impracticable , I will gladly make trial of them in your park , or any other place that may please your Excellency , to whom I commend myself in all humility . " The master had kept his word , and justified the confidence which from the first Lodovico Sforza placed in him . According to Vasari and the biographer of the Magliabecchiana , who wrote about 1540 , Leonardo originally attracted the Moro 's notice by the surpassing charm with which he played on a silver lyre of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But from the moment of his arrival at Milan the Florentine artist was employed by his new master to paint portraits and frescoes , to construct canals , arrange masques and pageants , or invent mechanical contrivances for use on the stage or in the house . A thousand different studies in his sketch-books and manuscripts bear witness to the strange variety of subjects upon which his versatile genius was brought to bear . But the most important work upon which Leonardo was engaged , and that which lay nearest to Lodovico Sforza 's heart , was the equestrian statue of Duke Francesco Sforza . This , we learn from the master 's own words , was the true reason that brought him to Milan . In a letter to the Fabbricieri of the Duomo of Piacenza , he describes himself as Leonardo the Florentine whom Signor Lodovico brought to Milan to make the bronze horse , and says that he can undertake no other task , for this will fill his whole life , if indeed it is ever finished ! Countless were the designs , endless the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was , after all , never to be cast in bronze , and was destined to perish by the hands of French archers . At one time it seemed as if he could neither satisfy himself nor yet his master . In July , 1489 , Pietro Alamanni , one of Lorenzo de ' Medici 's agents , wrote to ask his master if he could send another artist capable of executing the work to the Milanese court . " Signor Lodovico , " he says , " wishes to raise a noble memorial to his father , and has already charged Leonardo da Vinci to prepare a model for a great bronze horse , with a figure of Duke Francesco in armour . But since His Excellency is anxious to have something superlatively fine , he desires me to write and beg you to send him another master , for although he has given the work to Leonardo , he does not feel satisfied that he is equal to the task . " Probably Lodovico 's confidence had been shaken by Leonardo 's endless delays and hesitation , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this time it appears on a completely new model of the great statue . On April , 1490 , we find the following memorandum in Leonardo 's writing :  --  " To-day I commenced this book , and began the horse again . " But soon another interruption came to interfere with the progress of the great work . There was the visit to Pavia , and the decoration of the ball-room in the Castello , and the wedding fetes , and the tournaments in which Messer Galeazzo sought his help . And in this year  --  1492  --  we find Leonardo at Vigevano with the Moro in March , making designs for a new staircase for the Sforzesca , and studying vine-culture , and later in the summer drawing plans of a bath-room for Duchess Beatrice , and of a pavilion with a round cupola for the duke 's labyrinth in the gardens of the Castello . It was in this same year , according to Amoretti , that he finished the beautiful painting of the Holy Family , upon which he had long been engaged . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the art-loving King of Hungary , Matthias Corvinus , when his niece Bianca Maria was betrothed to that monarch 's son . " Since we hear that His Majesty delights in pictures , " wrote Lodovico to Maffeo di Treviglio , the ambassador whom he was sending to Hungary in 1485 , " and we have here a most excellent painter , with whose genius we are well acquainted , and who , we are sure , has no equal , we have ordered this master to paint a figure of Our Lady , as beautiful and perfect and holy as he can imagine , without sparing pains or expense . He has already set to work , and will undertake nothing else until this picture is finished , and we are able to send it as a gift to his said Majesty . " The painter who had no equal could be none other than Leonardo ; but it would be interesting to know if this picture , originally destined for Matthias Corvinus , was the Nativity eventually given by Lodovico in 1493 to Bianca Maria 's future husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , as well as of the Bacchus and other subjects which Leonardo painted for the Moro , have vanished ; and the only works that remain to us of his Milanese period are the cartoon of the Virgin and St. Anne now in the Royal Academy , and the " Vierge aux Rochers " in the Louvre , which was originally painted between 1490 and 1494 for a chapel in San Francesco of Milan , the church where the great Condottiere Roberto di Sanseverino was piously buried by his sons , after his death in the battle of Trent . The fame which Leonardo had attained , and the high esteem in which he was held by the Moro , is proved by the verses of contemporary poets , and especially by those of his fellow-countryman , Bellincioni , the court-poet who died in 1492 . " To-day , " he sings , " Milan is the new Athens ! Here Lodovico holds his Parnassus ; here rare and excellent artists flock as bees to seek honey from the flowers ; here , chief among them all , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In the volume of Bellincioni 's Sonnets , published soon after his death by the priest Francesco Tanzio , the name Magistro Leonardo da Vinci appears in a marginal note , and in another sonnet inscribed to " Four illustrious men who have grown up under the shadow of the Moro , " the editor gives the respective names of these famous individuals as " the painter Maestro Leonardo Florentino , the goldsmith Caradosso , the learned Greek scholar Giorgio Merula , called the sun of Alessandria , and Maestro Giannino , the Ferrarese gun-founder . " " Rejoice , O Milano , " sings the poet in these verses  --  " rejoice above all , that within your walls you hold one who is foremost among excellent artists , Da Vinci , whose drawing and colouring are alike unrivalled by ancient or modern masters . " The fact that Lodovico was able to keep this great master at his court during so long a period is the best proof we have of his knowledge of men and love of art . These sixteen years were the most brilliant and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enjoy a freedom and independence so complete , never again was he to find a master as generous , as stimulating to his powers of brain and hand as the great Moro . It was not only that Signor Lodovico gave him the large salary of 2000 ducats  --  about L4000 of our money  --  " besides many other gifts and rewards , " as Leonardo himself told Cardinal de Gurk , but that he was himself so fine a connoisseur and understanding a patron . More than this , he knew how to deal with men of genius , and could make allowance for their wayward fancies , and humour their caprices with infinite tact and kindliness . And from the little that we glean of his intercourse with Leonardo , he seems to have treated him rather as an equal than as a subject , and more like a friend than a servant . The glimpses that we catch of Leonardo 's private life from the writings of contemporaries , whether in Bandello 's novelle , or in Bellincioni 's rime , all give the same pleasant impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the court of Milan . And in his own " Trattato " ( Cap . 36 ) the painter describes himself as living in a fine house , full of beautiful paintings and choice objects , surrounded by musicians and poets . Here he sits at his work , handling a brush full of lovely colour , never so happy as when he can paint listening to the sound of sweet melodies . The spacious atelier is full of scholars and apprentices employed in carrying out their master 's ideas or making chemical experiments , but careless of the noise of tools and hammers , the fair-haired boy Angelo sings his golden song , and Serafino the wondrous improvisatore chants his own verses to the sound of the lyre . Visitors come and go freely  --  Messer Jacopo of Ferrara , the architect who was " dear to Leonardo as a brother , " the courtly poet Gaspare Visconti , and Vincenzo Calmeta , Duchess Beatrice 's secretary , or , it may be , the great Messer Galeaz himself , whose big jennet and Sicilian horse the master has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside in the Corte Vecchia . There , among them all , the painter bends over his canvas seeking to perfect the glazes and scumbles of his pearly tints , or trying to realize some dream of a face that haunts his fancy with its exquisite smile . He has , it is true , many labours  --  " a tanta faccenda ! " as he wrote to the councillors of Piacenza  --  and at times he hardly knows which way to turn , but he is his own master , free to work as he will , now at one , now at another . He has no cares or anxiety . He can dress as he pleases , wear rich apparel if he is so minded , or don the plain clothes and sober hues that he prefers . He has gold enough and to spare ; he can help a poorer friend and educate a needy apprentice , or save his money for a rainy day ; and , above all , he has plenty of books and leisure to meditate on philosophical treatises , or ponder over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can find time to jot down his thoughts on many things , to write his great treatise on painting , and to draw the wonderful interlaced patterns inscribed with the strange words which have puzzled so many generations of commentators . And he has friends , too , dear to his heart  --  Messer Jacopo , and the wise Lorenzo da Pavia , that master of organs whose hands were as deft in fashioning lyres and viols as in drawing out sweet sounds , with whom he loved to commune of musical instruments and eternal harmonies , and the boy Andrea Salai , with the beautiful curling hair , whom he loved to dress up in green velvet mantles , and shoes with rose-coloured ribbons and silver buckles . " Such , " he tells us , " was I , Leonardo the Florentine , at the court of the most Illustrious Prince Signor Lodovic . " And what the Moro was to Leonardo that he showed himself to other artists and men of letters . In the poet 's words , he was the magnet who drew men of genius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milan . He might be an exacting and critical master , he was certainly never satisfied with any work short of the best  --  even Leonardo , we have seen , did not always find him easy to please  --  but once he discovered a man who was excellent in any branch of knowledge , he thought no cost too great to retain him at his court . And so the foremost scholars and the finest artists , Giorgio Merula and Lancinus Curtius , Caradosso and Cristoforo Romano , Bramante and Leonardo , were all drawn to Milan in turn , and , having once entered the Moro 's service , remained there until the end . " We know , O most illustrious Prince ! " wrote Tanzio in his preface to Bellincioni 's Sonnets  --  " we know that you , the Chief of the Insubrians , are no less a lover of your country than of your glorious father , in whose honour you have reared that mighty and immortal work , the great Colossus , which , like himself , remains without a rival . We see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own great city . We see Milan , by your care , not only adorned with peace and wealth , with noble churches and edifices , but with rare and admirable intellects , who all turn to you in their hour of need , as the rivers flow into the vast ocean . " Nor was it only in Milan and Pavia that this revival made itself felt . The new impulse spread from city to city . The lovely Renaissance facade of S. Maria dei Miracoli at Brescia was completed in 1487 , and the great Church of the Incoronata at Lodi , begun in 1488 , was continued during the next twenty years under the superintendence of Dolcebuono and Amadeo . Bramante supplied designs for the new facade and portals that were added to the cathedral of Como in 1491 , and for the majestic church of Abbiategrasso , close to this favourite country house of the Sforzas . A number of other churches , both in Milan and the neighbourhood , were designed by him or his scholars , and bear witness to the revolution which he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Saronno and Lugano , new churches and palaces arose , and the famous Sanctuary of Varallo in the Val Sesia was founded in 1491 by that devout personage , Messer Bernardino Caimo , on his return from a pilgrimage to the Holy Land . The same passion for building and decoration prevailed everywhere . On all sides poets and scholars celebrated Lodovico 's name as the Pericles of this new Athens , and joined in the chorus of praise which inspired Pistoia 's famous line  --  " E un Dio in cielo e il Moro in terra . " " There is one God in heaven and the Moro upon earth . " CHAPTER XII Beatrice d'Este as a patron of learning and poetry  --  Vincenzo Calmeta , her secretary  --  Serafino d'Aquila  --  Rivalry of Lombard and Tuscan poets  --  Gaspare Visconti 's works  --  Poetic jousts with Bramante  --  Niccolo di Correggio and other poets  --  Dramatic art and music at the court of Milan  --  Gaffuri and Testagrossa  --  Lorenzo Gusnasco of Pavia. 1492 Lodovico Moro , as we have seen , was justly extolled by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Abbe Tiraboschi , the learned historian of Italian literature , wrote ninety years ago , " If we consider the immense number of learned men who flocked to his court from all parts of Italy in the certainty of receiving great honours and rich rewards ; if , again , we remember how many famous architects and painters he invited to Milan , and how many noble buildings he raised , how he built and endowed the magnificent University of Pavia , and opened schools of every kind of science in Milan ; if besides all this we read the splendid eulogies and dedicatory epistles addressed to him by scholars of every nationality , we feel inclined to pronounce him the best prince that ever lived . " And in Beatrice d'Este , Lodovico possessed a wife admirably adapted to share his aims and preside over his court . Both her birth and education fitted her for the position which she now occupied . Her youth and beauty lent a new lustre to the court , her quick intelligence and cultured tastes led her to appreciate the society of poets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she shared with the Moro , went hand-in-hand with artistic invention . Her rich clothes and jewels were distinguished by their refinement and rare workmanship . The fashions which she introduced were marked by their elegance and beauty . She took especial delight in music and poetry , and gave signs of a fine and discriminating literary judgment . And like Lodovico , she knew not only how to attract men of genius , but how to retain them in her service . Where , again , asks Castiglione , who had known her in her brightest days at Milan , shall we find a woman of intellect as remarkable as Duchess Beatrice ? And her own secretary , the writer known as " l'elegantissimo Calmeta " in the cultured circles of Mantua and Urbino , has told us how much men of letters owed to her sympathy and help . In the life of his friend , Serafino Aquilano , written seven years after Beatrice 's death , when the Milanese was a French province and the Moro a captive at Loches , Calmeta recalls the brilliant days of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his lost mistress :  --  " This duke had for his most dear wife Beatrice d'Este , daughter of Ercole , Duke of Ferrara , who , coming to Milan in the flower of her opening youth , was endowed with so rare an intellect , so much grace and affability , and was so remarkable for her generosity and goodness that she may justly be compared with the noblest women of antiquity . This duchess devoted her time to the highest objects . Her court was composed of men of talent and distinction , most of whom were poets and musicians , who were expected to compose new eclogues , comedies , or tragedies , and arrange new spectacles and representations every month . In her leisure hours she generally employed a certain Antonio Grifo "  --  a well-known student and commentator of Dante  --  " or some equally gifted man , to read the Divina Commedia , or the works of other Italian poets , aloud to her . And it was no small relaxation of mind for Lodovico Sforza , when he was able to escape from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listen to these readings in his wife 's rooms . And among the illustrious men whose presence adorned the court of the duchess there were three high-born cavaliers , renowned for many talents , but above all for their poetic gifts  --  Niccolo da Correggio , Gaspare Visconti , and Antonio di Campo Fregoso , together with many others , one of whom was myself , Vincenzo Calmeta , who for some years held the post of secretary to that glorious and excellent lady . And besides those I have named there was Benedetto da Cingoli , called Piceno , and many other youths of no small promise , who daily offered her the first fruits of their genius . Nor was Duchess Beatrice content with rewarding and honouring the poets of her own court . On the contrary , she sent to all parts of Italy to inquire for the compositions of elegant poets , and placed their books as sacred and divine things on the shelves of her cabinet of study , and praised and rewarded each writer according to his merit . In this manner , poetry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunk into forgetfulness after the days of Petrarch and Boccaccio , has been restored to its former dignity , first by the protection of Lorenzo de ' Medici , and then by the influence of this rare lady , and others like her , who are still living at the present time . But when Duchess Beatrice died everything fell into ruin . That court , which had been a joyous Paradise , became a dark and gloomy Inferno , and poets and artists were forced to seek another road . " Calmeta himself was a prolific writer both of verse and prose , whose translation of Ovid 's Ars amandi , dedicated to Lodovico Moro , was highly esteemed by his contemporaries , and whom Castiglione introduces among the speakers of his Cortigiano . Like his friends Niccolo da Correggio and Gaspare Visconti , Beatrice 's secretary was a fervent admirer of Petrarch , and wrote an elaborate commentary on the Canzone , " Mai non vo ' piu cantar como io solea , " which he dedicated to Isabella d'Este and sent her with a letter expressing his conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profound and subtle poem . Another of Beatrice 's proteges was Serafino , the famous improvisatore of Aquila in the Abruzzi , a short and ugly little man , whom Cardinal Bibbiena once laughingly compared to a carpet-bag ( valigia ) ! But in spite of his dwarfed stature and elfish appearance , Serafino sang his own strambotti and eclogues so well , and had so fascinating a way of accompanying himself on the lute , that the Este and Gonzaga ladies all entreated him for new verses , and literally wrangled over the man himself ! Like Calmeta and many others , however , after spending some time at the courts of Mantua and Urbino , he came to Milan , and devoted his talents to the service of Duchess Beatrice until her death , after which he went his way sadly , and sought shelter in his old haunts . Most of his time after this was spent with the good Duchess Elizabeth at Urbino , where the Milanese refugees found a warm welcome , and where Serafino was caressed and feted by all the great ladies in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he died in Rome in 1500 , lamented in prose and verse by the most cultured spirits of the age . While Beatrice encouraged these foreign poets to settle at Milan , Lodovico invited the Tuscans Bellincioni and Antonio Cammelli , surnamed Pistoia , to his court , in the hope of refining and polishing the rude Lombard diction . The priest Tanzio , writing after Bellincioni 's death in 1492 , remarks that this influence had already borne fruit , and that the sonnet , which was practically unknown in Milan before Bellincioni 's coming , was now diligently cultivated there . But , not unnaturally , a bitter rivalry sprung up between the Lombard and the Tuscan poets , and a fierce poetic warfare was exchanged between them . Bellincioni 's suspicious and quarrelsome nature is revealed in his letters to his patron , in which he is always complaining of the envious detractors whose wicked tongues are employed in backbiting him day and night . His own character was by no means free from the same imputations ; and the Ferrarese poet , Tebaldeo , the friend of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he warns passers-by to avoid the last resting-place of this singer , who had made so many enemies in life , lest he turn in his grave and bite them . Bellincioni 's bitterest foe was a certain Bergamasque poet , Guidotto Prestinari , who wrote many odes and songs in honour of Beatrice , and represented the old Lombard school . On one occasion this misguided person even dared to attack Leonardo , and wrote a sonnet in which he jeers at the great painter for spending his time in hunting for curious worms and insects on the hills of Bergamo , when he visited his friends of the Melzi family . Leonardo scorned to take any notice of these petty insults , but in his letter to the councillors of Piacenza we see the contempt which he had for Lombard artists  --  " those rude and ignorant workmen , " as he calls them , " who boast they will get letters of recommendation from Signora Lodovico or his Commissioner of Works , Messer Ambrogio Ferrari , when not one of them is fit to undertake the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plainly directed against the false and venal science of the astrologer Ambrogio da Rosate , whose name is given in the margin , and show how cordial was Leonardo 's hatred of the duke 's all-powerful favourite . Fortunately , both Leonardo himself , as well as Calmeta and Pistoia , were on friendly terms with Gaspare Visconti , who , originally a scholar of Prestinari , became the chief representative of the Lombard school of poetry at Milan , and whom Beatrice 's secretary places next to Niccolo da Correggio among the best poets of her court . This popular poet and polished cavalier was a great favourite , not only with Beatrice and her husband , but with Galeazzo di Sanseverino , the Marchesino Stanga , and all the chief personages at court . Born in 1461 of noble Milanese parents , he married Cecilia , daughter of Cecco Simonetta , Duchess Bona 's ill-fated minister , and was advanced to the dignity of Eques Auratus and ducal councillor . After the death of Bellincioni he succeeded to the post of court poet , and was often employed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write sonnets on passing events , whether his theme were a royal wedding or the death of a favourite falcon . His most important work was a romance entitled " Paolo e Daria , " founded on Bramante 's discovery of a tomb containing the ashes of these lovers , when the foundations of his new cloisters at S. Ambrogio were being laid in the year 1492 . The incident excited great interest at court , and Gasparo dedicated his poem to Lodovico  --  " mio Duca "  --  and introduced an eloquent eulogy in honour of his friend Bramante in the first canto . In the following year he published a volume of rhymes , dedicated to Niccolo da Correggio , who sent the book to the insatiable Isabella d'Este , saying this would please her better than any verses that he could write . Finally , in 1496 , he formally presented the duchess with a copy of his poems , written in silver letters and gold on ivory vellum , and enriched with miniatures of rare beauty . This sumptuous volume , bound in silver-gilt boards enamelled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on love and other philosophical and theological subjects , was dedicated to Beatrice in the following words :  --  " To the Most Illustrious Duchess of Milan , Gaspare Visconti , Having been told by many honourable persons , chief among whom is Messer Galeazzo Sanseverino , that the said duchess graciously pleads my cause with His Excellency the Duke , I beg of her to accept this book , dedicated to her by her humble servant . " The same grateful sentiments inspired the lyric which followed , in which the poet implored the duchess to use her well-known influence with her lord , and incline his will to look favourably upon her servant 's prayer  --  " Donna beata ! e Spirito pudico ! Deh ! fa benigna a questa mia richiesta La voglia del tuo Sposo Lodovico . Io so ben quel che dico ! Tanta e la tua virtu che cio che vuoi Dello invitto cuor disponer puoi. " 24 An ardent lover of Petrarch , to whose poems these of the Milanese poet were often compared by his admirers , Gaspare Visconti took the lead in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Dante and Petrarch , The discussion was carried on during many weeks , in the presence of the duchess and her courtiers in the beautiful gardens of Vigevano , or in those fair pleasure-houses by the running streams in the park at Pavia , where Beatrice and her ladies spent the long summer days . Gaspare found animated supporters in his friends Calmeta and Niccolo da Correggio , who was himself an enthusiastic admirer of Petrarch , and on one occasion journeyed twenty-five miles from Correggio over the worst roads in the world to see the remote village of Rosena , where the Tuscan poet had composed some of his finest canzoni . On the other hand , Bramante had the duke and duchess on his side . We know how , at the end of a long day 's work , Lodovico loved to listen to the reading of the " Divina Commedia " in his wife 's boudoir , and ponder the meaning of that great vision of heaven and hell . And when the catastrophe of Novara had crushed his last hopes , and he was borne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he asked of his victors was the loan of a volume of Dante , " per studiare "  --  in order that he might study the divine poet 's words . One of Gaspare 's sonnets on the subject , which was afterwards printed , bears this inscription : " These verses were not written with any pretence of deciding between the merits of these two great men , but solely to answer Bramante , who is a violent partisan of Dante . " Another poetic tourney , in which both the great architect and his friend Visconti were the chief combatants , turned on Bramante 's supposed poverty and the complaints with which he filled the air , calling on all the gods in heaven to help him in his misery . This was in the summer of 1492 , and not only Gaspare , but Bellincioni , who was then living , and Mascagni of Turin took up the parable , and charged Bramante with begging for a pair of shoes , when all the while he was receiving five ducats a week from the duke , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bramante replied in a sonnet full of allusions to Calliope , Erato , and all the Muses , begging his friends for pity 's sake to give him a crown , if they would not see him left barefoot and naked to battle with rude Boreas . A whole series of curious sonnets from Bramante 's pen has been lately discovered by M. Muntz among the Italian manuscripts in the Bibliotheque Nationale , and reveal the burlesque side of the great architect 's character , and the biting wit which made his opponents give him the name of Cerberus. 25 These poetic jousts or encounters of wits were a favourite amusement of the cultured princesses of the Renaissance and their courtiers . Thus it was that Poliziano and Ficino discussed philosophical questions before Lorenzo in the gardens of Careggi or on the terraces of Fiesole ; so Castiglione and Bibbiena reasoned of art and love with Duchess Elizabeth and Emilia Pia , in the palace of Urbino , till the short summer night was well-nigh over and the dawn broke over the peaks of Monte Catria . And at Milan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more freedom and gaiety than in any court of the day , these lively debates found especial favour . The most brilliant courtiers and bravest knights , the gravest scholars and officers of state alike took part in them . Messer Galeazzo , as we have seen , was an adept at the game , and could wield his pen and challenge fair ladies in defence of Roland as gallantly as he couched his lance to ride in the lists or wielded his sword in the thick of the battle . So , too were the Marchesino Stanga and his friend Girolamo Tuttavilla . Both these noblemen were great sonnet-writers , and are classed by Pistoia among those illustrious lords , who , like Messer Galeazzo and Signor Lodovico himself , were poets and writers as well as statesmen and generals . Bramante addressed several of his sonnets to Count Tuttavilla , who in his turn had a lively controversy in rhyme with the Marchesino . And when , in the spring of 1492 , Tuttavilla accompanied the Count of Caiazzo on his embassy to France , Gaspare Visconti sent him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Duchess Beatrice and all her ladies were dying to hear . " Tell me if the Queen of France is fair , and how the king appears in your eyes  --  whether he is cruel or clement , inclined to walk in the paths of virtue or of vice . And tell us , too , if the people of Paris seem to fear the English and the Spaniard , and if they are true followers of Mars ? Tell us how the crowds who walk the streets are clad , and what customs and manners they have , and how they speak , and what they think . Tell me how many students their University numbers , and in what branches of learning they excel . Tell me the names of their lawgivers and historians , and if any classical antiquities are to be found in Paris . Tell me how the Abbey of S. Denis is built , and what style of architecture prevails in the far North ? And tell me , too , if I dare ask , have you perchance in Paris found some fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ console you for all that you have left behind ? " Girolamo Tuttavilla replied in verses of the same light and airy strain , alluding to the fierce contest over Dante that waged between Dottore Bramante and his foes , and laughing at friend Bellincioni 's furious rages , but saying that he at least is wiser , and will take the via media and steer warily between the two contending parties . But the best poet at Lodovico 's court , a sweeter singer and a finer scholar than the much-praised Bellincioni or the gay Visconti , was Niccolo , the " gran Correggio " of Gaspare 's song . The son of that accomplished princess of Este , Beatrice the Queen of Festivals , reared by her in all the culture of Ferrara , this singularly polished and handsome personage was in the eyes of his contemporaries the model of a perfect courtier . To have known him was in itself a liberal education . Sabba da Castiglione , that fastidious scholar and refined writer of the sixteenth century , counted himself fortunate because as a boy he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gifted cavalier in all Italy . " Ariosto saw him in his vision upholding the Fountain of Song , and chanting in his own lofty and noble style  --  " Un Signor di Correggio Con alto stil par che cantando scriva . " Niccolo had come to Milan in Beatrice 's bridal train , and remained there ever since , highly valued and beloved by Lodovico and all the ducal family , riding in jousts and tournaments , going on foreign missions , and composing songs and eclogues for that young duchess whose death was one day to inspire some of his most touching verses . But the Marchesa Isabella was the true goddess of his adoration , the mistress to whom his heart and lyre alike were pledged , who was for him , not only " la mia patrona e signora , " but " la prima donna del mondo , " " the first lady in all the world . " For her he translated Breton legends and Provencal romances ; for her he set Virgil and Petrarch to music ; for her fair sake , old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ready to break a lance or join once more in the dance . At Christmas-time , in the last days of 1491 , the impatient Marchesana had written to remind him that she had never yet received the eclogue which he had promised to send her at her brother Alfonso 's wedding , and refused to be put off with any other verses , saying that his poems pleased her more than those of any living bard . When in later years she found that Niccolo was inclined to transfer his allegiance to her sister-in-law , Lucrezia Borgia , she was sorely affronted , and after his death entered into a long contention for the possession of the book of poems which he had left behind . There were many other poets of Beatrice 's court whose names were famous in their day , but have long ago been forgotten , and whose works have passed into oblivion with all that vanished world . There was Lancino di Corte , or , as he preferred to style himself , Lancinus Curtius , the writer of Latin epigrams ; and Antonio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Niccolo , won Calmeta and Ariosto 's praises , and whose poetic disputes with Lancinus were a feature of Cecilia Gallerani 's entertainments ; and Baldassare Taccone of Alessandria ; and Pietro Lazzarone of the Valtellina . There was Galeotto del Carretto , the Montferrat poet and historian , who left his home at Casale to compose plays and sonnets for Beatrice , and who , like Niccolo da Correggio , was one of Isabella 's favourite correspondents , and sent her eclogues and strambotti to sing to the lute . When Beatrice died he had just finished a comedy dedicated to this princess , which he afterwards sent to Isabella , begging her to accept it both for his sake and that of the lamented Madonna Duchessa sorella , who had taken pleasure in reading his effusions . And there was another Tuscan poet , Antonio Cammelli of Pistoia , who composed a whole volume of sonnets dedicated to " that most invincible Prince , the light and splendour of the world , Lodovico Moro . " These sonnets are of great interest , less on account of their poetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political events . The invasion of the French , the conquest of Naples , the battle of Fornovo , the peace of Vercelli , the proclamation of Lodovico as Duke of Milan , his coronation fetes at Milan and Pavia , are all carefully recorded . Nor does the series end here ; in another sonnet the poet takes up the note of warning , and bids Lodovico beware of the new King of France and , ceasing to dally with Fortune , prepare to defend his fair duchy . The next time Pistoia took up his pen , it was to wail over the duke 's fall and the ruin of Italy , and to hurl curses on the head of the false servants who had betrayed their trust and yielded up the Castello to their master 's foes . This , at least , may be said to Pistoia 's credit  --  he did not forget his generous patron in the days of adversity ; and when Pamfilo Sasso , the Modena bard who had basked in the sunshine of the Moro 's favour , assailed the fallen duke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his old master , and fiercely rebuked the cowardly poet . " I send you , " wrote Calmeta to the Marchioness of Mantua in 1502 , in a letter enclosing Pistoia 's verses , " an invective against Sasso for certain sonnets and epigrams which he printed at Bologna against our Duke Lodovico Sforza , and which some people say that I wrote . It was never my habit to attack others , but if I had wasted a little ink in defending so illustrious a prince , I hardly think I should deserve much blame . " 26 Before the coming of Beatrice there had been no theatre in Milan , but Lodovico had done his best to encourage dramatic art . As early as 1484 , he had written to the Duke of Ferrara , asking him to lend him a Bolognese actor , Albergati by name , who was also a skilled mechanic , to give sacred representations during Holy Week in Milan . The presence of Duke Ercole 's daughter naturally gave a fresh impulse to the growth of dramatic art , and after Lodovico 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Milan . Courtiers and poets vied with each other in the production of plays and masques at each successive Christmas or Carnival . In 1493 , Niccolo da Correggio wrote a pastoral entitled Mopsa e Daphne , which was performed at court that Carnival , and which he afterwards sent to Isabella , promising to explain its allegorical meaning at their next meeting . Another time , Gaspare Visconti composed the masque with the chorus of Turks , to which we have already alluded , for representation before the duke and duchess . On one occasion a piece called La Fatica was acted at the house of Antonio Maria Sanseverino , whose wife , Margherita of Carpi , was the sister of Elizabeth Gonzaga 's beloved companion , Emilia Pia , and herself a learned and cultivated princess . On another a representation described as La Pazienza was given before the court , in honour of a visit which Cardinal Federigo Sanseverino paid to Milan . Music , as Calmeta tells us , was another art that flourished in an especial manner at the Milanese court . Both Lodovico and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delicious melodies that daily resounded through their palace halls were the theme alike of chronicler and poet . When first Lorenzo de Medici had sent Leonardo to his friend 's court to charm the Moro 's ears with the surpassing sweetness of his playing , he had brought with him a well-known musician and maker of instruments , Atalante Migliorotti , who stood high in Lodovico 's favour , and spent much of his time at Milan . We find Isabella d'Este writing to her friend , Niccolo da Correggio , in 1493 , begging him to procure her the loan of a silver lyre , given him by Atalante , that she may learn to play this instrument ; and in the following year the marchioness herself stood godmother to the Florentine musician 's infant daughter , who was called Isabella after her illustrious sponsor . And in 1492 we find Lodovico writing to thank Francesco Gonzaga for allowing a certain Narcisso , who was in the Marquis of Mantua 's service , to visit Milan , and saying what exquisite pleasure this singer 's voice has afforded him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begged her sister to allow her favourite violinist , Jacopo di San Secondo , to spend a few weeks at Mantua ; and on the 7th of July Beatrice wrote to desire his return . " Since you are back at Mantua , I think you will not want Jacopo di San Secondo much longer , and beg you to send him back to Pavia as soon as possible , since his music will be a pleasure to my husband , who is suffering from a slight attack of fever . " This Jacopo was a famous violin-player of his day , who had settled at the Moro 's court , and who after Lodovico 's fall left Milan for Rome , where he became the friend of Raphael and Castiglione , and is said to have served as model for the laurel-crowned Apollo of the Parnassus , in the Vatican Stanze . Another of Beatrice 's favourite singers was Angelo Testagrossa , a beautiful youth who sang , we are told , like a seraph , and who , after the death of this princess , accepted Isabella 's pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her lessons on the lute . Testagrossa is said to have sung in the Spanish style , which was much in vogue at Milan , where a Spaniard named Pedro Maria was director of the palace concerts , and is frequently mentioned in Bellincioni 's poems . The priest Franchino Gaffuri , as already stated , occupied the first chair of music ever founded in Italy . Besides this master 's works on music , another treatise on harmony , composed by a priest named Florentio , and dedicated to Cardinal Ascanio Sforza , is preserved in the Trivulzian Library , with a fine miniature of Leonardo playing the lyre as frontispiece . Both the Flemish priest Cordier , with the wonderful tenor voice , and the accomplished master Cristoforo Romano were , as we know , among the chosen singers who accompanied Beatrice on her travels . And there was one more gifted artist , who , like Atalante Migliorotti , was both a skilled musician and a mechanic , and whose whole life was devoted to the construction of musical instruments of the choicest quality , Lorenzo Gusnasco of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare talents of this " master of organs , " as he was styled by his contemporaries , and it was for Beatrice 's use that he began to make those wonderful clavichords and lutes and viols that made his name famous throughout Italy . In his hands the manufacture of musical instruments was carried to the highest pitch of excellence . He grudged no labour and spared no pains to make his work perfect . The choicest ebony and ivory , the most precious woods and delicate strings were sought out by him ; the best scholars supplied him with Greek and Latin epigrams to be inscribed upon his organs and clavichords . In his opinion both material and shape were of the utmost importance , because , as he wrote to Isabella d'Este , " beauty of form is everything , " " perche ne la forma sta il tuto . " The work of this gifted maker naturally acquired a rare value in the eyes of his contemporaries . Sabba da Castiglione and Teseo Albonese praise him as the man who , above all others , has learnt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as a divine soul is enshrined in a fair body . Painters and scholars alike took delight in Lorenzo 's company . He was the intimate friend of Giovanni Bellini and Andrea Mantegna , of Pietro Bembo and Aldo Manuzio , of Leonardo and Isabella d'Este . It was in these festive days , in the Castello of Pavia , that Lorenzo da Pavia first met both the great Florentine and the accomplished princess who set so high a store on his friendship . For more than twenty years Isabella corresponded regularly with this gifted artist , and employed him not only to make organs and lutes for her , but to buy antiques and cameos , Murano glass and tapestry , choice pictures and rare books . Whether she wished for a fantasia , or Holy Family from the hand of Gian Bellini , or a choice edition of Dante or Petrarch from the press of Aldo Manuzio , it was to Messer Lorenzo that the request was addressed . In 1494 , the Pavian master moved to Venice , where he found it easier to procure materials for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work on a larger scale . By this time his fame had spread far and wide through Italy . He made an organ for Matthias Corvinus , the King of Hungary , and another which he himself took to Rome for Pope Leo X. But his relations with Duchess Beatrice were not interrupted by this change of abode . In that same year he made her that clavichord which Isabella describes as the best and most beautiful which she had ever seen , and which she never ceased to covet until , after her sister 's death and Lodovico 's fall , she obtained possession of the precious instrument . It was at Venice , in the early spring of 1500 , that Leonardo da Vinci once more met this master , whom he had formerly known so well at Pavia and Milan . There the two artists who had lived together for many years in the Moro 's service conversed sadly of the terrible catastrophe which had overwhelmed their old master in sudden and inevitable ruin , and mourned over the disastrous fate which had plunged the fair Milanese into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the happy days of their former life , and talked of their old companions , the painter brought out a drawing which Lorenzo immediately recognized as the portrait of Isabella d'Este , the illustrious princess , who was proud to call herself their friend . " Leonardo , " he wrote the next day to the Marchesana , " is here in Venice , and has shown me a portrait of your Highness , which is as natural and lifelike as possible . " 27 This drawing , which the princess describes in a letter to the painter as being ni carbone and not in colours , is now one of the treasures of the Louvre , and has an inestimable value , both as the work of Leonardo and as a genuine portrait of the most brilliant lady of the Renaissance . FOOTNOTES : 24 Uzielli , Ricerche , i. : Renier , Gaspare Visconti. 25 Gazette des B. Arts , 1879 , p. 514. 26 Renier , Sonetti di Pistoia p. 35. 27 A. Baschet , Aldo Manuzio , pp. 70-75 . CHAPTER XIII Visit of Duke Ercole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pope Alexander VI .  --  Bribery of the Cardinals  --  Influence of Ascanio Sforza over the new Pope , and satisfaction of Lodovico  --  Hunting-parties at Pavia and Vigevano  --  Fetes at Milan  --  Visit of Isabella to Genoa  --  Lodovico 's letters  --  Piero de Medici  --  King Ferrante 's jealousy of the alliance between Rome and Milan . 1492 That summer Isabella d'Este at length accomplished her long-intended visit to her sister , whom she had not seen since the wedding fetes . Early in July she received a pressing invitation from Lodovico himself , urging her to accompany her father , Duke Ercole , who was expected at Milan towards the end of the month . But , as she wrote to her husband , who was then in Venice , it was quite impossible for her to start on her journey at this early date . In the first place , half of her household was in bed , ladies and servants alike were suffering from a feverish epidemic which had attacked the whole court ; and in the second place , many preparations were necessary if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Marquis of Mantua 's wife . " Of course , if you wish it , " she adds proudly , " I will set off alone , in my chemise , but this I think you will hardly desire . " Signor Lodovico 's invitation , however , was gladly accepted , and Isabella made every preparation to start by the middle of August . She sent to Ferrara , urging her favourite goldsmith , as he loved her , to finish a necklace of a hundred links by next week , and begging him to lend her some more jewelled chains for the use of her courtiers and maids-of-honour . And the same day she wrote to the Venetian merchant Taddeo Contarini , excusing herself for her delay in paying for some jewels which she had lately bought , since her visit to Milan necessarily entailed heavy expenses . By the 10th of August she was able to start on her journey , and spent a night on the way at Canneto with her kinswoman , Antonia del Balzo , wife of Gianfrancesco Gonzaga of Bozzolo , who came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andrea Mantegna himself , " exclaimed the marchioness , " could not paint fairer maidens ! " On the 12th , she reached Cremona , where Lodovico 's cousin , Francesco Sforza , was awaiting her , and a crowd of people hailed her arrival with enthusiasm . After spending a night in the Episcopal palace , she went on to Pizzighettone , where she discovered that her best hat had been forgotten , and sent a messenger back to Mantua with the key of her black chest , desiring one of her servants to look out her hat with the jewelled feather and send it after her by a flying courier . On the 15th , the Marchesana reached Pavia , where both the Duchesses of Milan and Bari rode out to meet her , and placing her between them , after many embraces , conducted her through the city . Here the two dukes and all the ambassadors were awaiting her , and a troop of trumpeters and outriders escorted the party up to the castle gates . That evening she supped alone with Beatrice , and the hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest spirits , and Isabella anticipated the greatest pleasure from her visit , only regretting that her husband had not been able to accompany her . " The only news here , " she wrote next day to the marquis , " is the election of this new Pope , which fills every one with great joy , and is said to be entirely due to Monsignore Ascanio , who will , they say , be the new Vice-Chancellor . " On the 25th of July , Innocent VIII . had breathed his last , and on the 6th of August , the conclave met to elect a new Pope . Among the twenty-three Cardinals of which the Sacred College then consisted , three were prominent candidates for the papal tiara . First of all there was Cardinal Roderigo Borgia , the oldest and wealthiest of the group , who held the three most important archbishoprics in Spain , as well as innumerable benefices in the rest of Christendom , and whose scandalous vices amid the general corruption of morals in Rome offered no bar to his advancement to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich and powerful brother of Lodovico Moro , was the second candidate for the tiara ; while the third was Giuliano della Rovere , Cardinal of S. Pietro in Vincula , whose well-known French sympathies , as well as the influential position which he had occupied in Rome under his uncle , Sixtus IV. , made him unpopular with most of his colleagues . When Ascanio Sforza saw that he could not ensure his own election , he threw his whole influence on the side of Borgia , who lavished his gold and promises freely among the other members of the Sacred College , with the result that he was elected on the 11th of August , and proclaimed Pope under the title of Alexander VI . The secret Archives of the Vatican28 give full particulars of this election , which was obtained by the most flagrant simony , and proved a prelude to the days of confusion and misery which Fra Girolamo Savonarola , the Dominican of Florence , daily prophesied were in store for the Church . Ascanio Sforza was the first to reap the reward of his base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and openly acknowledged his indebtedness both to him and Lodovico , while at Milan the event was hailed with public rejoicings , and joy-bells and solemn processions celebrated the accession of this pontiff , who was destined to prove the most bitter enemy of the House of Sforza . " Signor Lodovico , " wrote the Ferrarese envoy , our old friend Giacomo Trotti , to his master , " is in the highest spirits at the success of his brother 's efforts . Cardinal Ascanio is likely , people say , to administer all the papal estates , and will be every bit as much pope as if he sat in Alexander 's chair . " Isabella 's letters to her husband give the same impression . On the 19th of August she wrote from Pavia  --  " To-day I dined with Signor Lodovico and my sister in their rooms , according to our usual habit of taking our meals together , sometimes in my rooms , sometimes in theirs . After dinner he dismissed all the company , excepting the Duke and Duchess of Milan , myself , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and with his own lips he read aloud a letter from his ambassador in Rome , saying that His Highness had sent for him , and addressed him in the following terms : ' Take note of my words . I acknowledge that I have been made pope by the action of Monsignore Ascanio , contrary to all expectations , and in a truly miraculous manner . I mean to show myself the most grateful of popes . It is my pleasure that he should sit in my chair , and dispose of my spiritual and temporal estate as if I were myself , ' with many other affectionate words . Cardinal Ascanio has already received the first proofs of his gratitude , since , besides the vice-chancellorship , the Pope has given him his own furnished house in Rome , as well as the city of Nepi , and many other things . And His Highness has already dined with him in private . " Besides this , Signor Lodovico read us a letter which the Pope had written with his own hand to Monsignore Ascanio , complaining that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period which seemed to him more like a thousand years , and begging him to come to him at once , since he had many things of the utmost importance to settle with him . After describing this interview , the said Monsignore went on to tell how warmly His Holiness spoke of Signor Lodovico , saying that he was determined to maintain the most cordial relations with His Highness , and profit in all cases by his advice , and only wished that he were seated in his chair . All of this , my dear lord , affords the court here reason for the greatest rejoicings , and I have expressed both in word and gesture the pleasure which your Highness and I take in these things , because of our close union with Signor Lodovico . " The marchioness goes on to describe a hunting-party , in which the whole court had taken part . " Yesterday , about four o'clock , all of these lords and ladies rode out with me to a place called S. Pirono , some four miles from Pavia , and had fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the edge of the forest , and in the midst a pergola of green boughs , under which the duchess and I took our places , the duke and others , whether on horseback or on foot , occupying other tents . One stag of the eight which were found there , ran out of the wood , followed by eight of the Duke of Bari 's dogs . Messer Galeazzo galloped after it with a long spear , and killed it before our eyes . To-morrow we dine at Belriguardo , and go on to supper at Vigevano , where we expect my father , who is to arrive on Thursday . " Duke Ercole had reached Pavia on the 4th of August , and had paid a visit to the Certosa with his son-in-law , after which he returned to Ferrara , where his presence was required , owing to urgent affairs of State connected with the Pope 's death . Now he once more joined his daughters , accompanied by his son Alfonso and a troop of actors and pages skilled in singing and reciting poetry . Among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furioso , who was to celebrate the praises of all the princely personages present at Pavia and Vigevano , in his great poem , and who on this occasion probably met Leonardo for the first time . Fetes and hunting-parties now succeeded each other every day . Even the King of Naples ' ambassadors went out hunting , and one of them succeeded in wounding a wild boar . Isabella sent her husband wonderful accounts of the thrilling adventures and splendid sport which afforded the two sisters such unfeigned delight . " To-day , " she wrote on the 27th of August , " we went out hunting in a beautiful valley which seemed as if it were expressly created for the spectacle . All the stags were driven into the wooded valley of the Ticino , and closed in on every side by the hunters , so that they were forced to swim the river and ascend the mountains , where the ladies watched them from under the pergola and green tents set up on the hillside . We could see every movement of the animals along the valley and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the river ; but only two climbed the hillside and ran far out of sight , so that we did not see them killed , but Don Alfonso and Messer Galeazzo both gave them chase , and succeeded in wounding them . Afterwards came a doe with its young one , which the dogs were not allowed to follow . Many wild boars and goats were found , but only one boar was killed before our eyes , and one wild goat , which fell to my share . Last of all came a wolf , which made fine somersaults in the air as it ran past us , and amused the whole company ; but none of its arts availed the poor beast , which soon followed its comrades to the slaughter . And so , with much laughter and merriment , we returned home , to end the day at supper , and give the body a share in the recreations of the mind . " 29 Four venison pasties were despatched to Mantua the next day as a present to the marquis , whose absence from these expeditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least in these early years of her married life , she had a genuine affection . " All of these days , " she writes on the 22nd , " I have been trying to write to Your Highness , but have never been able to find time , as I am always in my sister 's and Signor Lodovico 's company . Now I have at length snatched a moment , and hasten to pay you a visit in mind , since I can not do so in person . For greater even than all the pleasures which I am enjoying here , is the satisfaction I receive when I hear that you are well and happy . " A week later she wrote again : " It really seems an age since I saw Your Highness , and , pleasant and delightful as it is here , I begin to get a little tired of these scenes , but rejoice at the prospect of paying a visit to Genoa before long . " And in an affectionate letter to her mother , she says that sometimes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pang how long it is since she has seen her , and how far away she is from Ferrara , and the thought throws a shadow over the brightest sunshine and the gayest pastimes . After a succession of boar hunts at Novara and Mortara , Lodovico and Beatrice took their guests to Milan on the 15th of September , and Isabella entered the capital on horseback between the two young duchesses , while " the old Duchess Bona , " she tells her husband , " and her daughter Madonna Bianca , with many other ladies , were awaiting me in my rooms in the Castello , the same suite which Signor Lodovico occupied at the time of his wedding . " The duke 's mother still remained at court , and occupied rooms in the Castello , although she made no secret of her aversion for her powerful brother-in-law , and was secretly intriguing against him with her nephew , Charles VIII . At her request the French king wrote a letter to Lodovico , desiring him to give the duchess 's mother leave to come to France for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moro , fearing the effect of Bona 's presence at the French court , courteously declined Charles 's invitation , alleging as an excuse the fact that both Bona 's daughter-in-law , the Duchess Isabella , and her young sister-in-law , his own wife Beatrice , were expecting similar events early in the next year , while her daughter Bianca was of marriageable age and needed her mother 's protection . At Milan new pleasures awaited Isabella . Theatrical representations in honour of Duke Ercole , were given by the Delle Torre family and other noble houses , and Isabella spent long days with her sister in the park and beautiful gardens of the Castello , among the roses and fountains which Lodovico loved . He was never tired of beautifying and enlarging the grounds , which now extended three miles round the Castello , and sent to Mantua for a pair of swans to adorn the lake , saying how much he liked to watch the movements of these white-plumed birds upon the water . To his sister-in-law , as Isabella always repeated in her letters , the Moro showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unwearied in providing for her amusements and gratification . " To-day , " she writes on the evening after her arrival at Milan , " Signor Lodovico showed me the treasure , which Your Highness saw when you were last here , but which has lately received the addition of two large chests full of ducats , and another full of gold quartz about two and a half feet square . Would to God that we , who are so fond of spending money , possessed as much ! " 30 After which characteristic expression , the Marchesana proceeds to tell her lord that the date of her departure for Genoa has been fixed for the last day of September , and to describe her brother-in-law 's preparations for the visit . Before her departure , he made a splendid present , which she describes in a letter written on the 20th of September . " Yesterday Signor Lodovico sent me , with the Duchess of Milan and Bari , to look at some sumptuous brocades which he had seen in the house of one of the richest merchants here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I considered the finest . I replied that what I had most admired was a certain gold and silver tissue embroidered with the twin towers of the lighthouse in the port of Genoa , bearing the Spanish motto , Tal trabalio mes plases par tal thesauros non perder . " The Moro praised her good taste , saying that he had already had a camora , or robe , made for his wife of this material , and begged her to accept fifteen yards of the same stuff , and wear it for his sake . " This brocade , " wrote Isabella joyfully to her husband , " is worth at least forty ducats a yard ! " And without delay she sent for a tailor to cut out the gown , in order that she might wear it once before she left Milan . The Marchesino Stanga and Count Girolamo Tuttavilla were chosen to escort Isabella to Genoa , where she was received in state by the governor Adorno , and splendidly entertained at the Casa Spinola by the chief citizens . Beatrice 's delicate state of health had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but she still persisted in taking long hunting expeditions , and one day when she and the Moro were staying at Cuzzago , encountered a savage boar which had already wounded several greyhounds . " My wife , " wrote the Moro to his sister-in-law , " came suddenly face to face with this furious beast , and herself gave it the first wound , after which Messer Galeazzo and I followed suit , so that the boar must have had great pleasure in feeling how much trouble it had given us and to what dangers its hunters had been exposed . " The result of this long and fatiguing hunting expedition was that Beatrice fell seriously ill . Lodovico was much alarmed , and sent daily bulletins both to his sister-in-law and to her mother at Ferrara . " There is no fresh news to give you here , " he wrote on the 6th of October . " My whole days are spent at the bedside of my dear wife , endeavouring to distract her thoughts and amuse her mind as best I can during her illness . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hurried back to Milan at the news of her sister 's illness , and did not leave her until she was convalescent . During these weeks Lodovico showed himself the most devoted and attentive of husbands , and his letters to Isabella are full of the practical jokes and witty dialogues and repartees with which he and Messer Galeazzo amused the duchess . The following letter affords a characteristic specimen of the kind of fooling which these great Renaissance lords and ladies carried on at the expense of the half-witted jesters and buffoons who were attached to their different households :  --  " DEAR SISTER AND MOST ILLUSTRIOUS AND EXCELLENT LADY , " You know what good sport we had in the wild boar-hunts at which you were present this last summer . Poor Mariolo , you remember , could not be there , first because he was ill at Milan , and afterwards because he was required to keep my wife company during her illness , and was much distressed to have been absent from these expeditions , when he heard that even the king 's ambassadors had wounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great things he would have done , had he only been present . Now that my dearest wife is better , and begins to be able to go out-of-doors again , I thought we would have a little fun at his expense . Some wolves and wild goats having been driven into a wood near La Pecorara , which , as you know , is about a mile from here , on the way to La Sforzesca , Cardinal Sanseverino had a common farm pig shut up in the same enclosure , and the next day we went out hunting , and took Mariolo with us . While we hunted the wolves and wild goats , we left the pig to him , and he , taking it for a wild boar , chased it with a great hue and cry along the woods . If your Highness could only have seen him running after this pig , you would have died of laughter , the more so that he gallantly tried to spear it three times over , and only succeeded in touching its side once . And seeing how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , ' Do n't you know , Mariolo , that you have been hunting a tame pig ? ' He stood dumb with astonishment , and stared as if he did not know what we could mean , and so we all came home infinitely amused , and every one asked Mariolo if he did not know the difference between a wild boar and a tame pig ! " Your brother , LODOVICO MARIA SFORTIA. 31 Vigevano , December 6 , 1492 . " The most remarkable thing about these letters is that a prince who was engaged in so much and varied business , who himself conducted a vast correspondence in which the most intricate diplomatic questions of the day were involved with his envoys at the different European courts , and personally superintended every detail of administration , while at the same time he gave minute instructions to the hundreds of architects , sculptors , and painters in his service , should have found time to write these bantering epistles to his sister-in-law . One of these letters , for instance , is devoted to a long account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duchess at table , how Messer Galeazzo begged to be allowed a taste of the duchess 's soup , and complained that he was forgotten now that the Marchesana was no longer there , and how Beatrice told him she would write and tell her sister , to which he replied , " Tell her whatever you like , as long as I get my soup ! " Yet at this very moment , when he penned these joking letters to Isabella , Lodovico was engaged in some of the most difficult and anxious negotiations with other States . During Ercole d'Este 's visit , the question of sending the customary congratulations to the new Pope had been discussed , and Lodovico had suggested that the ambassadors of the four allied powers  --  Milan , Naples , Florence , and Ferrara  --  should send a joint deputation , both as a mark of special honour to His Holiness , and as a public manifesto to foreign powers of the strength of these united States . The step , he was confident , would produce a good effect both on the King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose designs on Italy were already exciting alarm . Both the Duke of Ferrara and King Ferrante , who had been consulted through his ambassadors , when they came to hunt at Vigevano , agreed readily to Lodovico 's proposal , and the only person to raise objections was Piero de ' Medici , who had lately succeeded his father as chief magistrate of Florence , and pretended to the same power . The death of his friend Lorenzo had been sincerely deplored by Lodovico , who , before many months had passed , began to discover how weak and contemptible a character his son possessed , and had already consulted his astrologer as to the influence which this young man would have upon his own fortunes . Now the vain and foolish youth refused to join in the proposed embassy to the Vatican , because he wished to appear alone before Alexander VI . and impress that new Pope by the magnificence of his apparel and retinue . Not content with frustrating the Moro 's plan , Piero induced King Ferrante to withdraw his consent to the joint deputation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations that had existed for some time past between Naples and Milan . Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere had retired to Ostia in disgust at the election of the Borgia Pope , leaving Ascanio Sforza all powerful at the Vatican , and the Pope availed himself of every occasion to show his friendship for Lodovico . Already a marriage had been proposed between Alexander 's daughter Lucrezia Borgia and Giovanni Sforza , Prince of Pesaro , and the King of Naples looked with alarm on the friendly relations that existed between the Holy See and Milan . " Alexander VI. , " said Ferrante , bitterly , " has no respect for the Holy Church , and cares for nothing but the aggrandisement of his own family . Rome will soon become a Milanese camp . " But while Lodovico Sforza looked with suspicion on the intrigues of Ferrante 's son Alfonso , and was anxious to strengthen his alliance with other powers , he had as yet no thought of inviting the French to invade Italy . On the contrary , the whole tenor of his private letters and public despatches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the different Italian states , in order that they might present a united front to foreign enemies . However friendly were his advances to the King of France , he had never by word or hint given him the slightest encouragement to invade Italy or assert his claim to the crown of Naples . It was only when he saw peace restored between Charles and Maximilian , on the one hand , and on the other a treaty of alliance concluded between the Pope and the King of Naples , that he began to tremble for his own safety , and suddenly changed his policy . But for the moment counsels of peace prevailed , and the ambitious Moro could look forward with hope and confidence to the coming year , that promised to bring him new joys , and perchance the fulfilment of his long-cherished desire , in the birth of a son and heir . FOOTNOTES : 28 Pastor 's " History of the Popes , " vol. v. p. 383 , etc. 29 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 350 , etc. 30 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 361 . CHAPTER XIV Birth of Beatrice 's first-born son  --  The Duchess of Ferrara at Milan  --  Fetes and rejoicings at court and in the Castello  --  The court moves to Vigevano  --  Beatrice 's wardrobe  --  Her son 's portrait  --  Letters to her mother and sister  --  Lodovico 's plans for a visit to Ferrara and Venice . 1493 On the 25th of January , at four o'clock on a winter 's afternoon , Beatrice gave birth to a son in the Rocchetta of the castle of Milan . " Signor Lodovico 's joy at the birth of his first-born son is beyond all description , " wrote Giacomo Trotti to his master , Duke Ercole . Duchess Leonora was present on the occasion , and herself announced the happy event in a letter to her daughter Isabella , who promptly sent a special envoy with her congratulations to the Duke of Bari and her sister . A fortnight before , Leonora had set out for Pavia , where Trotti had been sent to meet her , and crowds shouting Moro ! Moro ! had everywhere hailed her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to make the last preparations before the birth of her grandson . The child , a fine healthy boy , received the name of Ercole , in compliment to his grandfather , the Duke of Ferrara , but was afterwards called Maximilian , when the emperor became his godfather after his marriage to Bianca Sforza . The auspicious event was hailed with public rejoicings . The bells rang for six days , and solemn processions were held , and thanksgivings offered up in all the churches and abbeys of the Milanese . Prisoners for debt were released , and the advent of the new-born prince was celebrated with as great honour as if his father had been the reigning duke . Already some of the courtiers attached to Giangaleazzo 's household began to whisper that the birth of Francesco , the little Count of Pavia , two years before , had been celebrated with far less pomp . But in the same week Duchess Isabella , who was residing in the Corte ducale of the Castello , gave birth to a daughter , who received the name of Bona , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was double cause for rejoicings . Full and elaborate details of the ceremonies observed on this occasion , and of the splendid fetes that attended the recovery of the two duchesses , were sent to Isabella d'Este at Mantua by her mother 's maid of honour , Teodora degli Angeli . Every particular of the decorations in the rooms of the Castello , the colour of the hangings and the draperies of the cradle , the gowns worn by the different princesses at their successive appearances in public , was faithfully reported for Isabella 's benefit . On the eve of the young prince 's birth , the sumptuous cradle and layette prepared for his reception were shown to the Ambassadors , chief magistrates , and nobles of Milan , and displayed on tables covered with gold and crimson brocade , lined with Spanish cat , in the Sala del Tesoro , adjoining Beatrice 's rooms . All through the next fortnight costly gifts for the young duchess and her new-born babe were received from the magistrates of Milan and the chief towns of the duchy , and principal courtiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambassadors , councillors , magistrates and court officials , together with many noble Milanese ladies , were invited to present their congratulations to Beatrice , and that evening the gifts presented to her were publicly displayed in the Sala del Tesoro . The doors of the shelves along the walls were thrown open , and the splendid gold and silver plate , the massive jars , bowls , vases , and dishes , which they contained , were ranged in tiers on a stand , protected by iron bars and guarded by two men-at-arms wearing ducal liveries . The seneschal of Lodovico 's household , Ambrogio da Corte , received the guests at the doors of the Rocchetta , paying each of them the honours due to his rank , and conducted them to the Sala del Tesoro . There they were received by stewards clad in silver brocade , who led them through a suite of rooms adorned with gilded columns and hung with white damask curtains richly embroidered with equestrian figures and other Sforzesque devices , into the presence of the duchess . This chamber was still more richly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated , " writes the admiring maid of honour , " that the tapestries and hangings here are worth 70,000 ducats . " Two pages guarded the doors , and within , near the fireplace , Duchess Leonora sat at her daughter 's bedside , accompanied by two or three ladies . Beatrice 's own couch was gorgeously adorned with draperies of mulberry colour and gold , and a crimson canopy bearing the names of Lodovico and Beatrice in massive gold , with red and white rosettes and a fringe of golden balls which alone was valued at 8000 ducats . " All , " exclaimed Teodora  --  " bello e galante , beyond words ! " 32 After paying their respects to the illustrious mother , the guests passed on into the room of the new-born child  --  la camera del Puttino . Here the walls were hung with brocades of the Sforza colours , red , white , and blue , and tapestries , embroidered with all manner of beasts and birds and fantastic designs . But the golden cradle itself , which had been made in Milan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four slender columns and pale blue silk canopy enriched with gold cords and fringes . " Truly rich and elegant beyond anything that I have ever seen ! " writes the ecstatic maid of honour , whose eyes were fairly dazzled by the sight of all these splendours , and who , as she told Isabella , was lost in wonder and admiration at the magnificence of the Milanese court . After a glimpse of the royal infant , sleeping under his coverlid of cloth of gold , watched over by Beatrice 's ladies , the visitors were conducted into Signor Lodovico 's hall of audience , where he received the ambassadors and chief councillors , and through the adjoining room , occupied by his favourite astrologer , Messer Ambrogio da Rosate  --  " without whom nothing can be done here , " remarks Teodora  --  back to the entrance hall , where the seneschal was in waiting to escort them to the gates . Messer Ambrogio , as Teodora opined , had to be consulted before the duchess was allowed to leave her bed . This was on Wednesday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal ladies issued from their rooms at the same hour . " Now at length , " wrote the lively maid of honour to Isabella , " I am able to inform your Highness that the illustrious Madonna your sister has left her room , and those poor tormented souls whose task it has been for so many nights to bring in shawls to spread over the presents , are at last freed from their labours . " That same day , both the young duchesses went in state to S. Maria delle Grazie , to return thanks and praise to God for the birth of their children . The royal ladies rode in the Duchess of Ferrara 's chariot , a sumptuous carriage hung with purple , and were accompanied by Leonora herself and five other Sforza princesses  --  Alfonso d'Este 's wife , Anna ; Duke Giangaleazzo 's sister , Bianca Sforza ; Signor Lodovico 's daughter , Bianca , the youthful bride of Galeazzo Sanseverino ; Madonna Beatrice  --  Niccolo da Correggio 's mother  --  and Madonna Camilla Sforza of Pesaro . The toilettes worn on this occasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madonna , Duchess Leonora , wore black , as usual , but was very gallantly adorned with her finest jewels . The Duchess of Bari had a lovely vest of gold brocade worked in red and blue silk , and a blue silk mantle trimmed with long-haired fur , and her hair coiled as usual in a silken net . Duchess Isabella wore gold brocade and green velvet enriched with crimson cords and silver thread , and a mantle of crimson velvet lined with grey silk . Both ladies were covered with jewels . Madonna Anna 's camora was of cloth-of-gold with crimson sleeves , lined with fur and edged with gold fringe . One fine invention which I noticed was a new trimming made of grey lamb 's wool , but there was no end to the variety of colours and fringes or to the beauty of the jewels . " After hearing a solemn Te Deum and other canticles very beautifully sung by the choir of the ducal chapel , the whole party drove to the house of Count Della Torre , who entertained the dukes and duchesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ladies of the court at a splendid banquet . On the following day the duchesses and princesses were entertained at a feast given by Niccolo 's mother , Madonna Beatrice , in her rooms in the Castello , and appeared in fresh costumes and still more splendid jewels . On Friday no fete was given , but most of the youthful princes and princesses went out hunting in the park , and three stags were killed in the course of the day . Beatrice appeared in a riding-habit of rose-tinted cloth , and a large jewel instead of a feather in her silk hat , and rode on a black horse . Madonna Anna wore black and gold , with a pearl-embroidered crimson hat , and her sister Bianca also appeared on horseback , while Duchess Leonora spent the day with old Duchess Bona in her rooms . On Saturday a fete was given at the house of Gaspare di Pusterla . Beatrice looked particularly charming with a feather of rubies in her hair , and a crimson satin robe embroidered with a pattern of knots and compasses and many ribbons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is these very ribbons that we still see to-day , both in the few portraits that we have of the short-lived duchess , and in the marble effigy upon her tomb . Isabella of Aragon appeared on this occasion , in a gown embroidered with books and letters , a favourite device of Renaissance ladies ; while Anna Sforza was all in white , " because it was Saturday , " explained Teodora , and she had vowed to wear no colours on that day for a certain number of weeks . This was a common practice with many Italian princesses who had lately recovered from illness or given birth to a child , and one to which we find frequent allusion in the correspondence of Isabella d'Este . On Saturday all the court attended high mass at S. Maria delle Grazie , and a last entertainment was given , this time by Duchess Beatrice herself , in the Rocchetta . The next day , Lodovico took his wife and mother-in-law , with the Duchess of Milan and their other guests , to Vigevano , to enjoy a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , and the splendour of Beatrice 's wardrobe and the treasures of her camerini filled the Ferrarese visitors with wonder and envy . On the 6th of March , Bernardo Prosperi wrote to tell Isabella that our Madonna had been conducted by the jester Mariolo over Beatrice 's " guardaroba , " and had seen all the splendid gowns , pelisses , and mantles which had been made for her during the last two years , about eighty-four in all , " besides many more , " adds the writer , " which your sister the duchess has in Milan . " The costliness of the materials , and the rich and intricate embroidery which covered satins and brocades , made Leonora exclaim that she felt as if she were in a sacristy looking at priests ' vestments and altar frontals . After examining all of these fine clothes , the duchess was taken into two other camerini , where Beatrice , after the fashion of great ladies in those days , had collected her favourite books and object d'art . One cabinet was full of Murano glass of delicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Faenza or Gubbio . Another held ivories , crystals , and enamels engraved in the same style as Lodovico 's vases in the treasury at Milan . Perfumes and washes filled another case , while a separate cabinet was devoted to hunting implements , dog-collars , pouches , flasks , horns , knives , and hoods for falcons . " There was , indeed , " added Duchess Leonora 's attendant , " enough to fill many shops . " The evenings at Vigevano were enlivened with music and singing , and , by Lodovico 's orders , a band of Spanish musicians who had been sent from Rome to Milan by his brother , Cardinal Ascanio , came to play before Beatrice and her mother , who both admired the sweet strains of their large viols , and examined the shape and size of their instruments with curiosity . On Sunday theatrical representations were given , and Beatrice appeared in a wonderful new gown made of gold-striped cloth , with a crimson vest laced with fine silver thread " arranged , " wrote an admiring lady-in-waiting , " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " she adds , " because it was Carnival Sunday ; but even now , although Lent has begun for most of us , Carnival is not yet over for these highnesses , since Signor Lodovico and his duchess , Messer Galeazzo , the Duke and Duchess of Milan , and many of their courtiers , have received dispensations from Rome to eat meat all the same . " 33 Meanwhile Beatrice 's little son was growing into a strong healthy child , and her letters are full of the beauty and perfections of her precious babe . Again and again , in her notes to Isabella , she talks of " my son Ercole , " with all a young mother 's proud delight . " I can not tell you , " she writes to her sister , " how well Ercole is looking , and how big and plump he has grown lately . Each time I see him after a few days ' absence , I am amazed and delighted to see how much he has grown and improved , and I often wish that you could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure you would never be able to stop petting and kissing him . " Isabella , on her part , wrote warmly to her sister in return , saying how much she longed to see her beautiful boy  --  " il suo bello puttino " and " not only to see him , but to hold him in my arms and enjoy his company after my own fashion . " Duchess Leonora returned to Ferrara at the end of another week , and one of Beatrice 's first anxieties was to have a portrait of her child painted for her mother . On the 16th of April , she wrote from her favourite country house Villa Nova , where she had brought the babe to enjoy the sweet spring air  --  MOST ILLUSTRIOUS MADAMA MINE , AND DEAREST MOTHER , " Your Highness must forgive my delay in writing to you . The reason was that every day I have been hoping the painter would bring me the portrait of Ercole , which my husband and I now send you by this post . And , I can assure you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for it is already more than a week since it was painted . But I do not send the measure of his height , because people here tell me if I measure him he will never grow ! Or else I certainly would let you have it . And my lord and I , both of us , commend ourselves to your Highness , and I kiss your hand , my dearest mother . " Your obedient servant and child , BEATRICE SFORTIA DA ESTE , with my own hand. 34 To the most illustrious Lady my dearest Mother , Signora Duchessa di Ferrara . " The baby 's portrait was forwarded to Mantua for Isabella 's inspection , together with a letter from her mother , saying  --  " I enclose a drawing which has been sent to us from Milan , to show how well our grandson thrives , and certainly , if we have been already told how flourishing he is , this gives us a living witness to his beauty and well-being . And if you ask me whether the portrait is a good one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is the master who has done this drawing , and then I am sure you will be satisfied . " Leonora 's words excite our wonder as to who the artist could be whose name of itself would be enough to satisfy Isabella of the excellence of the work . As Signor Luzio has already remarked , 35 it is impossible to read these words without thinking that Leonardo must have been the artist employed by Lodovico on this occasion to take a sketch of his infant son . But the drawing of Ercole has vanished , and the painter 's name remains unknown . Another name which recurs frequently in Beatrice 's letters to both her mother and sister at this time , is that of a Spanish embroiderer , named Maestro Jorba , noted for his rare skill , who was in the service of the Duchess of Ferrara , and was left by her at Vigevano in April , to design hangings and gowns for Lodovico 's wife . On the 14th of March , Jorba was sent back to Ferrara with a letter from Beatrice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in April , Leonora sent her a new design for a camora which the clever Spaniard had invented . " I have to-night , " wrote Beatrice in reply , " received the design of the camora made by Jorba , which I admire very much , and have just shown it to my embroiderer , as your Highness advised . He remarks that the flowers of the pattern are all the same size , and since the camora will naturally be cut narrower above than below , the flowers ought to be altered in the same proportion . I have not yet decided what will be the best thing to do , but thought I would tell you what Schavezi says , and wait to hear what you advise , and then do whatever you think best . " Later in the same year , we find Maestro Jorba once more at Milan , working for Duchess Beatrice , much to the annoyance of her sister Isabella , who was anxious to secure the services of the skilful embroiderer , and offered him a salary of two hundred ducats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , seems to have preferred to remain at Ferrara , and only paid occasional visits to the princesses of Este at Milan and Mantua . Throughout April , all the tailors and embroiderers , goldsmiths and jewellers , in Beatrice 's service were busy making preparations for a visit which their mistress was shortly to pay to her old home . Before Leonora left Vigevano the Moro had promised to bring his wife and child to Ferrara in May , and had decided to send Beatrice to Venice , with her mother Duchess Leonora , who was going to spend a few days with her son Alfonso and his wife , at the palace of the Estes on the Canal Grande . He had further intimated his intention of paying a visit to his sister-in-law at Mantua on the way . Isabella , who had just accepted an invitation from the Doge , Agostino Barbarigo , to visit Venice for the Feast of the Ascension , was somewhat dismayed when the news reached her , and looked forward with no little alarm to the prospect of entertaining her splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband on the subject  --  " Madama sends me word that Signor Lodovico has decided to visit Ferrara in May , and gives me the list of the company who are to attend him , which I enclose for you to see . For my part I can hardly believe it , but shall be sorry if I am at Venice when such fetes are being held at Ferrara . Your Highness must decide what you think is best for the honour of our house , since when I was at Milan Signor Lodovico told me that if he came to Ferrara he would visit Mantua on the way . No doubt you will do what seems to be most prudent , and will let me know your wishes . But perhaps I may be mistaken. 36 " Mantua , 9th of April , 1493 . " Isabella was still more disturbed when she heard that Lodovico intended to send his wife to Venice . Her pride shrank from the bare notion of appearing before the Doge and Senate at the same time as her sister , whose sumptuous apparel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nothing in the world , " she wrote to Gianfrancesco , who was then at Venice as captain-general of the Republic 's forces , " will induce me to go to Venice at the same time as my sister the duchess . " And she insisted on her desire to appear before the Doge , not as a guest and foreign visitor , but as a daughter and servant , begging that she might be treated without any pomp or ceremony . Fortunately , whether from political motives , or from his usual attention to his astrologer 's advice , Lodovico deferred his visit to Ferrara until the middle of May , and himself wrote a courteous letter to Isabella , expressing his regret that he would after all be unable to accept her invitation to Mantua , since he found himself obliged to visit Parma . The marchioness , thus happily relieved from her fears , set off for Ferrara on the 4th of May , and proceeded to Venice a week later , having doubled the number of her retinue , and strained every nerve to present an appearance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's regal splendours . FOOTNOTES : 32 L. Porro in A. S. L. , ix . 327. 33 Porro , op. cit. , p. 330. 34 A. Venturi in A. S. L. , xii . 227. 35 Archivio Storico Lombardo , xvii. 368. 36 Luzio-Renier , op. cit. , p. 365 . CHAPTER XV Lodovico 's ambitious designs  --  Isabella of Aragon appeals to her father  --  Breach between Naples and Milan  --  Alliance between the Pope , Venice , and Milan proclaimed  --  Mission of Erasmo Brasca to the king of the Romans  --  Journey of Lodovico and Beatrice to Ferrara  --  Fetes and tournaments  --  Visit to Belriguardo , and return of Lodovico to Milan  --  Arrival of Belgiojoso from France . 1493 The birth of Beatrice 's son marks a new development in her husband 's policy . Up to that time the Moro seems to have been content to govern in his nephew 's name , and had rejected with horror King Ferrante 's suggestion that he should depose Gian Galeazzo as incapable , and reign in his stead . But whether it was that Beatrice in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Duchess of Milan and see her son recognized as heir to the crown , or whether the birth of his son stirred up new desires in her lord 's breast , it is certain that the spring of 1493 was a turning-point in Lodovico 's career . From this time he began to aim at reigning in his nephew 's stead , and applied himself in good earnest to obtain legal recognition of his title . In the first place , the birth of Ercole , and the extraordinary honours paid to the child and his mother on this occasion , had the effect of exasperating Isabella of Aragon , and exciting new and bitter rivalry between herself and Beatrice . Gian Galeazzo , sunk in idle pleasures and debauchery , had long ceased to take any interest in the government of Milan , or to show the least wish to assert himself . He was recognized on all hands as altogether unfit to rule  --  in the words of the historian Guicciardini , " incapacissimo . " But with his wife it was different . In public she controlled her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremonies , but in private she wept bitter tears . Already her father , Alfonso , Duke of Calabria , had begged his sister Duchess Leonora and her husband to try and induce Lodovico to restore the Duke and Duchess of Milan to their rightful position , and the good duchess , who was on friendly terms with Bona of Savoy and with her own niece , Isabella of Aragon , did all in her power to soften the rivalry between the two young princesses . But after her departure from Milan , Isabella 's ill-concealed anger broke out , and , according to Corio , she wrote the memorable Latin letter to her father . " It was then , " writes the Milanese chronicler , " that the duchess , being a princess of great spirit , refused to endure the humiliations to which she and her husband were exposed , and wrote to Alfonso her father , after this manner : ' Many years have passed , my father , since you first wedded me to Gian Galeazzo , on the understanding that he would in due time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throne of Galeazzo and Francesco Sforza and of his Visconti ancestors . He is now of age and is himself a father ; but he is not yet in possession of his dominions , and can only obtain the actual necessaries of life from the hands of Lodovico and his ministers . It is Lodovico who administers the state , treats of war and peace , confirms the laws , grants privileges , imposes taxes , hears petitions , and raises money . Everything is in his power , while we are left without friends or money , and are reduced to live as private persons . Not Gian Galeazzo , but Lodovico , is recognized as lord of the kingdom . He places prefects in the castles , raises military forces , appoints magistrates , and discharges all the duties of a prince . He is , in fact , the true duke . His wife has lately borne him a son , who every one prophesies will soon be called Count of Pavia , and will succeed to the dukedom , and royal honours were paid him at his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contempt , and it is not without risk to our lives that we remain under the roof of the palace , from which he would remove us in his envious hatred , leaving me widowed and desolate , destitute of help and friends . But I have still spirit and courage of my own ; the people regard us with compassion , and look upon him with hatred and curses , because he has robbed them of their gold to satisfy his greed . I am not able to contend with men , and am forced to suffer every kind of humiliation . There is no one here to whom I can speak , for even our servants are given us by him . But if you have any fatherly compassion , if a spark of royal or noble feeling still lives in your heart , if love of me and the sight of my tears can move your soul , I implore you to come to our help , and deliver your daughter and son-in-law from the fear of slavery , and restore them once more to their rightful kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would rather die by my own hands than bear the yoke of strangers , which would be a still greater evil than to allow a rival to reign in my place . ' " This letter was probably composed by the historian , but there is no doubt that it reproduces the wronged duchess 's sentiments , and that Corio does not exaggerate the effect which his daughter 's indignant appeal produced upon Alfonso . " Shall we suffer our own blood to be despised ? " he is said to have exclaimed , when he called upon his father to avenge his daughter 's wrong , and at the same time pointed out how fraught with danger to the realm of Naples was the existence of so powerful and independent a prince as Lodovico . But the old king preferred to have recourse to his usual expedients of cunning and intrigue , and while he employed every artifice to undermine Lodovico 's influence both at the other courts of Italy and in France , he sent ambassadors to congratulate the Moro on his son 's birth , and only expostulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , was too astute not to see the dangers which threatened him , and he became doubly anxious to form a close alliance with the Pope , and with his old enemies the Signory of Venice . Early in 1493 , Alexander VI. , now Lodovico Sforza 's firm friend , proposed a new alliance between himself , Milan , and Venice to the Doge and Senate , and Count Caiazzo was sent by Lodovico to negotiate the terms of the treaty , which was to hold good for twenty-five years , and had for its express object the maintenance of the peace of Italy . Ferrara and Mantua both joined the new league , which was solemnly proclaimed at Venice on St. Mark 's day , when , after high mass , the Doge conferred the honour of knighthood on Taddeo Vimercati , the Milanese ambassador , and the banners of Milan and of the Pope were borne in procession round the Piazza . In order to confirm the alliance , Lodovico not only agreed to visit Ferrara in May , but also decided to send his wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a proof of his friendship for his new allies . Four experienced councillors , Count Girolamo Tuttavilla , Galeazzo Visconti , Angelo Talenti , and Pietro Landriano , were chosen to accompany her , and an elaborate paper of secret directions was drawn up by Lodovico himself , dated the 10th of May . On the same day a still more important paper of instructions was delivered by the Moro to Erasmo Brasca , the envoy whom he sent that week to Germany . This agent was instructed to lay two proposals before Maximilian , King of the Romans . In the first place , he was to offer him the hand of Bianca Maria Sforza , the Duke of Milan 's sister , with the enormous dowry of 400,000 ducats . In the second , he was to ask Maximilian , on Lodovico 's behalf , for a renewal of the investiture of Milan , formerly granted to the Visconti dukes , but never obtained by the three princes of the house of Sforza . As , on the extinction of the Visconti race , the fief ought to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's power to bestow the duchy upon Lodovico , whose title would thus be rendered perfectly legal , while Gian Galeazzo would become the usurper , he himself , his father , and grandfather having only held the dukedom by right of a popular election , which had never been confirmed by the emperor . This , then , was the proposal which the Moro secretly made to Maximilian , whose father , the Emperor Frederic III. , was at the time still living , but was known to be in very failing health . The King of the Romans was by no means insensible to the advantages of an alliance with the powerful Regent of Milan , or to the large dowry which Bianca Maria would bring with her to replenish his empty coffers . Some objections were raised by the German princes , who chose to consider this marriage with a Sforza princess beneath the imperial dignity , but Maximilian himself readily consented to all Lodovico 's conditions , and promised to grant him the investiture of the duchy of Milan as soon as he succeeded his father , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept secret for the present . The royal bridegroom was to receive three hundred thousand ducats as Bianca 's dowry , while the remaining hundred thousand , which represented the tribute dues on the investiture of the duchy , as an imperial fief , were to be paid when this part of the transaction was accomplished . Meanwhile Maximilian had already entered into negotiations with Charles VIII. , who , in his anxiety to undertake the expedition of Naples , was ready to make any sacrifices in other directions ; and on the 15th of May the Treaty of Senlis was concluded between the two monarchs . Lodovico 's ambassador , Belgiojoso , accompanied the French king to Senlis , and kept his master fully informed of all that happened at court . But while the Moro had repeatedly assured Charles of his friendly intentions , he had hitherto prudently abstained from offering any device as to the young king 's warlike designs against Naples , and had , it was well known , opposed them . When in March , Charles VIII . had begged him , as a personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sanseverino , of whose knightly prowess he had heard so much , in order that he might confer with this distinguished captain on military questions , Lodovico absolutely refused to consent , fearing the suspicions whi//                     